[{"Title":"I just can't believe it","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"73 out of 87 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I just can't believe the comments I read here. Pure crap? Come on! One of the worst films ever? Pah!This film is good, well written, well directed, and really funny. What else can I say? It seems like whenever a film with real humour is made by a well-known director, it's viewed as bullsh...! While plain stupid comedies (Pretty Woman etc..) are praised by many, elegant and clever ones like Road to Welville are considered as crap... I just can't believe it.I feel saddened that such a good work is being flamed. Maybe it's because it didn't reach its public... Or that the whole purpose of the film is being missed by the majority of the public... Or that people think Parker should only make serious movies... I don't know.It's not the first time I'm so deeply amazed by the way a film is perceived by others, but gee... "},{"Title":"one of the best comedies I've ever seen","Date":"5 March 2005","Score":"43 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I can't believe some of the reviews I've read on this site about The Road to Wellville. Some people complain that it was crude and disgusting, others complain that it didn't have a coherent plot, and still others whine that it wasn't historically accurate (concerning Dr. Kellogg's methods). Those reviewers clearly missed the boat. As for those who thought the movie was crude and disgusting, what did you expect from a comedy set in a turn-of-the-century health sanitorium run by a well meaning but eccentric doctor? Such a movie is bound to contain scenes of patients vomiting, getting enemas, and having a sexual tryst or two, just as undoubtedly occurred in many health sanitoriums at that time. Furthermore, none of those scenes were graphic, so I don't understand anybody being offended by them. As for complaints that the movie didn't have a coherent plot, it didn't need one. It was a comedy, not a drama! The health sanitorium setting was a perfect vehicle for satirizing turn-of-the-century attitudes about health, and it was the dialogue and comedic situations that held the movie together and kept it moving, not its plot. Finally, for those who complain that the movie wasn't historically accurate about Dr. Kellogg's actual methods (such as his character's use of electric-powered machines for health therapy), the movie was a comedy, not a biography! It was meant to elicit laughs, and in that respect it was a smashing success. I haven't laughed so much during a movie in a long time. Some people should take Sargeant Hulka's (Stripes) advice and lighten up. Good comedy is not dependent on plot or historical accuracy to be entertaining; all that matters is that it's funny, and Wellville was one of the funniest comedies I've ever seen. "},{"Title":"A great parody of the health nuts.","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"28 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When I saw this movie years ago in the theater, I hated it.  I just watched it again (2002) and loved it.  It has several laugh out loud jokes and is a running smirk movie.  If you've ever had any experience with alternative meds - you'll love it to.  It is so self effacing it is wonderful.  Don't expect The Godfather cinema type and you won't be disappointed.  It is wonderful to see Hopkins & Broderick playing it straight.Kudos. "},{"Title":"Surprised at the ratings!","Date":"26 January 2005","Score":"28 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" After seeing a part of the movie for the tenth time or so (this one seems to be playing a lot on one of the satellite movie channels), I figured it was high time to give it a rating. I was very surprised and disappointed to see that it rated so low overall, as I've always enjoyed the movie (over and over again!). I'm beginning to think that the general movie-viewing public has become too generic in their tastes, and don't have an appreciation for throwback oddball comedies such as The Road to Wellville. If that's so, it's a real shame! Ah well, to each their own! As for me, I love the movie's offbeat and subdued humor, with much of the cast greatly contributing to why I'm kept smiling. George (both the youth and adult versions), is especially hilarious-- Meat and Potatoes!, Give us a hug, and simply his appearance in both forms. I've always liked John Cusack and Matthew Broderick, so having them together in a movie such as this was a treat. And what a role for Anthony Hopkins-- a far cry from Hannibal Lector! The period nature of the movie was likewise attractive... oh how it would be fun to be able to step back into a setting such as that, though I'll pass on the cleansing processes! "},{"Title":"Corn flakes anyone?","Date":"25 April 2005","Score":"24 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Not having seen this film before, it came as a total surprise the other night when it was shown on cable. Alan Parker, the director, has adapted the T. Coraghessan Boyle's book into a hilarious comedy that evidently, judging from some of the comments to this forum, is not a crowd pleaser, yet, the film rewards those with an open mind to enjoy this hysterical take of a mad scientist, a spa, and the people that tend to patronize those places.The story about the use of cereals, championed by Dr. John Henry Kellogg, is the basis of the story. This revolutionary doctor's methods were amazing in the way they were applied to patients going for the cure of their bad stomachs caused by the prevailing eating habits of the time.This farce is great fun because of the cast assembled for the movie. Anthony Hopkins plays the mad Dr. Kellogg with glasses and false teeth that distort his face. We have to look hard into this mad man to realize the transformation Mr. Hopkins achieves with his character.John Cusack, as the enterprising Charles Ossining, travels to Battle Creek, Michigan in search of riches, trying to capitalize on the cereal craze. He finds a partner in the devious Bender, played with great panache by Michael Lerner, one of the best character actors in the American cinema. As the patrons of the spa, we encounter a young couple, the Lightbodies that go for a treatment. Briget Fonda and Matthew Broderick play the Lightbodies, a pair that is separated at their arrival and who encounter satisfaction in more ways than one, as they discover their sexuality. Lara Flynn Boyle, Camryn Manheim, Traci Lind, John Neville, Dana Carvey, Colm Meany and Jacob Reynolds are all good in their small roles.This film, with its different kind of humor, will make anyone laugh. "},{"Title":"People, you definitely missed the point!","Date":"20 August 2003","Score":"26 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  RTW is by all means a very funny movie. Sure, one can find it disgusting in some details, but it is nothing more than a point of view. On the formal side, you cannot say much against it it has an excellent cast, superb costumes and buildings, it almost captured this long gone time. And, by the way, these stupid gadgets and therapies, they were real, they didn´t invent anything. OK, the story could be a little bit straighter, but thats all. Otherwise, RTW is holding a mirror for the health and fitness obsession of our times and one should be able to laugh about that too. All in all a good one. I´m sorry for those, who cannot like it because of their prudery, rest of you just try to watch a little bit more open - minded.   "},{"Title":"Very funny screwball comedy","Date":"31 October 2004","Score":"19 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I judge the worth of a movie by how many times I want to watch it and I never seem to get tired of this one. An outstanding cast coupled with a delightful mix of period and real history add to the enjoyment. In addition, the director has an excellent sense of timing, the movie is well costumed and the music often lends itself well to comic moments. Of course, an overwhelming element of sex adds to its irreverent charm. The leads read(pardon the cliché)like a who's who of fine acting. Anthony Hopkins, John Cusack, Mathew Broderick, Dana Carvey and Bridgette Fonda head an excellent cast of character actors. If you look closely, you might recognize one of the cookoo cookoo Pigeon sisters from the original Odd Couple playing John Cusack's aunt. If you have any more doubts just remember the words of Nurse Graves  An erection is a flagpole on your grave. "},{"Title":"Hilarious Fun!","Date":"29 March 2001","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Battle Creek, Michigan is hometown to me and several generations of my family.  So, maybe I appreciated 'The Road to Wellville' more than most.  After all, anyone living in Battle Creek either works for the Kellogg Company or is close to someone who does.  Kellogg's and Post cereal companies have affected nearly every level of Battle Creek's evolution for 100 years or more.The great cereal boom of the early 1900s is still talked about today. And tales of the legendary Dr. Harvey Kellogg (artfully played by Anthony Hopkins), Seventh Day Adventists, and the famous (or infamous) Battle Creek 'San' are fondly retold by some of the town's elder residents.  The health regimens practiced at the B.C. Sanitarium led to a host of other health-related businesses in Battle Creek which made everything from dubious exercise equipment to nearly tasteless all-veggie soybean burgers.This film is a lively, tongue-in-cheek rendition of the intriguing story about an era when entrepreneurship in the U.S. was at its peak. The cast, featuring Matthew Broderick, John Cusack, Bridget Fonda and Dana Carvey, is excellent and the humor as wacky as it gets.Bon appetit! "},{"Title":"it helps to be in the trade","Date":"29 October 2003","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  *Spoilers*Lots of negative comments here about the bathroom humor and general naughtiness.  Some of it may be valid, but most probably isn't once you know what's going on. The bathroom humor here is about as naughty as Edwardian-era people got in public.  What they did elsewhere is, well, human.  If you can tolerate most of Mel Brooks' movies, you can handle this without too much trouble.It helps to be (or in my case, have been) in the holistic therapies trade, in my case Massage Therapy.  A lot of folks see some of the odd machinery and treatments portrayed in the movie as absurd today, but in their time it wasn't so.  Even today, we still dip hands or feet or other sore areas in hot paraffin wax, use hydrotherapy (hot and/or cold baths), and, in some modalities, use enemas of various types for internal cleansing.  There are even stranger treatments around today, which I need not elaborate here. It all probably works about as well today as it did just after the turn of the century.The film addresses our continuing fascination with treatments for our many maladies.  Little has changed in 100 years, in some ways.  The book was a bit more serious in tone than this film, but I don't think that detracts from the screenplay.  I think the story shows us our addictions and obsessions, whether that is with new diets, exercise, alcohol, drugs, or enemas.Speaking of which, one of my favorite lines in the film is after Dr. Kellogg's scatological exam of WillDr. K I prescribe 15 gallons of yogurt.Will  15 gallons?! I can't eat 15 gallons of yogurt!Dr. K  Ohhhhh, your not gonna get it in that end, Mr. Lightbody . ..The movie seems to have a bit more sex in it than the original book (the whole business with Miss Muntz and Will is missing in the book, among other things), as was a lot of the business with George.  I admit the additions made for a more amusing and interesting film.The side stories here add color.  I'm always amazed at how poor Will must have felt, once he busts out of the San and heads for the Tavern, where there's nice thick Porterhouse steaks sizzling and beer and potatoes and gravy.  Imagine eating gerbil food and gravel for a week and then heading for, say, Outback.  The breakfast food business is enlightening too. Perfoo?  Where do they get these names?  And then there's the business of Dr. Spitzvogel and handabung therapy.  I admit I was a bit aghast at finding the former transporter chief O'Brien from Star Trek TNG butt naked in the woods.Dr. Kellogg was a real person, and was definitely a man of conviction (or obsession depending on your viewpoint) and he had his eccentricities, as many of us do.  I'm not certain of all the facts presented in the movie about him, but like anything else probably at least have some basis in truth. "},{"Title":"A Comedy Concerning A Popular Historical Health Through Eating Fadist","Date":"21 August 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I rate the picture highly simply because it evokes the period and attitudes so interestingly. The tongue-in-cheek narrative follows the experiences of several people in and around the Battle Creek (Michigan) Sanitarium, that was operated as a health spa by Dr. John Harvey Kellogg. A member of the Seventh-Day Adventist Church, Dr. Kellogg was a firm believer in vegetarianism, no smoking, no drinking, regular exercise and abstinence from sexual activity as the roadmap to a healthy life. Much of what he was peddling was unscientific bushwa. But he did invent the breakfast cornflake, although it was his brother who successfully marketed it. The movie is set just after the turn of the 20th century, when the town of Battle Creek was host to dozens of wannabees who attempted to develop and market their own vegetarian breakfast foods. A well-meaning but gullible young man arrives to cash in on the breakfast food craze. A troubled young married couple visit the San to cure the man of his bowel troubles. Both find gratification not of the kind generally permissible under Dr. Kellogg's regime. The Dr.'s own family, that consists of he, his wife, and dozens of adopted children, is uniquely dysfunctional. One uncooperative child opposes the Dr. early on and later demonstrates peculiarly and emphatically what, exactly, in Dr. Kellogg he found repulsive. The movie is about sex. The regime is sexually repressive yet one finds sexual tension relieved at every turn. But, alas, there are no car chases. "}{"Title":"Ahead of it's time....or just too mature in it's humor for it's own good?","Date":"12 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I have been trying to catch up with this for years...ever since it was barely released...critically slammed...and buried. Now that it has finally been allowed to escape back into pay cable play (and is out on DVD....in pan and scan only....since it and it's fans get no respect)I have finally been able to discover what an over looked gem it is. This is not only one of the quirkiest, bravest, and flat out funniest comedies of it's decade...it is also among the handsomest and best cast Period Pieces.I was prepared to enjoy the film....if only for the chance to savor the enormous amount of talent involved....but I had not expected to discover that each member of the cast was at their absolute peak! What a year Bridget Fonda had...wonderful in It Could Happen To You....and so heart stoppingly radiant in her period finery here!....One has to ask What Happened?????...She looks so ready for a HUGE career...and the past decade of film could have so used her beauty, talent, and class. Her costars Cusack and Broderick have, of course, had better luck....but this should have put them in line for a level of mainstream A-List stardom that never quite came true. Anthony Hopkins and Dana Carvey are so unexpectedly flat out brilliant and hysterical (I will never be able to hear John Huston's voice again without thinking of Hopkin's wicked riff on it) that they seem to be operating on a plain far removed from there usual level.I could also go on for many paragraphs about the sensational supporting cast....every member of which was perfectly chosen....I have to at least mention Cameryn Manheim....who glows with such sexy charisma that she dominates every seen she appears in....So refreshing and erotic in the modern Hollywood universe of undernourished Barbie Clones.In Summation....all I have to say is sit back...savor it for two hours....think about it in comparison to almost all of this years Blockbusters and understand what is really wrong with Hollywood...Too many critics recognize class hen they see it...and too few audiences get a chance to discover it for themselves....HERE IT IS PEOPLE....Enjoy. "},{"Title":"The Road to Nowhere would be more accurate. . .","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Not funny, not coherent, not worth watching.  The Road to Wellville doesn't make any sort of sense -- it flits back and forth between three equally nonsensical plotlines, and, after about six hours, ends.  It does feature a great deal of nudity, but that's hardly an excuse for wasting precious natural resources like John Cusak, Anthony Hopkins, and Dana Carvey.If you want to see Cusak in a comedy, rent Grosse Point Blank.     If you want loads of gratuitous nudity, rent Beach Babes from Beyond.  There is no excuse whatsoever for watching this film -- it's time out of my life I can never have back. "},{"Title":"Excellent slapstick comedy","Date":"16 January 2005","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I've recommended this film to countless friends, and the reviews are always mixed. I lived in Battle Creek for 3 years so perhaps it just means more to me. This film was in fact shot in NY and NC, not Battle Creek, but they still did a great job portraying the romance of the early 1900's.The performances are top notch and the actors in this film are give their best. It's a great film, but not a critically acclaimed movie.Dana Carey could've had more lines, but what I want to know is what happened to the character actor who played him as a child, this kid was really great and could've been huge. The one liners in this movie are classic. It's one of those films that you think is funny, but when you recall it at a later date, its even funnier. So get a big, buttered bowl of popcorn and enjoy it for what it is! A hilarious tale of the wacky health craze of the early 1900's. "},{"Title":"rating way off base","Date":"7 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I just had to comment on this movie having seen the rating. There must be cohort of reviewers here without a sense of humor. If you have to explain a joke to someone you've already lost. This was a movie I originally saw on a whim, and I thought it was just hilarious. I'm in the medical profession and really enjoyed to jabs it took at the medicine of the time. I'm sure in 50 years we'll be doing the same thing to all the health crocks we see today. Actually, things probably haven't changed that much. This movie would appeal most to people who like slapstick off-beat comedies. It is well acted and written, fast paced, and just a pleasure. When I have to recommend a sleeper comedy that I think has been overlooked this one is on my short list. "},{"Title":"Do we all feel healthy now?","Date":"31 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Road to Wellville was sort of silly, but quite neat. Focusing on a health spa in Michigan in the early 20th century. Dr. John Harvey Kellogg (Anthony Hopkins) is a little too obsessed with health, to the point where everything relates to sex. I really liked everything that they did to William Lightbody (Matthew Broderick), and when Eleanor Lightbody (Bridget Fonda) snapped at the people wearing animal skin. After watching this movie, anyone is likely to feel weird about being a health-freak (although there are some good lessons about health). Dana Carvey, John Cusack, and John Neville also have great roles. It all just goes to show why the people involved in The Road to Wellville are so well-regarded. Cool. "},{"Title":"Very funny, historically well conceived, George Kellog unbelievable!","Date":"29 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" So many negative comments, very surprising. Can't get past the enema's and promiscuity of the old days? Was worse in the earlier centuries in America. Health, religion, sex and science got very entangled in isolated and protestant America, this movie deals with it honestly. Take it like you are visiting a foreign land and just touring a different culture.Meanwhile, plenty of plot thread, personality, and expose of vastly different attitudes in a time when life was cheap. Well acted, well conceived, and very excellent re-creation of the era. Hopkins and Carvey put together together some of the most unusual persona's on film ever. Broderick and Fonda charming as always, and Boyle's character broke your heart.The old attitudes about life, death, sex and health are well parodied, not to mention the intensity of an age where being gentile, rigid, wrong and righteous all strangely blended together, were all well portrayed in a way the audience could understand and laugh at (at least for those better conditioned for puke and excrement, like those of us who grew up on Alien and Predator).Far and away the greatest moments of the film are the three scenes where the battle of wills plays out between a younger Dr. John Kellogg (Anthony Hopkins) and the little George Kellogg (Jacob Reynolds). These clips are as classic and memorable as they come, on par with the Barf-o-rama scene in Stand by Me.Fooey to those who don't have the depth to get this film. It is such a hoot, eminently watchable and one you will not soon forget. Oh, and its hilarious. "},{"Title":"I Had Such Hopes!","Date":"12 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When I heard that Road to Wellville was made into a movie, starring Hopkins and Broderick, I was very eager to see it. All those weird, idiosyncratic things that are my home town's heritage would be charmingly explained on the silver screen. Alas, it was not to be. The book was well written, the movie was disappointing. The director seemed focused on enemas and did not relate all the other wonderful, bizarre and interesting treatments. My advice...read the book. "},{"Title":"A good book poorly filmed","Date":"28 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The skilled cast of this film is given little to work with as most of the plot development of Boyle's wonderful novel is tossed out in favor of enema references. While it is still a good satire of health crazes (which are hardly a new phenomenon), the book simply had too much story to put into one movie.I was also disappointed that some of the facts were changed (Dr. Kellogg, for example, stayed fit and healthy well into his 90's) to please the anti-fitness people. The truth was crazy enough.  "},{"Title":"I can't believe these comments... this is a funny movie","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Most of the comments here have derided this movie for having quite a lot of 'potty humour' in it.  That's true but a lot of the more extreme stuff is off camera.  The thing is, the humour could best be described as dark rather than potty.  I won't accept 'poo jokes' where they are just there to get a laugh in and of themselves, but with this film I really felt they were appropriate to the story.  I laughed quite a lot and I'd recommend this movie to anybody.  Try to watch the film without any preconceptions. Actually, when I sat down to watch it I was only killing time before bed and reckoned it would be boring and ordinary enough to make sneaking off after an hour not such a bad thing.  In reality I got caught up in it and stayed for the entire movie.  The cast is great and the acting is good in general. It's a tongue in cheek look at the health industry.  Judge the acting by it's own merits and don't expect Hopkins to reprise a Mr. Stevens or Hannibal and you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Don't regard it as historical","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  At the time of the release of The Road to Wellville, I was the opinion page editor for the Battle Creek, Michigan, newspaper.  I also had written a history of the life of work of Will K. Kellogg, founder of Kellogg Co. and brother of the film's hero, Dr. John Harvey Kellogg (played by Anthony Hopkins).   I had read and published a review of T.C. Boyle's novel (which I enjoyed, but questioned for its historical inaccuracies).  So I suppose I was a natural to be asked by the newspaper and to review the film.  As a result, I was in the front row of an audience of Battle Creek residents during the Michigan premiere of the movie.  To put it mildly, the audience was at times shocked and bemused, but overall they were pretty entertained. The most blatant fictions that should be corrected are that the old Battle Creek Sanitarium was *not* a coed facility, that female nurses *never* gave enemas to male guests (or males to females, for that matter), that Dr. Kellogg did *not* die while diving in his 70s (he was 91 and died in bed), and that George Kellogg -- a very real human being -- was *not* a wayward drunk.  In fact, the only blatantly factual material is stated in the first five minutes, and then the film becomes fiction.  Much is changed from the original novel (particularly how Dr. Kellogg deals with George), and the serio-comic tone of the novel is transformed into stupid, juvenile titillation over bodily fluids and sexual escapades. However, the movie *does* capture the mood and atmosphere of Battle Creek in the first few years of the 20th century -- the charlatans, the fly-by-nights and the ne'er-do-wells are shown for pretty much what they were.  The faddists who took advantage of sincere Seventh-day Adventist health doctrine are extremely well depicted, as are there gullible patients.  And -- despite the phony rabbit teeth -- Hopkins is awfully fun as Dr. Kellogg.  The satire is well-taken and in many ways successful. Overall, I recommend reading Boyle's novel over seeing this film, but I also recommend reading a serious history of the cereal industry and its antecedents before believing a word of the fictional creations in both the movie and the novel. If you want to watch a great Parker film, rent Pink Floyd The Wall and skip this one.  But if you want to get a feel for Anthony Hopkins' incredible acting range, this is worth seeing.  Not for much else, though!  "}{"Title":"A Masterpiece","Date":"4 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  You people must be nuts. This movie is absolutely hilarious! I laughed through almost the entire thing! Sure, Bridget Fonda sucks, but who cares! The script is excellent, and I think Matthew Broderick did a great job playing his part. Anthony Hopkins was also wonderful, and I am laughing as I type just thinking about him. John Cusack was good as well, even though most of his movies are just mediocre. My personal favorite line in the movie is He's throwing boxes of sh*t at the guests! The music and set were simply beautiful! I don't see how ANYONE could hate this movie, seeing as it's a masterpiece. I recommend this movie to anyone in the mood for good comedy. "},{"Title":"With friends like these, who needs enemas","Date":"15 October 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" With friends like these, who needs enemas. is the funniest line in the movie.If you laugh when you hear the words shit, poo, enema or masturbation you will enjoy this movie. Reliance on pompous people saying these words wore thin for me.I would have made a nice 30 minute short. It dragged on and on repeating the same elements.The actors shout as if they were on stage trying to emote to the back rows in some melodrama. I just wanted them to shut up. The musical score reminded be of an endlessly extended frantic Wendy's commercial.It is visually interesting with all the Victoriana, and the crazy health machines created by Dr. Kellogg.Lots of nudity of ugly people. The extras are a bizarre looking crew, picked for their grotesqueness. "},{"Title":"Very funny and surprising","Date":"22 August 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I just watched this movie because Hopkins was in it, I expected another boring Hollywood style comedy. But it turned out to be a very funny movie. It was very entertaining to me. Good acting, good story (the side story fits in perfectly also) and good jokes. Don't watch this movie if you are narrow minded and can't appreciate humor about sex, dung and bodily fluids. "},{"Title":"An Embarrassing Mess","Date":"31 May 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Despite some good production values and the performance of Anthony Hopkins as Dr. Kellogg, I thought that The Road to Wellville was a major embarrassment. As it has been proved more than a few times, just because there's a strong cast doesn't mean that the movie will be a success. I guess the mention of enemas as a punchline in almost every other joke in the movie made it such a low-grade, sophomoric comedy. Perhaps it should have been a low-budget, college campus comedy instead of an expensive, health farm comedy. The Road to Wellville was one of the worst films in director Alan Parker's career. "},{"Title":"Not A Road You Want To Take","Date":"14 November 2006","Score":"19 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I remember anticipating a really entertaining, fun movie after I read the VHS box describing the story and then read the list of actors in here. Wow, very impressive Anthony Hopkins, John Cuscak, Matthew Broderick, Bridget Fonda, Dana Carvey, Colm Meaney, Michael Lerner, on and and on.Wrong.Bathroom humor or discussing bowel movements, etc., didn't bother me. In fact, I can laugh at that. What disappointed me about this film was that (1) - it simply wasn't funny and (2) the acting - mainly by Cusack - was brutal (3) the story was not put together well; just a mess. Cusack's loud over-acting was extremely annoying. What was he thinking? Normally a fine actor, he was the worst part of this movie, just grating. As for the classy Hopkins to be in this picture....well, all I can say is look at his resume this wasn't the first time he wasn't very discerning about roles to play. It is disappointing, though.As for the crude humor, you make the lines funny if you're going that route or you'll just turn people off, which is what happened to this movie. I actually gave this movie two chances, thinking I missed something.For those few elitist critics here who think the rest of the folks don't get it, well, maybe it's you who are full of crap, in addition the people in this movie. "},{"Title":"weird history in place of a compelling story","Date":"21 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Dr. John Harvey Kellogg (Anthony Hopkins) invented corn flakes. Along with his other believes in health, he opened a sanitarium in Battle Creek, Michigan. William (Matthew Broderick) is a new patient following his wife Eleanor Lightbody (Bridget Fonda) who is a Kellogg devotee. On the train there, they encounter Charles Ossining (John Cusack) who is trying to profit from the health food craze with partner Goodloe Bender (Michael Lerner). George (Dana Carvey) is Kellogg's disappointing adopted son who is always looking for money.This is a lot wacky turn-of-the-century health ideas. The problem is that the movie is in love with them. They take the place of a compelling story. The vast cast of characters keep the plot scattered and unfocused. It tries to be a screwball comedy but it's not funny. Alan Parker seems happy to let the plot lines drift while he pays more attention to the unusual health practices. It doesn't help that almost every character is played odd and broad. "},{"Title":"The Bowels are Born Again!","Date":"4 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Based on the quasi historical novel by T.C. Boyle, Alan Parker's adaptation tells of the hijinks up at the Battle Creek sanatorium at the end of the 19th century. It is a centre of health mania, headed up by the one and only Dr. Kellogg (Hopkins), who believes carnal impulses are dangerous, and clean bowels are the end all, be all of personal health and hygiene. A young couple enters (Broderick and Fonda) to seek healing of their own, while a young entrepreneur (Cusack) and a disgraced son of Kellogg (Carvey) attempt to launch their own breakfast cereal brand.A quirky & curious affair from the usually straight-laced veteran Parker, 'Wellville' boasts several enjoyable qualities. First off, we have a scene chewing Hopkins as Dr Kellogg, false teeth, cartoon accent and all, and he is a real treat to watch. The rest of the all-star cast all do satisfactory work, though none ever outshine Hopkins, with Broderick being mainly the suffering butt (pun very much intended) of the film's more anatomically-minded humour. Indeed, the playful contrast of period class and lowbrow gags does allow for a good few chuckles, and unlike your typical Sandler production, the sanatorium provides a decent context for the humour and is not gratuitous. This is all perfectly underscored by a zany soundtrack from romance veteran Rachel Portman, at points reminding me of Elfman's earlier works. However, the film's endgoal is not quite clear, and does sometimes undercut the fun; is it a health craze satire, a personal story of real human nature and how it shouldn't be suppressed, or just a wacky romp? It's all of that, and yet, no one element ever feels like the forefront of the film, with Parker more interested in seeing Broderick get pumped full of enemas and yoghurt than using it to make much of a point. Plus, the pacing does wind down by the end, and it feels like the film could wrap up sooner than it does.That being said, I enjoyed myself a lot more on the second go around with 'Wellville', now that my expectations had been tempered. It never fully achieves transcending period farce, but it's still perfectly watchable with enough strengths of its own to make for a unique title in Parker's distinguished catalogue. "},{"Title":"The Real History is More Interesting","Date":"11 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Based on T. C. Boyle's novel of the same name, The Road to Wellville tells the story of Dr. John Harvey Kellogg and his famous Sanitarium at Battle Creek, Michigan. It is a very broad satire, freeing mixing fact and fiction to create a humorous take on American health practices around the turn of the century, as well as the Battle Creek cereal boom, which lasted from 1900 to 1905. Many wonder if this is based on real history, and indeed elements of it are, but as usual, the real history turns out to be far more interesting than the Hollywood version (see, for example, the new book, Dr. John Harvey Kellogg and the Religion of Biologic Living for an lively overview of the true story). Anthony Hopkins does a bizarre, but entertaining turn as the Dr. Kellogg, and the supporting cast (including Matthew Broderick and Bridget Fonda) gamely run through the frequently scatological and sexual situations of a rather untidy script. For those who like their historical movies broad and colorful and full sophomoric humor, this movie is for them. (By the way, The Road to Wellville was actually a pamphlet written not by Kellogg, but by C. W. Post, who for years inserted it in every box of Post Toasties.) "},{"Title":"What a Sleeper!","Date":"3 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Try stepping back in time to the days when health retreats were the rage for those who could afford them. Buckle your seat belts for an unbelievably funny comedy. Can't say enough how much I liked this one as well as the performance by the entire cast. There are multiple plots and sub-plots and, collectively, they form a 3 ring circus of entertainment. Enjoy and laugh out loud.The only problem is that I can't stop wanting to watch this again. Just like Ferris Beuller's Day Off!Once you have seen the movie, go visit the Mohonk Mountain House in upstate NY. "},{"Title":"I'd Like to Ask  All Haters of This Movie ...","Date":"30 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Did you find funny any film involving characters named Focker? How about The Hangover? Did you think Avatar was well-acted or well-written? Was any Lord of the Rings or Harry Potter film silly? Was Titanic without historic inaccuracies? Just curious. The above questions embody the primary criticisms of Wellville. Leaving out, of course, the obligatory poop jokes are gross remarks. I'm certain those who lodge this complaint never were amused by scatological humor. Or ever told such a joke. Of course not.If someone you liked told you a joke, then, presuming the delivery was similar, were told the same joke by someone you despise, would you laugh both times? Be truthful.Point being this Is the movie really as bad as you say, or are you unable (or maybe unwilling?) to suspend your disbelief because you're pre-programmed so to do? Taste may be subjective, but is also subject to manipulation.So now ask yourself What was the last movie you thought was great, whether others liked it or not? "}{"Title":"One of the best comedies you'll ever see.","Date":"9 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I also can not fathom the low rating. One of only a small handful of comedies that I will watch repeatedly. As other reviewers have said, George young and old is great. It's a superb ensemble though. Hopkins performance as Dr. Kellogg easily rivals Dr. Lecter. For me Cusack's second best work. Colm Meaney's best without a doubt. Camryn Manheim's small but pivotal role always brings on a smile) I only gave it 9 stars, but that's because I'm a tough critic. It's a spectacularly good movie. It just isn't at that stratospheric ten level. IE Star Wars IV combined with being seven years old, or Clerks. If you haven't seen it yet, do so. "},{"Title":"One of the comedy highlights of all-time","Date":"20 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I was highly surprised that this pearl of a movie has only an average rating here in IMDb, because this is one of the finest comedies of all-time! I saw it already more then a dozen in the last ten years and will never get bored of it. The humor in this movie is often sexual, but never on the low level the teenager-comedies of the last years have.See this movie, enjoy it.Anthony Hopkins alone shows, how good he is in a comedy, too. Hannibal Lecter as John Kellogg? What a wonderful idea!Either if you are pleased about the wonderful cast or you like the issue and the jokes in it. "},{"Title":"one of my favourites!! And almost as good as the book!","Date":"25 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I am shocked to read all the bad reviews from folk that have seen this movie!! I have seen it so many times and loved it every time!! I have now also read the book and found it also to be good, and now I just want to see the movie again!! It is not only a movie filled with great actors, but a film that made me laugh out loud, even when I am sitting alone!!It is a movie that went to video way too quickly! I had never even heard of the film before one random day in a random dusty old video shelf...I RECOMMEND this film to all!! "},{"Title":"A comedic sleeper success!","Date":"9 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I never even knew about this film when it came out. Since I hear it only grossed 6.5 million that explains why. The producers probably didn't even keep in the theaters a week. I can't explain what makes a film flop at the box office, but this one certainly didn't deserve it.From start to finish I was totally enraptured by this witty story of a man who held views so controversial they are practically comical all by themselves. The movie is based on a novel which is a work of fiction, but it nevertheless draws its subject matter from some very true aspects of Dr. Kellogg's life that are quite unusual and almost always surprising. As these surprises are revealed to you throughout the film, they come as even more of a shock every time. There are a number of stories told throughout the sanitarium and each is a delight in and of itself. The stories all manage to interweave, sometimes in very comical ways, and despite their comedy, teach some very practical lessons. It is almost satirical.I give this film two thumbs up. Don't watch it in mixed company and it certainly isn't appropriate for children. But for those with a mature attitude and an appreciation of the health nut culture, it will make for a laugh-filled evening. "},{"Title":"With Friends Like You, Who Needs Enemas?","Date":"3 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Based on the novel by T.C. Boyle, THE ROAD TO WELLVILLE is a delightful lark of a film that wickedly spoofs the health fads of the early 1900s--and in particular those set forth by Dr. John Harvey Kellogg, co-inventor of the famous Kellogg cornflake and proponent of numerous healthful ideas that seem calculated to make moderns squirm.The film presents a triple story line. William and Eleanor Lightbody (Matthew Broderick and Bridget Fonda) are a young married couple in trouble Eleanor has accidentally poisoned William and hopes a trip to Dr. Kellogg's sanatorium can set him right. Charles Ossining (John Cusack) has come to Battle Creek in the hope of striking it rich by creating a breakfast cereal to cash in on America's fitness craze--only to find himself involved with various thieves and scoundrels. These include George Kellogg (Dana Carvey), who seems to live to make the life of his adoptive father Dr. Kellogg (Anthony Hopkins) unmitigated hell.The various stories are extremely entertaining as they intertwine--but most of the laughs come at Dr. Kellogg's expense as he advocates yogurt enemas, electric baths, and other bizarre treatments that seem to arise primarily from his idea that sex is the sewer drain of a healthy body. Patients are humiliated, harassed, and harangued about their sex lives even as they remain largely ignorant of their own sexual natures, which was typical of many Americans in this era. Much of it is crude, bad taste, bathroom humor--but it is expertly, hilariously handled. Any one who can sit through THE ROAD TO WELLVILLE without hooting out loud doesn't simply lack a sense of humor they're probably dead.The performances are sharp, clever, and make the most of the various outlandish situations into the characters are forced. Broderick carries the film with tremendous charm and Fonda follows suit, but the real acting awards go to Anthony Hopkins, Dana Carvey, and a supporting cast that includes outrageously funny performances by the likes of Camryn Manheim, Traci Lind, Colm Meaney, and John Neville. The DVD has nothing in the way of bonus features and is, alas, only available in pan-and-scan, but don't let that stop you. Laugh your way to health the Kellogg way! GFT, Amazon Reviewer "},{"Title":"Hysterically Funny But Erratic Film","Date":"31 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I have come to realize that my sense of humor is very much out of sync with mainstream film tastes. Frequently, I have seen a comedy that leaves me in hysterics, only to discover that it is loathed by the mainstream media and masses alike. The Road To Wellville is one of these films.When I first saw The Road To Wellville on Cinemax in the mid-nineties, I could not believe just how much crass and bawdy humor was packed into this film, and I could not stop laughing. Up to that time, I could not recall any other film so unashamedly filled with scatological references. I especially enjoyed the great Anthony Hopkins voicing the eccentric views of Dr. John Kellogg while defining a very strange but memorable character.Of course, the critics panned this film for the very reasons I initially loved it. Seeing it again, I can understand their revulsion. While the film is packed with many hilariously tasteless gags, the overall story is very erratic. The main plot involving Matthew Broderick's bizarre medical treatments is rather entertaining, but John Cusack's subplot is neither very funny nor well-written. By the three-quarters mark, the film loses momentum and becomes just another tedious romantic comedy. Such a shame, considering the outrageously satirical nature of the first few acts of this film. The laughs are there, but the story is not. "},{"Title":"Chew, Chew, Chew!","Date":"23 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I would not say this is a fact based film. With its many substories that probably did not happen but as far as Dr. John Harvey Kellogg and the Battle Creek San was concerned it is fairly accurate. Dr. John Harvey Kellogg was pretty much as depicted in this film, a most excellent job by Anthony Hopkins. However the real Kellogg would make you eat half the Yogurt and the other half was used as an enema. Anthony Hopkins ,Bridget Fonda, Matthew Broderick, John Cusack, Dana Carvey, Michael Lerner, Colm Meaney, John Neville, Lara Flynn Boyle, Traci Lind, Camryn Manheim all turn in great performances with Hopkins, Broderick, Cusack and Lara Flynn Boyle as stand outs! I am not much for period based films but the amount of talent and the accurate detail of the quack medical devices used made me change my mind, at least with this film.That said I did not like the film when I first saw it. It was one of my wifes video picks and while I had heard of the film I did not know much about it. It had just been released to video. The problem was that so many images of the film stuck in my mind. After seeing it several more times years later I fell in love with the film and it is in my top 20 film list. The film may be an acquired taste but chew, chew, chew and it will be good for you! "},{"Title":"Great funnies!","Date":"9 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I saw this movie once a few years ago. Loved it then and have been looking to purchase it for my library. I had been looking with the wrong movie title Wellsville, so I'm glad I finally found it through first a google search then the IMDb search! I really enjoyed this film. I'm sure it was a lot of fun to make! The plot is great, the actors are great! I don't know if I'll ever eat cornflakes again. I love the era this film was made in. Makes the plot fit perfectly. All of the different types of humor in the movie will certainly get anyone on the floor laughing. Who knows, that type of healthy living might become a new fad in the future... well, let us hope not anyway. "},{"Title":"in the stark pro-con division on this movie count me a pro!","Date":"1 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Quite strong feelings among your reviewers as to whether this movie was differently brilliant or a time-wasting load of rubbish. Like one of your reviewers I was hooked from the first minute and couldn't leave the screen (despite the tons of commercials) till it was over. The movie's strongest point is the evocation of that era 100 years ago not only through marvelous set design and costumes but through the recording for the audience of all the health, sex, and ecological manias the world was going through at the time and to a certain extent still is (witness the current promotion of fiber as the road to inner health even today and the still-strong animal rights movement). Brilliant performances (Hopkins as an American, especially.) As a Shawfan I especially empathized with the strongly-urged vegetarianism and anti-animal slaughtering promoted by my own personal guru, George Bernard Shaw, who was in the thick of all those movements of that time. As to the three plot lines I loved all three of them. Never having read the book I couldn't be disappointed in the movie which I found satirically engaging and poignant by turns. But its main interest, much like the musical The Music Man, was in its brilliant re-creation of an era. Bravo, bravo, and thanks to all concerned who made this wonderful movie. "},{"Title":"a must see if you are into enemas and fart jokes","Date":"11 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" What the crap were they thinking?!?! I just can't believe ANYONE in their right mind would want to make this movie! The story is a combination of true history and fictionalized drivel. Yes, there really was a health clinic in Michigan that really prescribed a STRICT vegetarian diet, repeated enemas and was dedicated to repressing sexual urges. BUT, to make an entire movie about this AND to try to make it a comedy??? The movie is VERY visceral and goes way over the top in showing and describing human and animal waste. Wow. It looks like movie goers could have saved money--instead of paying to see this movie, they could have gone to a sewage treatment plant or local dairy farm for a tour---or perhaps just stared into a used toilet for 118 minutes! The movie is painfully unfunny and most of the characters are awful--particularly Dana Carvey's disgusting character. "}{"Title":"Not incredibly limp, dull, and lifeless...","Date":"29 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" ...but still not a good movie.  Personally, I'd rather see a documentary on Dr. Kellogg and his quackery; this fictionalization was filled with too many pee-pee/poo-poo jokes for it to work for me.  The storyline that covered Kellogg's relationship with his son bogged it down in pop psychology, detracting even further from the movie.  Matthew Broderick is adorable in this movie, but his switches from uptight to frantic are jarring. Bridgitte Fonda was just...there, occupying space and speaking.  Overall, not exactly the rip-roaring comedy promised by the ads.  Did I mention there were just too many pee-pee/poo-poo jokes? "},{"Title":"Great Fun","Date":"19 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A very underrated film which is enormously funny. Broderick and Fonda are superb in this film although they are outperformed by Hopkins and the Young adopted son. Empty your head of all thoughts before you see this film and just sit back and enjoy. "},{"Title":"A mistake","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie was a terrible mistake. The beginning is promising (Hopkins explaining his philosophy to reporters while using one of his contraptions), but the script goes nowhere. An otherwise admirable cast looks like they are trying to do something with it, and might have had a good time making it, but Alan Parker just didn't know what he was doing. I've seen other of Parker's films - admired many of them - and am just stunned at how badly this was put together. "},{"Title":"Disjointed waste of talented actors","Date":"21 April 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I am an avid fan of both Anthony Hopkins and Matthew Broderick.  Why they chose to do this film is beyond me.  While both turn out stellar performances they are wasted in a disjoint story which bounces between multiple subplots -- and it isn't clear which plot is the 'main' plot -- and dubious flashbacks.  While sex is an integral component to some of the subplots, its depiction is gratuitous.The story wanders aimlessly and in the end comes crashing down in flames leaving this viewer burned out and wasted. "},{"Title":"you gotta be bold, you gotta be wiser...","Date":"28 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" As Des'ree sang in one of her tunes you gotta be bold, you gotta be wiser.... That's the case with RTW too. I have been surprised by people seeing this as a comedy, as it seems to me totally the opposite. Indeed human frailty, stupidity and weakness may seem ridiculous, hilarious. It has a Balzac touch this movie, la comedy humaine. Typical start of the 2oth century atmosphere. People are fascinated and abide all kinds of theories even if proposed by insane or charlatan doctors. There are also vegetarians, health nuts, hedonists, entrepreneurs, and animal rights defenders. Health is a thing of great regard, and tons of nonetheless respectable gents immerse into doubtful treatment practices. This movie covers a surprisingly vast amount of character types the businessman looking to succeed by all means, the young dreamer, the abused, love-lacking child, the concerned housewife, the leader(Kellogg), the woman complexed with her looks, the man with a sex appetite and a whole range of very influential and easily manipulable persons. The conclusions are bitter better a businessman without scruple than a silly leader, better suffer from a middle age crisis than from abiding stupid theories, better think with your own head as incapable it may be than borrow opinions from others... Have you seen Hopkins' face with those mouse-like teeth? My rating 7/10 "},{"Title":"You Are What You Eat.","Date":"15 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Saw this movie twice. The first time I thought it was tasteless and boring, except for Bridget Fonda's bathtub scene. I recently saw it again after several years and it didn't seem nearly so bad. Maybe I was able to get past the initial feeling that the writers and the director thought that gags about enemas and the like were themselves laugh-worthy.It now seems that the folks behind this production were trying something a little more ambitious than Porky Goes to a Health Club. Maybe it's really meant as a seriocomic Martian's eye view of the current bizarre goings on regarding our own health.A few years ago we were told to avoid butter (high in calories and cholesterol). So we switched to margarine. Oops. The health police have now thrown up their hands and pointed to the trans-fatty acids (partially hydrogenated vegetable oil) which knocks your internal cholesterol-producing apparatus into a cocked hat. When I was a kid we were admonished to consume the health foods du jour -- whole milk and liver. (Liver was supposed to supply the body with abundant iron but I really think it was recommended so highly because nobody liked it, therefor it must be good for you.) Of course that's all history, right? We now know so much better, which is exactly what Dr. Kellog and his colleagues thought in 1895. Each generation believes it stands on the pinnacle of knowledge and science has nothing left to do but fill in a few missing dots. What colossal arrogance.I suspect that a hundred years from now our current hysteria will seem as deranged to scientists as Kellog's theories seem to us now. If the movie is seen from this perspective, it's a lot funnier than if you look at it simply as a series of jokes about sex and excretion.The score is enjoyable too. The composer has matched her talents to the visuals with a deftness that's hard to describe. The performances are good, as you might expect from such a cast. But Sir Anthony (call me Tony) Hopkins is more than merely good. He's been kind of careless in his choice of roles and one might think he's an actor of little range, his métier being the thoughtful, sensitive, quiet, quietly suffering man of reticence. But here he's great. He's got a set of false buck teeth on him that turn his every utterance into a comic statement. Not that he relies entirely on such props. Notice the scene in which he informs Mathew Broderick that his wife, Bridget Fonda, is being regularly masturbated by Dr. Spitsvogel. It's her womb, he says confidentially, it's being ma-NIP-ulated! And some of the scenes, regardless of any resonance they may have with the present concern with health, are funny in themselves. The scene in which Dr. Kellog's children are all singing Christmas carols in what appears to be a church -- all except one dopey looking kid (who grows up to be Dana Carvey). The kid stands there in the line of singers, sullenly silent, except for the occasional but highly audible rectal zephyr. It seems the perfect response to the health police who have forced Olestra from the store shelves because it causes anal leakage.I worked in this scene as an extra in the audience. It was filmed in the attic of one of Wilmington, North Carolina's old mansions and it was a rather spooky experience. The floor was clearly not designed to hold dozens of people and several long tons of cinematic hardware. It was like walking on a trampoline. The director kept pausing and trying to redistribute the weight but it was no use. All I could think of was the scene in Nathaniel West's Day of the Locus in which Napolean's army or something crashes through the fake mountain and tumbles to its death. PS It didn't happen here. "},{"Title":"Lots of tongue-in-cheek fun","Date":"4 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" What interests me most about this film is what might have possibly coerced such big names as Hopkins, Broderick, Carvey, Boyle, Fonda, and Cusack to make this movie. Could it be that they just wanted to have some fun? From their on-screen appearances, it is obvious they enjoyed themselves, and in so doing, put forth a film which was entertaining, pure and simple. I'm not quite sure where they got some of the mountainous outdoor scenic background from, since Battle Creek is located in southern Michigan's rolling terrain, but apart from that this movie is just fun to watch. The Road to Wellville is a marvelous take-off on the health-crazed era of the early 20th century. "},{"Title":"stuffy story trapped in ridiculous acting and ludicrous comedy","Date":"12 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  There are a thousand and one problems with this film, but i only have time to mention a couple. Firstly I was under the impression that this was a comedy, but I didn't find it remotley amusing. The story is cliche and contains so many stereotypes about victorian life that it is beyond belief. There is also a problem with the length. This film was on at about midnight and lasted until gone one in the morning. A film this bad should not have lasted over  ninety minutes and even then it is not even worth watching. The setting makes the film uncomfortable and is slightly sickening. Anthony hopkins was just embarassing and with a bad central performance the whole film is subjected to misguidance and in this case the film is just plain awful! "},{"Title":"The bottom line","Date":"21 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Road to Wellville satirizes the early 1900's Battle Creek, Michigan sanatorium operated by Dr. John Harvey Kellogg (Hopkins) of corn flakes fame. What this raucous rampage of silliness lacks in story it makes up for with an aggregation of comical stereotypes who subject themselves to all manner of quackery and contraptions in the interest of promoting good health. Featuring a good cast,  good production value, and flush gags about biological functions below the waste, ....Wellville will be enjoyed most by those who can find the humor in toilet talk, farting, purging, enemas, and anything and everything having to do with the alimentary canal.  (B) "},{"Title":"I *wanted* to like this film","Date":"9 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I truly wanted to like this film.  The script had a lot of good lines, and many flashes of insight about health gurus in general and Dr. Kellogg in particular.  There were several outstanding performances, especially Anthony Hopkins, Camryn Manheim and John Cusack.  Matthew Broderick was wasted.  (I am reading the book now, and his character, Will Lightbody, is much weaker and more boring in the film.).  Brigid Fonda, however, was way out of her league.  Except for when her character is in the throes of orgasm, her performance is so amateurish and unbelievable that it is often painful to watch. John Neville (remember Baron Munchhausen?) is a delight, helping the movie with his dry British  rendition of some of the best lines of the script.The film is just over two hours long, but, despite the humor, excellent performances, gorgeous cinematography and witty editing, it seems longer. The storylines meander, yet they are predictable.  The funny lines and the possibility that maybe the good would outweigh the bad kept me watching, but it wasn't quite worth the time.I am reading T. Coraghessan Boyle's book, and his writing serves the story far better than the movie.  I recommend the book far more than the movie. "}{"Title":"Everything you wanted to know about mastication","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It's been almost 6 years since I saw this film at the cinema and it still makes me smile.  I'm a big fan of Anthony Hopkins, and his performance as the eccentric Dr. Kellogg is even better than his portrayal of Hannibal Lecter.  I can give no greater compliment than that.The film takes a snapshot of American priviliged society at the turn of the last century and shows how ridiculous it really was with it's extremist views on health, sex and animal rights.  Enemas were the cure for almost everything, according to Dr. Kellogg.Some of the lines were memorable  Masturbation is the silent killer of the night, An erection is a flagpole on your grave, Flat-chested women are a danger to themselves.  Ridiculous.  Crude.  Hilarious.  There were many more, but as I said, I haven't seen it in 6 years.This is probably a love-it-or-hate-it film, depending on your sense of humour.  I loved it. "},{"Title":"Not as good as the book, but....","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Based on T. C. Boyle's outstanding novel of the same name, this movie doesn't measure up to the book, but that may be an unfair standard for any movie.  On its own, this movie is pretty funny, even if its humor is about as subtle as a kick in the groin.  Most of the jokes revolve around enemas, flatulence, sexual desire and repression, and other themes of similar loftiness.  Still, the loopiness of that particular time and place (Battle Creek, Michigan, about a hundred years ago) comes across well; the twin crazes of health reform and the starting up of breakfast food companies are explored very well here, as is the wonderfully eccentric personality of Dr. John H. Kellogg (1852-1943), who may be the most fascinating character this country has ever seen.Anthony Hopkins is excellent as Dr. Kellogg, but other standouts include John Cusack as young Mr. Ossining (strange name that), Michael Lerner as Bender, and Roy Brockworth as Kellogg's flabby personal secretary, Poultney Dab. (Fine advertisement you are for biological living!)Overall, I liked this movie a lot; still, you might want to approach it with caution if you've already read the book.  Otherwise, you may in for a disappointment. "},{"Title":"A hilarious, and bizarre movie.","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I had heard  The Road Wellville  was quite an interesting film, very strange and funny.  I agreed whole heartedly with this statement after viewing the film.  The movie is about the health empire which Dr. Kellog initiated with his wacky inventions and his very own Health spa.  Anthony Hopkin's is brilliant as the obsessive health maverick, and his bizarre regimen for well-being.  Hopkin's shows his enormous acting range and a gift for comedy, he is unrecognizable when compared to his role in  Silence of the Lambs .  Other stellar performances as usual from John Cusak and Matthew Broderick, as well as Bridget Fonda as Eleanor Lightbody the wife of Broderick's character.  One thing I truly enjoyed were scenes of flashbacks with Kellog's son George (Dana Carvey), these scenes are emotional and poignant.  My problem with these scenes though is they are under used which decreases the effect a little bit.  Camryn Manheim who now stars in the Practice(a virtually unknown at the time) is wonderful as Eleanor Lightbody's devoted friend, and advisor.  Scenes where she tries to clue Eleanor in to sexually related topics are hilarious, re bicycle scene at the beginning of the film. Many comments I have seen about the movie are about the subject matter which they feel is distasteful or unnecessary.  Although I agree it is very dry, it is important to the context of the movie and it's subject matter, it adds a taste of burlesque which amplifies the bawdiness and adds to the humour.  The energy of the movie is vibrant and the cast seems to be thoroughly enjoying themselves which adds to the movie's flavour.  I am not surprised the comments of the movie vary so drastically, it is a hard movie to pin down; although I feel The Road to Wellville is an excellent comedy, and I rate it 7 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Well. At least this film is different.","Date":"17 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Well. At least this film is different. It has at least three subplots winding through it and I couldn't tell which one was the main theme. In the end, it really doesn't matter. The actors all did good things with their roles, and the director didn't get in the way. I think that all the focus on excretory matters was different from the usual potty humor of the day; it seemed more to display the fanaticism of some of the characters, and that, I think, is really what the film is about. Kudos to Sir Anthony Hopkins, Bridget Fonda, and, in a smaller role, Lara Flynn Boyle. "},{"Title":"Silly Flick","Date":"13 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie does not seem to have a point or to tell a story.  Lots of things are happening, yet, they really do not end up meaning anything until the last ten minutes of the film.  I sat through the torturous duration of the film solely because I am an avid Hopkins fan.  I would only recommend it to health nuts with great senses of humor. "},{"Title":"It's been a very long time since I've seen a film that makes me laugh as much as this one.","Date":"28 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  By chance I saw Road to Wellville listed to be shown on Flix or Encore (can't remember which)on Dish Network. Thought I'd give it a try. I started enjoying it about 1 minute into the film, and my enjoyment lasted throughout the film. Extremely funny, people of all shapes and sizes being people in Kellog's health spa of 100 years ago. The story was OK, but with the catchy music and the scenes of the times, and the acting of the cast, the story really didn't matter to me. I consider it one of the funniest films I've ever seen. So much so that I purchased a tape of it, and I don't do that very often.  "},{"Title":"Manipulative Therapy","Date":"14 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Hilarious, for those of us who like to see the health mafia subjected to a little well-deserved ridicule.  Anthony Hopkins gives the performance of his life as the toothy, fast talking, enema obsessed Dr. Kellogg -- inventor of cornflakes and God knows what other benefits to humanity.  Bridget Fonda and Traci Lind are surprisingly adorable and sexy with their hair piled up on top of their heads like in photos of great grandmother.Bracing alternative to the Currier and Ives view of late nineteenth century America.  One learns that hype and passionate interest in any means of grabbing a fast buck are not brand new phenomena in our country. "},{"Title":"Rarely has do much talent been gathered to deliver so little","Date":"14 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A thoroughly appalling comedy detailing the wacky misadventures at an early 20th century health farm run by bizarre cereal magnate Dr. John Kellogg. Purportedly based on real events, one is hard-pressed to find much to laugh about in this over-long and criminally unfunny film. Anthony Hopkins, sporting buck teeth, has been drafted to play the nutty Kellogg. The events at the health farm largely unfold through the eyes of newly converted health maven Bridget Fonda and her less enthused husband Matthew Broderick, who is dragged along to have his system cleared of impurities.It is open for debate how much on screen is indeed factual, but it is certainly not open for debate how such a debacle could have been conceived with the talent involved. Director Alan Parker is responsible for some of our best dramas, including Midnight Express and Mississippi Burning. The cast is stocked with familiar faces, who have had far better days elsewhere. The humor is almost completely one-sided in scatological references and bodily functions - if you think the idea of someone getting a yogurt enema is the height of hilarity, then this is definitely the film for you. The film is also awash in gratuitous nudity, but no amount of eye candy (and much of it would not qualify for that description) can distract from the film's glaring shortcomings.Hopkins throws himself into the role of Kellogg, but it is little more than a cartoon character. Fonda alternates between nagging and dishrag in a dreadfully uninteresting role. Broderick fares best from the cast, largely because he is playing the only semi-developed character and the only one remotely normal or sympathetic. It is also a pleasant surprise how enticing he looks when naked - that close-up on the vibrating platform was a real eye-opener. John Cusack is on hand, but why is anyone's guess. His subplot - playing a nephew of one of Kellogg's patients involved in a shady scheme - goes no where and takes up too much screen time. Ditto, Dana Carvey as Kellogg's deranged son. Both subplots could have been completely excised from the film without anyone noticing and making the proceedings blessedly shorter. Camryn Manheim is light years beyond obnoxious as Fonda's confidante at the health farm.Truly there is literally nothing that works in this film. There is nary a chuckle to be found in its morass of jokes on poop, enemas, flatulence and body fluids. At the end, the question lingers as to how so many talented people ended up in this mess? "},{"Title":"One of the best comedies ever made","Date":"21 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I guess some people are very easily offended. Admitted, this movie shows, suggests, or refers to almost every bodily function, but that is important to the gist of the movie. It is about the San, a health spa in Battle Creek operated by Dr. John Harvey Kellogg.Although he does not appear in the movie, the cereal company's founder was not Dr. Kellogg (as stated in an earlier review by someone claiming to be a historian), but Dr. Kellogg's younger brother, Will Kieth Kellogg.I purchased and watched The Road to Wellville after viewing an A&E biography about the Kellogg Brothers and found many parallels between the movie and the documentary. While Road is not a biography, it is based on real people and events. For example, about a century ago, Battle Creek was the home of dozens of cereal companies because it was the only place where people knew how to turn grains into flakes. Kellogg employees were regularly recruited to help other would-be entrepreneurs start cereal companies, and there were many cereal companies that existed only on stock certificates sold to a gullible public.Although an eccentric and something of a crackpot, Dr. Kellogg did invent some other things of great value, such as peanut butter, the electric blanket, and the belief that surgical instruments should be sterilized. His reluctance to turn his discoveries into commercial ventures (beyond the San) led to a split with his brother and a legal battle over the latter's right to use the family name in the name of his cereal business. They did not speak for many years.I recommend the A&E Biography to fans of the movie. It will increase your enjoyment of The Road to Wellville the next time you watch it. "},{"Title":"Not as bas as you've read.","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  SPOILERS!!!This is not a film that was made with the Oscars in mind BUT neither is it as bad as you have read here.Keep in mind it is FICTION....rewritten from a NOVEL.  It's not intended to be taken too seriously.Dr. Kellogg in the film takes on all the quirks of Kellogg, Sylvester Graham(of the graham cracker) and C.W.Post.  These men and others have given us many odd ideas.  For one they believed that circumcision would hurt a baby boy so bad that it would keep him from masturbating the whole idea was to inflict pain.  Some of their ideas such as keeping the diet low in fat and high in complex carbohydrates, fresh vegetable, fruits and grains are good.  Others such as the circumcision ideas are very harmful to us as a society.I am not an expert on this era or the treatments of the time but I have done some reading on it.  Most all of the odd equipment you will see actually existed along with the ideas spouted by the characters. Dr. Kellogg gave himself daily enemas.  It likely was the only sexual stimulation he could get.  There WERE people that that thought that sex was bad, that masturbation was harmful and that electricity could cure almost everything.  Much was based on religious ideas.  CW POST invented a cold cereal that he called Elijah's Manna.  Ministers objected and he changed the name to what you know it by today.  Post Toasties.The film is funny, satirical, and also a peek at ourselves in our latest health craze.  IS the Sears White Star Liquor Cure made of opium any more strange than believing that bee pollen can cure cancer?Camryn Manhiem was asked to be in the film and told she would need to be nude.  She was told that much of the movie was about bodies.  Fat, thin, short, tall, healthy and sick.  So Camryn did her first nude scene next to Bridgit Fonda.If nudity and potty jokes and joking about the dead are offensive don't watch.  If you like that kind of thing then the milk bath scene with Bridgit is worth watching for.  For those wondering also nude are Traci Lind, and Lara Flynn Boyle.Michael Lerner is funny as a con man, John Cusak is also as the man just trying to make a go of it and Dana Carvey is delightful as George Kellogg.Don't expect to be moved or motivated The Road To Wellville but you should laugh a lot.  If not perhaps you need an enema. "}{"Title":"A Good Movie","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Any movie with Matthew Broderick, Anthony Hopkins, Dana Carvey, and John Cusack has got to be good.  All four are in one of their most prime and natural roles.  Agreed, this is a strange movie, but it is definately worth the watch; even a few watches.  You even get to see a ficticious start of a name brand cereal!  If you haven't seen this movie, definately go out and get it now.~Matt "},{"Title":"underrated comedy","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The film finds comedy in the most basic body functions and also in some of the now out-dated health treatments (their is a lot of crazy stuff in this movie but is any of it more riciculous then strapping a magnet to your arm and expecting your sore wrist to improve?) The movie has many funny and thought provoking ideas and it also contains the funniest scene I've ever seen in any movie ever (I'm speaking of the dinner scene with the sickly french man)Compared to a lot of the crappy Adam Sandler films and movies based on saturday night live sketches this one is pretty good and I'm surprised it wasn't a bigger hit "},{"Title":"Tantamount to a porno!","Date":"28 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie with my 70-something aunt and uncle thinking it was a historical about the Kellogg's company (because I live a couple hours from their factory), but I was shocked, not to mention embarrassed with that much sex in a movie.Not as though I have not seen movies with sex in them, who hasn't, but if I knew it had that much in it, I would have never shown it to my aunt and uncle. Horrible writing and not historical at all. I was surprised that Anthony Hopkins was nominated for any awards for this movie. 1 star for filming location Wilmington, North Carolina, but otherwise - this movie is a must skip! "},{"Title":"stuffy story trapped in ridiculous acting and ludicrous comedy","Date":"12 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  There are a thousand and one problems with this film, but i only have time to mention a couple. Firstly I was under the impression that this was a comedy, but I didn't find it remotley amusing. The story is cliche and contains so many stereotypes about victorian life that it is beyond belief. There is also a problem with the length. This film was on at about midnight and lasted until gone one in the morning. A film this bad should not have lasted over  ninety minutes and even then it is not even worth watching. The setting makes the film uncomfortable and is slightly sickening. Anthony hopkins was just embarassing and with a bad central performance the whole film is subjected to misguidance and in this case the film is just plain awful! "},{"Title":"A total hoax and lie, much like CBS's The Reagans","Date":"25 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I am a historian and my wife is a biologist.  Together we have studied health related topics and how the health profession got it's start.  If you would go and read about the works of Dr. Kellog, the founder of the Kellog Company, yes the cereal company, you will find how far from the truth this movie is.  Dr. Kellog never used electricity in any shape or form in his treatments because he was against using it as it would wipe out your memory, no promiscuity was allowed (you know those years).  Dr. Kellog was a pioneer in the health industry with many of his methods being used today.  I visited his sanatorium in Battle Creek, MI, while it being government offices today, many of the original salons still are in place.  I found this movie to be a baseless and false representation of the person of Dr. John Harvey Kellog and of his practice.  "},{"Title":"A bit disappointing","Date":"26 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I like jokes about toilets and defecation, and I also like some (not all) books of T.C. Boyle. I dont like Matthew Broderick that much. The problem of this movie is that it has no clear plot Should it concentrate on the Lightbodys, on Wellville-Founder Kellogg or on the story of the hospital? So the scenes follow in a very unmotivated order; the story lacks any dramatic highs and lows. So we have a sligthly satiric, sometimes funny, but mostly boring movie.  "},{"Title":"Much better than initially perceived","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  There is a prevailing myth that somehow eating vegies and grains and avoiding meat is somehow good for your health.  There are many sources of this point of view as well as hundreds of different viewpoints and takes on the myth.  This film explores one the great perpetrators of this myth,  John Harvey Kellog of Battle Creek, MI, the inventor of cornflakes and along with his associates, the well known Graham family who gave us Graham wheat and graham crackers, were all spin-offs of the Seventh Day Adventist religious twist on the old testament food laws.  Hopkins is intense and the story kind of flops along, seemingly with no story line or guiding plot beyond the inherent charlatantism that surrounded the charismatic Dr. Kellog and his associates.  The film does, however, point out the Kellogs became very, very wealthy promoting this early approach to essentially vegetarian eating.  If, for nothing other than that fact, this film hits the mark and does a great service to all us.  As a film, it has no explosions, chase scenes or graphic killings, stunts or lurid sex scenes, albeit the little romp in the wood with the quack German Dr. Spitzvogel masturbating his patients to help them relax, might qualify; however, it is full of satire, twists and even sadness.  In short, this is an often overlooked, over-criticized film, too often compared to a standard which it does not aspire. There is no solid empirical evidence that supports vegetarian eating as being somehow more healthy.  In fact, current thinking is changing, especially among nutritionists seriously reexamining the role that low fat/high carbohydrate diets play in our current obesity epidemic.  However, as the Kellogs and the Grahams found out, you can not only fatten your clients by having them eat lots of grains but you can likewise fatten your bank accounts in the process. "},{"Title":"I'm amazed that this film was ever released","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film is not bad because it is filled with references to sex and bodily functions. It is bad because it is ineptly written and ineptly produced. There is no recognisable structure. Things happen that make no sense. We have no investment in any of the characters.People interact with each other - no-one is affected, no-one develops in any way that seems human! I can't imagine how Alan Parker's script was approved. I can't imagine how any of the producers - seeing the amorphous splodge of scenes cut together  - thought that this was worth releasing. Angel Heart is a model of consistency and logic compared with this mess! And the producers seemed to want flaunt their budget, 'look at the production design!' 'look at the huge cast' 'look how much money we raised on this director and cast.' This film is so badly made that I would be fascinated to discover how this could have possibly happened! "},{"Title":"totally ignorant and disgusting","Date":"28 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What a disappointment to view Anthony Hopkins acting in the GUTTER!! Up to now, I've always had a lot of respect for him as an actor & considered him to be in the upper-class category. How could he DEMEAN himself so? This total waste-of-time-movie borders on being x rated in my opinion. The attempt at sexual humor fell flat on its face! It was also a total bore & a total misrepresentation of the real Dr. Kellogg. I would certainly love to see someone SUED for SLANDER. If I were a descendant of the Kellogg family (which I am not, by the way), it would be totally insulting to have my ancestor's methods & motives portrayed in such an untruthful way. As for Bridget Fonda, what else would you expect from her? She has no talents for REAL acting, anyway. All she can do is try to portray sexual situations. It doesn't take any talent for that! If you're contemplating renting this movie - save your time & money unless you like being in the gutter! "},{"Title":"Proof that even the best cast can't save a bad movie","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I really hated this movie. I mean a lot. Maybe it was due to the fact it had alot of my favorite actors. I mean Anthony Hopkins has been great in a whole slew of movies, from Silence of the Lambs to Amistad. Matthew Broderick was kind of good in War Games, not nearly as bad as he was in this, but then he did the American Godzilla and I pretty much gave up all hope for him. And, most disappointing of all, John Cusack. He has done consistantly funny work. Better off Dead was my favorite movie that  would come on Saturday after cartoons as I was growing up. I even like the movies he did after this. Go look at my review of Being John Malkovich. and even pushing tin had that moment with Angelina Jolie,But this movie was horrible.The acting was, as expected great, but the story. Oh lord, the story smelled like year old milk. Was this movie even trying to be funny? Its shown repeatedly on Comedy Central, so I guess it was, but it was more along the lines of a doctor leaving a scaple inside you after an operation and laughing about it while you bleed to death internally. Actually, I think that would be funnier, if done right.I can't even blame the director. I mean he directed the wall for god's sake. though on the other hand he did help adapt this from a novel form. Man, can you imagine how bad the book is? Really this movie is bad only for one reason, the original writer's. When a house collapses on its residents, you look to the builders. They had the materials needed to create a classic and failed masterfully. in summation, this movie is best summed up in the vernacular of a first grader as follows crap crappity crap crap CRAP. *** out of 10Disclaimer still not as bad as Hudson Hawk "}{"Title":"Dont listen to the guy from the Netherlands","Date":"28 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie is TERRIBLE. Avoid it like the plague. I found Anthony Hopkins' portrayal of Dr. Kellogg to be very poor - one of the worst of his career. This movie has very little in the way of plot, moves agonizingly slow, and is generally not funny. I didnt care about any of the characters in the movie - what happens to them, what theyre going through, anything. The only part of the previous review that I agree with is that it is a decent lampooning of the health industry and all of its quackery. John Cusak attempts to do way to much with the role he's given and it's painful to watch. All of the comedic talent that Matthew Broderick showed in Biloxi Blues, Ferris Bueller's Day Off, etc is lost here. Bridget Fonda fulfills her apparent contractual agreement to be topless in every film for the rest of her career, and for the ladies there is a constant parade of male buttocks, but other than that, there is nothing of note. I want the two hours I spent watching this film back.  "},{"Title":"This film is not a film","Date":"17 May 2006","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I have rarely seen such a feast of bad-taste tosh in my life. One or two 'jokes' about bowel movements could be funny....two could be amusing.....but this film, dedicated to that end of the alimentary canal is about as much fun to watch as it is to receive the endless enemas it delights in bringing to our close attention. Parker's characters are shallow and boring. Hopkins plays a one-dimensional puritanical sadist. He abused his adopted son, likes to humiliate his patients, is impotent and does things to his own backside with devices. Fantastic. This character could have been generated by computer. What happened to Parker's creativity? The story simply does not exist. There is no relation at all between the various threads and they have no influence on the main storyline because it is either totally lacking or so weak as to be invisible. However I fear the most important criticism I have of this sorry waste of money is that it is simply NOT AT ALL FUNNY. During the entire, dragging, boring debacle, there were perhaps two occasions when it was worth a slight smile. Does Parker really think it is necessary to show a man in a shower with filthy underpants and then give us a close-up of the brown-black waste water emanating from them? Is it funny for a man to have an erection because of electrical charges applied to his feet? (Incidently this joke was played for several minutes and several scenes in the film.) Parker directed with a total lack of taste and finesse. I would like to take a copy of this lame disaster, and just as Mr. Parker wasted a couple of precious hours of my life showing me his sad anal fixation fantasies, procure a jar of Vaseline and then introduce him to new ways of 'enjoying film'.This film should have stayed where it belonged - on the cutting room floor. Parker - hang your head in shame, Sir! "},{"Title":"Utter excrement","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is so bad that I was wishing for unneccessary nudity to keep me awake. I developed a personal relationship with the fast-forward button on my remote control while watching THE ROAD TO WELLVILLE. I don't understand why anyone wanted to make this movie and I have a feeling a lot of the people involved leave it off of their resumes. "},{"Title":"Very entertaining","Date":"4 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Thoroughly enjoyable. Matthew Broderick and Anthony Hopkins are both excellent and the film has some real laugh-out-loud moments.I am surprised (and amused) at the amount of disgusting and revolting type comments. I think people really need to get out a bit more if they are this repressed. "},{"Title":"The Road To Smellville","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie stinks of enemas and stool samples!  As it tinkers it's way along, we the viewer are treated to such delicious sights as.............Delicious is hardly the word I was being sarcastic!  I really didn't need to see a booty shot of Camryn Manheim.  I really didn't need to see Matthew Broderick have all sorts of things done with his stool!  I really didn't need to see Lara Flynn Boyle as a sickly patient, pasty face in tow!About the only thing worth watching in this film is Anthony Hopkin's performance as Kellogg. He is so good in fact u can't even recognize him with his kooky look and his wonderful accent.  But what's with all the dooky?  Yikes, scary!$$$ out of five. "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"3 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I completely fail to understand the low ratings of this movie. I was hooked on it the first time I saw it, and I've watched it 10-15 times since then.Hilarious situations and perfect play by Cusack and Broderick and especially by old English superstar John Neville. It may be that the movie does not do the book complete justice; but what care I - I haven't read the book. Instead I have discovered The Road to Wellville to be one of the finest comedies ever done. "},{"Title":"An un-bowel-ievably funny film","Date":"27 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is among one of my favorite comedies, containing some very memorable lines. It is a good mix of dumb humor and wit.  The performances are first-rate, and it is very refreshing to see Anthony Hopkins in a comedy. He does surprisingly well, in what I believe is one of his most challenging roles. My two biggest complaints about the film involve Dana Carvey's character. First, his character is more creepy than funny.  Second, his character is involved in a subplot about a rival cereal that bogs the film down (especially after repeated viewings).  These things can be forgiven, though, because of all the laughs this quirky hidden-gem of a movie provide.  "},{"Title":"Sometimes very amusing!","Date":"17 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This extremely uneven, sometimes amusing film lacks from a sold screenplay. Good performances by Broderics and Hopkins does not help bring this film to respectable levels.  Good costumes, weird contraptions and funny situations do help make the film watchable though.  A rating of 5 out of 10 was given. "},{"Title":"Weird","Date":"14 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  ROAD TO WELLVILLE is certainly an odd movie.  It's got a first rate cast, is based upon actual people and events, and is written and directed by a top notch filmmaker.  But it just doesn't seem like any of the people involved in the making of it realized who they were while in involved in this production.The movie is far too over-the-top and tasteless to be considered a classy Hollywood comedy, but filled with too much acclaimed dramatic talent to be considered a gross-out comedy.  It falls somewhere in between, and never quite gets it's footing.That doesn't mean it never has inspired moments.  The flashback sequences showing Dana Carvey as a child are utterly hilarious.  Matthew Broderick, John Cusack and Anthony Hopkins all turn in great performances, and there's good supporting work from Michael Lerner and Colm Meaney.But the movie never gels, it's just a jumbled mess of sex and toilet jokes, some of which are funny, but none of which feel at home in the movie.  It's also interesting that all the sexually related scenes involve the women and all the bowel related scenes involve the men.  Hollywood's shyness toward women's bodily functions is really getting old.  Of course, this has recently been shattered with such gross out comedies such as NOT ANOTHER TEEN MOVIE and SPUN. And that's not much of a recommendation for ROAD TO WELLVILLE. "},{"Title":"Pure insanity","Date":"6 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Ohhhhhhhhhhhh!!! This movie is for fans of sick men! Lots and lots of insanity. Hopkins give an awesome performance as Kellogg and everyone else does a pretty good job. Hard to believe that Alan Parker directed this. Lots and lots of poop, farts, and boobies.  "}{"Title":"Gives a whole new meaning to the term 'toilet humor'; still enjoyable","Date":"19 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Dr. Kellogg runs the Battle Creek Sanatarium in the days of the horse and buggy, and he has some very strange ideas about what is necessary for good health.  For example, he is quite obsessed with the intestines.  Among his patients are William and Eleanor Lightbody.  William seems fine but he has problems with eating, among other things.  Eleanor looks perfectly healthy to me, but she needs some sort of treatment as well.  The patients take part in the silliest rituals, and they get their exercise wearing all sorts of different clothes; some groups are all dressed up (men in suits, women in long dresses), while some wear almost nothing at all.  Dr. Kellogg's deadbeat adopted son George is around, creating havoc wherever he goes.  Meanwhile, Charles and his partner Mr. Bender want to start a company to make corn flake cereal, but they are having numerous problems.  They hire an employee of Dr. Kellogg's successful brother, and they make George a partner so that they can use the well-known name, but neither action seems to do any good.Anthony Hopkins has never played this type of eccentric goofball intellectual, to my knowledge, but he mostly does it well.  He seemed cartoonish, though, in flashbacks to the boyhood of George, who was one weird kid.  Matthew Broderick makes us laugh as the poor defenseless William, and Bridget Fonda does a nice job as his wife.  Dana Carvey is slightly demented but not outrageous as George, while Michael Lerner makes quite an impression as the pompous Bender. Camryn Manheim is a quietly humorous friend of Eleanor.  This was a very funny movie, but the bodily function jokes are excessive.  I suppose if a person can stand 'The Klumps', this movie is not so bad.  Somehow this movie actually seems more tasteful, maybe because the bathroom humor is more clinical.  The sexual humor in this movie leaves a little more to the imagination than the Eddie Murphy film, but there are a lot of gags involving the baths, and William does fantasize about women having their clothes off.  Since I saw this on TV, I don't know how much he actually saw, and the language may have been cleaned up as well.  "},{"Title":"Just plain bad...","Date":"7 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I can give this film no better review than this;  It was a waste of good celluloid.  This movie should never have been made, plain and simple.  What was such a great actor as Anthony Hopkins thinking?  I am a moderate when it comes to movies; I liked Naked Lunch, and Being John Malkovich so I don't consider myself on the prudish or dense side.  This movie was just plain stupid.   "},{"Title":"The worst film I have ever had to sit through!","Date":"15 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film holds the distinguished place of Worst Film Ever in my opinion! There are no redeeming features to this film, the acting, considering the cast, is poor, Anthony Hopkins and Matthew Broderick seem almost embarrassed that they have ended up in the film. The direction is terrible, and the script leaves much to be desired.Alan Parker should be ashamed he ever made this abortion, I was hoping for great things from this film, considering the pedigree of all involved. HOW WRONG COULD I BE?Is it any wonder that this piece of tripe has never been shown on TV? AVOID AT ALL COSTS! "},{"Title":"a waste of your time watching it","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the most disgusting films I've ever seen. Primarily about bathroom humor. I find it rather revolting and disgusting. Its defecation scenes are tasteless. Save your time doing something else,I call it a waste of time, film, actors, and all "},{"Title":"My personal worst","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I've given this movie my lowest rating of all movies I've seen.  Great cast can do nothing with a lousy script.  May be worth seeing for Anthony Hopkins with buck teeth.  Awful, awful film.  Don't see it, please, unless you are trying to make your life seem longer. "},{"Title":"I didn't care for this movie","Date":"24 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie in Denver for free and I still to this day feel like someone owes me money for seeing this.  Horrible all the way around.  I had to leave the theatre after about an hour and 10 min. How anyone can enjoy this just astounds me.  I rate it as the worst movie I've seen.(Never had the privilege of seeing Ishtar)  "},{"Title":"The only movie I've ever walked out on.","Date":"23 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'm usually one to give movies a chance, and I can get into raunchy movies (a la Monty Python).  However, the repetitive scatological references in this movie seem unnecessary, and boring.  I left the theater about 45 minutes through. "},{"Title":"Utterly terrible.","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Any movie which entails the measuring of feces is moronic. This movie is no exception. The movie is aimless. After watching this, you will feel a loss in your life, two hours of loss, which could have been better spent cleaning your bathroom or getting a root canal. An all-star cast came together to make a piece of sh!t. "},{"Title":"There have only been four movies I have hated.","Date":"29 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I won't bother with the other three right now, but this is one of them. You see, hating a film for me requires much more than not liking it.  I didn't like INDEPENDENCE DAY, but I didn't, by any means, hate it.In order for me to hate a film, I must first have some excuse to like it. This film, for instance, has three of my favoriteactors (Broaderick, Cusack, and Hopkins) and is based off of one of my favorite novels.Many, in defending this film with their reviews, have stated that it was a remarkable portrait of the odd health fads back in the days of high quackery.  For those, at the risk of sounding cliched, I recommend T. Coraghesson Boyle's (not certain of the spelling) novel.I started watching this film the day that I finished reading said novel, and was gravely disappointed in fifteen different directions.  The novel had all the intricacies and depth of character as one of Dickens's better novels (HARD TIMES, for example) but the movie reduced this remarkable work into a cheap sex comedy.  (I have always felt that writers who go for sexual jokes are going for a cheap and easy laugh.  Give me substance!)However, I'm not going to tell everybody to hate this movie.  I'm not a git who thinks that my opinions can be reasonably argued by logic.  I do implore, though, that if you are the sort to read a novel, read this one before you jump into the movie. "},{"Title":"The Road To Smellville","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie stinks of enemas and stool samples!  As it tinkers it's way along, we the viewer are treated to such delicious sights as.............Delicious is hardly the word I was being sarcastic!  I really didn't need to see a booty shot of Camryn Manheim.  I really didn't need to see Matthew Broderick have all sorts of things done with his stool!  I really didn't need to see Lara Flynn Boyle as a sickly patient, pasty face in tow!About the only thing worth watching in this film is Anthony Hopkin's performance as Kellogg. He is so good in fact u can't even recognize him with his kooky look and his wonderful accent.  But what's with all the dooky?  Yikes, scary!$$$ out of five. "}{"Title":"Not Bad!","Date":"23 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Watched it after getting home from working a 10 hour shift, and compared to that this film entertained me!, not a bad film, but also no masterpiece , its an ok film to while away a couple of hours and keep you entertained, worth seeing just to see Anthony Hopkins, this film reinforces how good an actor he really is.  "},{"Title":"REVOLTING AND DISGUSTING!!","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have seen literally thousands and thousands of movies, but I must say, I have never seen a movie that made me want to throw up like this one did. I have absolutely no idea why any self-respecting actor would want to add his talents to trash such as this. I will never look at Colm Meaney (Star Trek's Chief O'Brien) again without remembering him masturbating in the grass. Truly disgusting! What a waste! What filth! Those involved in this film should be ashamed of themselves. I enjoy comedies of all types physical, dark, classic, but an image of Anthony Hopkins preparing to give himself an enema is NO! excuse for entertainment. Don't rent this, don't buy this, don't even think about this movie. Unless you want an enema of the mind! "},{"Title":"Gigantic stinker","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This was one of the worst stinkers I've ever seen.  The only reason I didn't turn it off early was due to the faint hope that it might eventually get better.  It never did.  I wonder what went through the heads of Matthew Broderick, Anthony Hopkins, and especially John Cusack when they signed on to this project. "},{"Title":"John Cusack is okay - the rest stinks!","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Terrible!  The repeated references to enema's aren't funny the first few times & are beyond irritating by the end of the film.  The sub-plot about the non-existant factory has its moments and John Cusack is always worth watching but even he cannot save this film.  If you're a fan, I recommend fast-forwarding through & watching only those scenes in which he appears, it won't make any difference to your understanding of the plot and will spare you the painful experience that is the rest of the film.A low-point in the careers of some usually talented actors 2/10 "},{"Title":"The first and only (so far) film I could not watch in its entirety.","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw this when it was considered a new rental.  The main reason I remember this film is that this is the first and only film I could not watch all the way through.This is one terrible film.  Words cannot describe just how bad this is.  I wonder how could anyone with a functioning brain could even enjoy this movie.  The humor in this is below the toilet humor spewed by Adam Sandler.  Mostly because all of the film's jokes are literally toilet humor.  None of it is remotely funny and gets tiresome REAL fast. AND DON'T ASK ME ABOUT THE MUSICAL NUMBERS.  Good GOD were those painful!The only good part I remember in this film is the fact we saw the attractive Bridget Fonda topless in a vat of milk.  Beyond that, I cannot think of anything positive about the film. I quit watching after a little more than 30 to 40 minutes.  This is one terrible film.  ----------Advise  Anything starring Mr. Broderick (save for Ferris Bueller) is all but guaranteed to be bad. "},{"Title":"It didn't make me well. But...","Date":"12 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I watched The Road to Wellville on a VCR player earlier this year, in a hospital. Needless to say, it didn't make me well. But what it did do... this is what's known as a spoiler coming up... was make me want to puke.The opening scene a bunch of obese women, singing something that was as incomprehensible as whatever the palace guards in The Wizard of Oz were chanting. (The opening scene of Wellville just made me roll my eyes; the overly majestic soundtrack was utterly embarrassing.) The story is about the fictitious brother of the inventor of Kellogg's Cornflakes. The Kellogg portrayed here is supposedly based upon the real Kellogg--who was said to be somewhat eccentric. The setting a health retreat camp which Kellogg owns and runs.Although Anthony Hopkins is, undoubtedly, an actor of notable talents, this was not a role for him to show it. John Ratzenberger--best known as the postman character Cliff Claven on the sitcom Cheers--might have been able to pull it off. But not Anthony Hopkins. There is a definite difference between comedy and silliness. (This is something the infamous troupe Monty Python knew well.) But the cast and crew behind The Road to Wellville either weren't aware of what the difference is, or just refused to acknowledge it.I'll refrain from mentioning other cast members, on the grounds that it might incriminate them--except for one. Dana Carvey--who, as many of you will recall, got his start with the early '90s cast of SNL--was actually good. If it weren't for him, I wouldn't have laughed once. (I did; I don't recall exactly when... but I did laugh once, very briefly.)As the mischievous, outcast nephew of Kellogg--whose one goal is to ruin his uncle's fame and fortune--Dana Carvey is genuinely funny in this overdone turkey of a movie.So go ahead and rent it. He might make you laugh. No guarantees. But... anything is possible. Even a sequel. Ouch! I think I just bit my tongue!        "},{"Title":"I really don't know what to say","Date":"17 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I found it very difficult to give this movie a rating and to know comment on it. On one hand, it has a stellar cast, is clever, well written, skillfully acted (although I'm not too sure about Dana Carvey's role), and beautifully set and shot.On the other hand the film is somewhat slow, and its content frequently offensive. Some parts turned my stomach and almost made me switch the film off - and I am no prude.As a twentieth century look at the nineteenth century it is worrying, as a comment on quackery in any era it is somewhat interesting, but overall as a movie the offense I felt overrode the quality of the remainder. My rating 5/10 - be warned. "},{"Title":"good, good","Date":"15 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" to like the movie, a good sense of humor is needed... to like the movie, a good sense of humor is needed... to like the movie, a good sense of humor is needed... to like the movie, a good sense of humor is needed... to like the movie, a good sense of humor is needed... to like the movie, a good sense of humor is needed... to like the movie, a good sense of humor is needed... to like the movie, a good sense of humor is needed... to like the movie, a good sense of humor is needed... to like the movie, a good sense of humor is needed... to like the movie, a good sense of humor is needed... to like the movie, a good sense of humor is needed... "}]