[{"Title":"Recent German History summed up in compelling drama","Date":"23 May 1999","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  THE PROMISE (Das Versprechen) by Margarethe von Trotta is must viewing. There is no easier and more entertaining manner to understand recent German, and Central European, history than by watching this film. It plays very well on video, and the interesting locales and action will excite those who dislike subtitles. THE PROMISE is an epic drama focusing on divisions in love, in a nation, in its capital city, in its politics, and in love. Indeed a love story is the vehicle used for this extraordinary epic, recounting the three decades between the Berlin Wall's first barbed wire, and its fall. Some critics, forgetting what a historical epic requires, dismiss the film as cliche-ridden. Well, of course, War and Peace, Gone with the Wind, Dr. Zhivago, were successful due to the use of composite characters or cliches. These are necessary to explain history in a medium like the cinema. Ms. von Trotta is to be congratulated not only for this and other great political films (i.e.Rosa Luxemburg) but for being one of the only German filmmakers to tackle the controversial topic of German reunification. A declared socialist from Western Germany, Ms von Trotta lends the film a point of view that is as unbiased as I can imagine. Don't miss it. A lot of people did because of the film's timing. The last thing I guess most Germans wanted to see at the movies in 1994 was a reminder of the results of reunification. For this reason, this great film was unfairly denied its place in European Film History.   "},{"Title":"Incredibly realistic","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  As the film covers 30 years, the key emotional points of such a story are incredibly accurate. The film's tone is brilliantly handled, the delicate weakening of the spirit, the darkening of the world, the East buildings subtly not changing but getting older while the West becomes subtly more modern. Unless one lived through much of the story, much may be missed. But every detail is important. Credit to the director, the writer and the actors for incredible performances the repressed anger, the repressed joy, the repressed hope... everything just below the surface. Forever, the question, who could have done what differently? There was never an answer then, and there is no answer now. "},{"Title":"Nice, deep detail","Date":"22 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" As the 20th anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall approaches, I re-watched this film with more pleasure than the first time around.Others have commented much of what I'd have to say. But one particularly touching scene stuck most in my memory Alexander (from West Berlin) brings a toy panda bear to his half-sister Elizabeth (in East Berlin). He suggests they could go to the Western Zoo to watch a live animal. But Konrad, their father, knows this isn't possible at the time, and suggests the Eastern Tierpark instead - but they don't have pandas there, only brown bears. So at night, he takes the panda from sleeping Elizabeth's arms, and paints it brown...Just retelling this little part of the film makes tears well up in my eyes again. "},{"Title":"this movie doesn't break its promise of being great","Date":"4 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" Portraying several friends separated by the Berlin Wall, Das Versprechen - called The Promise in English - hits you right where it hurts. I thought that it was very interesting how the movie picks up about every ten years, showing the historical context each time (specifically the sign saying Victory to the Vietnamese Revolution in 1968, during Prague Spring). To my generation, the Berlin Wall remains part of history (I was only five when it fell), so we have to rely on movies like this to understand the whole thing. All in all, director Margarethe von Trotta did a very good job here, as did the whole cast. Definitely worth seeing. "},{"Title":"A Brilliant Drama of Romance and Distance","Date":"6 October 2000","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  This is one my favorite movies of all time. I've read most of the negative comments on this one, and I agree with most of the criticisms.Nevertheless, despite some uneven patches in the storyline, this is one of the few movies I've seen that has real characters with real lives that I at least can relate to. This movie ultimately is about humanity and how distance and proximity to what one loves and hates twists around who we really are inside. "},{"Title":"The Promise","Date":"19 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" When the Berlin wall is built to split up the city, a group of youths try to escape from the East to the West. Among them are Sophie (Meret Becker) and Konrad (Anian Zollner), but only the former makes it to the west. Konrad stays in the East, becoming a successful astronomer. Over the following decades, the lovers keep on living their lives with new families, occasionally meeting each other when circumstances are benign. Older versions of Sophie and Konrad are played by Corinna Harfouch and August Zirner.Through the melodramatic romance of Sophie and Konrad, the film examines the effects of the Wall on the Germans. Things are more complicated than East is bad, West is good there are movements to both directions, and people have many reasons to move, or to choose to stay. The film conveys the atmosphere of disunity and bureaucracy well through realistic visual style, but the love story is strong in its own right too. "},{"Title":"what you want to know","Date":"23 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" I can only praise the makers of this film, because many people did not experience it and unhappily, some do not want to hear about it. A female friend of mine recently told me, that now she knows why the Berlin Wall was built. Why, I asked. Because the Russians didn't want the Americans to come in. It would be laughable, if it wasn't so sad. This is a person with university education and supposedly she never heard of people trying to get out of East Berlin or other communist countries. Most people form their opinions in their youth and many are not able to change their minds and admit to themselves, let alone to others, that they were wrong. Simply they ignore the facts. By the way, even after the wall went up, the Americans still could go to East Berlin, if they so desired. It was built to keep ordinary people in, because East Germans were leaving through Berlin in alarming numbers. "},{"Title":"Incredibly Moving Film","Date":"20 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" I first saw this in a German language class, and even though I'm no where near fluent, I still find this to be more enjoyable and moving than many English movies. Following the lives of two main characters, the film chronicles the period just after the wall's construction to the fall in 1989. Though all protagonist characters are of course impacted negatively by the wall, the politics of a few characters are very complex and surprising. This movie will undoubtedly make you think. Aside from politics, the main plot is a love story, and it is very powerful. The characters are imperfect, real and delightful. All in all it is evocative, emotional, and never trite. Great film. "},{"Title":"Excellent Political Entertainment","Date":"13 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  Ms. von Trotta directs with a very sure hand this very large canvas political drama about the divisions the German wall put between friends on both sides and how foolish its arbitrariness was.  Wonderful acting and well worth spending time with.  Stunningly photographed, as well. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"6 November 2004","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" This is a great movie that many people can enjoy. I have seen the movie a few times and never get tired of it. It is a wonderful love story set in a terrible time. This film definitely caught the feeling of the era and I would definitely recommend this movie. Some people would be turned off because of the subtitles....but all I have to say is just give the movie a chance. The acting is top notch and the style of filming is quite good. It is a nice change from the constant Hollywood style that is usually forced upon us. "}{"Title":"Sometimes, Deep Thought Drains Out The Passion","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  *Potential spoilers ahead* Long, but really not absorbing, drama of the Berlin wall, as seen through the eyes of young lovers. Set up against such an oppressive atmosphere as the new DDR (Communist East), the story spans almost thirty years.Frankly, it was numbing to see the protagonist (Konrad) bumbling about to and fro, as to whether he really wanted to leave the Worker's Paradise. Well, as the saying goes Indecision is a decision. Konrad's father is a party member, and he is bright. He'll achieve and live well, if he stays politically on the right side of the party. No one could condemn Konrad if he did. Nobody purposely tries to make their life miserable, unless they like pain. This issue really lies at the heart of exactly what is wrong, with DAS VERSPRECHEN. The plot tends to amble, and we are introduced to characters with names and backgrounds. They enter the story, and without or very limited explanation, they pass through the checkpoint into oblivion. Unfortunately, so does the unwilling viewer. By the time we are way into the movie, and Konrad still tries to fool himself, by defending his unwillingness to go to the West on a trip of his shoe laces. It is then, when the viewer not only has lost any empathy or respect for him, but also might draw the ire of the viewer, as well.THE PROMISE ponders way to much, and the passion of the characters tend to taper, due to the plodding script. It is recommended, however don't expect to be sitting on the edge of your seat. If you do, you might nod off and fall off. "},{"Title":"UNEASY POLITICAL DRAMA","Date":"9 November 1999","Score":"6 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  In an interview at the time of the release of this film Margarete von Trotta rather bragged about the fact that this was the first German (after unification) film after the fall of the Berlin wall that dealt with the 28 years of history on the East side of the wall. This remains to be seen, but if so, is that a good reason to come up with this dim, tepid and obligatory romantic drama that is predictable from scene 1? A drama in which the viewer no cliche spared?The film looks more a kaleidoscope of political events in which the two main characters just happened to be a part of. The film never is a real drama and lacks every dramatic tension. The two main characters are simply boring people (not helped much by the casting); all other characters are one-dimensional. Some bad writing is also present some characters, like the aunt, simply disappear from the story. As to direction and filmmaking there are plenty of uneasy moments as well. In the Prague scene the girl waits on the wrong spot for her friend; well, they just wait, but then pop a short scene in which she asks where this or that place is and then pop yes, there he is! The scene of the father in hospital also just seems to come from nowhere.It all looks like as Von Trotta really wanted to show how very, very concerned she was about the 28 years of history and by that overplaying her hand. She should either have elaborated the drama more, or have taken the trouble for a more thorough interpretation of the political situation. As it is now it is a everything political happens to poor us drama. (5/10)  "},{"Title":"I'm an 18 year old male college student, read my thoughts.","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"5 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  Hello, I viewed Das Versprechen in Germany during the summer of 1997. Like most guys, I prefer the action genre, blood and guts and so.  I appreciate good love stories, but usually don't take to them.  My favorite genre is that containing art films and whimsical films(i.e. A Night on Earth, Il Mostro)  I do not usually get emotional during a love story inspired film, but I did during this one.  It certainly was not close to the depth of say Sophie's Choice, however it was an extremely well done film. I highly recommend taking a couple of hours to watch this film, after seeing it, one will feel better about one's person. "}]