[{"Title":"Outstanding adaptation of a great novel","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"33 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  I had never even heard of this movie until a couple of years ago.  This is yet another stellar movie from the tremendous class of 1994.I was absolutely enthralled by this story, so I went and read the novel it was derived from, Silas Marner by George Eliot.  It was a really good story as well, but Martin's adaptation was outstanding.  He managed to modernize the story so it could be more meaningful to new audiences, and yet still preserved the heart and soul of the story.  While the original story was good, the novel was difficult to read not just because of the time difference (it was written in 1861) but also because of Eliot's overly descriptive language, making a wonderful story fairly unapproachable to most people.For me, the most successful adaptations must start with a great story, then keep the best parts and lose the worst parts, while understanding and compensating for the differences between the mediums.  Martin's screenplay excels at this, even surpassing Darabont's outstanding adaptation for The Shawshank Redemption.The acting in the movie was very good as well.  There's just something about a gifted comedian playing a dramatic role.  Kind of like the image of a clown crying, when someone you normally associate with happiness and laughter convinces you that they're sad, there's a finer point to it, it has more impact.  (Think of Robin Williams in Dead Poets Society, Awakenings and more recently, Good Will Hunting).  Steve Martin was convincing and provided a character that you could empathize with.  Gabriel Byrne and Laura Linney were very good as they always are.  The girls that played Mathilda were just right-extremely adorable and convincing, yet not so cute that you couldn't take it.This is one of my favorite movies and I highly recommend anyone who hasn't seen it give it a try.  "},{"Title":"I simply adore this movie","Date":"18 November 2006","Score":"26 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" This film is so understated and underrated as to be in danger of completely disappearing from the radar screen. For Steve Martin to be in a non-Jerk type roll makes seeing this movie next to impossible for a great number of people. No, he's not acting weird. No, he doesn't have an arrow on his head. No, he isn't going for the laugh. This is Mr. Martin at his acting best. If you were impressed by his recent turn in 'Shopgirl' the do yourself a favor and go out of your way to find a copy of this movie. Are there times when humor finds its way into this movie? Oh yeah but for the most part there is nothing but good solid storytelling with excellent casting and an excellent script. See this movie if you want to see a wonderful character study acted out by a superb cast. "},{"Title":"Sentimental","Date":"31 May 2000","Score":"16 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  Ok, let me set the record straight by saying that I have NEVER cried over ANY movie.  That is, when I saw this, I ALMOST cried.The story begins in Washington DC in 1979, when music teacher Michael McCann is instructing his students, when his wife shows up and tells him that the baby is not his.  The movie then flashes forward to 1984 Virginia, where he has become almost like a miser.Steve Martin (one of my fave performers, just read my reviews) turned in a stellar performance as Michael McCann.  He had such a sweet personality at the start of the film, then all of a sudden he became a lonely miser, hoarding his coins, until Billy Baldwin, my most loathed of all Baldwins-besides Daniel (I LOVE Steven and Alec) steals them.  Then, a beautiful toddler comes to his house, and he immediately takes her in.  I love his chemistry with young Mathilda, who went from being a cute baby to a beautiful young girl.Kudos to Alana Austin, who played Mathilda at 11.  She was fabulous, and I think she is one of the best child actors I've seen in a long time.Now that I have seen this film, for my school's summer reading assignment, I am going to convince my Literature teacher to let me read Silas Marner, where this movie comes from.  I hope I can.See this film.  You'll be glad you did!!! "},{"Title":"Steve Martin doing drama? Yes!","Date":"16 March 1999","Score":"15 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  Steve Martin is, and will always be, a comedian first and foremost. But everyone needs to do something different in their life and he does it well! Mr. Martin took the story of Silas Mariner and has updated it to a wonderful story. It's not a comedy movie because it's not a comedic book that it came from. I think that Mr. Martin has kept the feelings of loss and rebirth (for lack of a better phrasing) vibrantly alive in this adaptation. Steve Martin CAN do drama and he does it so well. The story and characters are rich. You are drawn in to the despair of the main character, feeling for him, but still wanting to kick him in the pants and tell him to get on with, not just life, but living. And when the opportunity to do so presents itself to him. It is a joy to watch him become human again. I could go on forever, but I'm only allowed 1,000 words. Not enough for this movie, so see for yourself what it is that makes Steve Martin not just a versatile actor, but a GOOD actor. "},{"Title":"I enjoyed viewing this movie.","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  I feel that Steve Martin acted well in this movie as well as adapting it. I've heard people comment that Martin was not made for this role, however I've seen him do worse in his natural genre, i.e. The Man With Two Brains.Watching the movie prompted me to read the book and it did not ruin the book.  Maybe because the two stories are set in different era's, but I choose to believe that it is because Martin adapted the book nicely for the movie and that George Eliot wrote a good book.  Viva la Steve! "},{"Title":"Another Great Steve Martin Film","Date":"28 December 2003","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  Steve Martin wrote, directed and starred in this film. And he did a great job! A heartwarming film about an adopted child, her adopted father, and some very unhappy rich people. Thank you very much Mr Martin "},{"Title":"The funny thing is","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  It was only by a simple twist of fate that i saw this film, that twist being that there was nothing else worth watching on tv last night, and so i tuned in and watched this film, and really enjoyed it. Like so many people have commented, it is a nice change to see S M doing drama, i found that he added some very comical  moments to the film (the weather ballon scene). This is a touching story that makes you happy. aaaawwwwwwwwww, sniff***sniff**** "},{"Title":"A misunderstood classic","Date":"22 October 2006","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" Note This doesn't really contain spoilers, but hey, one slip of the mouse could blacklist me.I just finished watching the outstanding Shopgirl and I couldn't help but think of this film. I've probably seen it around ten times. Only two or three times at home, but in high school I swear teachers showed it once or twice a year to kill some time. It didn't matter if we were reading Silas Marner or not. It has never gotten old.People seem to go into this movie expecting a comedy, but it's really not. It's a haunting and beautiful movie filled with imagery that I can still see in my head, even though I haven't seen the movie in a couple of years. I assume when this came out, it was largely ignored because it had the look and conventions of other lesser movies of the time. Besides, who would want to see a drama from Steve Martin? Now that it's years removed from the climate it was released, it can truly be appreciated for what it is. A true gem. "},{"Title":"A Wonderful Touching Movie","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is one of the best that Steve Martin has done. The only people who wouldn't like this movie would have to be fans of Martin from The Jerk and The Man With Two Brains, neither of which movie I enjoy in the slightest. Thank the heavens that Mr. Martin broke out of his stereotype, and showed us he can REALLY act. Coming a long way from his thankfully bygone days as the Jerk, Martin shows us his tender side, in a touching portrayal of a bitter hermit saved by the love of an orphan child. While it was not the laugh a minute comedy I was mislead to expect by the promotions for this movie, I still enjoyed every moment of it. Warm, sad, happy, and wistfully funny, it's a movie that can be watched many times and not lose its magic. And the Austin sisters who portray Mathilda at 5 and 11 are absolutely wonderful, and are a perfect fit with Martin.  "},{"Title":"A Good Adaptation of Silas Marner","Date":"28 October 2003","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  I missed the first two or three minutes that would have included the credits and so did not realize that I would be watching George Eliot's moving novel. Although the movie was thoroughly modernized it took very little time for me to realize what I was watching.  --  Much to my surprise and delight. I felt that George Eliot would have loved this movie.  I give it a strong recommendation if you have read Silas Marner.  Those who have not, though, may find it contrived. "}{"Title":"Watchable modern Silas Marner sentimentality","Date":"28 November 2003","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" Sweet, Sentimental, Modernized Journey Through Silas Marner.This is about the best Steve Martin movie I've seen. That, for me, is saying a lot, since I love all his movies.Steve Martin plays a divorced hermetic carpenter who discovers a motherless baby on his doorstep and adopts her.The conflict comes when her millionaire father, denied a lawful child by his legal wife, seeks to take possession of the child he sired by a drug-hazed prostitute; Martin's little girl.Very good drama, with classic Martin style, and without smarm.Excellent movie.It rates an 8.8/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Based on the George Eliot Novel, Silas Marner but better","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  I recently read the novel 'Silas Marner' whilst on holiday having heard that A Simple Twist... was a reworking of the book. I have to say that the book was good but in this instance the film was better.Steve Martin has that hang dog look anyway and his visual expressionism is superb. The warmth and feeling that come across in the film is truly moving whilst Byrne playing the cold hearted millionaire stops it from becoming mushy. I would certainly recommend viewing of this film.  "},{"Title":"A career best for Steve Martin!","Date":"24 January 2004","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  A touching and sensitive retelling of Silas Marner, A Simple Twist of Fate provides Steve Martin with the role of a lifetime. His characterization is nothing short of stunning. This finely crafted and superbly written film is backed up by strong supporting performances and masterful direction. The girls who played Mathilda were perfectly cast and absolutely stole my heart. I rank A Simple Twist of Fate right up there with Jimmy Stewart's It's a Wonderful Life and it's one of the sweetest movies I've ever seen! "},{"Title":"Sweet, sad, not bad","Date":"31 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  This film is a little bittersweet, but I found it to be surprisingly good. There were some stilted scenes, but on the whole I thought it was a good movie.Steve Martin is a fine drama actor, and I found his portrayal of McCann to be excellent.  The girls they got to play Mathilda were just fantastic.  The extra touches to the storyline, and the twist of fate that binds the story together, really make this story shine.  It's not your typical Steve Martin story (he wrote the script), but it's not a bad one, either.The directing is good, too.  There are some really well-directed scenes -- the coins, the auto accident, the weather balloon.  It really ties the movie together.I'd watch it again, and I'd recommend it to friends.  Not perfect, but not bad. "},{"Title":"I never knew a movie can make you cry","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  i myself am a more action/horror lover but in  the court fight in this film i really cried.  i never knew a film can do this to you and i recommend it to every man women and child.  "},{"Title":"Great version of 'Silas Marner'","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  This has to be one of the sweetest movies ever made. I thought Steve Martin was great in this.  He's a good comedian but he proves he can handle drama very well. I think it was very well made and bring tears to my eyes every time I watch it. It's a great modern version of the classic 'Silas Marner' by George Eliot (whom by the way was a woman!). Overall, I give it an 8/10. "},{"Title":"One of Steve Martins better films","Date":"4 December 2001","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  This film show just how versitial an actor Steve is. It's very difficult to have people take you as a serious actor when you've been known as a comedian. The one other person I can Think of that has made this transition is Whoopi Goldburg. But I ran across this film late one night and was very pleased with Steve's performance. I throughly enjoyed the film.  "},{"Title":"Custody Battle With Steve Martin-Simple Twist of Fate ***","Date":"4 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" Something very different for Steve Martin as he portrays a man who divorced his wife when he found out that the child they expected was not his.Enter another child in his life when a young woman dies on her way to the baby girl's wealthy political father. The father, who knew this was his child when he saw the dead woman, made no effort to claim the child as his. Instead, the child stays with Martin who loves her dearly and takes care of her in a manner of a true parent.10 years later, the real father, Gabriel Byrne and his wife, Laura Linney, are childless and when Martin brings the child along with him to deliver furniture, Byrne confesses to all that he is the father of the child and a custody battle ensues.These custody battles are very cliché in movies. Of course, everyone is wooed by the child's kind words for Martin. The ending is unexpected, but a good one. Everyone gets what they deserve. "},{"Title":"Excellent family law movie","Date":"25 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" When facing losing your child in the court system, a parent suffers a roller-coaster of emotions.Here, two wannabe fathers are fighting for their parental rights to a daughter.One father had been highly regarded in the community and had unbounded political ambitions.The other father was a town drunk and miser who lived on the land of the other father.The movie is suspenseful at times, dark at times, light at times, and has a great ending. "},{"Title":"The Real Silas Marner","Date":"17 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" As we all know, the real book, Silas Marner was first published in 1861 by George Eliot. Well, in the time the book was published, women weren't supposed to write books like this. George Eliot's real name is Mary Ann Evans 1819-1880. Her understanding of the Human condition and the effects of loneliness on a person are greatly adapted into the book. If you read the novel, even though the wording of the book is different than modern English, well... that's part of the charm of the book. It takes you into a time when that's how they spoke. When considering the era of the book, and once again the adaptation of the movie A Simple Twist of Fate, I believe that Steve Martin did an excellent job. Although... there's no substitution for the original work. "}{"Title":"Overall a good movie, but has a bit of a slow beginning","Date":"4 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  Loosely based on 'Silas Marner', A Simple Twist of Fate is a very heartwarming movie with a happy ending.  Despite a slow beginning, it ends up with a slightly less predictable ending a simple twist of fate.  Steve Martin and Gabriel Byrne both give a very good performance, as does the young Alana Austin. "},{"Title":"Steve Martin shows true depth as an actor in this film!","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  Hello, This is a favorite film of mine, because Steve Martin plays the lead role with both deep sincerity and passion. I have seen him in many comedic roles, and yes he makes me laugh at the time. However, I have enjoyed him just as much playing a sad miser with a heart of gold. Everyone must see this movie for his acting alone. It really makes me think twice about Steve Martin as an actor. "},{"Title":"This one's a sleeper","Date":"6 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" This movie is what I like to call a sleeper. The cable descriptions are usually terrible and uninteresting but this a wonderful heartwarming movie about love and family. When I played it for my sister one day she argued that she didn't want to watch it but after it was over she fell in love with the sometimes sad, often times humorous story of a man with nothing left to lose and the baby that saves him! Steve Martin flexes his acting talent showing that he isn't always funny/stupid. And the young actress playing Mathilda at age 10 is amazing and really reminds me of Amy Smart. Even though this movie is a little bit older it still applies to life today and it is highly recommended by me! "},{"Title":"A wonderful well-written and well-acted film","Date":"20 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" I have always enjoyed Steve Martin. It doesn't matter what he's in; I just admire his talent and I've been downright crazy about his humor since I first saw him do that King Tut thing back in the 1970s. Here, he tackles a more dramatic role with so much warmth and sincerity, and he even manages to inject some comic moments in his typical style.To know that he also wrote this screenplay is not surprising, as he's a gifted writer, as well. The story in this film is tremendously life-affirming. If nothing else, it illustrates how even the most serious or threatening situation can turn around, just like that, in the blink of an eye. As with M. Night Shyamalan's Signs, Christians might be thinking of Romans 828 when they see this film -- how events, good or bad, are so often intricately orchestrated to a better end that we really can't see coming.My favorite point in the film is when Steve Martin's character, having just been robbed of the fortune he's amassed in gold coins (he stored his cash in these coins rather than in a bank), sees this sweet toddler girl wandering aimlessly into his home as an event that was simply meant to be, as the gift he is given because his money has been taken away. His faithful perspective is greatly rewarded. "},{"Title":"Another Great Steve Martin Film","Date":"28 December 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  Steve Martin wrote, directed and starred in this film. And he did a great job! A heartwarming film about an adopted child, her adopted father, and some very unhappy rich people. Thank you very much Mr Martin "},{"Title":"unlikely story with some great moments of comedy and warmth","Date":"3 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" Michael McCann (Steve Martin)'s pregnant wife leaves him after telling him that the baby isn't his. He becomes a recluse who collects gold coins for stability. John Newland (Gabriel Byrne) is an ambitious politician with a proper wife Nancy (Laura Linney), an unreliable brother Tanny (Stephen Baldwin) and baby mama Marsha Swanson. John tries to buy Marsha off. After a car accident, Tanny runs off with the money and steals McCann's gold coins. Marsha ends up frozen to death in front of McCann's house leaving him with the girl. John Newland hides from his responsibility and McCann adopts her as Mathilda McCann. April Simon (Catherine O'Hara) is McCann's friendly neighbor.Steve Martin adapts 19th-century novelist George Eliot's book Silas Marner. The film has a sad surrealism which may not fit Steve Martin's public persona. The biggest problem is that the script struggles to bend the plot to fit. There is a bit too much happenstance and coincidences. The emotions and motives are sometimes awkward and wrong-headed. The movie does have some great moments of comedy and warmth that is reminiscent of Parenthood. The dramatic parts of the story needs a little rethinking. The trial is not particularly fun or dramatic. If only the moments of sweet humor can be transplanted into a better written story. "},{"Title":"Not much of a twist, and a fate of mediocrity","Date":"19 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" Steve Martin is always pretty good, but the story is just so predictable, as is the cutsie musical scene and overall cheesiness... I do like that there's nothing really bad in the movie... It's something safe to let a young teenager watch, and a teenage girl who hasn't already seen this story rehashed in a thousand different movies, would probably appreciate it more than myself... No real symbolism or propaganda to speak of in this movie, so that's good... If you're wondering why I would make such a comment, checkout some of my other reviews where i break down the symbolism and propaganda I find in many of today's most popular movies... I like the older movies like this because more often than not, there's not much in the way of symbolism or propaganda, what you see is what you get... It's not like that today, it seems like half the movies they make these days are actually laden with demoralizing mind-tricks... Well, that's 10+ lines... God bless y'all... "},{"Title":"A Steve Martin masterpiece!","Date":"11 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" I managed a movie theatre when this movie came out. It only lasted a couple of weeks due to poor marketing, but the customers leaving the auditorium after the movie all had tears in their eyes. It's not a depressing movie; just so emotional you can't help but get drawn into it. Steve Martin adapted the George Elliot novel about Silas Marner to modern day in a brilliant way, and it's such a shame so few people saw this.This is my favorite movie, tied with The Sixth Sense. It incorporates all of the elements needed for an engrossing story. If you have not seen it, please check it out. Steve Martin is usually associated with comedy, but this movie is a wonderful and touching drama with some comedy sprinkled in. It is intellectual, moving and draws you into the story like the best movies of all time. Please watch it. "},{"Title":"destiny of necessity","Date":"28 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" In a departure from his usual roles, Steve Martin plays a lonely man who adopts a girl after she happens into his house. A Simple Twist of Fate is an almost mystifying movie, and a very good one. While there are certainly some funny parts, it's mainly about how the entry of this girl into his existence changes the course of his life, and also turns out to have a link to something else in his life. The movie has really good character development. Along with Martin, there's Gabriel Byrne as a slimy politician, Laura Linney as his unfulfilled wife, and Catherine O'Hara as a shopkeeper who helps Martin. This is a movie that I very much recommend to everyone. "},{"Title":"A Good Way to Spend a Night In...","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  A Simple Twist of Fate is a decent dramatic-comedy, but some good potential was missed.Steve Martin plays a quiet and lonely man who doesn't like people, and who lives for one thing only His money collection. But one night it is stolen by one of the many Baldwin brothers, who disappears into the night. But new hope for Martin arises when a dead mother's child shows up on the doorstep (or IN the house for that matter) at Martin's; he takes her in after the frozen-to-death mother is shoveled off the driveway with a steamroller (no, no, I'm joking). But later, the town's richest man admits that the girl is his...after she is about twelve and is everything to Martin. Now Martin must fight to keep his adopted daughter. The judge says without money for college, Martin won't be able to keep the girl. So his only hope is to find the money that was stolen from him all those years ago.A Simple Twist of Fate is a decent film, with a few laughs, but it's about a half hour too long and doesn't contain quite enough laughs. It's pretty sad when Catherine O'Hara generates more laughs in the film than Steve Martin himself.Martin does well, but there is no explanation as to some of his quick character changes. I understand the girl changes his life and turns him from a private person to a social person, but it's not a gradual change One day he is a man who hides in his cabin all day, the next day he's a regular Joe saying Hi to everyone in town. Gabriel Byrne plays the real father of the girl, and he does pretty well (though it's not his most fondly remembered co-star role).Catherine O'Hara, as I said before, delivered more laughs than the hilarious Steve Martin, which makes me wonder if the director wanted to give Martin a new look so to speak. Unfortunately, I like the old Martin better.In the end, A Simple Twist of Fate is a pretty decent comedy/drama that I watch whenever it comes on TV, but I'd never buy it. Worth seeing once or twice.3/5 stars -John Ulmer "}{"Title":"A simple waste of time","Date":"9 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" I enjoy the work of Steve Martin, so this was a film I was looking forward to watching this film.Sadly though, it's not worth the time. It's slow, it's overly sentimental and all in all a simple waste of time.Steve Martin can do all out laughs, he's shown that in films like 'Bowfinger', he can also do quietly comedic roles like 'Shop girl'. However this one seems to be neither. His character is dull and the moments where he does try and be funny seem more odd than funny.We are introduced to unlikable character after unlikeable character and in the end you wonder where the 'comedy' in this touted comedy drama have gotten to.Overall - poor. "},{"Title":"Aha! We Found Your Coins. That changes everything. Here's Your Daughter Back.","Date":"15 October 2015","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" I thought this was a perfectly-good movie, but am confounded regarding the second-to-last scene, where-in the politician's brother's skeleton is found, along with the gold coins he stole from Mr. McCann (in a drained lake?). What relation did the finding of the skeleton have to do with the custody battle? I paid close attention while watching the movie, and still, fail to make a connection. This one incongruous scene caused me to detract one star in my rating of A Simple Twist of Fate. I do appreciate the movie's characters being multi-dimensional. Mr. McCann is both eternally-wounded by his former relationship and ecstatically happy with his new one. He is both a hard-drinker and a very responsible parent (did he give up the booze?).The senator is not single-dimensional, either Although he seems like an ambitious, material-driven capitalist, fate brings his daughter back to him and his paternal instinct, he finds, is still intact. He actually has a bit of a heart.The acting in A Simple Twist of Fate was good, maybe especially that of Catherine O'Hara. The message of this movie seems to be that love can heal your heart and make you whole again.The scene with the skeleton...I have no idea how that is pertinent. "},{"Title":"Decent but flawed","Date":"14 September 2014","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" Near the beginning of what is in many ways a well done film, Stephen Baldwin's character is going to use, as he states it, his brother's  '66 Plymouth. The car is a '67 or '68 Plymouth Barracuda, not a '66. OK, so we'll not be too picky; we'll overlook that, even though it's sloppy details that make the difference between mediocrity and greatness. But then when they crash the car, it's the car's driver's side air bag that saves Mr. Baldwin. Please... I don't know when they started putting air bags in cars but it sure wasn't in the late 60's. Nit picky? Those two missteps are the beginning of a long string of details that we, the audience, are apparently supposed to be too stupid to notice. And that's insulting as well as annoying in a movie that could easily have been excellent. "},{"Title":"Good story, terrible script and acting","Date":"8 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" This movie was a real disappointment. Steve Martin did okay in the lead role about a man whose wife tells him that their unborn child belongs to another man and they divorce and he becomes a recluse who drinks and counts his gold coins...but it was hard to see past the many years of outrageous comedy Martin did to take him too seriously here. The acting and dialogue were just awful. Linney and Bryne were wooden and lacked any depth whatsoever and I didn't care about anything that happened to them. The little girl, who rarely uttered a word (which seemed a bit unrealistic for any child)was played by so many child actors it was hard to tell it was even the same character in any particular scene. Overall it was mediocre and I would not recommend it. "},{"Title":"Martin is out of his depth","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  There is something kind of sad about seeing someone who is so good at doing something try to do something very different ... and end up being mediocre. I was thinking about Jordan playing baseball, but the same applies to Steve Martin.This movie is reasonably well acted and directed, but the script is a stinker. Martin did a great job adapting a classic story into a comedy in Roxanne, but this effort to bring a Victorian drama to the contemporary scene smacks straight into a wall of implausibility. If you want to see an old story updated with some style, best to rent Great Expectations.   "},{"Title":"Great story but not original","Date":"17 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" I hate to burst some of the viewers high opinion of Mr. Martin's writing prowess, but the fact is that this story was written in 1861, London by George Eliot which, by the way was the pseudonym of Mary Ann Evans. All Mr. Martin has done has changed the names of the charters, their occupations, and set it in America. At the end of the movie is a fleeting credit to the original author, however I fear most folks don't take the time to read those. I think if credit had been given in the start, for instance, adapted from an original work by George Eliot's Silas Marner, by Steve Martin would have been the honorable thing to do. I highly recommend the book, although the movie is done well, the original telling of the story is that much better. Read people! Your letting Hollywood do your thinking. "},{"Title":"Interesting","Date":"22 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" It has been 10 years since this movie came out. I saw it as a review copy, although I had long since ceased to be a film reviewer. My initial take on this modernized adaptation of SILAS MARNER was that it was a sloppy, sentimental failure. But certain scenes stayed with me -- the frozen corpse of the destitute mother, the tiny child walking into McCann's home, and some of the later scenes between McMann and the growing girl. I have watched it a number of times since, and decided it could have been a lot worse. I am not one of those who buys Martin as a serious actor, but again it could have been worse. I don't recommend anyone read the novel, unless they want to punish themselves. Hardy is one of the great novelists but virtually unreadable today. I think what I would do is watch this and then watch one of the many versions of SILAS MARNER, just for balance. What is important about this is that it is a legitimate, if Hollywoodized adaptation of a seminal 19th century novel from the man who gave us TESS and FAR FROM THE MADDING CROWD. While you're at it, grab a copy of any version of Eliot's THE MAYOR OF CASTERBRIDGE, which is about a man who sells his family and makes his fortune, only to be haunted forever by this shameful transaction. Don't read the novel. Just watch one of the made-for-TV or cinematic adaptations. You want a dose of 19th century misery? Go for it! "},{"Title":"Sentimental excess","Date":"12 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  A Simple Twist of Fate, a second rate syrupy Hollywood knock-off of Sand's novel Silas Marner, is carefully crafted to tug at the audience's heart strings while forsaking any semblance of realism. Full of Kodak moments, predictable, and staged, the film is not without entertainment value and will appeal most to sentimentalists. "},{"Title":"Simply terrible!","Date":"17 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  This tear-teaser, written by Steve Martin himself, is so unbelievably bad, it makes you sick to your stomach!The plot is pathetic, the acting awful, and the dialogue is even more predictable than the ending.Avoid at all costs! "},{"Title":"A well-intentioned movie suffering from an identity crisis","Date":"22 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" Let me start by saying that I am a Steve Martin fan and anyone who questions his ability to do serious work has never seen Grand Canyon. I picked up this movie with the intent of watching it with my kids, aged 12 and 6. About 15 minutes or so into the movie, after witnessing shot-drinking, a heroin needle and two people sharing a joint, I seriously considered turning the movie off. The fact is that once past these moments, the movie does begin to work as a more heart-warming family tale. What irks me however is that I don't understand why people making a movie that kids can watch have to resort to adult imagery in some feeble attempt to generate adult interest. If one wishes to make a grown-up movie with adult images, then by all means do so, but this movie simply does not work on that level; it maintains too much of a superficial and sweet flavor to be considered as such. So, why then, if I am watching a family movie, should I be forced to lie to my children about some of the imagery they are seeing? I certainly don't want to explain to them what heroin or marijuana is and the truth is that none of these images were necessary to the telling of the story.Therein lies my biggest problem with this movie as a whole. There are simply too many small scenes and images that are forcibly interjected into the story without necessity. The baseball scene, the scene by the edge of the quarry as well as many other smaller moments almost seem randomly inserted into the movie as though after the final cut the producers felt they need 20 minutes more to fill.My kids, fortunately, asked no questions, but did ask to watch the movie again the next day (a practice they inherited from their father), so I would honestly say that the movie does function on their level and I would recommend it to any parent who doesn't feel uncomfortable by the occasional adult imagery passing before their child's eyes. "}{"Title":"A shabby copy of a brilliant masterpiece of literature","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  This film is a flagrant rip-off of one of the best novels of all time, Silas Marner by George Eliot.The details of the film shown on IMDb do give acknowledgement to the original authoress but I did not see this at the beginning of the film, only a credit at the end of it saying suggested by the book Silas Marner. Suggested? It was nothing but a complete rip- off of all the essential elements of the storyA wronged and sad old man, an artisan, poor and lonely, has all his money stolen. One night a child wanders up to his door as her mother lies dying in the snow outside. The man takes her in and brings her up until one day the local squire (or rich politician here) demands to adopt the child. It is he who has fathered the child during an illicit affair years before. The battle then ensues as to who should have legal custody of the child.In this and every other aspect of the film, the story is exactly the same. In only one can I find a difference. Silas Marner had epilepsy - but perhaps that would have strained the acting abilities of Mr Martin too far. On top of that he has his hair dyed in some carrot juice concoction (presumably to make him look younger, but actually making him look more the clown that he is)! There is also the addition of meaningless jokes, that this offbeat comedian cannot resist bringing into the story which have no part in it and only detract from the profoundness of the story. Like when the child cries in the courthouse declaring she can only be happy with the man who has fathered her all these years. This is conveyed in the film by the girl applying nasal decongestant to the bridge of her nose to make her tearful!I am surprised that legalities and integrity within the film industry permit such a film to be made. If I was a trustee of George Eliot's I would insist on reparation. If I was Steve Martin I would send the profits to that estate, or to the poor. At the very least it should be entitled Silas Marner - adapted by S Martin. Or better still removed from the archives!If you are interested in this story - and I hope you are - dismiss this completely and watch Silas Marner. Or read the book! The BBC made an excellent adaptation of it in the 1980's. "}]