[{"Title":"A misunderstood gem","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"95 out of 106 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This movie got poor-to-middling reviews when it was released in 1994 but I still hold out hope that it eventually gets its proper respect in TV and Cable reruns, because it's a terrificly entertaining film.  Maybe it just takes a certain frame of mind or background to enjoy this movie, but I absolutely love it and frequently go back to it when I want to see how a dark, edgy, and FUN movie is done right.Alec Baldwin is excellent as Lamont Cranston/The Shadow.  Baldwin has never achieved the commercial sucess many predicted for him and this movie perhaps shows why; Baldwin doesn't play a straight protagonist.  The movie begins with Cranston as a hedonistic warlord in China and then jumps to his reformed Shadow persona is 1930's New York, and it is Baldwin's performance, which teeters between serious and funny, nice and cruel, that bridges the gap.  Russell Mulcahy and crew did an excellent job creating a 1930's-noir feel to the picture.  One of my friends complained that the movie sets were too obviously fake, I think he missed the point.  They re-created the feel of a 1930's movie set, not the 1930's itself!The movie is a bit campy at times but thankfully maintains the dark edge of the Shadow character, who has no qualms about killing or maiming his opponents (hey, this guy was a bloodthirsty killer in his previous life, you think he's going to forget how to use that power when he changes sides?).  John Lone does a nice job as the Shadow's opposite number, Shiwan Khan.  The supporting cast is excellent as well (Jonathon Winters, Ian McKellan, Tim Curry) with perhaps the exception of Penelope Ann Miller, whose character and performance were rather annoying, but I can live with it.Overall I give this movie a BIG thumbs up and recommend it to anyone that enjoys fun movies.  I've gotten a mixed reaction from friends I've recommended it to but I think this is the kind of movie where if you like it all, you'll love it. "},{"Title":"Fun Film, Beautiful Looking, Great Performances","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"73 out of 81 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"       Before BATMAN, there was THE SHADOW.  In the history of troubled billionaires donning disguises at night, THE SHADOW told the story of Lamont Cranston before Bruce Wayne's story filled DC Comics' pages.  Finally, in 1994, the long-running radio drama came to life on the big screen in one of the best adaptations since Tim Burton brought The Dark Knight to the silver screen in 1989.  For some reason, the movie never caught on with the public; maybe not as many people remembered the radio version as I did.  I loved it, though; I could watch this film again and again.Alec Baldwin (BEETLEJUICE, HUNT FOR RED OCTOBER) plays Lamont Cranston, a former drug lord who is captured by a Tibetan monk and retrained to fight evil as his penance for doing it.  Cranston's power is a kind of hypnotic telepathy; he has the power to cloud men's minds, which he uses to make himself invisible to evildoers except for his shadow (because light itself can never be fooled).Cranston lives an exciting double life in what is apparently a glamorized version of the 30's, playing the town as a billionaire playboy and building up a secret network of helpers from those he saves as The Shadow (each identified with a silver fire opal ring given them upon their rescue), until he meets his match in two ways  Cranston loses his heart to enchanting-but-scatterbrained Margo Lane (Penelope Ann Miller), and The Shadow must fight his evil counterpart, Shiwan Khan (John Lone), last descendant of Genghis Khan, who has a hypnotic telepathy of his own and is seeking to bring life as we know it to an end using elements that have never been combined before (Dr. Roy Tam to Cranston  I guess you'd call it an implosive-explosive-submolecular destruction device.  Cranston  Or an 'atomic bomb'.  Tam  Hey, that's catchy.).Forget trying to follow the plot; like BATMAN, the plot isn't the point.  The point is the look and feel of the movie, and this movie has glamour and pizazz to spare.  1930's New York City has NEVER looked better.  The special effects are brilliant (at one point, as water rises in an enclosed room, the invisible Shadow's legs make deep dents in the rising water) and very well used throughout, so that they are not intrusive but rather a part of the story.  Like BATMAN, there's also a large assortment of anachronistic gadgetry (pneumatic tubes delivering messages over a sophisticated network, video phones, elaborate neon billboards) that somehow work with the story as well.  And the acting--Baldwin, Miller, Lone, Peter Boyle as Cranston's driver, Tim Curry as an evil scientist in league with Lone, Ian McKellen as Margo's father, another scientist whose discoveries are exploited by Khan--is also first-rate.      THE SHADOW is the perfect Saturday Night movie  Fun to watch, attractive-looking, and not terribly taxing on the brain.  Go see it.  "},{"Title":"Pretty good and underrated","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"65 out of 75 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  A short comment about this movie from a German point of view, which may make a difference when we're talking about radio plays/comics adapted to the silver screenThe Shadow as a radio play is virtually unknown around here. (I used the opportunity to check out some old recordings on the web, and it's _awesome_ to listen to!) So, German audiences will just walk into the theatre without any proconceived ideas about how it should be, expecting just any other adventure movie.As such, IMHO it stood up well. Baldwin is cool; of course his demi-dark side begs for a comparision to Batman, but I think Baldwin wins in terms of credibility and depth of character. The gimmicks and gadgets are neat, Tim Curry as the half-villain is entertaining to watch as always (though he overdoes it a bit at times), the script is well-paced, the action is staged superbly, the music is gripping.But most of all Kudos to the production design/special effects/makeup team! They did a superb job in transforming the Shadow's 'invisibility' (as well as his overall looks) from a radio idea to the screen. It was awesome to watch, and at the same time a bit chilling and frightening.Drawback Beside the intentional jokes (I'm not interested in your balls...), some takes just seemed to be unintentionally funny- perhaps they went a little too far in trying to create a gloomy atmosphere...Along with _The Rocketeer_, this one's also one of the unfortunately widely underrated films. Certainly not a milestone in film history, but a good and entertaining flick to watch with a bag of popcorn and a girl to hold in your arms during the scary moments. But I'm pretty sure- The Shadow... knows!  "},{"Title":"Walter Gibson Should Be Proud","Date":"23 April 2001","Score":"53 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This movie was the best effort to bring this unique hero to the big screen.  Granted, although I like her in general, Penelope Ann Miller was not as strong a Margo as I would have liked, otherwise, I thought this was an outstanding achievement.  The look and feel are perfect and I loved how they made sure many of The Shadow's regular crew made their appearances... Shrivey, Roy Tam, Burbank.The main reason I wanted to comment on this movie, however, was because of the question raised by Patrick in London about why Baldwin's nose changed shape when he became The Shadow.  Lamont Cranston's hawk-nosed profile was one of the most famous trademarks of The Shadow.  Alec Baldwin, however, does not naturally have that kind of look (to be honest, Lee Van Cleef may be the only movie actor in history with the correct look to have been able to portray The Shadow without resorting to make-up or special effects).  Personally, I thought it was a brilliant touch to make that profile an illusion which Cranston utilizes when he becomes The Shadow.  It makes it more believable that no one would be able to figure out he is The Shadow.  A profile as distinct as Cranston's traditional look would make it difficult to believe that no one could put two and two together... kind of like believing that no one could figure out that Clark Kent is Superman just because he wears glasses.  To me, it was just one more thing that elevated this movie above the usual superhero genre flick because it showed an appreciation and respect for the source material that Hollywood is not necessarily known for. "},{"Title":"Finally, we see The Shadow!","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"48 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  For those of you who have ever heard the old radio show, this film was a masterpiece. It carefully blended most or all of the element's of the hero's long- lasting career.I can't think of a better choice for the lead than Alec Baldwin. He could easily play up the psychic aspects of the character. He even took the trademark Shadow laugh and made it creepier than ever.See this movie! If you're a fan of the Batman films or the Rocketeer, this movie is for you. "},{"Title":"Excellent adaptation, highly enjoyable","Date":"2 December 2000","Score":"40 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I don't really understand the bad rep this movie has gotten.  Sure, its not high art (then again, Shakespeare, Dickens and Herodetus weren't meant to be, or perceived as, high art when they were written).  What The Shadow was, and remains, in my eyes, is one of the best super-hero adaptations ever (the best until X-Men came out, in my opinion).I'm not terribly familiar with the old radio drama Shadow, so I can't speak as to the details, but the feeling, the essence of the movie fits with what I've experienced.  Much more importantly, it stand out well on its own.Special effects play a major part, but are not of the over-played.  Action is well done, and acting is acceptable, though rarely outstanding (the Shadow's cabbie Shrebnitz is an engrossing exception).What really makes this movie stand out is the layering.  Plots, characters, backgrounds, all are complex.  The movie's basic plot is well-paced, occasionally a bit slow, but it makes up for it with the incredible wealth of details it packs in.  Watching the movie, one gets the sense of an incredible amount of backstory for each character (little things, like the family life of some of the Shadow's agents, barely glimpsed, or even just the complex web of those agents across the city), or that around the corner there lies a world to explore.This movie can be difficult to classify, which may lead to its unpopularity. Clearly its not a drama, not is it a comedy, nor even entirely an action. Scifi or fantasy are both possible descriptions, but they fail.  The Shadow is comicbook style, in the truest sense of the genre.  Complex characters, pull-pounding action, some jokes, some drama...it all mixes together.  If you can get a bead on the style, its a very enjoyable movie, far ahead of most other super-hero films (Superman, Batman, the Phantom, etc.)I recommend watching it, but only with an open mind. "},{"Title":"The definitive Superhero movie!","Date":"18 February 2005","Score":"48 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Many people would not agree with the maximum rating being awarded to this film. I should agree with them, the one reason I don't is that you can clearly see this film attempted to be great in all areas. I feel sorry for them, they carried the story well and related back to a lot from the original stories. They would have succeeded if it weren't for the fact that they made a couple of casting errors. The lead hero and villain were good, Tim Curry always boosts a film and the female wasn't that bad really. The rest should have been reconsidered, however. Sir Ian McKellen is capable of so much more than he delivered, which is surprising. Even so, he should not have been chosen for that role. The one problem this film really has is that it chose to use a character created in times when there weren't any heroes really. It is nearly impossible to understand these times and therefore the impact of the character was lost on the audience this time around. It is a real shame, because the shot of The Shadow at the top of the stairs in the hotel is one of the best you will find of any hero in film. If you are aware of the original Shadow articles, this film will probably already be in your collection. It does a great job and should not have flopped to the extent it did. I would strongly encourage anyone considering watching this film to rent it. If you like the superhero genre, which is on the rise, you will love this film. Cliché, yes, but true. "},{"Title":"One of the best action movies I have ever seen","Date":"7 October 2001","Score":"52 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I found THE SHADOW to be simply amazing. I thought that this movie was a work of art and was the classic definition of a sleeper film. When we were blessed with this great film, it did not get the recognition it deserved. I found this film to be full of great action sequences and witty-special effects. I was disappointed to find that it got such a low vote. This movie was astonishing and I recommend it to anyone who likes creative,action films.  "},{"Title":"Excellent noir adventure","Date":"26 February 2000","Score":"33 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  The Shadow is one of the best super-hero films ever made. Ranking up their with Superman (1978) it's one of those rare gems that boasts of a cast deserving of their roles and superb writing. A sleek, noir adventure full of action, intrigue, truly evil villians, and one bombshell of a heroine. the Shadow is not one to be missed. "},{"Title":"Universal Ruined The DVD Of This Film","Date":"24 April 2006","Score":"26 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Before mentioning the story, I have to warn potential buyers of this DVDUniversal Studios committed the unbelievable sin of photographing this in the original 1.851 widescreen but only offering it on DVD in formatted-to-TV, so you miss a good percentage of the great visuals. Not only that, they zoom the picture to fill the screen so it isn't sharp, either. I hope this situation is rectified. It's a disgrace.As for the story, it's simply a very hokey-but very entertaining fantasy/adventure, based on the popular radio hero of the 1930s.This is just pure escapism, not to be judged seriously because it's a dumb story. It's cartoon-like, an outlandish story that mixes action, comedy and a superhero with time-travel and all sorts of strange happenings. For someone who likes to gawk at the sights and sounds of the '30s and '40s, this is a fun film. The surround sound in here is fun, too, especially when The Shadow (Alec Baldwin) speaks. "}{"Title":"Misunderstood","Date":"25 June 2004","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Misunderstood is an understatement. Some critics (the esteemed Roger Ebert included) understood both the direction and aim of this film, while others, and many movie goers completely missed the point.This film is meant to be a visualization of a 1930's pulp novel - that is, its point is to provide that stereotypical campy atmosphere of the old Shadow radio plays, novels, and even films of that era. This is in many ways the stereotypical super-hero film. We have a mad scientist, a fiendishly evil conquerer(there's some retro terminology) a super-hero who is not a perfect being, but a flawed man, and of course, an atomic bomb.People forget that it is the Shadow, and other early pulp-fiction characters that set these stereotypes in the first place - therefore how can one call this show a rip-off when it set the standards of this genre so long ago? If the Shadow character had been invented in the 1990's, yes, this film could be said to be a humongous rip-off of Batman, Spider-man, and pretty much any other heroic character. But as it is, the Shadow in its entirety predates ALL of these characters and clichés. Batman himself was even based on the Shadow by the creators own admission.The long and short is, if you look at this from the perspective of contemporary modern film, you'll be disappointed. If however you look at this as a visual interpretation of classic 1930's adventure escapism, you'll enjoy it greatly. Your perspective is critical here, and I urge you to remember that this is the original caped crusader. He shouldn't be brushed off simply because his movie came out later!8.5/10  "},{"Title":"just a great movie","Date":"27 October 1999","Score":"16 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  The movie its self is great, but whats even more importent is to remember that they actully have gotten some of that good ol' feeling from the radio show and so on that was on the radio in the early first part of the 1900..Baldwin does one of the best caracters / roles that he ever have done, whit an glamures look and a wonderfull teste for the dramatic. - This is what i would call Baldwins best and biggest movie in is more serius caracter.- End of storyfriendly regardsJohan "},{"Title":"If I had to pick only one movie to watch for the rest of my life....","Date":"7 December 2005","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" ...this would be it! The Shadow has all the good parts of all the good movies. Handsome lead actor? Check! Evil villain? Check! His sniveling underling? Check! Hot (and intelligent) femme fatale to tempt the lead actor? Check! Great music? Check! Secret super hero communiques? Check! Great story? Check! Lots of action? Check! Lots of romance? Check! Flashbacks? Check!This is one movie that I am upset that I didn't see in the theater, to take advantage of the sweeping effects and surround sound. I have seen this movie dozens of times and am always catching more nuances with every viewing. The makers of The Shadow did a good job with their knowledge of the radio theater dramas to bring their essence on the big screen. If the Shadow himself seems a little two-dimensional, that characteristic was a key facet in the radio dramas of the 1920's and 1930's the good guys were purely good, and the bad guys were horribly evil. Good and bad was black and white. These simple characterizations only help move the plot along to its excellent ending. (Alec Baldwin's limited acting range is a non-issue, too.)When asked what movie I'd take to a deserted island, I'd at first ask if I could take three movies (The Indiana Jones Trilogy, because of Harrison Ford). If the answer's no, then I'd pick The Shadow. Great stuff! "},{"Title":"Very Enjoyable","Date":"3 April 2004","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I bought this DVD on a whim and it's turned out to be better than most of the movies I've purchased.   Very stylish, good music, a nice touch of humor and a real good feel for a bit of the dark side.  I'm too young to have listened to the radio shows but maybe thats why I enjoyed it so much. More than many movies that now a days seem to be nothing but special effects, the ones here are well done but the movie does not stop there.   Keep in mind this is an adaptation of radio shows and pulp fiction and from what I understand of the character this film does a good job of capturing its content.I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"The master of darkness strikes again! What an awesome movie!","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This movie does a very good job of combining all the previous iterations of The Shadow into one solid and believable character. Many elements from the pulp novels and radio shows are all rolled into the story, and it makes this movie very worth watching. The story is a classic good guy vs. bad guy sort of thing, but sometimes it's hard to tell how 'good' The Shadow actually is. Mystery, suspense, and thrills all make this movie one to see! Very true to the original stories! "},{"Title":"Loved it!","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I was excited when I first heard about this movie, because I remember watching the the Shadow on TV when I was *very* young--so young that all I remembered was the blacked-out face, & that I really liked him.  I had no preconceived notions and actually arrived late the first time I saw it in the theater--I came in on the temple-scene fight-with-the-knife, thought it was a preview, & commented to my friend that I didn't think I wanted to see that movie!  I loved it  once I realized what was going on.  It captured the feel of a dark 1930's pulp-movie perfectly.  I must've seen the movie at least 25 times at the theater after that--I made certain to look in the credits to see who authored the stories & went looking for cassettes of the radio-series.  I haven't read any of the pulps or books, yet, but I am working on it.  Couple of points 1)  Why does Alec Baldwin's nose change when Lamont transforms into the Shadow?  According to what I've read about the pulps, when he transforms into the Shadow, he lets his darker side out & it is reflected in his face--I think the Tulku even mentions it in the movie.  It also explains why no one recognized Lamont Cranston as the Shadow, who was really an aviator (Allart) impersonating Cranston (according to the pulps/novels). 2)  I thought John Lone did well as Shiwan Khan, but would've like to have seen it done better. 3)  I loved Peter Boyle as Shrevnitz & Jonathon Winters as Wainwright Barth; I always enjoy Ian McKellan & Tim Curry. 4)  I don't think the Shadow is supposed to *radiate warmth*, he's a bad-guy gone good (sort-of), and Lamont is an independently-wealthy bachelor who is who is bored with the social-circles but is doing what is expected of him.I don't usually go to the theater to see the same movie numerous times, but I liked this one so much that I made an exception--I guess I have a soft spot for melancholy heros & heros who struggle with their dark side. "},{"Title":"The Shadow!","Date":"26 July 2003","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Great film!Alec Baldwin is great as the Shadow!Jone Lone was awesome!Penelope Ann Miller,Peter Boyle,Ian McKellen,and Tim Curry were all excellent!Great music by Jerry Goldsmith!I recommend that you see the Shadow! "},{"Title":"Lots of fun!","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This is one of those movies where I find myself alone. Everybody and their dog seemed to hate it, but I just loved it. It was a lot like Dick Tracy( the Beatty movie) in that it romanticized the period and was way over the top. Funny as well. "},{"Title":"Shadow Supremacy!","Date":"5 April 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" THE SHADOW AS IT OUGHT TO BE!! I liked reading the comic strips/books of The Shadow as a child, but I always thought that the old serial episodes were really cornball! This movie resurrected my interest and made the comic strips come to life! As I watched this movie in the theater, I thought, Now this is how 'The Shadow' lived in my mind as a child! Alec Baldwin was great, as was the rest of the cast, and in it's day, the visual effects were pretty awesome! I never tire of seeing this film...own it on video, and it has thrilled my family time and again on family night around the tube! If you're a Indiana Jones fan, you will definitely enjoy The Shadow! Get you a copy of this film, pop-up some popcorn, get you an ice-cold drink, and settle in for a good-old time at the movies! "},{"Title":"overall good movie","Date":"26 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" most people who see this movie, do not like it. yet it does have it's moments. The Shadow was around long before Batman and all the other superheros who have made big screen appearances in the past few years. The sets have the glamour of art deco of the 1930s. The Shadow is played by the ELDEST Baldwin brother, Alec and he does an awesome job with the character. Penny Miller does a great job playing his beautiful sidekick Margo Lane. The soundtrack is great and really goes with the scenes in the movie. It's good to listen to by itself and just mellow out to.Give the movie a chance before ruling it out, it might surprise you. "}{"Title":"A Great Movie","Date":"22 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" This has to be one of the best adaption films I've ever seen. A lot of the scenes in this movie has came from a comic or a radio episode. For an example; the silver coffin of Temujin is from The Masters of Death. In this movie it is a combination of the radio Shadow and pulp magazine Shadow. The villain in this movie is Shiwan Khan; looking to take over the world. Now it is up to the Shadow to stop Khan,and battle his own dark side. With the help of his agents Moe Shrevnitz, Dr. Roy Tam, Margo Lane, and others. This movie might have a funny sense to it, but this movie is no Blankman or Meteor Man. The funny parts is just simple comic relief. Which makes the movie fun to watch. The Shadow is serious and smart in this movie, so don't worry about it being a comedy film. If you are a Shadow fan or just simply looking for a good movie to watch, I highly recommend this movie. I think if this movie would have been out in theaters today, it would have done a lot better, due to all the other comic adaption movies that are coming out. "},{"Title":"In my short life, this is one of the greats!","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Okay folks average vote of 5??? Come on, the film deserves more credit. Now I'm not an Alec Baldwin fan but you gotta admit he was good. I've never read the comic so I can't compare but this has to be one of my favourite films.It's not done over the top, the effects and character interactions are great and it's a lot better than the Batman series.If you haven't seen it, go see it now! "},{"Title":"Old-fashioned and fun adventure with an enthusiastic portrayal of a stalwart hero","Date":"25 February 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Exciting version of the popular comic books and broadcasting tale about the immortal crusader called ¨The Shadow¨ with very watchable FX and lots of fun . Several visual designs provide the highlights for those in the mood for a journey back to the radio past or a quick superhero adventure . As our stalwart hero , a billionaire playboy named Lamont Cranston (Alec Baldwin) is a master of illusion and defender of justice thanks to his alter ego . Aided by companion Margo Lane (Penelope Anne Miller) and a Cabman (Peter Boyle) he battles super-criminal named Shiwan Khan (John Lone) . He discovers his destiny and a old legacy as a superhero called The Shadow , the invisible man who walks , a seemingly relentless crime fighter . A mask and raincoat he finds himself battling his nemesis , the deadliest descendant of Ghengis Khan . He's helped by an attractive woman and both of whom travel to dangerous streets N.Y. to thwart a nasty criminal . Khan is a cold and megalomaniac killer who murders cruelty his victims, he wants to take a power to dominate the world , he is supported by a particular ally , a smarmy villain (Tim Curry) and his hoodlums . The hero and villain have equal powers , yet the heroine can be hypnotised by one and no other . The picture charges into a tale of a hero who turned from evil in Tibet and reemerged in New York City as a superhero holding extraordinary power to fight in that most wretched lair if iniquity . As in 30's New York City, the Shadow battles his enemy who is building an atomic bomb. But the caped crusader is trapped inside a locked chamber being helped by his girlfriend . The Shadow is shown in this highly stylized big screen adaptation of the 30's radio show , the once starred by Orson Welles . Film gets exotic locations , derring-do adventures ,rip roaring , action-packed , tongue in check , it's a cinematic roller coaster pretty entertaining and with well made set pieces action , including numerous and elaborate FX . This exciting picture provides splendid production design by Joseph Nemec , while done more dynamically elsewhere , are fun and outstanding . This is an ambitious fantasy adventure with breathtaking special effects ; it has some well-staged scenes whose effectiveness owes much to Russell Mulcahy's strong pictorial sense . Older kids , teenagers may find the proceedings a bit hokey and paying little attention to logic , but everyone seems to be having a good time . The picture is a crossover among comic-strip hero , superhero feats , Saturday matinée serials and old-fashioned thirties movies . As this runs like an old Republic serial of the thirties or Forties on a multi-million dollar budget . Its arresting visuals , lavish realization and crude energy put filmmaker Russell Mulcahy on the map . Much of the dialogue springs as if balloons from the printed page and the interpretation is appropriately rudimentary . The picture has great loads of action , special effects abundant , glamorous cinematography by Stephen Burum and spectacular Jerry Goldsmith's musical score , including an enjoyable leitmotif . The motion picture includes an interesting script by prestigious David Koepp and was rightly directed by Russell Mulcahy . Russell for some time worked in Britain as a filmmaker of video clips , but returned to his native country , Australia , to make his first fictional movie , ¨Razorback¨ . He was able to get the backing for what proved to be his greatest success ¨Highlander¨ . It led to two sequels , the first of which was realized by himself titled ¨Quickening¨ . He subsequently directed ¨Resurrection¨with Charlie Sheen and ¨Talos the mummy¨ , among others . Despite major stars and big budgets with which to work have not fulfilled their potential and he seemed less commanding with players than with action . The flick will appeal to adventure fans and comic-books enthusiastic . Rating  Good and amusing. Well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"A True Classic That Was Ahead Of Its Time","Date":"16 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Ever since this premiered on TV, I remember being captivated by its presence at the age of 5. Having just seen the film again I am still that same amazed child curiously staring at the screen.Alec Baldwin at his finest, the signature raspy voice combined with a new kind of hero an audience can surely relate to and root for. I liked how they combined Chinese culture in a modern day cape crusading fantasy. Even though it was released in '94; The Shadow still holds up with the CGI special effects of today, combined with on point slapstick comedy (not to much, otherwise that would drain the excitement), a dark thriller is born from mysterious beginnings.I love the nostalgic 90's feel I got from watching the movie. Was nice to see actors like Peter Boyle (Everybody Loves Raymond godfather), Tim Curry (that funny dumb man you can't help laughing at), Ian McKellen (always a pleasure)...etc. Along with a few guest appearances from well known faces during the 1990 period.This is a very underrated film that i would recommend, especially to those who are sick of the epic fails being released these days which parody the superhero genre. Take a fresh start with this old relic that reflects modern day society. Final thought would be...this goes beyond the save the world, get the girl storyline, journey to a place where dreams have nested! "},{"Title":"Who knows what evil lurks in the hearts of men?","Date":"25 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" I remember first learning of The Shadow from a book centered around the history of Batman as a literary figure. When examining the darker, deadlier version of Batman as he first debuted in 1939, one can clearly see that Batman was inspired by The Shadow.The Shadow himself is a Master of Darkness, Lamont Cranston (played by Alec Baldwin), once a World War I veteran and international criminal. Cranston, a drug lord in Tibet, is captured and reformed by the mysterious Tulku, a Tibetan holy man. Cranston learns the power to cloud men's minds, which renders him virtually invisible. He becomes a master of stealth and intimidation. He returns to his native New York to battle organized crime as The Shadow. There, he comes face-to-face with Shiwan Khan (John Lone), the last descendant of Genghis Khan. Khan plots to conquer the world, via the atomic bomb. Can The Shadow overcome his dark urgings and defeat Khan, or will he fall back into his evil ways?The Shadow (1994) was a film that had great potential. Because of the other superhero revival movies of the day (i.e. Tim Burton's Batman (1989), etc.), The Shadow could be introduced to a new generation. Unfortunately, the film fared poorly at the box office and at the voices of critics. The first thirty minutes of The Shadow are probably the best. We are introduced to The Shadow, learn of his origins, and witness as the stage is set for a great film. However, most of the movie is simply a thrill ride with above-average special effects. The acting is as good as it gets for an action endeavor, while the characterization is flat. Overall, The Shadow is a good action/superhero film. It was definitely worth a few bucks to go see in 1994. The movie was faithful to Walter Gibson's original stories and characters, both in regard to character, setting and visually. While The Shadow is far from perfect, it is generally (and unjustly) underrated. I am in hopes that the new film, to be made by Shadow fan Sam Raimi, will rival this one in greatness. We cannot tell thus far, however.Only The Shadow knows! "},{"Title":"Great piece of fun and ironic film making...","Date":"23 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Yeah Ok the first time I saw it I hated it, but the second time I loved it...go figure! A great piece of fun film making and make no mistake it is supposed to be a bit stupid. Watch it as entertainment and without taking it to seriously ( as the film makers obviously intended) and you will not be dissapointed. "},{"Title":"An action flick in the Saturday Serial tradition. Sorta.","Date":"20 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  The shadow isn't a great film. But it isn't terrible either. The action is effective, the acting is.. well it's Alec Baldwin, heir apparent to William Shatner, plus (what's a ham?)Tim Currie.. Jonathan Winters nearly always steals every scene he's in. Why am I talking to the back of your neck?.The Shadow would have been an amazing film if it had been made in the black and white era of films, and I guess that's why one day, I turned the colour off on my TV, in a method I use often now. Something I like to call retro-viewing. And let me tell you, 'The Shadow' in Black and White is quite amazing, and to me, the only way to view it. Try it for yourself, and ask if you can't add another star to your review. "},{"Title":"another look","Date":"28 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I have watched the movie several times now after purchasing it and it actually gets better each time I view it. I would highly recommend the film to everyone.At first (see my earlier comment) I found John Lone's villain to be too weak...but I see now why. The REAL foe in the film is not Khan..but the SHADOW himself. His inner darkside vs his good side. Lone is just there to show you what the darkside could be. HE isn't what scares the Shadow. It's his own past, his evil side, loss of control that plagues the hero.I wish this had been better received because we could've enjoyed a few sequels by now. And the same goes for THE PHANTOM and THE ROCKETEER. "},{"Title":"Unjustly forgotten, diverting superhero oddity","Date":"14 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" A forgotten adaptation of a '30s-era comic strip hero, THE SHADOW has a lot going for it. Director Russell Mulcahy is the epitome of hit-and-miss given the breadth of his output, but TEE SHADOW is up there with HIGHLANDER as the most interesting work of his varied career. Despite its silly storyline and plot holes, this film never ceases to be fun and it also has a sheen of quality to it that most superhero films lack. I'd actually rank it better than Burton's BATMAN.I've never liked Alec Baldwin as an actor, but he's good value here as the amoral anti-hero pitted against Genghis Khan's offspring. John Lone is at his charismatic best as the bad guy, and scenes of him wandering New York in his full armour are hilarious. Penelope Ann Miller makes for an insipid love interest, but never mind. The film's never too interested in her anyway.The movie uses special effects sparingly, but they're all the more effective because of that. Genuine imagination is put into some of the scenes, like the invisible building, and I always enjoy watching mind control in the cinema (it's odd that other than this and SCANNERS, film producers generally seem to steer clear of it as subject matter). There are plenty of interesting actors (Boyle, McKellen, Curry) in the supporting roles and plentiful action to keep things bubbling along nicely. It may not be a standout or landmark movie, but THE SHADOW entertains &#x96; and that's the main thing. "},{"Title":"Not bad...but not great","Date":"10 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" I find myself most inspired to write reviews when I see wasted potential in a movie...the Shadow falls in that category though it doesn't fit quite as snuggly.Set in 1930's New York, Lamont Cranston(Alec Baldwin)is a rich playboy who moonlights as a mysterious superhero known as the Shadow. He can turn himself invisible, hypnotize his enemies, is a crack shot with twin pistols and most importantly, who knows what evil lurks in the hearts of men? The Shadow knows. When a descendant of Genghis Khan arrives in New York after completing his training with The Shadow's own former mentor(and killing him), The Shadow seems to have met his match, but he's not going down without a fight.As a feat of art direction, The Shadow is pretty damn close to a masterpiece. It's set in a world of comic bookish 30's architecture, and light and shadow are played with a whimsical sense of noir. The movie is based on the 1930's pulp novels of the same name and visually it hits the mark dead center. The story unfortunately only makes it there half way. There's a lot of fun stuff in this movie and the plot is full of cool ideas that invoke the pulpy feel it should. Unfortunately it can't quite find its footing on the line between camp and dark grit. There's enough goofiness in the movie to keep you from taking it too seriously but not quite enough goofiness to make it just pure fun. Because of this the camp comes off as unintentional...like they wanted this to be serious and just didn't get there. The set up in the beginning of the film in particular is a little hokey in its clunky handling...if it had been slowed down it could've been interesting and cool...but then maybe the movie wouldn't have been as much fun. I found myself unimpressed with the script and yet at the same time I was more and more engaged as the movie waged on...by the climax I was very interested to see how it would all turn out and now, the next morning as I look back at watching it last night I find myself smirking at some of the fun quotes and winks at the camera.All and all I enjoyed the movie I guess, but I just found myself so enthralled by the visuals of it, and combine that with my love of pulp fiction and I really should've loved this movie...so I guess, as I've often said before it just didn't quite live up to its potential. "}{"Title":"The Invisible Hotel","Date":"23 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" The worlds you enter when you enter films can be sacred adventures brought home.There are few important films because the worlds of film are not worthy, weighty and wondrous. But long before they can matter, they need to be enticing and coherent. The so- called science fiction genre is simply a set of conventions that shortcut this challenge. Filmmakers can simply reference some prefab worlds; viewers need do less work.But there are other paths to alternative worlds, and by themselves they can make interesting films, even if they don't provide much for building a life.One such is this film. It struck me as important in the this coherent world way when I first saw it in a theater, and I recently revisited it in a poor quality DVD, apparently made from a old tape. It still worked.The story itself is trivial. Though there are some fine character actors, they don't matter at all. The director and composer do well enough. But what matters here is the design of the world, the sight. The production design, art design, set dressers, costumers and even the way the camera is allowed to move through the space matters, not because they do a good job but because they are so attuned. It seems that someone started with the idea of cinematic shadows with agency, and constrained it to a beaux art/ art deco architecture. Even the scenes in Tibet conform to this vision, and make sense in the world we are presented.Tim Burton is often credited with this approach, at least in the comic superhero world, though I think Warren Beatty led the way. But Burton's worlds are delivered more through the tone of the narrative and score than the actual visuals. Whatever magic the craftspeople were able to spin on this did not stick none of them were able to create meaningful projects. This itself is not meaningful either. But it sure is an achievement in a world of film that still is largely incompetent in terms of visual cosmologies. Maybe Universal will give it the treatment it deserves; the DVD is a travesty.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3 Has some interesting elements. "},{"Title":"What's that in the shadow?","Date":"4 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" The Shadow is directed by Russell Mulcahy, and is based on the character of the same name created by Walter B. Gibson. It stars Alec Baldwin in the title role and support comes from John Lone, Penelope Ann Miller, Peter Boyle, Ian McKellen & Tim Curry. It's written by David Koepp who was a fan of the radio show that was re-run when he was a child. The plot basically sees Lamont Cranston (Baldwin) gain an alter ego (The Shadow) in mystical Tibet and with his new powers sets about fighting crime back in the states. All is going well until Shiwan Khan (Lone) shows up. He's the last descendant of Gengis Khan, and in keeping with that particular family tree, he's intent on global domination.There's a lower tier of super hero movies that have either been poorly received in comparison to the big hitters like Bats, Supes and Spidey, or simply forgotten on account of how bad they are. The likes of Daredevil, The Phantom, maybe even Darkman,? and this here 94 piece, The Shadow, are rarely mentioned by the super hero fan. Perhaps rightly it could be argued? But in spite of its tepid and unimaginative plot, The Shadow is an above average time filler that's visually impressive. The 30s Manhattan setting is excellently brought to life by the makers, and a pat on the back is due to them for not over doing the special effects. It looks and feels pulpy, and really there's nothing wrong with that at all. The cast in truth are just about OK, either under written or merely swamped by the production design, they turn up and play the movie as best they can.Hardly ground shaking and not really pumping the blood as an action movie should. The Shadow does have a dreamy quality that makes it worth a watch. Perhaps a sequel with a better story may just arrive one day? 6/10 "},{"Title":"Would still make a great teleseries...","Date":"29 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" My dream when I was a kid was to grow up to be Walter Gibson (who, writing as Maxwell Grant, chronicled the adventures of THE SHADOW). Things haven't quite worked out as I'd hoped, but I still love the character (and am still in awe of Gibson's output). It was my mother who got the ball rolling by telling me stories of the Dark Knight as I drifted off to sleep at night. Years later, I discovered the recordings by Orson Welles on vinyl. Cassette recordings followed and I actually began to write my own shows that my brother and I would then act out (sometimes with one of our friends). Along came video tape and the release of the serial with Victor Jory. It was the first of many disappointments. A recent trip back through time (via DVD) and I found myself bored senseless by another serial and a pilot for a teleshow. They just didn't seem to get it. THE SHADOW feature film with Alec Baldwin in the title role was much better, but even this one didn't quite reach the heights it should've. I knew going in that it wouldn't (I'd seen the previews), but it was still frustrating to see a character with so much (unlimited) potential fail to rise to the occasion. Again. The movie's good for what it is, but it's a little bit like watching the DOC SAVAGE movie with Ron Ely you can't help but wonder why the filmmakers just don't get it. (Even BATMAN, that bastion of law and order currently co-opting the Dark Knight title, pales by comparison to the two-gun vigilante known as The Shadow.) "},{"Title":"Best Superhero Movie Ever","Date":"17 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" This is an under-rated gem. A lot of critics and audiences thought this film was a ripoff of Tim Burton's 1989 Batman film, but in reality, The Shadow existed long before Batman as a pulp magazine and radio hero in the early 1930's. Visually, the film seems to have been inspired by the excellent Michael Kaluta/DC comics version of The Shadow from the mid 1970's. IMO, this is a better film than Burton's (or anyone else's) Batman. Here are the things that make it so 1. A deeper back-story and an even more ambivalent protagonist. 2. Richer characterizations. 3. Better co-stars. 4. A better plot. 5. Better special effects. 6. A more interesting female lead. 7. A cool 1930's setting and better visuals. Alec Baldwin being surprisingly perfect for the role (this was when he was still young and slim). Baldwin plays a guy who is driven and certainly a little twisted, but still holds onto enough basic humanity so that you can root for him. Jonathan Winters has a rare 'straight' role as Lamont Cranston's uncle the police commissioner, and his performance is surprisingly effective. This film achieves a mood that is dark, occult, fantastic, but it doesn't suffocate you trying to bring home the point. This film is remarkably faithful to both the radio and magazine versions of the Shadow, and provides an excellent dramatization of the best elements of this hero. One of the great achievements of this production is that somehow the director avoided the temptation to overlay a modern sensibility onto 1930's characters. Many recent superhero films have imposed a 'Beverly Hills 90120' or 'Melrose Place' approach to characterization the characterization of our heroes, which is a truly loathsome idea. More loathsome still is the Frank Miller ('Sin City') approach to character, which can best be described as Mickey Spillane on meth. Besides predating Batman, the Shadow was in many ways a more interesting character. The Shadow had a couple 45 caliber pistols and used powers of mesmerism to 'cloud mens' minds.' Also, the Shadow wore regular clothes, but disguised himself with an overcoat, a slouch hat, and a scarf, which is more stylish and less sissy than a set of leotards. It's universally accepted that the Shadow was one of the inspirations for Batman, and it's pretty well demonstrated that the very 1st Batman story (1939) was a direct steal from a Shadow story. I think this movie did not do well upon initial release due to it's superficial similarities to the Batman films, and due to the fact that each Batman after the 1989 film represented a diminishment in quality, culminating in the notorious Joel Schumacher rubber nipple era. Audiences saw the trailer for 'The Shadow' figured they didn't need another darknight detective. Also, since the Shadow was off the airwaves and out of print by the late 1950's, he'd largely been forgotten and had no name recognition. Superhero movies, at least as far as Hollywood is concerned, are all about the Brand. Hollywood likes them only insofar as they represent a product that is 'pre-sold.' Hollywood wants a guaranteed minimum audience, and the Shadow doesn't have the power to automatically fill theaters. Only the power to captivate men's minds. "},{"Title":"Evil lurks in the heart of men - this film was a flop","Date":"10 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Alec Baldwin is Lamont Cranston, The Shadow, based on the radio series voiced by, among others, Orson Welles. The series began with, Who knows what evil lurks in the hearts of men? The shadow knows! followed by Le Rouet d'Omphale, composed by Saint-Saëns. The Shadow can make himself invisible, read minds and is an expert marksman. He was often accompanied in his crime-solving exploits by socialite Margo Lane (Penelope Ann Miller in the film). The Shadow actually had several identities, the wealthy, dashing Lamont Cranston being only one, but this film deviates a bit from the original story. Here, The Shadow had a past life as a cruel and vicious Chinese warlord, who is taught a new way of life by a master and emerges in the 1930s as The Shadow. He comes up against Shiwan Khan, the last descendant of Genghis Khan, who hypnotizes Margo Lane's scientist father into making a bomb that will destroy the world.Besides the stars - Baldwin, Miller and Lone - the film boasts a very good supporting cast including Peter Boyle, Ian McKellen, Tim Curry and Jonathan Winters. The art deco decor throughout is gorgeous - it is a beautiful film with some great special effects. Despite a good story, cast and wonderful photography, The Shadow flopped at the box office. Caught on television, however, it was highly enjoyable.Baldwin is handsome and dapper here, thinner than he is today and very much the young leading man on the way up. Somewhere along the line, it didn't happen for him, though he's made a marvelous career for himself in character roles on television and on stage. You can almost see here why Baldwin didn't remain a leading man - he has a talent that takes him out of that straightforward range, and it serves The Shadow well - he can be funny and cool, but also dark and dangerous. Miller wears some spectacular '30s outfits. She's fine in the role, but I've seen her be much more effective. John Lone is very powerful as Shiwan Khan, while Ian McKellen is totally wasted. Winters plays Lamont's uncle, the police commissioner, in a role where he doesn't get to use his off-the-wall sense of humor. Tim Curry as a villain has the best supporting role; he's quite funny.I don't frankly remember this film's release and why it flopped - it perhaps got lost in some of its competition at the time. Nevertheless, seeing it with today's eyes, it's well worth a viewing. "},{"Title":"THE SHADOW (Russell Mulcahy, 1994) **1/2","Date":"9 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" I found this somewhat meatier than THE PHANTOM (1996), what with the protagonist (Alec Baldwin) &#150; the character originated on radio &#150; having been a warlord in Asia prior to undergoing a spiritual reform and setting himself a new mission in life battling crime in 1930s New York.I've never been impressed much by Baldwin as an actor, but he certainly approaches his role here with gusto (which is closest to Batman in the superhero scale); as was the case with THE PHANTOM, production design, cinematography and wardrobe all have that old-world glamour about them (even if the DVD edition I watched presented the film panned-and-scanned!) &#150; with Jerry Goldsmith's dynamic score suggesting both the excitement and the danger inherent in such an ambiance. John Lone is the villain this time around &#150; interestingly, not only is he the last descendant of Genghis Khan but he's actually a pupil of Baldwin's from his 'evil' days! Penelope Ann Miller makes for an alluring female lead; again, her character is given added texture by making the girl psychic. Ian McKellen (prior to achieving latter-day stardom with GODS AND MONSTERS 1998) appears as Miller's scientist father &#150; whom Lone hypnotizes into building an atom-bomb, with which he intends to bring the world to its feet &#150; and Tim Curry is his lecherous assistant, who is all-too-easily swayed into doing Lone's nefarious bidding.As I said, this is a more elaborate venture than THE PHANTOM (suffice to say that Lone's headquarters is an invisible hotel!) and the end result is no less enjoyable &#150; though, perhaps, just as forgettable... "},{"Title":"Fun and Entertaining","Date":"2 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" The mid-1990's were an awkward time for Superhero/comic book movies, outside of the Batman franchise, costumed crime fighters were not having much success on the big screen. Although several valiant efforts were made. The Shadow is arguably the best of them.With a story in 1930's New York, the visuals are breathtaking, the city of the time is magnificently recreated ala Dick Tracy but with a larger palate of colors. While convincingly portraying the feel of the 1930's, it manages to gloss over or omit the actual depression going on at the time without feeling cheesy or revisionist in nature. The film successfully captures the feel of old-time Hollywood, by portraying the characters as if they were played by actors of the time the film is set. Alec Baldwin brings a combination of Clark Gable and Humphrey Bogart to the role, and Penelope Ann Miller is as glamorous as a young Katherine Hepburn. The script itself is for the most part pretty good. It mixes drama, action, and comedy in good proportions. Each character is developed enough for as long as they are in the film, and that's all that's really necessary. For the title character, the movie combines different elements. Historically there are two main versions of the Shadow, the version of the pulps/comics who wore the trench coat and hat and just blended into the Shadows ala Batman while fighting crime, and the Shadow of the radio show who could actually hypnotize people rendering himself invisible. Each group has its devoted followers, and the film for the most part effectively combines the two. The music is good and fits the events on screen perfectly. The only downsides are a few jokes don't really fly, and some characters aren't really necessary. But these are easily overlooked. All in all, it's a film that one can't get into and enjoy. "},{"Title":"fun from the get go","Date":"25 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" i thought his was a great movie all around.Alec Baldwin was a great choice to play the The Shadow/Lamont Cranston.Penelope Ann Miller is also good as his sometimes sidekick Margo Lane.and Peter Boyle is hilarious as Moe Shrevnitz,the Shadow's personal taxi driver. the movie moves along at a good pace and i never found it boring.i'm not sure,but i think it sticks pretty close to its source material.Russel Mulcahy(Resident EvilExtinction)directed the movie.for me,this movie is just all around fun from start to finish.but i also liked the look of the film.i think they put a lot of effort into recreating the 1930's look and atmosphere,and for the life of me,i can't figure out why it wasn't very well received.anyway,for me The Shadow is a strong 8/10 "},{"Title":"A very underrated superhero film","Date":"4 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Since his debut in 1931, The Shadow made his mark on pulp magazines, radio shows and comic books before eventually appearing on the big screen in 1994. The film was universally hated by just about everyone and bombed big time at the box-office. I however am in the minority calling for the film's reappraisal. It's not nearly as bad as its often made out to be. I've always enjoyed The Shadow and feel its held up well over the years.I think the reason a lot of people hated The Shadow was because they assumed it was jumping on the bandwagon Tim Burton's Batman set in motion in 1989. The conflicted, morally split vigilante. What people tend to forget is The Shadow was a comic book character long before Batman ever came on the scene. It's just that when it came to feature films, the Caped Crusader beat The Shadow to the punch.Now I loved Batman. Its one of the most atmospheric and beautifully composed superhero films ever made. The Shadow is not on the same level, but it does dig into similarly dark areas, Russell Mulcahy's direction moves full steam ahead, and the screenplay by the always excellent David Koepp is full of rich dialogue and carefully etched ambiguities.Alec Baldwin plays The Shadow and his alter ego Lamont Cranston. Once a brutal drug lord from Tibet, he is abducted by The Tulku, a Tibetan holy man and forced to reform. Under the Tulku's tutelage, Cranston learns to channel his dark impulses into a new persona, The Shadow.With the ability to cloud men's minds, he returns to New York to cleanse the city of corruption as penance for his past crimes. With the aid of his agents, people he's saved over the years, The Shadow strikes terror into the hearts of those who prey on the innocent. Just as Cranston once did.But The Shadow faces his biggest challenge yet when Shiwan Khan (John Lone), the last descendant of Genghis Khan arrives in America to complete his ancestor's plans for global domination while at the same time hoping to turn Cranston back to his dark half.I for one fail to see why everybody hates The Shadow as much as they do. It's come in for some startlingly harsh criticisms over the years. I'm just not sure why.Russell Mulcahy has set out to create a quite lavish interpretation of 1930's New York, complete with opulent clubs and fine attention to period detail. The Shadow is a visual feast on the eyes. Mulcahy's use of the colour scheme is often vibrant and sumptuous.But more importantly, not to mention wisely, Mulcahy's primary interest is the struggle Cranston faces reconciling his internal struggle. David Koepp's script places some fascinating ethical conflicts at The Shadow's feet. And it's left to Alec Baldwin to bring it into sharp perspective.Alec Baldwin is an actor that annoys me a lot of the time, because his egocentric side often shows through in his acting. The Shadow is one of his more tolerable performances because he channels his thinly disguised arrogance into a charged determination that helps elevate his character to superheroic stature. The first time he appears in fedora and cloak with a set of .45 calibre pistols is exhilarating.Cranston's inner struggle is certainly well written, but that's to be expected of the talents of David Koepp. This is a man forced to live with dark impulses, and gives them exercise when he becomes The Shadow. There are few superheroes as fascinating and morally ambiguous.Baldwin seems a little less sure of himself in the part of Cranston. There's nothing particularly noteworthy there. One actor who would have been perfect here is the underrated Clive Owen. He can slip effortlessly from confident and assured to dangerous and volatile in seconds. He would have made a wonderful Lamont Cranston/The Shadow.The scene stealer of the film is the also underrated John Lone as Cranston's nemesis, Shiwan Khan. Lone is one of the world's most overlooked Asian/American actors. He always brings an intensity to whatever he stars in. He can communicate volumes with his eyes. Something this film gives him ample opportunity to demonstrate.He suggests a real larger than life stature in the role of Khan, but his grand performance never overbalances into camp farce. He possesses charisma, confidence and a careful intuition of the part. His confrontations with Cranston are the high point of the entire film. His psychological mind-games to get Cranston back to the dark side are wonderfully edgy. The dialogue shines as well. Lone savours each word and inflection with relish.If the film has a fault, its that Mulcahy seems only interested in Cranston and Kahn. The supporting cast are a little underutilised. Penelope Ann Miller is along for the ride as the token love interest Margo Lane. She gets outfitted in a lot of slinky frocks but seems a little too modern for a woman of the 1930s. Ian McKellen is wasted in the thankless role of a scientist developing an atom bomb for Khan's scheme. He spends most of the film hypnotised, which is not much of a stretch for an actor of McKellen's talents. And Tim Curry is annoyingly camp as Farley Claymore, a henchman of Khan's.But the late Peter Boyle does well as Moe, one of The Shadow's agents and personal taxi-driver. He brings likability, warmth and wry observation to the role.On the action front, Mulcahy delivers in spades. Swordfights, knifefights and fistfights. There's a wonderfully sustained scene when The Shadow is trapped in a water tank. Great special effects too, and a shivery film score from the late Jerry Goldsmith to enjoy. The Shadow is an underrated film, and could easily give the superhero films of today a run for their money. "},{"Title":"An absolute feast for the eyes but  somewhat hollow at the core","Date":"1 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Lamont Cranston (Alec Baldwin), an American, somehow ended up in Tibet, where he became a gang leader who bumped off rivals. Yet, a Tibetan monk sees honor in him and orders him back to the States, to fight evil and redeem himself. Cranston, thus, becomes The Shadow, a superhero with the power to control men's minds and defeat them. On the streets of New York City in the Roaring Twenties, he is feared and respected but no one knows his identity. When he meets Margo Lane (Penelope Ann Miller), he is thunderstruck by her clairvoyance and her ability to resist his mind control, as well as her stunning beauty. Margo is the daughter of a brilliant scientist (Ian McKellen) who is working on nuclear fusion, that is, the atomic bomb. Into this setting comes a man from far away, a descendant of Ghengis Khan, who has not forgotten Lamont's dastardly deeds in the Orient. He, too, has special powers and he is especially interested in Reinhard Lane's atomic discoveries. Can The Shadow defeat such a powerful man? This film, despite other problems, is one of the most visually stunning movies ever made. The special effects are mind-blowing and the art direction is absolutely wonderful. The actors are also quite fine, with Baldwin doing a nice job as the unusual superhero and Miller is enchanting as the love interest. The rest of the performers, including McKellen, Peter Boyle, John Fine, and the wonderful Jonathan Winters, are more than up to snuff, too. However, the film definitely fits the style over substance category, as the plot is uneven, slow-moving, and unoriginal, at times. If you love superhero tales or have a hankering for visual effects, you will enjoy The Shadow. No, it is not, by far, the best comic-book-turned-film adaptation in the movie repertoire. But, it is certainly worth a look, especially because of its gorgeous sense of style and visual beauty. "}{"Title":"Who knows what evil lurks in the hearts of men?","Date":"10 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" When I was young, I came across The Shadow. I don't know how, but I found the film and loved it, renting it constantly. Then my parents suggested an audio cassette collection of Shadow radio thrillers and I fell in love with them. I found many Podcasts for my Ipod since and own the film on DVD. The Shadow is so close to the radio drama in terms of dark and edgy suspense combined with the urban justice of the pulp novels. Lamont Cranston's new back story for the film, a World War 1 veteran who became an opium warlord, and then being redeemed by a holy man and being taught to cloud men's minds, blew me away. This ain't your daddy's Shadow! He's darker and tougher than every before! Also, Lamont's powers seem to have increased, since he can now affect people through telepathy, hypnotic suggestion, and telekinesis. The film makers took the look of the pulp Shadow, mixed in the radio Shadow's invisibility, and added more into Lamont to make him more far more dense for big-screen excitement. Sadly, the film wasn't well-received, but I believe this is due to the fact that the character was at the height of his popularity in the 30's and 40's, not 1994. But for anyone who loves superheroes, vigilantes, and believes that good guys wear black, this film is a must-have. My favorite scene in the film is where the Shadow is pinned to the wall by enemy arrows while under a mind-cloak, and steps OUT of his own shadow to dish out justice from his silver .45 pistols. Bottom line action at every turn and fun that can't be measured. "},{"Title":"A must-seen superhero movie","Date":"6 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Here is a list of reasons why you should watch this movie Alec Baldwin plays the role of the shadow to perfection. He is Lamont Cranston, a wealthy playboy by day and a crime fighter by night. He is also tormented by his past and that is what drives his crusade against crime. Baldwin's performance makes me think that he might have done wonders in a Batman movie.The story. Yes, it's a bit classic but hey, that's a superhero movie. It is still thrilling and entertaining. Basically, Baldwin has to fight a mad villain, save the girl and the world. Now add to that some oriental mystic stories, advanced scientific weapons and you get a pretty good film.The shadow's character is exciting. First, his clothing. He wears a black hat and a red scarf with a black trench that looks like a cape. That definitively gives a better rendition of the night vigilante myth than a bat-themed costume. Make no mistake, I like Batman and his costume but you have to admit that the base concept is a little ridiculous. Then the weapons. The shadow has two guns that he uses quite liberally and also possess a few psychic abilities. All in all, he is rather well equipped to fight crime.Although the film is quite serious, there are very humorous sequences. The conversations between Lamont and Khan or between Lamont and Margo Lane are notable for their witty humor.The memorable Shadow mind trick. Just like Obi-wan, the shadow has his own mind trick that he can use to influence the actions of somebody. Very powerful, but not fail-safe )And the final fighting scene  a nice tribute to another famous movie. "},{"Title":"very nice movie n pretty underrated n overlooked!!","Date":"2 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" that day i was watching HBO,and,i must confess i was not a fan of Alec Baldwin but after watching this movie i believe i am. well the shadow has the ability to shadow people's mind and he does it pretty marvelously. the starting of the movie is also quite gripping with the Alec consuming drugs n between semi clad ladies without knowing his purpose of life. n then he meets this monk who teaches him to be the shadow...... the movie's set in 1930's period , and i recommend that if u like superhero or fantasy movies, this is a must see. however, in between the movie the villain and his motive might seem out of place , but the end sums it up.nice piece of work by the director and nice work done by Alec. recommended for all age groups!! "},{"Title":"The Shadow","Date":"25 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" The Shadow(Alec Baldwyn), that great crime-fighter based on the popular radio serials, must contend with Shiwan Khan(John Lone)..an old acquaintance who wishes to--yep, you guessed it--rule the world! Scientist Dr. Reinhardt Lane(Ian McKellen, surprisingly quite hammy)has almost put together a major atomic bomb for the government's war department, but a specific component must be used for it to be fully operational. This bomb is Khan's ticket at complete rule so he will enlist Lane's assistant Farley Claymore(Tim Curry, chewing the scenery as always)who is only happy to be a partner that might see him as a King over a world at their feet. Khan has the ability, much like The Shadow, to control weak-minded individuals, and through that will become a successful nemesis to the crime-fighter trying to stop him. Penelope Ann Miller plays the cool, sassy babe Margo, who is Reinhardt's daughter and The Shadow Lamont Cranston's love-interest. The Late Peter Boyle has an amusing turn as Cranston's cabby, always on call when the crime-fighter needs him.Thanks to good production design and beautiful photography, the film is certainly great to look at, but the style has a hard time masking the cartoony theatrics of the characters and story premise. Baldwyn seems, to me anyway, to fit the role of crime-fighter extraordinaire The Shadow. The film has quality visual effects specifically in how The Shadow operates supernaturally. Still, the story itself, not to mention the development of The Shadow himself, left me a tad disappointed. There's a feeling of the film lacking something..perhaps a stronger villain who is laughable where he should be ominous. "},{"Title":"Legendary pulp/radio hero The Shadow is brought to the big screen to fight his greatest enemy, Shiwan Khan.","Date":"14 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" The Shadow, starring Alec Baldwin, was an attempt to finally bring the legendary character to the big screen that fell just short of its goal.Alec Baldwin, while not the first actor that comes to mind to play the character, nevertheless does a stellar job as Lamont Cranston/Shadow. Great voice!! Ditto for John Lone as Shiwan Khan. Thankfully, a real Chinese actor was hired to play a Chinese character. The rest of the cast was equally stellar.The sets were 1930's perfect. There were little touches here and there, like the wallpaper on Moe Shrevnitz'z living room, or the Llama Cigarettes billboard blowing smoke rings, that really gave me a feeling for what life was like in Depression-era New York. I could almost imagine stopping at an Automat for a slice of pie.Most of the faults with the film are in the script. The one-liners are dreadful, and while the mind control aspect of the script was original, the story just didn't seem weird enough to be a true Shadow story.All of the best Shadow stories, either on radio or in print, always had an air of the macabre to them. Why were the gangster guys at the beginning of the film so conventional? Why didn't they have their own weird back-story, like they would have in the novels? And when the Shadow dispenses orders to his agents, why do they all just blindly follow? Not everyone would be as dedicated to a lifetime mission of fighting evil as the Shadow, regardless of what he's done for, or to, them. If Margo Lane can resist him, why not the other agents? Also missing from the script is an example of one of the classic Shadow impossible escapes, like the ones in the novels. The novels were written by Walter Gibson, who studied under Harry Houdini, along with a young Orson Welles. It was this connection that persuaded Welles to play the Shadow on radio!! And yet there were no escape artist stunts on screen like the ones found in the novels. An impossible escape is as essential to the Shadow character as a martini, shaken not stirred, is to James Bond.The other glaring fault with the film was the soundtrack. For all the great sets and costumes on screen, why was a Kenny G-styled soundtrack inserted in the nightclub scene? The Chinese percussion used through the rest of the film was appropriate; why screw it up with some Kenny G crap? Jellybean Benitez was listed as music supervisor; I can only assume that the fault lies with him.Regardless, the film was incredibly entertaining, and the costumes were as fantastic as the sets. I remember reading somewhere that real Tibetan monks appear in the beginning of the film, and Shiwan Khan's burial clothing was actually made in Mongolia. And the twin .45 automatics made for the film always turn up at gun shows with people trying to buy them. Pretty good movie, but it could have been better. Hell, with a few minor changes, it would have been GREAT. "},{"Title":"Not a bad mix, but not actually true to the character...","Date":"2 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" I remember when I read my first Shadow novel. It was a reprint of the pulp series done by ballentine books long ago. I was enamored with the character, the Shadow written by Walter B. Gibson under the pen name Maxwell Grant. Gibson, by the way was a close friend of Houdini's and yes some of his escape methods were worked into the novels.The movie though tends to lean too heavy on the radio series, which really wasn't the true Shadow. For instance the Shadow was not Lamount Cranston, he only masqueraded as Cranston when the millionaire was abroad. Mysterious stuff. Loved it. It only added to the enigma that was the Shadow. It wasn't until way deep in the series that you actually discovered who the Shadow was.This is where, I, I suppose as a purist depart from the movie adaption. Margo Lane was a radio creation, later forced by the publishers into the pulps. Gibson didn't want anything to do with her, but he had to submit.Also, there are some weak parts to the movie, the whole creation of the Shadows past is entirely a creation of the director. The Shadow of the pulps began long before his Shadow days as a WWI spy.I did like the use of his agents. I wish Harry Vincent would have been included. But for what they did, the movie did hold what was true in the pulps that the Shadow had a network of agents.Baldwin was very good in his role, though not a personal choice, also I found the face changing thing, another invention of the director, alittle too far fetched. Though in the pulps, the Shadow was a master of disguise and could almost be anyone...note here Rami's DarkMan was actually supposed to be a Shadow movie but he never got the rights, so he took parts of the Shadow and worked them into his creation.It is a fun flick, though often bordering on the silly...a must for Shadow fans and probably close as it comes concerning past Hollywood adapt ions. "},{"Title":"better than all but two or three superhero films","Date":"6 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" I think The Shadow is a terrific film, as long as you don't take it too seriously. In fact, this is just the problem with most comic-inspired films - they take themselves too seriously, and I suppose the audiences do also. The Shadow is great fun, and has a goofy Freudian side to it as well. The only comic superhero films that are as good are the Spiderman films, and Batman Begins. The rest are only worth watching to see the performance of this or that superstar. Of course all the good ones have just about the same story line - tormented superhero must battle villains to save humanity while keeping his identity secret and protecting his loved ones - but that is beside the point. If you want a film that is true to its roots, you can't do better than The Shadow. "},{"Title":"Not all there","Date":"22 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" I just bought this DVD and watched it with a great deal of interest. In the ending credits, there is a listing for 'Voice of Phurba'.(Spoiler) The Phurba is the flying three-sided Tibetan dagger with a Demon's toothy face in the pommel - aside from miscellaneous snarls and hisses, it doesn't have any dialog. But maybe it did have before editing. By the way, you can buy your own Phurba in a specialty martial arts shop - real ones don't fly.Also, the same credits list 'Insect Wrangler'. Try as I may, I can't remember any insects featuring in this story. Another mysterious loss in the editing. Maybe only major films, that make a lot of money, get released in a 'Director's Cut'. And maybe if there were such a thing, we'd be able to see the Entire Movie.An excellent vehicle for Alec Baldwin - he always plays the good/bad/slightly nutso characters well.And it's interesting to see the kind of work Neelix did before he was Neelix. "},{"Title":"Great Entertainment","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  The Shadow is one of those comic book characters transferred into a movie, and this movie does it justice.  There is plenty of mystery, action, and humour, and Alec Baldwin, John Lone, and Penelope Anne Millar do a great job.  One minor defect is the number of times Oh, my God! is used as an exclamation of awe or amazement - but this is a common fault of many movies in recent times.  I don't go by critics' comments, 'cos there's many a movie I've liked which hasn't suited the jaded taste of the professional critics. This movie is now one of my favourites, and I can watch it time and again. "},{"Title":"Everything that the Batman movies should have been!","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Dark with whimsy. The humour is never over the top, the gadgets are believable, and Penelope Ann Miller looks great in that green dress. Also, in regards to Miss Miller's Margo Lane she never screams, never twists her ankle, and provides for much of the movies levity. Convincing atmosphere that beats Gotham's retro all hollow. I AM a Batman fan...at least the comic books; but the Shadow's motivation is somehow nobler redemption rather than revenge. A visual feast and great action.  "}{"Title":"Reflections of memory","Date":"9 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  The major problem with this excellent movie and others (The Phantom) is that these characters have been out of the collective memory for so long.  At least they didn't screw it up like most DC and Marvel comics by trying to update these stories to the times.  To a 31 yr old who grew up listening to an AM radio for Superman, The Shadow and The Green Hornet, this movie was a visual feast while keeping true to the original idea of this Dark Hero. "},{"Title":"Very good film that is a little on the weird side","Date":"8 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" The rating is too low. This film is actually very good indeed, with great special effects and acting. New York looks beautiful, and the special effects makes the film well worth watching. The film's length is just right, and the period in which it's set is fairly accurate, and the Jerry Goldsmith score was superb. I must say I was confused at the beginning, but that's me, I did think the story was the weakest aspect of the film, perhaps the director was focusing on visual detail and almost forgot the story. (I need to see this movie again.)But the climax was very rousing. The performances were very good, if overshadowed slightly by the special effects. Alec Baldwin is very good, and the way they made him invisible was a masterstroke. John Lone is also superb, as is the beautiful Penelope Ann Miller. I couldn't take my eyes off her in that dress, I thought Christmas had come early. Peter Boyle is great with the humour. Tim Curry is the most entertaining of the small roles. He overdoes the sliminess sometimes, but that's Tim Curry, but that isn't a bad thing, his overdoing the role made him entertaining. The only performer who struggled was the usually excellent Ian McKellan who looked uncomfortable in this film. But this is coming from a schoolgirl who really enjoyed this movie, and this movie deserves an 8/10. Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Brilliantly logical and epic-scale adventure, a masterpiece of its ilk","Date":"14 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" The Shadow (1994) as directed by Russell Mulcahy appears to me not to have one single ill- considered nor wasted frame. The music supplied by Jerry Goldsmith I find to be stunningly beautiful, and the the adventure script by David Koepp based on the Walter B. Gibson character so strongly made that every scene becomes memorable. Then there is a most- stylish production design by Joseph C. Nemecs III, strong cinematography by Stephen H. Burum, award caliber Art Direction by Jack Johnson, Dan Olkiewicz, and Steven Wolff, epic set decoration by Garrett Lewis and colorful and very apposite costume design by Bob Ringwood. Willi Bar, Martin Bregman and Patricia Churchill produced this obviously masterful work of cinematic adventure with Rolf Deyhle, Louis A. Stroller, and Stan Weston. And one needs to mention the special effects, visual effects, low-key lighting and their general handling...for once exactly attuned, I suggest, to the strong if fantastic-for-the-sake-of-idea storyline of the film. The plot narrative I argue is so strong that this is what makes everything work. An almost Shakespearean sense of abstracted good and evil, beginning with the central character's evolution and presentation in a prologue, throws a chiaroscuro handling of bright lights and dark shadows onto every character and every line action and visual element. The fact that Lamont Cranston, later the Shadow, has both potential evil and great good in him is turned by the mystical Master Tulu into an opportunity to convert him from being the most ruthless of warlords to a man who will use his newly-mastered power to cloud men's minds so they cannot see him into a power used to combat men who would misemploy such forces. But all too soon, just as he meets a dangerously psychic and disturbingly beautiful woman, Cranston is confronted by his ultimate adversary Shiwan Khan, descendant of the Jenghiz Khan, who sets out to dominate the world, thereby involving the girl--Margot Lane's--her scientist father, his weakling assistant, Cranston's Uncle, the city's police chief, and the network of informants and aides Cranston has built during his career of saving men's lives and enlisting them thereafter. A silent and sometimes violent battle that then rages through the city of New York in the 1930s--presented here as a majestic visual setting apt to such a contest--moves toward a dangerous and inevitable final contest with swift visual presentations, spare but highly-intelligent dialog and a well-sustained mood of impending crisis, a crisis I claim is well resolved. AsThe Shadow, Alec Baldwin defeats badmen and enjoys himself thoroughly doing the task. He deserved a nomination I assert for carrying off a role of so much complexity with elegance, subtle humor and professionalism. John Lone as his adversary is above average in a difficult role. Penelope Ann Miller is lovely and convincing as Margot Lane. Other notables in the very large cast include Macolm McDowell in the brief part of Professor Lane, Tim Curry as his Uriah Heep-like assistant, Jonathan Winters as the stodgy Uncle, Peter Boyle and Sab Shimono, as the Shadow's confederates, Brady Tsurutani as Tulku and James Hong as a victim of the formerly evil Cranston seen in the prologue. The movie is perhaps among the most intelligent and consistent productions I have knowledge of this side of the equally logical and similarly underrated American President, Elf, and The Mark of Zorro. As what it is, an implied- idea-level adventure, like the American president, I claim it stands many levels above anything else seen on the screens of its time. "},{"Title":"A very Stylish retelling of a very popular gem of the past.","Date":"13 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" From a time when superheros were starting to appear, and radio was king, the Shadow was Emperor. Along with Arch Obler's Lights out and The Inner Sanctum it was one of the most popular shows of that age. Now it has been brought to the big screen with all of the style and even parts of the script from the earliest Shadow Adventures. The casting here was inspired. Alec Baldwin makes a great Lamont Cranston (AKA The Shadow) Peter Boyle was excellent as his sidekick. Penelope Ann Miller was an acceptable Margot Lane. Ian McKellen makes the first movie appearance that I have seen him in. John Lone (The Last Emperor) is delightful as the evil Shiwan Khan. Tim Curry plays the sniveling little git of an evil henchman as only he can. And the great Jonathan Winters in one of his latest screen appearances as Lamont's uncle, police commissioner. Also of note among the other fine actors, including James Hong, is Ethan Phillips (Benson/Star Trek Voyager) in a cameo as the Museum Guard. This is a superhero film at its best. "},{"Title":"nicely cool","Date":"3 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" I had never heard of Lamont Cranston before The Shadow came out, but I found the movie really neat. With a nice combo of the Eastern arts and the gangster days, they pull it off. True, a lot of the movie is characteristic of silly Hollwood flicks, but they don't pretend to be anything else. Alec Baldwin (happy birthday, Alec!) was the perfect choice for the title character, while John Lone was one nasty Shiwan Khan and Penelope Ann Miller made one sexy Margot Lane.A few years ago, I actually heard a radio broadcast of The Shadow (I don't know whether it was actually an original broadcast from the '30s or a modern recording done like a '30s broadcast). The broadcast - about a war-veteran-turned-serial-killer - seriously made me feel like I was back in the gangster days, and it seemed like the broadcast even had some subtle political commentary.But anyway, this is movie that you're sure to like. One of the comic book adaptations that they got right. Also starring Peter Boyle, Jonathan Winters, Tim Curry and Ian McKellen. "},{"Title":"Down dark and mean art deco streets of the Depression-era...","Date":"15 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" There are many reasons to wonder why THE SHADOW never quite achieved the kind of success it did when released in the mid-'90s to a world still in the grip of comic book adventure from time to time. After all, it did have a lot of things going for it.ALEC BALDWIN makes an acceptable Lamont Cranston, but perhaps not sinister enough behind the witty remarks; the impressive opulence of the Gotham art deco sets bolster the mood and atmosphere of the work; TIM CURRY and IAN McKELLEN make interesting foils with sinister, yet comic flair and JOHN LONE is a convincing Shiwan Kahn as the Shadow's rival; Jerry Goldsmith's music creates an appropriately brooding atmosphere of peril and danger ahead; and there was a certain built-in audience for those with fond memories of the highly successful radio serial and certainly there were a number of comic book enthusiasts who would welcome seeing THE SHADOW on the big screen.But despite these plus factors, THE SHADOW failed to connect with audiences the way other treatments of comic book heroes did. Perhaps the pace was too slow in developing the character's change from black hearted to the man intent on wiping out evil with powers granted him from the Orient. Then too, the Margo Lane of PENELOPE ANN MILLER is played in over-the-top vamp fashion, even for a fantasy of this sort.Whatever the shortcoming are, fans of the radio show, movie serial, or comic book exploits of this crusader should find enough to like about THE SHADOW to make it a worthwhile viewing experience. Visually, it's stunning with its dark and menacing sets lovingly photographed in subdued DeLuxe color.And yet somehow, it just misses the mark with a story that is perhaps not strong enough to match the visual splendor and imagination of the mean, dirty, highly stylized sets of '30s New York. Still, it's worth a look for fans of the genre. "},{"Title":"love this film","Date":"10 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" John Lone is deliciously over-the-top and Alec Baldwin provides just the right menace as Lamont Cranston. The sets and period touches are nearly flawless. I've always thought Mulcahy to be an underrated director and his flourishes on the shadow reinforce my opinion.The chemistry between miller and Baldwin is palpable, which sells their burgeoning psychic romance.A strong supporting cast of peter Boyle, Jonathan winters, Tim curry, Ian MC Kellen and Andre Gregory is inspired. But it's lone's scene chomping, comic interplay with Baldwin that makes the film the above the two-dimensionality of it's pulp-page-perspective.Aas disappointed that they didn't go the sequel route with the shadow. "},{"Title":"Dark and entertaining","Date":"12 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" The shadow is a film that requires the viewer to be aware of the real pains that human's are capable of putting them-selves through, to be aware that there are things that can not be controlled, and that it's far easier to just give in to these evils, than to fight them. I like the film because it made me aware that no matter how dark things seam to get, there is still hope out there, hopefully in the form of a bald Tibetan priest with a real nifty synthesised voice!This film has a great plot that revolves around The Shadow fighting villains and also trying to get to grips with his dark past! This film contains some impressive special affects, and great acting by a host of actor's from the likes of John Lone, Penelope Ann Miller and Ian McKellan. I enjoyed every minute of this film and think it deserves a viewing! "},{"Title":"Shadow is shockingly under-appreciated","Date":"21 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" I really can't understand how anyone could see this film and not see its charm. In my book, this is THE most reverent and faithful pulp/comic adaptation that has ever graced the silver screen. The acting is good, and all the people involved understand that this film is intended to be a campy and tongue-in-cheek romp (something that apparently some viewers are incapable of appreciating).I am astonished that so many people just don't get it. I suppose it's true what they say - there's no accounting for taste. The critical reaction to this movie has always been a mystery to me. Usually I can figure out what it is about a movie that an audience doesn't like, but the reaction to this one continues to elude me. None of the oft-heard criticisms make any sense to me. So I must conclude that many people are just clueless as to what this movie was supposed to be, and how well it achieved it. "},{"Title":"Excellent.","Date":"17 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  THE SHADOW is a lush package. Beautifully shot, cleverly cast, balanced adroitly between kitsch and Gothic, serious yet not so far gone that it has no humor. If there is a guidebook for films based on pulp or comic book heroes, surely this film is worthy of a chapter all by itself. Alec Baldwin lends solid characterization to a protagonist who stands at the crossroads between hero and fiend. Penelope Ann Miller is a romantic interest who has something to contribute to this story besides screaming, being rescued and looking good on the hero's arm. John Lone is a villain worthy of the best, Ian McKellan is a company scientist who is a direct throwback to the benign nutcases Boris Karloff and Lionel Atwill often found themselves playing. Tim Curry is the quintessential snake in the grass. Peter Boyle eats up as much scenery as he can as the Shadow's kept cabbie, Moe Shrevnitz. And all of this is very faithful to the spirit of the pulp novels that Walter B. Gibson wrote. In a word, it's excellent. Did I mention that it's beautiful and lush? Sure I did. You won't be sorry you spent time with this one. Full marks, baby.  "}{"Title":"great film - - lousy timing","Date":"28 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"       They say timing, like location, is everything, and nowhere is this truer than Universal's 1994 release date of The Shadow.  This film was obviously intended to cash in on the Batman craze; the only problem was that the craze had pretty much burned itself out by the time this film hit the theaters.  A pity, because this movie, aside from being technically brilliant and well-executed, is far and away the best Shadow movie ever made, and that includes Invisible Avenger (more about which in a moment).  The Shadow films made in the 40s are awful; barely watchable, in fact.  This is due, in part, to virtually non-existant budgets and threadbare plots wherein Cranston seldom, if ever, does anything, er, Shadowy.  The aforementioned Invisible Avenger, which starred Richard Derr (best remembered as Dave Randall from George Pal's When Worlds Collide) is hopelessly miscast, and he looks like he knows it.  That film had all the looks of a pilot, and was a very curious film in itself  it didn't appear to be an American-made film, but rather a film made in America ie, foreign money and a foreign production company. But, back to the subject at hand.  The Universal film is the one to watch;  it is, in our opinion, the definitive Shadow movie.  Everything, from the casting to the attention to period detail, from the direction to the score, is superb.  It was a terrific concept for a major motion picture that had only one flaw it didn't make money.  A minor mystery is why Warner Bros. kept throwing good money after bad by making  aseries of progressively worse Batman films, yet Universal's Shadow, a really good and enjoyable movie, flopped at the box office and probably won't have any more made.  Really too bad.  "},{"Title":"Not Bad...  Actually A lot of Fun","Date":"3 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  As a fan of the old-time radio Shadow and the adventure (cliffhanger) serial style, ala Raiders of the Lost Ark, I thought that this was quite a passable movie adaptation of The Shadow, and certainly not as bad as I was led to believe by movie critics. I thought the art direction and production design were excellent, and the campy melodramatic dialogue and acting blended with it to create an atmosphere that felt very authentic to the radio programs (which were originally aimed at an audience of teen boys huddled eagerly around their radios with their Shadow rings in the late 1930s). It's not the greatest movie, but I thought it was a lot of fun. I would buy this on DVD if they had a letterbox version.  "},{"Title":"A mysterious action packed spectacular!","Date":"25 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I loved this film. I thought it was quite intriguing the way the shadow could cloud men's minds which in simple words means that he can alter peoples visionusing some kind of telepathy. His telepathy also makes him invisible (except for his shadow), which also makes him a very scary and mysterious character. Ibelieve he can strike terror into the hearts of criminals better than Batman could.You get to see the best potential of what clouding men's minds can do whenthe Shadow's arch-enemy Genghis Khan uses this ability is able to make ahuge skyscraper invisible.If you like super heroes than 'The Shadow' is a must see film!  "},{"Title":"Don't know why no one knows this is a great movie!","Date":"19 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I don't know why this movie didn't make it as a hit, I thought it was well acted and it had a kind of film noir feel to it.  The cinematography was great as were the F/X.  The acting was just the right mixture of seriousness and tongue in cheek and very well portrayed.  The period costumes were great.  It's great entertainment.    This movie is better than the sex, degradation, and destruction that's usually on the screen these days!  Who knows what ideas lurk in the minds of the populace! "},{"Title":"An Art Deco feast for the eyes!","Date":"28 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Forget about the director, this film belongs to the cinematographer, Stephen Burum. Burum did great work with The Untouchables, Mission Impossible etc, but this film is the best looking of them all. With the story set in the 30's, the scenography is full of beautyful Art Deco design. The Shadow's club has a great looking interior dominated by silver, black and white as the fashion and good taste of the time dictated. Good taste is also present in abundance in the exterior shots, where Art Deco is shown at its best again, this time in architecture. Add to this the Shadow's Cord 810 (or 812, they look the same) car, and you have nothing less than a formidable feast for the eyes. As if this weren't enough, there are loads of little details for the attentive viewer to discover and marvel at.Shots where black/white/silver dominate are contrasted with comic book style shots with highly saturated colours. Many exteriors are shot with a tele lens, which compresses the pictures, adding intensity to them.All in all, you could take just about any individual frame from the film, make a large print of it and hang it on the wall. That's how great the photography and scenography of this film are.So how about the direction, acting and plot? OK, I guess, but who cares? That's not what this film is about.  "},{"Title":"The weed of crime bears bitter fruit!","Date":"17 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I confess that I have never read any of the Shadow pulps, although I do have a paperback reprint of the first story (I just haven't gotten around to reading it).  I've never heard the radio show.  I have read the exquisite comic book series, by Denny O'Neil and Mike Kaluta, from 1970's DC Comics.  I loved those stories, with their noir elements, mood and atmosphere, and great characters.  When I heard a film was being made, I couldn't wait!  I bought a copy of the teaser poster, which hangs on my bedroom wall.  I read the novelization, which was quite good. Imagine my surprise when I saw the movie.Don't get me wrong, I like the film, for the most part; but, it doesn't quite work.  It took a couple of viewings to figure out why.  For one, there isn't enough mystery here.  The Shadow was about mystery, as well as the fight against evil.  Two, the tone wasn't consistent.  It tries to be serious, but some parts are just too silly.  Three, some of the performances are uneven.  Tim Curry chews too much scenery and John Lone isn't wicked enough.  Four, the blood and thunder of the pulps is missing.  For a good cinematic example, see The Untouchables.  Finally, Russell Mulcahy is too uneven as a director.  I love Higlander, but outside of some of the music videos he directed, I don't care for much of his other work.Alec Balwin is fine as the title character, and Jonathan Winters was surprisingly good in a serious role.  Peter Boyle is great.  Ian McKellan is wasted and Tim Curry is too broad.  John Lone isn't broad enough.  Many of the other characters are forgettable.  Penelope Ann Miller isn't very convincing as the capable Margo Lane.If I were to redo this film, I would have created more of a noir atmosphere, greater use of shadows and light.  I would of kept the Shadow's origin until at least the second act.  I would have kept an air of mystery surrounding the story and watch it slowly reveal itself.  I would have provided more blood and thunder in the key action scenes.  And I would have hired Mike Kaluta as the conceptual artist.Still, it beats George Pal's Doc Savage, but can't compare to the pulp thrills of The Mummy or the pulp/serial adventure of Indiana Jones.  It's certainly better than the old Kane Richmond and Rod Laroque movies.  Maybe someday a filmmaker will capture the spirit of the old pulp magazines, but please don't let it be something like Arnold Schwarzenegger as Doc Savage! "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This movie is wonderful.  The original superhero is here in The Shadow. Alec Baldwin excellently portrays the opium warlord turned vigilante who is trained by the Tulku to cloud men's minds and become a living shadow. Like I said, very underrated. "},{"Title":"You Don't Want To Miss This One If You're Aged 3-99","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Authentic 1930s sets, clothing, cars, interiors, etc.  A deja-vue trip for those over 60, and a great visual experience for anyone  at any age. Really good script!  Nicely done!  Alec Baldwin could be really menacing at times--notice his eye color change from blue to deep brown when he was feeling vibes of his past life of evil.  This movie is super for the whole family! When I  first got it, I watched it twice in 24 hours--and that was just the start of something good.... I think I can safely say--you will really enjoy it too!! "},{"Title":"You called...?","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" ...You heard?This movie truly shows the elegance and class of the 30's (I only wish today we had clubs like the Cobalt Club) along with the spirit of the original radio series. Yes the plot is rather predictable, but that's part of this movie's charm, and the plots of the orginal radio series were not always that original themselves. All in all it is well worth the rental money, and well worth rewatching...it's a charming elegant gem that will be a welcome addition to any collection. "},{"Title":"Astonishing and fun!","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  The majority of critics have said that the most remarkable point here is the great visual design. In fact, it is really astonishing but The Shadow is more than that. It has an exciting screenplay from the notable David Koepp, with thrilling situations, action, fun and even homages to classic movies (the one concerning Gene Kelly's and Stanley Donen's On the town up the Empire State is really malicious... don't miss it!!). Russel Mulcahy's direction is vibrant and goes far beyond the visual design and the incredible special effects by insufflating to the Shadow's character the appropriate epical halo. It really deserved more luck than it had, so give it a chance and enjoy this admirable fantasy brought with honors to the big screen.  "}{"Title":"My thoughts are hard to miss. Psychologically, I'm very well endowed.<Lamont to Margo>","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  SPOILERS - That tongue in cheek line, in my summary, is a worthy comment on how this film doesn't take itself too seriously. I really like The Shadow, don't know why I waited so long, I rate it 8 of 10. Alec Baldwin and Penelope Ann Miller (my reason for seeing it) are just right. My only complaint is, why do they insist on gratuitous violence? Several point-blank shootings. Also, a jump off the Empire State Building was too much a reminder of the WTC tragedy of 9/11/01 with people jumping from the burning buildings.Even though I'm in my 50s, I'm too young to have listened to The Shadow on radio. However I generally like these types of films, like Dick Tracy, Batman, X-Men, Superman.  The style and soundtrack of The Shadow reminded me of a combination of all of them. Somehow, we're not told how, Lamont has become a real evil person, living in Tibet. A spiritualist teaches him a better way, how to control his mind, to fight evil, and he returns to NYC as The Shadow.Shiwan Kahn, ancestor to Ghingis Kahn, shows up in NYC. He hypnotizes people, gets them to do things they ordinarily wouldn't. He gets a scientist to put together a bomb which will destroy much of NYC. The Shadow's stopping him depends on his getting the upper mind control. There is a very striking scene near the end, with mirrors, where Lamont causes all of them to shatter, then wills a pointed shard to fly through the air and into Khan's forehead.  This breaks the spell on all NYCers, the scientist disarms the bomb with only 1 second on the timer!  There is a fortunate confusion of red wire with green wire for the color-blind scientist.Staying with the partly comic approach, in the end Khan is hospitalized, in a straight jacket, a stitched circle on his forehead, we saved your life, we removed a small part of your frontal lobe, a part no one uses anyway.  Unless you believe in telepathy...Good entertainment, good effects, good music, final song by Taylor Dayne, good overall movie. One to add to my DVD collection. "},{"Title":"I love this movie","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  For me, THE SHADOW is my favorite superhero/crime-fighter movie, even more so than BATMAN, itself a great movie. Both are similar in that each features a hero battling not just the criminal element on the streets, but their own demons as well. Both live in large mansions and have underground lairs, and both have cool cars. As the title character, Alec Baldwin is good. And when he's The Shadow, he's quite a force to be reckoned with. Penelope Ann Miller is one of the few current actresses who look good made up for the time period this film is set in. She looks like she could have been a screen star of the time. John Lone also stands out as the villain, Shiwan Khan. The production design is excellent, from the costumes, cars and weapons right down to the details of the set. The plot is nothing to get excited over, but it is interesting to see the concept of a nuclear bomb devised by the villain in a time before the real one even existed. In the character's adaptation to the big screen, the transition is done pretty nicely, with elements from the radio series and the pulp novels being used as well the telepathy angle from the radio show, the awesome twin automatics from the novels. My only complaint is that the film opens with a prologue showing us how Cranston set about becoming The Shadow. As much as I like the prologue, it helps to destroy what could have been a really mysterious character. Something like this could have been used in a sequel, where we would start to learn more about the character. But that's just a small flaw, and I don't really mind it. The film has a nice pace and some good set pieces (the balcony/lab fight is my favorite), and Jerry Goldsmith's score is appropriately loud and brassy, and it really rocks during the action scenes. The climax inside a hall of mirrors sets is great as well. It's a shame the movie bombed, but I can kind of see what it would not many people these days even know who The Shadow is. I learned of The Shadow through my grandmother, became familiar with some sets of the radio series, and was naturally excited when I learned of a feature film being in the works. I was pleased to see the film remain pretty faithful to the characters I had grown to like. I'm still trying to figure out why a good superhero/crime-fighter film like THE SHADOW gets no sequels while BATMAN FOREVER and BATMAN AND ROBIN were made. "},{"Title":"Alec Baldwin at his best","Date":"9 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  First of all-I don't like Alec Baldwin that much, find him a bit wooden but he WAS Lamont Cranston.  He was superb in this role.This movie was a 'fun' movie...a bit like XMen. I didn't expect a great plot, I wanted to go on a 'ride' and I did.  It was fun, exciting, and enjoyable...good Saturday afternoon fare.If you were looking for more, this wasn't your movie, but for a good time-you can't go wrong with the Shadow....rent it.  You won't be sorry. "},{"Title":"Mediocre Reviews and Low Attendance Do Not A Bad Movie Make!!","Date":"24 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Ever since this came out in the theatres, I've always been puzzled about the reasons why it didn't do better.  Perhaps, as some other reviewers pointed out, it is because no one recognizes who The Shadow is anymore (however, although I'm far too young to have heard any of the radio broadcasts, I was at least familiar with the existence of them and had an idea of their general style, as anyone with a basic knowledge of American pop culture would).  Perhaps, on a related note, it is because the writers stayed relatively faithful to feel of the old radio shows and resisted the temptation to update it which, although one of the best things about the movie, doesn't generally make for high box office sales.  I've come to the conclusion that The Shadow was simply ahead of its time.  If it had been released in the last couple of years, as people have learned to see and appreciate camp for what it is, it would have done much better.That having been said, this movie is absolutely fantastic.  The casting was dead-on (I've never seen Alec Baldwin in a yummier or more suitable role), the sets and costumes were stunning, and the plot and dialogue did an admirable job of walking the fine line between campy and cheesy, achieved by restraint in all of the right places.  All of that, plus a killer ending that was completely unexpected but couldn't have had more poetic justice about it.I highly recommend this movie - you'll want to watch it again and again. "},{"Title":"Just can't help but love this movie!","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Why can't I help but love this movie? Well first there's the atmosphere, which is undeniably  very good, dark, clean and sterile. It's also possible because of The Shadow  himself. The character looks so Cunning, surreal and Sinister. Maybe some facial features were over-exaggerated. but from what I observe, they did their job very well. Great fun! I'm watching it tonight! "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Great movie. Sure the plot/storyline doesent really agree with the original radio show, but out of todays perspective I dont think it would be valid to do it after the original frames anyhow. Its however a great movie, and Mr Baldwin does one of he's better performances ever here. Not to mention that there is alot of good actors in small parts to (Just watch in the beginning in the museum). The only thing I directly disliked was the scene where the Doctor was explaining to Mr Baldwin how the sphere and the metal was/is. (Ever noticed that the books he was looking in had nothing in them ? Blank pages. Quite annoying and that keept me annoyed trough the film until the last 10 mins)Other than that I have nothing to complain about really. Except, they dont seem to make a sequel. I have bought a copy of this movie, and before that I rented it totaly 10 times.* Its a good movie * See it "},{"Title":"Phenomenal entertainment!","Date":"15 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Oh man, the acting and plot sucked! Hello numbskull, it's based off a 60 year old pulp hero, and it follows that cue perfectly! But man the plot, huh huh huh! If you saw this movie for any reason other than to be entertained, you're one dumb SOB. Lighten up, some films should be ENJOYED, not analyzed!10/10 without hesitation! "},{"Title":"Outshines Batman","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  When an ancient warlord comes to modern day New York City to cause trouble, Cranston steps in  to try and foil his scheme. The warlord, a relative of Ghengis Kahn, plans to destroy NYC with the unwitting help of 2 local scientists. He and Cranston go at it with lots of flashing swords, crazy mongols, a drowning pool, and this little knife which has a life of it's own. Lots of action with some fine computer wizardry made for an entertaining program. Plus, I really liked the matching pair of pearl handled .45's that Lamont packed in a double shoulder holster. Knew how to use them too. Thumbs up. "},{"Title":"A lavish adventure","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  The Shadow is a great movie.  It's very stylish and has great, gripping performances.  Alec Baldwin is at his best, and John Lone is spectacular. This film also has gripping action and cool special effects.  The Shadow is the ultimate clash of Good versus Evil. "},{"Title":"Very Good.","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  The Shadow is a good example on how to do a comic book movie right. While it didn't top Dick Tracy, the Shadow does a better job than the Batman movies.Alec Baldwin was an excellent choice to play The Shadow. I don't think anyone could have done it better. The rest of the cast did a fine job.Again, if you want to see a comic book type movie done right, you can't go wrong here.I give the shadow a B.  "}{"Title":"Entertaining, but not very well made.","Date":"9 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" The Shadow tells the story about a wealthy man from New York City who, while living in Asia, acquired the hypnotic ability to cloud men's minds so they can't see him. Once back in America, he becomes the mysterious Shadow, a crime fighter who has vowed to root out corruption in New York City. His greatest enemy yet comes in the form of Shiwan Khan, the last descendant of Ghengis Khan, who plans to destroy New York. The Shadow recruits the help of a young woman with a unique ability of her own who's father is the key to executing the plan. The Shadow is a mildly entertaining film, but too many flaws bring its quality down.The Shadow uses ideas from both the radio show and the comic book to make the movie as interesting as possible, but it doesn't really help. The movie is entertaining whenever the Shadow shows up in costume, pulls his chrome plated .45's and starts blasting people. The costume looks really good on film. The special effects are okay, but they could have been better. I didn't like all the supernatural aspects of the film, such as the knife that controls itself. There were a couple of things that were added that weren't really necessary, such as whenever Lamont Cranston puts the costume on, his face changes just so he can look like the comic book version of the Shadow, and when he takes it off, his face goes back to normal. That was a useless plot point that could have been left out. Making Margot Lane a mind reader was a bad move in my books. She's always been a foil to the Shadow, they should have kept her that way. The dialogue in this movie was pretty bad, and the delivery of these lines was even worse. Most of the time, rather than coming off as heroic or sinister, the characters came off as goofy and annoying. The plot was mediocre at best, and it didn't keep me interested like it should have.The acting was pretty bad. I usually like Alec Baldwin, but his performance in this movie was pretty dull. His corny dialogue wasn't his fault, but the way he delivered them was. Penelope Ann Miller was a joke in this movie. No wonder she's not a big actress. I never thought Tim Curry was THAT great, but he's certainly better than he was in this film. I was especially disappointed with Ian McKellan. He is usually a fantastic actor, but he really let me down here. You could argue that it's the character he plays, but he could have played it better.Overall, this movie is mildly entertaining, but it just isn't that good.5/10 "},{"Title":"An under-appreciated masterpiece","Date":"4 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Not many of you know this but Alec Baldwin was in a superhero movie. Why haven't you heard of this film? Well as you're about to find out I have no idea. The film is based on The Shadow, A crime-fighter first created in the 1930s. With his twin guns, black cape, psychic powers, black slouch hat and red bandana over his mouth hiding everything but his hooked nose the Shadow is considered the grandfather of the modern superhero and appeared in pulp novels, a radio show (read by none other than Orson Welles!!!), movie serials, comic books and finally this long overdue motion picture. Like many pulp-inspired films from this era (Indiana Jones, Zorro, Flash Gordon, The Rocketeer) 'The Shadow' does a phenomenal job of capturing the pulpy fun flavour of the old serials and radio dramas right down to the Asian megalomaniac villain who doesn't feel like a caricature at all but a real intimidating presence. The actual character traits and powers of the Shadow in this film are a combination of the powers he had in the radio show and the powers he had in the pulp novels which make the movie something all it's own but also a celebration of the shadow's overall legacy. The film is directed by Russell Mulcahy who is known by most fantasy fans as the director of one of the best fantasy films of all time Highlander. Watching the two films you can actually see slight similarities in the story; a tale of powerful uber-human beings battling it out for the future of humanity while the humans remain oblivious which is a cool aspect to the film. The acting is top notch with everyone bringing in star performances, even Tim Curry and Ian McKeller in enjoyable albeit minor roles. Top points go to Baldwin's portrayal of the Shadow and Penelope Anne Miller as Margo Lane, the Shadow's love interest who is actually one of the best superhero girlfriends not only being important to the plot but actually being useful. The movie also delves into the idea that sometimes heroes are people who know darkness well enough to fight it. This is an idea I really like and Alec Baldwin pulls it off fantastically. The production design of this film is phenomenal, capturing a distinctly pulpy flavour but also capturing the classy side of the 1920s, the music is brilliant, the action is top quality, the camera work is fantastic (it's Russell Mulcahy, what do you expect?) the plot has numerous twists and turns and the end product is a fun yet dark movie and one of the best superhero films of all time. Planned to be the big summer blockbuster the film failed to impress critics and because it had to compete with both 'The Lion King' and 'The Mask' it only made 48,000,000 at the box office worldwide over its 40,000,000 budget and quickly faded into obscurity taking a possible franchise with it, making this one of the most underrated movies ever in my opinion. "},{"Title":"Who knows what evil lurks in the hearts of men. The Shadow Knows.","Date":"16 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" THE SHADOW is a lesson in getting it right. Alec Baldwin is spot on as tortured Kent Allard who assumes the name Lamont Cranston and The Alter Ego The Shadow .Walter Gibson's Shadow's never gave him an origin. So this film starts as a starting point and gives The Shadow one. And its masterfully done. Howard Chaykin a comic book artist and writer Did a comic book mini series in 1986 Which introduced some of the elements used here.The Year is 1927. Former American soldier Kent Allard has gone insane and seized control of a army of barbarians. And he has complete control of the opium trade making him wealthy. Ying Ko as he is called is ruthless. Slaughtering villages and raping the women and forcing the men to serve him. Then Ying Ko is kidnapped dragged before a Tibetan priest who has complete control of his mind. He tells Ying Ko that now is the time for redemption. he will be entered to serve as a soldier for justice. he will teach him how to fight crime and destroy evil using his mind. And clouding men's minds leaving behind one thing he cannot control His Shadow.Flash forward seven years later. Kent Allard has assumed the name Lamont Cranston. and dines every night with his Uncle The police commissioner Wainwright. And after that prowls the streets destroying crimes as the shadow. those he saves becomes agents of the Shadow. together they form a network dedicated to smashing crime. Then comes two people. One is the beautiful Margo Lane who matches the Shadow mind power for mind power. And she soon comes to realize Cranston is hiding a secret. The second is Shiwan Khan the last living relative of Genghis Khan His goal is to finish what his relative started. Conquering the world. but to do that he needs a powerful new weapon. and he needs to destroy the Shadow.With the faithful Margo Lane at his side and Moe his faithful driver. and his network of agents the Shadow goes to war against the most cunning foe he's ever met.The Writing is top notch. the cast is wonderful and the director captures the mod of the Shadow. as well of the mood of the 30s . The Shadow plays like a wonderful time machine taking you back. Back to when times were easier bad guys were bad guys and heroes were heroes . nothing complicated. With that said if you are a fan of the pulp heroes The Shadow is as perfect a movie as there ever could be. My sons watched it with me and enjoyed it. The Younger generation was thrilled by the Shadow just as all the other ones were. "},{"Title":"Stylish & Suspenseful Thriller--Better than Ever!","Date":"24 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Enjoyed the stylish setting, clothes and period details of this well-made film. Alec B. and Penelope M. are at their best here in this period thriller. So much fun, even with an over-the-top plot. Great attention to detail--wish I could visit 1930s NYC and go to the Cobalt Club and wear such swanky gowns... We first saw this when it came out in 1994 and I enjoyed it even more recently. The original radio shows were before our time so I don't know how accurate or faithful it was to the series, but I felt the concept and characters were conveyed in an original, entertaining way. The tension between the leads was believable and subtle, and their chemistry was wonderful. What a treat--a feast for the eyes and still GREAT after 20 years! "},{"Title":"Is It Bad I Like This Movie More than Tim Burton's Batman Movies?","Date":"2 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Then again, I'll admit I don't care much for Batman at all. It's too bad The Shadow has basically been forgotten in modern times since I thought it was pretty fun. It had its problems, definitely. Many of the characters weren't developed enough, especially Shiwan Khan and Tim Curry's character. Also, as someone who has had no previous encounter with the franchise, I honestly was a bit confused about the powers of The Shadow. Some of the effects look pretty dated. The climax was a bit disappointing, since Shiwan Khan doesn't really fight back against The Shadow. Still, the movie had charm. Alec Baldwin is pretty good as the titular character. The other actors do well with what they're given, with the exception of Penelope Ann Miller. I'll admit I didn't really like Penelope Ann Miller as Margo Lane. I can't really explain it but I just thought she delivered her lines in an uncanny way, like she was really close to delivering them right but didn't quite do it right. Anyway, the climax was flawed but it was still suspenseful. Oh, and I really liked the song performed by Taylor Dayne that plays during the end credits. "},{"Title":"Great movie-one of a kind. 10/10","Date":"29 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" May contain spoilers.This movie is simply the best.And here's why?It has great casting like Alec Baldwin,Penelope Ann Miller,John Lone,Peter Boyle,Ian ...The photography,set decoration,great music by Jerry Goldsmith,brilliant director Russell M(Highlander 1,2),scenario by David (MissionImpossible,Secret Window),etc etc.This is my favorite movie and i must have watched it million times.Opened in cinemas 1994 with classical effects some of them from company fantasy 2(Terminator,Nemesis),this movie follows a man who gets the superhero sets of skills like clouding the men's minds leaving visible only one thing that he can't hide-his shadow.It's the best action adventure since Indiana Jones and it has it allaction,adventure,romance,comedy(especially from Peter Boyle character Mo).This movie is a pure gem.One of those movies you don't wanna miss.-Who Knows What Hides in the Hearts of Men- 10/10 "},{"Title":"nice visual style","Date":"4 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" It's after WWI Tibet. Lamont Cranston (Alec Baldwin) is a brutal opium drug-lord known as Ying-Ko. He is kidnapped by the men of holyman Tulku. Tulku teaches him to cloud men's minds except for his shadow. Seven years later, he is back in NYC as a vigilante crime fighter known as The Shadow. Shrevnitz (Peter Boyle) is his cab driving sidekick and police commissioner Wainwright Barth (Jonathan Winters) is his uncle. Cranston falls for socialite Margot Lane (Penelope Ann Miller) but her natural telepathic power threatens to reveal his secret. Her father Reinhardt Lane (Ian McKellen) is an atomic scientist working for the War Department. Shiwan Khan (John Lone), the last descendant of Genghis Khan, is another student of Tulku. He is even more powerful than Lamont. He has resisted the change to good and plans for world domination. He has accumulated a special metal and with a mind-controlled Reinhardt, he is building an atomic bomb.This has a lot of visual style of a comic book late 20s. It's well done with the Chinese motif. The style does overwhelm the movie a bit. I wonder if the movie needs some humor to balance out the darker tones. Baldwin has a couple of snappy lines. I think he could have done more along that line. Also he needs a funny sidekick. The movie is not serious enough to go all dark. "},{"Title":"Silly fun","Date":"20 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" If you're looking for an entertaining superhero movie that doesn't take itself too seriously, 'The Shadow' might just be it. The film is based on a character created in 1931, who first appeared in pulp novels and then in a popular radio show. Alec Baldwin plays Lamont Cranston, aka The Shadow, a mysterious hero in 1930s New York City, who has psychic powers that allow him to control people's minds and appear invisible &#x96; except for his shadow. It's a cool concept. He's confronted by the villainous Shiwan Khan, descendant of Genghis Khan, (played by John Lone, of 'The Last Emperor') who shares similar powers with Cranston and has a plot to conquer the world! Baldwin is smooth as The Shadow, but less so whenever he wears a long hair wig... I spent much of the time wondering whether Lone's beard was real or not. Either way, he looks a bit ridiculous as Khan. 'The Shadow' ventures into camp territory and is plain silly at times. But it's funny. Much of it is an exercise in absurdity and I was half expecting the actors to suddenly burst out in laughter. The bottom line is that I enjoyed watching it. The cast also includes Penelope Ann Miller, Ian McKellen and a typically kooky Tim Curry. "},{"Title":"A true superhero movie for the decades.","Date":"10 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" In my honest opinion, you will never be able to find another exciting movie like this one. One of the things that made this movie so amazing was the excellent cast, a storyline that was very well written, an excellent plot, intense action sequences and mind-blowing special effects. When you have the ability to cloud peoples minds and make yourself invisible to them, you don't need a batarang or any other high tech gadget like Batman to put fear into the hearts of criminals. I truly believe that movies like this should always have sequels and hope Hollywood makes one. Taken from 1930's pulp media and then transferred to radio and movies this is definitely one of the greatest superheroes that was ever offered to a wide range of people through the years and I hope it continues. "},{"Title":"The Shadow","Date":"8 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" In true 30's period style and setting this comicbook/pulp adaptation visually looks awesome and captures the atmosphere of the era perfectly. If you think along the lines of 'Dick Tracy' and 'The Rocketeer' then you will get an idea of the vibe going on here. Even though the budget for 'The Phantom' was actually bigger than this film, director Mulcahy's film certainly looks the slicker and more realistic.The character of The Shadow isn't anything really special to be honest, its just a guy in a cloak with a fedora type hat on and he carries two guns. He always did seem like a poor man's Batman in all honesty, not too distant from the Phantom or Darkman actually. The main difference with this guy is the fact he does actually have some special super powers. He can cloud men's minds (what about women?) with a kind of spiritual hypnosis that blinds people to his presence...accept for his shadow oddly enough, hence his name. Oh and he's pretty snazzy with the two guns also. This character fits his dark little world perfectly in both his crime fighting form and his alias as a rich good looking 'Bruce Wayne' type. His lair has a neat little secret entrance just like Wayne Manor to the Batcave and he lurks around in the shadows quite nicely.The plot is an odd one, Baldwin starts off as a bad guy in Tibet after succumbing to his darker side not long after WWI (dunno why). He is then kidnapped by some wise holy man who for some reason will train Baldwin to be a good guy, unsure why really, but in the end he goes back to New York and begins his Batman-esque lifestyle. Then some other magical fellow turns up to challenge Baldwin or try and get him to join with him so he can gain world domination. This bad guy happens to be a distant relation of Genghis Khan, for some reason we have another crime fighter who must face off against a Khan. 'Hellboy' had to face off against the actual Genghis Khan, weird how Khan seems to pop up in these fantasy films.As you can guess from this story idea there is a lot of mystical hocus pocus going on throughout and the plot is slightly convoluted to be frank. Really the film excels with its visuals, a lovely looking old fashioned 30's New York complete with dated cars, store fronts and atmospheric swirling mist, the invisibility effects, shadow effects, hands on makeup and a surprisingly cool looking outfit for the Shadow (did someone pinch ideas for 'Dark City' here?). The sets are really well designed throughout too and look stunning I must say, beautifully presented and created, the sets are obvious but that adds to the charm and realism plus it works much better than CGI. Not too sure about the far East look for Baldwin's character though, wig was a bit crappy. There is of course some CGI present throughout which tends to swing from being reasonable (looking back now), to a bit hokey in places, bit plastic looking. Of course back in the day the effects were relatively special to a degree.The movie is great fun and looks slick with a good casting choice in Baldwin for the main heroic/bad guy lead. He looks perfect for the part of 'Cranston' the playboy and actually could well have been a good 'Bruce Wayne' too I'm sure, a bit gruff maybe. This is really how 'The Green Hornet' should of been approached instead of the geeky spoof-like farce it was. Shame 'The Shadow' failed at the box office as this is another decent period superhero flick adaptation which is uniquely fresh plot wise but visuals wise was maybe more familiar. You just gotta look past the solid but clichéd appearance. Gotta love that classic film poster though huh, just like 'The Rocketeer' they really capture the essence of the old style crime caper and dare devil hero aspect. Lovely combination of colours and art work, very striking.6/10 "}{"Title":"The Shadow Knows!","Date":"18 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Directed by Russell Mulcahy (Highlander) and written by David Koepp (Jurassic Park, Spider-Man), The Shadow is excellent, and one of the best superhero films.In post-WWI Asia, an American man named Lamont Cranston has become corrupt, now a ruthless and bloodthirsty warlord. Lamont is kidnapped, and is brought to a holy man who teaches him to use the darkness in himself to combat evil, redeeming Lamont. He gains hypnotic powers that allow him to alter what others perceive. When he returns to 1930's New York City, Lamont becomes the Shadow, and fights crime. Those who the Shadow saves become his agents, helping him as informants. Lamont meets Margo Lane, a woman able to read minds. Despite a mutual attraction, Lamont avoids seeing her so she won't discover his secret. The evil Shiwan Khan, Genghis Khan's last descendant arises, and the Shadow must stop him from building an atomic bomb that will destroy the city.Alec Baldwin's performance as the Shadow is spectacular, he nails the character's voice during his intimidation tactics, he's consistently great throughout the film. John Lone as Shiwan Khan is a good villain, he's at his best during his introduction. Penelope Ann Miller, Ian McKellan, and Peter Boyle all do well in their supporting roles, remaining likable and entertaining characters throughout, and Tim Curry is particularly great as the secondary antagonist. The production design is one of the film's greatest strengths, perfectly capturing a 30's noir look. The cinematography is also great, and enhances the production design. It's very easy to immerse yourself into the world this movie creates. Jerry Goldsmith's score is incredible, as far as superhero film scores go I'd rank it among Danny Elfman's Batman and John Williams' Superman. Sinoa also performs a great song, Some Kind of Mystery.Wildly underrated and entertaining, I highly recommend The Shadow. "},{"Title":"A decent comic book based movie","Date":"1 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" I would put the Shadow in to a genre named comic book superhero. The movie is adapted from the comic book The Shadow and attempts to capture the essence of it. I have not read this comic; actually I have not read many comic books, but this is a genre that I like.The movie begins with how the Shadow came to be. The Shadow used to be a Tibetan opium lord that was vicious and evil. He was then captured by a monk and forced to pay penance for all of the evil that he had committed. The opening portrays the Shadow as being quite evil. Now he is able to confuse men's minds and walk around invisible.The movie is set in the 1920's to 1930's. This time tends to attract a lot from this genre (such as the Phantom) as this is a time when the world was modern. The automobile has been invented, cities of skyscrapers dominated the world, and people were just beginning to fly in aeroplanes. Even so, there were still parts of the world, such as the jungles of Africa, South America, and Asia, that were still virtually unexplored, leaving openings for a sense of magic and mysteriousness. Much of the world was tame, but there were parts of it that were still very wild, and in this wilderness lurked great evil.The Shadow is a film about redemption. There is a positive and a negative side to this. The negative side is that it takes the philosophy of a balance, that we can cancel out our bad deeds through good deeds. Thus the truly wicked people, such as the Shadow, must work extra hard to cancel out these deeds. Unfortunately, things do not work like this. There is no scoreboard of good or bad deeds, and even so, it does not solve any problems either. There is absolutely nothing stopping us from performing bad deeds when we know that all we have to do is perform a good deed to make up for it. For anything to work, all of one's bad deeds need to be wiped off at once, and then one must be prepared to turn from their old ways and lead a new life.On the other hand, we see another side of redemption, and that is that it is open to anybody. The shadow was an incredibly wicked man, being responsible for many atrocities. He is a man that one can outright say is beyond salvation; yet he is redeemed and when he is redeemed he turns away from his past. Unfortunately, the way this film puts it, one's past is always there to haunt you. Your evil deeds will never go away, they are a part of you and will always be so. This is not true with Christ. Not only does one not have to worry about working off one's evil deeds (for his death has already done that), but once they are gone, they are gone for good. The term born again highlights this. One is born again, a new person whose past has gone.The Shadow I liked, though I tend to enjoy movies like this. There are occasional plot holes and spots of bad acting, but in general it is a reasonable film, one that I would watch again. "},{"Title":"Shadow-playing","Date":"18 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Well, this film was on in the background on New Year's Eve 1997 in Copenhagen, when I took a phone call from what at that point I knew would be my future wife, I love old comic books, (although I'm not familiar with this particular character), like any other (relatively) young person in the 80's I've enjoyed a number of director Russell Mulcahy's music videos, heck, I even like the old Coasters hit The Shadow Knows, so do you know what, I'm not going to be too harsh with my judgement.Yes, there are things not quite right with it, for one thing the title character's powers or their sources are never fully explained, he himself makes only fitful and to be honest rather underwhelming appearances when he does show up, plus most of all, John Lone as the Shadow's nemesis Khan is physically too small and cherubic-looking to impart any kind of old-fashioned dread. One scene where you see him from the back brushing past the NYC hordes in full war-attire had me tittering behind him. The main characters too, have little depth either, with none of the angst which fuels the more popular Batman or Spider Man characters.Better then to concentrate on the backgrounds, which are excellent, recreating the heady days of 1930's New York in all its glory and the special effects which are fine and entertaining. Director Mulcahy gives us some imaginative set-ups especially when his cameras go airborne. Lone apart, his Iead actors serve him well, Alec Baldwin and Penelope Ann Miller, playing their wonderful clothes well enough whilst Jerry Goldsmith's heavyweight score gives the movie some added grandeur.Slightly overlong and with too many gaps between stunts, nevertheless, the film is always good to look at even if the drama on screen occasionally slips shadow-like into the background. "},{"Title":"Not a bad action movie","Date":"13 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" I remember Adam Baldwin was action man, first starring in Hunt for Red October which was very awesome and now in The Shadow. I remember when The Shadow came out, it didn't get too many good reviews and pretty much was lost. After watching the Last Emperor where John Lone was the main character, I decided to give The Shadow a chance. What I saw was an action movie that wasn't bad and was very entertaining. It surely wasn't going to win an Oscar, but I doubt anybody would wanna know more about The Shadow. Ian McKellan is also in the movie along with Tim Curry, what more fun can we ask? Penelope as the love interest wasn't all that bad although her career seems like to be limited to supporting cast and TV movie. The action and special effects were quite excellent for a fun movie. As a fun movie, this is how you should treat it as, just a fun movie. "},{"Title":"The Shadow knows","Date":"3 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" This didn't start out like the typical superhero film. Insread doing something heroic, this film introduces the protagonist Lamont Cranston ordering the death of a rival. Cranston has been living in Tibet since the end of WWI and is a ruthless opium dealer and warlord called Yin-Ko (literally Dark Eagle in Mandarin Chinese.) He's abducted by servants of the Tulku. The Tulku, a holy man, sees the good in Cranston lurking beneath his evil persona, and tells Cranston he will be trained to use his darker nature to cloud men's minds. Cranston isn't interested in redemption and even asks Am I in hell but is given no choice in the matter.Lamont Cranston gains psychic powers of hypnosis, invisibility, telepathy, and telekinesis as a result of his training. He returns to New York City where he becomes a fearsome vigilante called The Shadow while appearing to be a millionaire playboy. As The Shadow Lamont battles Shiwan Khan, an evil former student of the Tulku who overpowered and killed the holy man, and his plans for destroying New York while romancing Margo Lane, the daughter of a War Department scientist abducted by Khan. Margo Lane is a New York socialite whose father Reinhardt Lane was working on a device that could allow Khan to complete his plan. Margo also shows latent psychic ability in her telepathic connection to Lamont.This was a fun superhero film and Alec Baldwin does a very good job of portraying the Golden Age crime fighter on screen. The Shadow is somewhat similar to Batman in using his dark image to intimidate criminals but The Shadow's mission seems to be more about redemption rather than revenge. The Shadow unlike Batman doesn't hesitate to use lethal force to dispatch more dangerous criminals and isn't above using the lives of the people he saves by recruiting them to his own personal intelligence network. The special effects, set design, costumes all look wonderful and there's an excellent original score to go along. There's a style here that while not an authentic attempt to recreate the look of the 1930's pays homage to it. Some of the supporting acting is a little underwhelming and for some reason the beard worn by John Lone looks like it came unglued but despite this The Shadow is a very good superhero movie that deserves a watch. "},{"Title":"Ridiculous superhero movie, looks like a 30s comic book. And it is!","Date":"24 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" I guess you can't fault the movie too much. The original superhero The Shadow was something cooped up in the 30s when the Far East was a mystical place where anything was possible. But the whole thing is ridiculous. The villain is a telepathic descendant of Genghis Khan and he fights with this American dude that in a 9 year span was a despotic warlord in China and also learned the mystical discipline that allows clouding of the mind.Imagine a cross between The Golden Child, Darkman and the third installment of Highlander and you get this film. Only without the humor, horrific desperation and charm of either of them. Bottom line a failed film, but one that paradoxically had good actors and a lot of potential. A lost one. "},{"Title":"A perfect adaptation of the 1930s comics I've never read, if not brilliant","Date":"28 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" To be perfectly honest, before I begin this review, I only started reading the DC and Marvel comics that involved Batman, Superman, Thor, Captain America, Green Lantern, and other superheroes, but I haven't read the pulp heroes like Phantom, Rocketeer, or Shadow at all because I was more of a 90s kid at the time and have watched some great stuff not only on TV, but at a movie theater as well. However, despite the issue I've already stated about not reading the Shadow comics, I heard that this flick was released the same year I was born even though I never saw aside from my childhood favorites.So, I watched this online, being interested and all that, and to my surprise, I was virtually impressed by the film's look and the main character being played by none other than Alec Baldwin, one of the most dramatic actors in cinema history and they made this look like a great film that should be watched again and again to die-hard Shadow fans even though I wasn't exactly one to begin with, anyway. The only flaw that prevented the film from receiving a much higher rating (not to mention, ruined it) for me, however, is the story. Now, I liked the concept from the earliest Shadow adventures being put into the script, but it didn't give some of the actors in this movie so much to do throughout the film and only focused on the main character and the main villain.With that flaw out of the way, the redeeming qualities made this film worth it. First of all, the visuals are nicely made. It has a 1930s feel to it with some dark areas and the setting in which the comics took place were magnificent. The cinematography is the epitome of brilliance and the direction from Russell Mulcahy is perfect and completely focused. The pacing is brisk, the script from David Koepp's pretty rich with solid dialog, and the action is pretty good too (especially the finale between the Shadow and Khan), but the strongest aspects goes to the brilliant special effects (I liked the invisible effects put into Alec Baldwin which is top notch), it's darker and atmospheric soundtrack from the late Jerry Goldsmith and an excellent cast to play their roles really well.Alec Baldwin did a fabulous job as the troubled Lamont Cranston and the Shadow as well (even his voice was not only creepy as the ghost, but epic with his laugh), and other cast members, although not given much to do, did great for what they were given. Tim Curry was enjoyable with his campy performance as a sidekick to Khan, Jonathan Winters was also enjoyable to see with a smaller role compared to the others, Ian McKellen is good too although not given much to do, Penelope Ann Miller did great as the love interest for Cranston named Margo, and John Lone did great as the evil Shiwan Khan.Overall, despite the mixed-to-negative reception it had with it first came out, like the Rocketeer and the Phantom, this is a heavily underrated coming from a guy who is born the year this was released in theaters and I'm hoping to watch it again quite soon. I've been hearing that there's gonna be a reboot of the Shadow even though this didn't get a franchise which is a shame. Besides, if it would ever get made, I will remember the lesson this movie did taught me Who knows what evil lurks into the hearts of men? The Shadow knows! "},{"Title":"Great Shadow!","Date":"20 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Excellent! Why are people so demanding with scripts when it comes to this kind of movies? This movie is for sheer entertainment only, not to get philosophical thesis from it. It won't give you any kind of revealing conclusions about the importance of the human race in the universe.It's a film that gives you solid entertainment from beginning to end and it does it with top qualities starting with the settings, all in the most perfect 1930s modern style, Art Deco night clubs, New York streets and traffic, its people walking by and the cars from that time.Women's clothes are smashing and the general atmosphere is very moody. The visual imagery is very imaginative and well executed with a perfect pacing for an action that never lets you down. I don't know if they made a sequel --the character is perfect for many sequels, since it is timeless-- but Alec Baldwin was perfect as The Shadow at the time of this production.I highly recommend this movie to let your imagination fly and have a good time imagining yourself in a 1930s New York, a mystified era that probably never existed the way it was portrayed here, so perfect and neat and surreal. But dreams are always nicer than harsh reality, aren't they? "},{"Title":"great escape","Date":"2 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" I really liked this film.It was a great escape.Alec Baldwin in lead plays the shadow.named Lamont Cranston.Wonderful acted and plays a good detective type superhero.Penelope Anne Miller plays love interest Margo Lane.John Lone plays the heavy.playing Shiwan Kahn.Ian Mckellan known for X-men and Gods and Monsters,plays Margo's father Dr.Reinhardt.Also starring is comedy legend Jonathon Winters who plays Barth.Tim Curry from Legend and Rocky Horror Show also shows up in this film.Peter Boyle plays sidekick taxi driver.You might remember Peter from Young Frankenstein. This movie takes you back to when shadow was a serial.Campy humour. I've watched this movie ten times.It a good escape film.If you liked this film you might like Dick Tracy starring Warren Beatty. "},{"Title":"No Mass Appeal","Date":"29 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" And is that really very surprising? This is packaged as a Super Hero film. Our super hero is a man who, more often than not, is hidden -Strike ONE!. He cavorts, waltzes, glides his way through what may be the 1920's or 1930's or even 40's - Strike TWO! That means we get old cars, old costumes, old CGI sets - older actors in most of the supporting roles. The script is intelligent, somewhat witty, somewhat campy - in other words you must be able to read and comprehend what you read to possibly have any appreciation for the film - Strike Three! The film is set in a Noir style - lots of suggestive action, use of lighting, shading, and other cinema techniques designed to heighten the atmosphere of the film and push the action through that atmosphere - Strike 4! I could go on, and before you think I think this is a great film, let me say it is a highly entertaining film, a film that is grossly under-appreciated more for the aforementioned things rather than its content. Director Russell Mulcahy and screenwriter Walter Gibson do it their way for the most part. Hence the lukewarm, poor reception. Their vision is a highly stylized retelling of the story of Lamont Cranston who is the Shadow. They provide some breathtaking visual artistry as well as a fairly faithful adaptation to the Shadow series without selling out by pandering to those less-inclined to appreciate the film for what it is. Again, that is why it was not successful at the box office. There is no Shadow II. Shadow III. The Shadow Vs. Whomever. The acting is very solid. Alec Baldwin is really rather good in his role. Attention to detail in both his performance, make up, props, settings, and all aesthetic things are very high. He has a good voice for the role. True, Penelope Ann Miller is somewhat weak - but charming. Peter Boyle does a nice job with his small role. So does Tim Curry. John Lone over-does it as the villain of the piece. But the award for most wasted talent has to go to Ian McKellen who does virtually nothing except look befuddled. That is about all he does and gives a very strained performance doing virtually nothing. Nice to see Jonathan Winters in a film. He should have been in so many more - what a talent. But the star of this film is the film's artistic content - what you see on the screen. All that aforementioned artistry and detail. The special effects are rather good too. I was really impressed with the look of this film and the film in general. You might want to give The Shadow a try. After all - he knows what lurks in the hearts of men. Too bad he didn't take a closer look before they tried to sell this film to the audience of its time. "}{"Title":"Good all around but not enough chemistry between characters","Date":"20 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" During the decade of the 1990s, there were a series of early 20th century heroes put onto the big screen. Few were commercially successful as were they financially. The Shadow is apart of this group. Everything about The Shadow is as nostalgic as were The Phantom (1996), and The Rocketeer (1991). However, there were a few things that stood out to me that didn't match with the rest of this film.The Shadow was once a pulp character that was only heard on the radio. But with all the new technology that came out during the time, Hollywood felt that it was time to make the transition from radio to big screen. The only problem with that are, the only people who would really know who The Shadow was, were the people who listened to him on the radio station. Anyone younger than sixty is going to have a hard time connecting with the character even if the main lead was Alec Baldwin.The story opens up with Baldwin being the nefarious ruler in far-east Asia. It is not until he is captured and is persuaded and taught by the Tulku to wield his evil powers for the good of man. This is how he becomes The Shadow. Yet it never was explained to why he even became a powerful ruler in Asia. It was explained how, but never why. Did he like the women better then in America? Anyway, the perspective that The Shadow is shown during this film is pretty cool. A red bandanna covering his face, a wide brimmed hat, and a cape that flows so fluently makes him look like a very serious character. His ability to cloud men's minds is cool too but it reminisces back to Jedi and using the force on people with weak minds. It's basically the same thing and it's unoriginal.Playing Lamont Cranston's (Baldwin's character) love interest is Penelope Ann Miller as Margo Lane. For some reason though, I did not feel a true connection between these two actors. Nothing seemed romantic about their relationship at all. Did David Koepp, the writer of Jurassic Park (1993) and Spider-man (2002), really have these two actors in mind for these roles? Because something seems off with both of them. It's not like they don't show that they love each other, but it looks like they're flirting more than actually showing their love.Playing the villain who possesses the same power as Lamont Cranston is John Lone, as Shiwan Khan, the last decent of Genghis Khan (as he clearly states several times). Also Lone never seems to take his character as seriously as he should be. At times he questions Cranston on how he dresses. Why should that matter? As Cranston accurately replies You,...are a barbarian.Along side Lone is Tim Curry. Curry plays a conniving weasel that wants nothing more but to have world domination just as much as Khan but doesn't have much of a backbone to show. The visual effects are neat too. The Shadow acts like a ghost. He has the ability to disappear as well as clouding men's minds. Another cool aspect about The Shadow is how he is able to establish communications. Once he saves an individual's life, they then become apart of The Shadow's secret society, but not directly in it. The score was provided by Jerry Goldsmith and once again out does himself by creating a dark feel for a troubled hero.The film version of the early 20th century radio pulp hero is well done even if it has a lack of chemistry between Baldwin and Miller. The action is fun and so is the mystifying score by Goldsmith. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly shady Shadow","Date":"4 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" After 7 years away  Lamont Cranston/The Shadow returns to New York City and battles against his nemesis, Shiwan Khan, who plans to detonate an atomic bomb.Sharing many similarities with its comic book successor Batman, DC's The Shadow fairs better if viewed as a prototype/draft version of Bruce Wayne and Gotham City.  Its a visually atmospheric film with quality makeup, sets and FX. The 'knife' effect holds up particularly well. Director Russell Mulcahy's hyper-real stylised 1930s gives the film an interesting feel with the sets and locations lavishly created. The dialogue and action is at times campy yet in contrast dark and violent in places. Despite The Shadows' distracting theatrical laugh Alec Baldwin handles the mostly bland script and action setups well, shining wherever he can making the most of the witty quips. Ian McKellen and Tim Curry are both sorely underused and the supporting cast are a mix of familiar film and TV faces including Peter Boyle.It's not an awful film there's plenty to enjoy but it feels like an expensive, elaborate feature length screen test. The Shadow has all the ingredients but it's measured wrong and slightly over cooked with an underdeveloped mix of tones. Overall it's comic book anti-hero, redemption fun that's sadly forgettable. "},{"Title":"A Nice Throwback to Pulp Novels and Radio Dramas","Date":"6 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" In 1930s New York City, the Shadow (Alec Baldwin) battles his nemesis, Shiwan Khan (John Lone), who is building an atomic bomb out of unstable bronzium and beryllium spheres.This film gets a bum wrap. While the picture is a great film, it is a decent adaptation of the old radio dramas and serial films (such as Behind the Mask). While audiences of the 1990s may not have been familiar, many of the story elements were taken directly from the radio dramas and pulp novels. Even before Batman, there was the Shadow (with even an inside man on the New York Police Department).As mentioned, the scenarios in this film come from the old novels and writer David Koepp created more than decent adaptations and his work was done with good intent and absolute reverence. Koepp, a Wisconsin native, is no slouch -- he is the fifth most successful screenwriter of all time in terms of domestic box office receipts, with such films as Jurassic Park, Mission Impossible, and Spider-Man. Alec Baldwin is surprisingly good in the role of Lamont Cranston -- who could have pictured him a hero? Not long before, he was a scrawny nerd in Beetlejuice. The impressive cast could be singled out one by one -- Jonathan Winters, Tim Curry, Penelope Ann Miller and more... this was quite the ensemble.Some things did not make a lot of sense, but I think perhaps that was intentional. Or, as Ebert says, If the movie is finally just a little less than the sum of its parts, maybe that's appropriate. Unfortunately, the least coherent part is the beginning (which includes the origin story), and this might lose some viewers before they have decided to even give the movie a chance. And then the rest of the film sort of glosses over the moral conundrum that this millionaire playboy can afford to be a hero because he made his money addicting Tibetans to heroin and opium...Thanks to Shout Factory, we now have a slick new Blu-Ray disc looking better than ever. Sadly, the features are a bit weak for a special edition. Although they were able to track down the writer, director, cinematographer and two of the three lead actors to create a 23-minute featurette (worth watching), apparently none of these folks was willing to provide a couple hours for commentary.This is the sort of film that was overlooked in its day (losing revenue to The Mask) and really deserves a sequel, though of course at this point the only option is a remake. If the rumors of Sam Raimi wanting to tackle the project turn out to be true, maybe some day we will see it... "},{"Title":"One Helluva Superhero movie!","Date":"31 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" I have to say that although it is a cheesy remake, it holds a certain place in my heart. I liked Alec Baldwin who played Lamont Cranston aka the Shadow. I found him to be very charismatic and sexy in the role. I like the semi Gothic feel of New York City especially at night. John Lone who played the madman trying to destroy the city was great. He was very believable. He was also very attractive especially at the beginning with the long hair which upset me when they had it cut off. But thats just me i suppose. The thing i liked most was the look of the eyes on both mentioned actors when they went into the minds of others and manipulated them. Overall a great film and very entertaining. It becomes a bit addictive so watch in small amounts. "},{"Title":"A somewhat weak, but slick and nifty comic book noir","Date":"24 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" I've never read a superhero comic book in my life, but I grew up surrounded by names. The first I learned were the classics like Batman, Superman and Spider-man, then later on Hulk, Iron Man, or Daredevil. Some names have remained fairly obscure to me. One such name is The Shadow (I haven't seen any toys or merchandise for him yet, among other things) Like Batman, the Shadow is a solid example of comic-book noir, but is it a good movie? not quite. The story feels kind of stiff, humourless and amateurish. None the less, it is a well designed production, with a strong sense of retro and throwback to it. I would'nt call The Shadow much of a movie for acting though. Everybody (with the possible exception of Penelope Anne Miller) seems to be role playing their way through this sort of shallow scenario. Alec Baldwin is in need of an energy boost, Tim Curry needs to stop over acting, Ian Mckellen should've complained about the lack of lines he has (and needs to make up his mind which accent to use), and Jon Lone sounds like he is reading off a teleprompter.I would call The Shadow a borderline good film. It does have its weaknesses, but it offers some entertainment value of a rare kind. I'd say it is worth a peek for comic book fans among other folks. "},{"Title":"Excellent entertaining movie!","Date":"4 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Love this movie. I watch movies to be entertained & am thrilled with this one. I can watch it over & over again & each time find something new in it. The characters are well played. The sets are spectacular. The photography is outstanding & one has to revel in the various aspects. There is action, suspense & the costumes are first-rate. Baldwin is great in this movie & is next in line to Hunt the Red October for his performance. I don't remember this picture being advertised when it was released but find that what critics like & hate is totally opposite to my taste, therefore, I seldom read, listen or bother with what critics have to say. One has to suspend logic & just enjoy all the aspects of the movie from the action to the music! "},{"Title":"Worth watching, oddly similar to The Batman Begins","Date":"5 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" This is well worth watching, especially if you're a fan of the superhero, but it is a movie that is almost very good, but not quite. As another poster pointed out, the casting was strange and the actors mostly seem clumsy in their roles. Baldwin seemed to be making an effort, but he really isn't much of an actor to start with, more of a character. Johnathan Winters as the District Attorney is charming, but pointlessly silly and distracts from the tone of the movie. If these had been more marginal characters then they could have been ignored, but they are too central. To those of us that know the character the reworking of the themes is curious. In the original books he was a man of mystery that was out to fight crime and had developed a team of characters. His own power was that he could engage in concealment and listen in to conversations, but he was never really invisible. They gave him that quality on the radio. It is very curious to me that the overall plot seems to have been lifted for the Batman Begins and that I have not seen anyone ever comment on this. If you compare the two it almost looks like copyright infringement. This is strangely appropriate, because a lot of people have suspected that The Shadow is the original inspiration for the The Batman. You get the feeling that some of those working on it were willing to make a great effort, but that others just wanted to walk through it, pity this could have been a really great superhero movie, one that would have preceded all that came after. "},{"Title":"Not bad but standard","Date":"4 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" The classic pulp fiction hero, The Shadow, hits the big screen and the results are mixed to say the least.Set in the 1930s, playboy Lamont Cranston (played by the annoying Alec Baldwin) becomes a psychic vigilante following WWI and in his first major case, goes up against warlords who threaten the entire planet. The story is not only standard but very uninteresting with some fairly lackluster twists and turns towards an admittedly rousing climax.The cast makes up for most of the lulls. Excluding Baldwin, the cast features some very talented and badly underused actors such as Peter Boyle and Jonathan Winters but even here, their given little to do. Tim Curry, who is my favorite actor, delivers yet another great performance as the weasel henchman to the main villain. In my mind, Curry should have been the real head baddie in this film. Another plus is a stylized retro look that truly stands out from most period films.All in all, The Shadow is OK but without solidity (AKA a solid story and pace) it falls short. "},{"Title":"Despite a few bad plot points this movie was actually kind of fun.","Date":"18 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" I saw this film at the movie theater when it came out and while it was nothing super great, I still had a good time at the theater and enjoyed this one. The main problems I had with the plot is how the Shadow is initially introduced. I mean he is rather bad and should not get a chance at redemption for what he has become. How someone so bad and without remorse can become a superhero is a bit far fetched, but it is not a big enough part in the plot to ruin the entire movie as it is basically in the beginning and is only really mentioned one more time in the movie. The rest of the movie is pretty good as you enter the Shadows world of the early 1900's and that is just great. This movie has an old appeal to it as it hearkens back to the days of the nefarious deathtrap as the Shadow at one point gets trapped in a tank that begins filling up with water. The plot has him going after a relative of Ghengis Khan and he is not that great of a villain, but he is not all that bad, actually Tim Curry's character makes the better villain in this one. In the end I can see why this movie did not have the biggest box office take, but I still say it is a fun movie to watch. "},{"Title":"Good Period piece","Date":"30 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" The beginning of this film is interesting I particularly enjoyed the Shadow's appearance on the bridge, which is classic Shadow and he confuses and dumbfounds the crooks and saves the Chinese scientist.What bogs down is that they give The Shadow quite a bit of power, but then they create a nemesis who is almost more powerful than The Shadow.Even so, John Lone is good in the role of Genghis Khan's Descendant - And pairing him off against Alec Baldwins Shadow The cityscapes in this film are a believable 30's NYC, the imagery and lighting is good, the CGI is actually better CGI than more recent films.This film is peppered with great character actors like Sir Ian Mcklellan, Tim Curry and Jonathan Winters- and many other familiar faces.When I saw this back in 1995 I initially thought it was utter Hoke, but having viewed it several times since, I have changed my mind, a good film is designed to remove you from drab reality and plant you firmly in whatever fantasy... This film succeeds.One of the gags in this film revolves around a piece of techno-misdirection called a Beryllium Sphere - Refer to the 1999 Tim Allen film Galaxy Quest and you can see where something created in one film is used in another film. "}{"Title":"Completely underrated!!!","Date":"7 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" There is a definitely simple or, better to say, straight-forward plot as for the entertaining piece based on graphical novel, and it's quite frank and natural nothing makes you think the next episode What have I just missed here?. So, the progress of events is very harmonious. But much more important than the plot is the style and the aesthetics of frame is. I think it's a very rare joy of appearance, performance and visualization that's present in this movie! Everyone's advised to see the film except people who put a carrot in their ...ss to help them find the slightest flaws in someone's aesthetic and stylish work of art. "},{"Title":"Underrated (Spoilers)","Date":"23 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" The Shadow (directed by Russell Mulcahy who also made the immortal Highlander), script by David Koepp based off characters created by Walter B. Gibson and starring Alec Baldwin, John Lone, Penelope Ann Miller, Ian McKellen, Peter Boyle and Tim Curry.The plot resolves around an American Lamont Cranston (played by Shadow) a man who is in Tibet sometime after world war I. Because of the war he has succumbed to his darker instincts. He meets the Tulku a man who has magical powers, and says that Cranston will be used for the forces of good. Cranston refuses but has no choice. During his time he gains the ability to cloud other people's thoughts, allowing him not to be seen. He returns to New York and assumes the identity of the Shadow.The Shadow finds himself going up against Shiwan Khan (the last descendant of Genghis Khan) who wants to finish what his ancestor started, conquer the world. He begins by attempting to fire an atomic bomb into New York City and the Shadow has to stop him.This movie is very underrated. I don't think the writing is at all corny (like most critics did at the time) and I like it's 30's style setting. I also thinks it's a very dark Superhero film (if you can call it that).The acting is great. I never noticed this but I think from this movie alone Alec Baldwin has the perfect voice for Batman. John Lone as the main antagonist Shiwan Khan is somewhat lacking, although pretty menacing. Penelope Ann Miller as Margo Lane is interesting, she's the only person who's not affected by the Shadow's ability to cloud other people's mind, and she has pretty good chemistry with Baldwin. Ian McKellan's performance as Margo's duped father is a different role than I usual see him in. Peter Boyle is underused as the Shadow's chauffeur and confident Moe, and Tim Curry is great as the sleazy museum curator who in reality is a wimp.Not being a huge fan of the shadow (I am aware of his creation and origins), I was actually quite blown away by this film. It's very dark and has so much going for it.Shame it didn't do well enough to warrant a sequel (would have loved to have seen one). "},{"Title":"Predictable fun for comic book fans and younger people.","Date":"12 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" A highly predictable film with the ability to please a young audience or comic book fan. I found myself predicting what people were going to say and trying to predict the plot. Thus, why I think it's for younger people. It needs cutting a bit to make it suitable for younger people but I suggest this is a nice 'pass the time' movie. It copies many comic book movies and has a few funny moments. I think it's a movie Ian M will try to forget, though.For it's year though, it has some fascinating graphics and I guess they spent a fair bit of money on the production of this. "},{"Title":"A couple of points","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Generally go along with what some others have put on here, that the setting and design of the film is nice, the cast are ok, but the script is just completely up the duff.I especially hated the use of that awful unmemorable catch phrase by Baldwin. I can't even remember what it was... something like 'You *know* I will'. Why did mid-90s film makers do that? Were they trying to ape Arnie's 'I'll be back' line? At least that had some relevance to the plot of The Terminator.Two points I'd like to raise thoughWhy does Alec Baldwin's nose become square when he transforms? Was this really what the writers of the radio series had in mind? I wouldn't have kept this in the film version as it just looks a little silly. Imagine if Clark Kent's eyebrows went hexagonal when he turned into Superman.The ending is a direct copy of many other films, including Big Trouble In Little China which does a much better job of being a comedy action film. "},{"Title":"One of those films that you either reject or embrace","Date":"31 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  For a comic book movie(which this definitely is to some extent) this is fairly good, though it is beaten by films made both earlier and later; films like Batman from '89, or Hellboy from '04, and many more. This is what defeats it, coupled with the fact that it definitely won't meet everyone's expectations nor will it fit everyone's taste. It's dark and moody, and has a great deal of atmosphere, and this is what makes the film enjoyable. It also does present a somewhat realistic hero, by giving him a gigantic network of agents operating all around the world, the ability to use telepathy to hide his existence and his true identity, and his invisibility. I found him to be a fairly interesting and exciting hero, but I know that not all will. I can imagine many also will be unhappy with the fact that the film takes place in a time far from our own, and in the past rather than the future. It takes place in and around the 1930's, and it does present a pretty believable vision of that time. The plot is good, not to say great, and moves along at a good pace. It's not too fast, but not too slow, either. The acting ranges, but it's mostly good, if not great. I found most of the main characters to be quite well-acted and credible. Alec Baldwin, John Lone, Penelope Ann Miller, Peter Boyle, Ian McKellen and Tim Curry... all did pretty good jobs. I have to say, Baldwin and Curry gave the best performances, in my opinion. The characters are well-written and credible; I especially liked Shiwan Khan, who was without a doubt a very worthy adversary of The Shadow. The special effects(especially the CGI) is not very impressive by todays standards, but it looks good enough, and it does the job it's supposed to. The action sequences were fairly good, though of course it can't compare to the standard of comic book movies of today. The problem with this movie, apart from everything I've already stated, is that it feels a little too Hollywood; the sub-plot about the love interest, the climax, some of the dialog... it's good, you know, but it just feels a little too mainstream to be great. All in all, a great movie, about a somewhat believable hero. Too bad a sequel probably won't happen, as this did have potential to be a great franchise. I recommend it to fans of comic book movies, and possibly fans of the other The Shadow material(the magazine, the TV series, the movie from '37, and possibly even the radio shows). Fans of the actors or general fans of the main genres might also want to check it out. 6/10 "},{"Title":"looks like a million bucks...but!","Date":"5 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"    30's pulp heroes are great...and Shadow is possibly coolest of the whole gang. That said this movie just leaves you little bit disappointed even if cinematography is awesome and production design is top notch, there sure is Art in this Deco. Alec Baldwin is also spot on as Shadow/Lamont Cranston and even Penelope Ann Miller manages to look glamorous as hell. So what is amiss, maybe it's a total lack of mystery and adventure that this kind of romp needs. When you have an exotic villains and world shattering threats you have to crank it to the max and Russell Mulcahy just don't get the engine rolling. I do realize that Shadow ain't Indy but this still is supposed to be Pulp adventure and as such it should suck you in and offer one hell of a ride. Sadly it doesn't happen, also Peter Boyle and Ian Mckellen are wasted in their parts and usually dependable John Lone just don't project enough menace as wannabe world conqueror. If you are retrominded check it out, Cobalt Club itself is worth it, but if you are just seeking thrilling adventure this may not deliver. "},{"Title":"Underrated comic-book adventure","Date":"10 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  It's odd that this wasn't a major hit at the box-office as it's every bit as enjoyable as Batman or Daredevil.  Malcahy can make great movies when he wants to (Highlander anyone) and here he does.Baldwin has the muggin and panache for the title character and the production design is impressive.   Whatever happened to the lovely Penelope Ann Miller, who was so good in De Palma's Carlito's Way?The ending is great (ker-smash!) and it's just a crime that more people haven't seen this.  It's no masterpiece, but it is a great period adventure movie. "},{"Title":"The original Dark Knight","Date":"15 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Bob Kane himself admitted that he was inspired by The Shadow when he created Batman. He just took away the guns and made him more gothic. I really like this film, not only on the basis of the professional reputations of everyone involved but it straight out rocks. The special effects kick serious ass and Jerry Goldsmith wrote a fantastic score obviously in the hopes that a franchise could be developed. Considering that Orson Welles played the character on radio one would have assumed the effort in re-familiarizing the intended audience would have been emphasized. But look what happened to The Phantom. I pray that J.R.R. Tolkien's Lord of the Rings will be given the respect it deserves. Not that I'm comparing them but I am old enough to realize what is current and what is not. "},{"Title":"Well......","Date":"29 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I would agree with most of the positive comments here. My main complaints about the film (and I really wanted it to be a GREAT movie) were already mentioned here....that the bad guy is somehow not all that great and the supporting cast was not given enough to do. I agree. I think the FX were great and the Shadow was really nasty looking. I like movies set in the old '20s and 30's (and even '40s) and this one would be a nice triple feature with THE PHANTOM and THE ROCKETEER.I'd like to see them do GREEN HORNET or BLACK TERROR now. "},{"Title":"***1/2 out of ****.","Date":"4 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I found myself surprisingly fascinated by The Shadow. It has a great dark noir look that used to bore me but created a great atmosphere with this material. I also liked the performances, mainly from John Lone who plays the villain. He's a very worthy villain. As for the special-effects; they're not so bad.The story is pretty clever in itself. David Koepp does it again. The Shadow is a very good film. Filmmaking at its best. "}{"Title":"What's Wrong With This Picture?  Heck if I know...","Date":"9 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I've never really understand the bad rep this movie got.  The plot, IMO, has a _lot_ going on;  Cranston vs. his dark side, the Shadow vs. Shiwan Khan, prototype atom bombs, disappearing buildings, the Shadow's mysterious organization.  Baldwin is only so-so, but any movie with Peter Boyle _and_ Tim Curry is already ahead on points in my book.The Shadow takes itself seriously (unlike the campy 70's Doc Savage), but there are still humorous moments in context.  And great apropos music and F/X.  And it's got great direction by the ever-interesting Russell Mulcahy. What are you waiting for?  Go check it out. "},{"Title":"Interesting Amalgam","Date":"1 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" When The Shadow first ... appeared, he did so in two formats the Old Time Radio program, and a pulp fiction magazine. The two characters were similar, but a tad differentIn the radio show, Lamont Cranston was a wealthy young man-about-town who years ago in the Orient learned the mysterious power to cloud men's minds so they cannot see him. In the pulps, he headed an organization of crimefighters, had a slouch hat and cape, and big shiny .45 automatics. His dark costume enabled him to blend into the shadows, becoming virtually invisible. His aides reported to him through an agent named Burbank, and from his many sources, he was able to cope with bizarre criminals. He was originally Kent Allard, but posed as Lamont Cranston from time to time.The film synthesizes these elements, in a Hegelian sense. However, an unnecessary origin story was added I'm told is was from a comic book, but I can't verify that.The story is like one of the pulp magazine adventures. A descendant of Genghis Khan, with powers similar to Cranston's, hits New York City and makes moves that, if successful, would enable him to dominate the world.One really outstanding aspect of the film is its design. I took my mother, in her early 90s, to see the film. During the movie she remarked, It's just like I remember it! For her, the highest praise. She enjoyed that film better than most others I took her to.The climatic battle between The Shadow and Shirwan Khan, though, appeared to give Cranston a power or so that we hadn't been prepared for. No matter, it's a fun film. Too bad it didn't generate enough income for a sequel. "},{"Title":"An entertaining film, but could've been better","Date":"27 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" The Shadow is one of those movies that you love to watch, but there are certain things that irk you every time.My main problem with the film is that it moves too fast without any real knowledge of the characters. The main offender here is the first 5 - 10 minutes of the film, which are crucial to hooking an audience. We're introduced to Lamont Cranston as a villain and 10 minutes later, he's come full circle. It doesn't feel right, and I have no clue who he is, how he got there, and why he's so darn important. I will admit that the business with the knife was really cool, though. But there's a better way to do it. Introduce Cranston as the Shadow, the hero, and do the rest of the back story in flashbacks as he searches through his mind. Also, don't put a time-saving title after the opening credits; it feels like a cop-out.Another casualty to this flaw is Khan. I know now that Khan was a recurring villain in the mythology of The Shadow, but when watching the film, I didn't have a clue about him. The first interaction he has with the Shadow is a casual conversation. That doesn't set up any real tension between the characters. I would much rather see the villain/hero relationship played out like Batman, where the villain has no prior knowledge of the hero and learns to hate him throughout the course of the film.The film does find its feet by the end. Plus there are a few things that I love about this movie. The visual representation of the Shadow himself was really well done. I liked the voice and the trick of him appearing briefly in a haze to punch somebody. That was good stuff. The humor was well done, although a little on the heavy side.All in all, I didn't feel cheated by this film. There were a few story and visual elements that got on my nerves (for instance, NEVER shoot Tim Curry in a tight shot from a high angle. It makes him look like a mutant.) but in the end, I enjoyed watching the film. I'd grade it a solid B. "},{"Title":"Well, they tried","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I don't mind this movie, really I don't, but it could have been a lot better.  I'm a huge fan of the Shadow pulps and comics, and while I've listened to some of the radio shows I think they're just a bit too simple (and I understand why.)  This movie, however, tried really hard to mix elements of both the radio show and the pulps, and as a result it fell short of either.  The Shadow should be a mysterious, dark character, but in this movie they vomit everything about him onto the audience in the first ten minutes.  The mystery?  Gone.  They lost too many important elements of the character.  The Shadow's mastery of disguise?  Gone.  The Shadow's viciousness?  Gone.  In fact, the Shadow makes few real appearances, most of the time it's just Alec Baldwin being Alec Baldwin.  IMO Baldwin would have been better as Harry Vincent, the Shadow's most important agent, left completely out of the film.  Then, of course, there's the deus ex machina ending.  Shiwan Khan wasn't bad, but the character was too silly, just like everyone else.  If they'd just followed the plot of The Golden Master, the first appearance of Khan, they would have been better off.By itself, this might be a good movie, but I expected more from something that had The Shadow's name on it.  What should have been a film noir detective story was made into a flashy, cheesy action comedy.  I have to admit though, that it's not bad for a flashy, cheesy action comedy. "},{"Title":"Not quite the greatest...","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I remember listening to some of the actual 'Shadow' radio tapes that my grandfather used to play in his car before he died. And they were just voices and sounds of people doing things and it was a detective radio show. This movie is not that. This is anything but.Most members of the cast are good, except for the over-acting, horrid Alec Baldwin who sadly takes the title character. The supporting cast includes John Lone, Penelope Ann Miller, Ian McKellan, Peter Boyle, funnyman Tim Curry and all-star comedian Jonathan Winters (who made an animated guest appearance on the Scooby-Doo show some years back).PANIC ROOM writer David Koepp takes the prize of having written this boring stinker of a movie, that was made to sound good by hiding behind the name of THE SHADOW. But, the movie itself is not all bad. There are some notable scenes and some action sequences are half-way decent, but the movie itself does just not click with me. Probably because the whole thing was made up from the mind of Koepp (who would later come to do the same thing while adapting the SPIDER-MAN comic book series into a dreadful movie). Hmmm...two movies based on super-heroes that everyone loves. Many people liked the movies. Especially the little tikes who enjoy watching the bad guy do his evil stuff. So, that right there would probably be the best recommendation for this extravaganza of action that I must admit I did not totally hate. Not as much as I did SPIDER-MAN, let's put it that way. But things better start getting better for David Koepp if he decides to keep adapting super-hero stories, or else I will personally promote him to martyr.THE SHADOW gets 3/5. "},{"Title":"It coulda been a contender...","Date":"2 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  With a cast like this, where Sir Ian McKellen gets 5th or 6th billing, and with the money that was put into this, The Shadow should have been a lot better. Personally, I wish they'd stuck with Walter Gibson's Shadow from the pulps -- who did NOT have the power to cloud men's minds, and for whom Margo Lane was an infrequently-used agent rather than a girlfriend -- but the real problem is that the film's emotional center is ice cold. Alec Baldwin doesn't radiate warmth on good days, and the film makes no attempt to show his metamorphosis from sadistic killer to vigilante superhero lawman, so the audience, which has probably never encountered The Shadow before, has no reason to sympathize with him. This unbalances the entire film; it's hard to sit through 2 hours with a hero you don't care for. A good film, but it could have been much better. Check out THE PHANTOM to see this kind of thing done right. "},{"Title":"Who Knows What Evil Lurks?  Well, not anyone alive today...","Date":"11 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  The Shadow was a very well-made, well-acted film, and truly does bring the mystical and dark quality of Walter Gibson's pulp and radio hero to the silver screen.However, what is the point of making a movie, and a superhero movie at that, about a character that most of the movie going public has no idea who he is? Sure, he has many Batmanesqe qualities, but the Shadow not only pre-dates the Dark Knight, but also inspired, at least in part, his creation.Enough lecturing.  See the movie, it's pretty good. "},{"Title":"The Shadow knows!.","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I had seen bits and pieces of this film before seeing it in full recently.  I like this film a lot, although there are faults.  One fault pointed out by another user is that the Shadow actually makes very few appearences as The Shadow.  But when he does appear, the Shadow is a truly powerful figure, played excellently by Alec Baldwin.  Baldwin is also great as the Shadow's alter-ego, Lamont Cranston.  He and John Lone as our villain, Shiwan Khan, the last descendant of Genghis Khan, are both excellent in their roles.The other performers are okay in their roles but don't leave much of an impression.  Penelope Ann Miller's character, for instance, is quite good but a little airheaded.  Tim Curry and Ian McKellen are both saddled with minimal roles here, as is Jonathan Winters.  Peter Boyle, however, is great as Moe, the Shadow's cab driving agent.  POSSIBLE SPOILERS!The story is very well-written as we learn of the Shadow's past and why he took up the fight against evil.  It is especially good that we see that he is still struggling to overcome the evil which once controlled his soul, so he does not start down the same road that Khan still follows.  The atmosphere of the film and Jerry Goldsmith's excellent music score are wonderful.  I'm glad that Roger Ebert gave this film three stars.  I'm glad that there were some critics who liked it.  While THE SHADOW may not be perfect, it is still a great film and not to be missed! "},{"Title":"Comic Book Adventure.","Date":"31 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" I don't know why they make these kinds of movies. Just for a chance to spend a lot of money? I can think of 57 better ways of spending it, beginning with Send some to me. Alec Baldwin is handsome and Penelope Ann Miller is yummy and John Lone is a good actor. The sets are phenomenal, the score epic in dimension, the special effects special. The plot, in an exemplary case of arrested development, is stuck at the fifth-grade level. It's hardly worth describing but let's just say John Lone, as the passionate villain Kahn, has made an atomic bomb and wants to take over the world with it -- the world as it was in the late 1930s. (Kahn? How does a Chinese guy come to have an Arabic name? Never mind.) It ought to appeal to kids, what with its dusty sarcophagi creaking open, it's Kung Fu Chinoiserie, its magic daggers and hypnotic trances. There are little tid-bits for adults too. A villain invites the luscious, silk-clad Miller down to the laboratory to see his beryllium spheres, part of the bomb he's working on. I'm not interested in your spheres, she tells him with gelid disdain.There was a time when everyone who had a radio tuned in to programs like this -- The Shadow, Inner Sanctum, The Whistler, Suspense. (The Shadow often featured the voice of Orson Welles.) Some of the programs weren't bad, as a matter of fact, and many of them were adapted for noir films of the 40s.The Shadow must have been fun for a kid but it's the kind of fun one tends to outgrow, rather like Abbott and Costello. I can see, though, where a family might enjoy this spectacular spectacle. The kids certainly will, and there's just enough in it to keep the adults from nodding out. "},{"Title":"Bad Casting and a HodgePodge Adventure Made Me Wish the Shadow Had Kept His Secrets","Date":"23 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Alec Baldwin is horribly miscast as a sly, spooky vigilante in this spring-loaded combo pack of adventures culled from the old Shadow radio programs and pulp magazines. In many ways it's a spiritual successor to Big Trouble in Little China, in that it's self-parodying, ridiculous and shamelessly over-the-top. It even goes so far as to bring in James Hong, Big Trouble's main villain, for a quick death in the opening scene. But where there's no questioning the intentions of that Kurt Russell action vehicle, The Shadow is trepidatious and ambiguous enough to leave me wondering if it might just be intended as serious material. Baldwin is totally unconvincing as the straight gunslinger, though creative special effects take care of most of his action scenes, and his 30 Rock squint regularly peers out at us despite a cowl, hat and heavy makeup. Director Russell Mulcahy (of Highlander fame) makes things worse by constantly interrupting the lead's speeches to play endless shadows over the contours of his face. Because it's The Shadow, get it? Tim Curry and Ian McKellen are wasted on small, unremarkable roles that don't add a thing to the picture; a shame, because it really could've used a standout supporting player or two. Absurdly bad and inadvertently hilarious. "}{"Title":"How much does this movie suck?  I wish the people who made The Shadow knew.","Date":"24 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Well, this was a shoddy piece of work. That this campy, poorly written mess got produced 5 years after Burton and Keaton's Batman is a testament both to the persistence of cultural stereotypes and to how many Hollywood professionals wouldn't know a what a good movie was if one bit them in the ass. Most of the cast acts like they're doing an extended SNL skit and the script repeatedly forces the viewer to ask Wait&#x85;what? Director Russell Mulcahy manages to do some justice to the pulp novel/radio drama legend with his interpretation of The Shadow's ability to cloud men's minds. Other than that, this film serves no other purpose than to remind people of how terrible super-hero movies used to be and to appreciate how much better they've become.In this story, Lamont Cranston (Alec Baldwin) was a white man living in Tibet as a ruthless, murderous drug lord who was forced upon a path of justice and redemption by a holy man. Gifted with the power to manipulate the mind's of others, Cranston returns to 1930s New York City and becomes a black cloaked, gun blazing enemy of crime. When Shiwan Khan (John Lone), the last descendant of Ghengis Khan, comes to town with world conquest on his mind, Cranston must team up with the psychically empowered Margo Lane (Penelope Miller) to save the city from the atomic bomb created by her father (Ian McKellen) for Shiwan's use. I think the idea is that Cranston's naturally evil nature has to struggle between Shiwan's temptations to return to villainy and Margo as a symbol of the better man he is trying to be. I can only guess, though, because it's done so poorly that it's frequently unclear what or why things are going the way they are.This is one of those movies where the list of what's wrong with it could go on and on and on and on. It wildly fluctuates from cheesy melodrama to sneering self parody. The Shadow, which is just Baldwin with a big prosthetic nose and a red scarf awkwardly covering his mouth, looks stupid and fake in close ups. Tim Curry is plopped down in a role that could have been completely cut from the film without losing anything of interest. But the biggest flaw in this motion picture is how dumb it is.I mean, there are a herd of idiot moments in this story where obviously no one involved thought about what was going on for even a single second. There's a scene where Shiwan and Cranston are talking. Khan suddenly flees and Cranston pursues, but as he runs after Shiwan the audience can see that Cranston stopped to pick up his overcoat before chasing after his foe. I suppose that when you're trying to stop a mad Mongol from nuking the Big Apple, it's always important to leave no article of clothing behind. There's another scene where the Shadow is trapped in a flooding chamber and he has to use holes shot in the wall to breathe in air from outside. But as the scene is shot and structured, it is painfully apparent that none of these filmmakers realized that once you remove the threat of drowning by using the bullet holes as air holes, all the dramatic tension of the scene is obliterated. The Shadow could have stayed inside the flooded room FOR HOURS without any trouble. And at the end, as Shiwan and The Shadow square off in final battle, Margo and her father rush to defuse the atomic bomb. Except this film has the bomb humorously defused BEFORE the big fight between the good guy and the bad buy. First, a bomb that could kill millions of people is a bigger and more dramatic threat than a fight between two dudes. Second, if defusing the bomb is intended to result in a joke, you always save that laugh for AFTER the big showdown when the audience is hopefully ready to release their emotions. You don't try and make your viewer chuckle right before the most serious moment of your entire movie.I can best describe this version of The Shadow by saying that it was made by people who knew that super-hero movies should no longer be aping the old Batman TV show, but they just couldn't help themselves. If anything about the character piques your interest, seek him out almost anywhere but this vapid yarn. "},{"Title":"Another Super-Hero Film That Is Not Too Super","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Another in the long line of disappointing super-hero flicks of the 1990s that were made to capitalize on the out-of-this-world success of the Batman series of films. Alec Baldwin stars as the titled character, a man who knows what evil lurks in the hearts of men. Blah. Blah. Blah. A short history of the character to start the film will confuse more than intrigue early on. Later in 1930s New York Baldwin must stop madman Shiwan Khan (John Lone of The Last Emperor fame) from developing an atomic bomb with the help of kidnapped professor Ian McKellen and comical henchman Tim Curry. Penelope Ann Miller bores as the love interest. Oh what sorry films lurk in the minds of screenwriters and directors. 2 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Fairly uneventful superhero flick.","Date":"21 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" The Shadow is set in the 1920's & starts in the opium fields of Tibet where drug warlord Yingko, actually an American named Lamont Cranston (Alec Baldwin), rules his drug empire with force & brutality. Suddenly he is taken to see a mystic monk named Tulku (Brady Tsurutani) who teaches him special mind control techniques, techniques that able Lamont to cloud the minds of people & make him invisible apart from his shadow in order to fight crime. Jump to New York City seven years later where the Shadow, as he calls himself, is notorious amongst it's inhabitants. One night at the national museum they take delivery of a crate from Tibet, a crate containing the solid silver coffin of Genghis Kahn, inside the coffin is Kahn's last living descendant named Shiwan Kahn (John Lone) who intends to take over the entire world with the help of a new discovery, the atomic bomb...Directed by Russell Mulcahy The Shadow was probably made because of the popularity of Tim Burton's Batman (1989) & the mini spate of superhero films that were released thereafter including Dick Tracy (1990), Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles (1990), The Rocketeer (1991), The Crow (1994) & The Mask (1994) & I unfortunately have to bring you the sad news that The Shadow is maybe the worst of all of those films. I didn't even think The Shadow entertained as a silly comic book superhero type film, it takes itself far too seriously, it's far too dull & the Shadow himself gets about 20 minutes of screen time in a film which lasts for almost two hours. I'm sorry but I don't sit down to see a fantasy superhero film like The Shadow & expect to be bored, I want it to be fun & entertaining with overblown set-piece action scenes & for it not to send me to sleep. The script was written by David Koepp who would later write the big screen Spider-Man (2002), the Shadow himself started life as a third person narrator of mystery stories on radio in 1931, then due to fan pressure he got his own monthly series of pulp mystery novels named 'The Shadow Magazine' which ran to 1949. Meanwhile back in 1937 the Shadow also got his very own radio show which ran until 1955 & there have been various films over the years to feature the character as well. This filmed adaptation is a mixture of the two mediums, some aspects of the radio play are used here while some aspects of the character from the pulp novels are used as well. Generally speaking the character's are OK but forgettable, Shiwan Kahn is surely one of the most boring villains ever committed to celluloid & there's not really enough action in it to maintain interest over it's near two hour duration. I just think the superhero fantasy film as a genre offers huge possibilities to filmmakers & The Shadow to my eyes was a throughly routine, predictable & forgettable flick.Director Mulcahy does well in creating mood & atmosphere but not so well delivering exciting set-pieces. I only saw The Shadow a few hours ago & the only action scenes I remember are a fight out in a laboratory, the Shadow being trapped in a huge dome filling with water & the end which rips-off the hall of mirrors from the climax of Enter the Dragon (1973)! By the end of the week I'll have completely forgotten about The Shadow. Some of the special effects are alright, the living, flying dagger creature thing looks OK although I'm not sure why the makers insisted on fitting Baldwin which such a large nose when he's the Shadow. It looks rather silly at times in fact, come & see the Shadow the superhero with the biggest nose in the business!With a supposed budget of about $40,000,000 The Shadow had a lot of cash spent on it & it looks great with fantastic 20's art deco period sets, it's just a shame the film wasn't better. Set in New York but actually shot in Los Angeles. The acting is alright but nothing particularly special, Tim Curry gets the role of the comedy relief while Sir Ian McKellen makes his first appearance in a superhero flick before his role as Magneto in the X-Men films.The Shadow is a below average superhero film, I though it was pretty dull & uninspiring stuff all round to be brutally honest. Give it a week or two & I doubt I'll remember a thing about this film. Besides the radio plays & pulp novels the character of the Shadow also appeared in nine other films, The Shadow Strikes (1937), International Crime (1938), The Shadow (1940), The Shadow Returns (1946), Behind the Mask (1946), The Missing Lady (1946), the made-for-TV The Shadow (1954), The Invisible Avenger (1958) & Thwarted (1991) with this 1994 big screen adaption killing the character off completely it seems. "},{"Title":"the film was terrible","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Alec Baldwin cannot act.  The script makes no sense.  My God, it's about a relative of Ghengis Khan coming to the big city and making at atom bomb! You can tell a film is bad when within the first five minutes it establishes ALEC BALDWIN as a warlord in TIBET (or Mongolia, I forget which) and then skips what could have been the only interesting part of the movie (Baldwins training to use his powers for good) by giving a paragraph long summary for the audience to read.  Avoid this film like the plague. "},{"Title":"Nice sets, shame about the plot, acting, direction, etc...","Date":"23 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" A more stylish movie you are unlikely to see.However, 2 hours of gorgeous sets and costumes is scant compensation for sitting through Baldwin's wooden acting, and a plot which manages to be both contrived and obvious at the same time.Given its considerable legacy, The Shadow deserved better treatment than this.Director Russell Mulcahy was once an innovative music video director. This movie (when viewed in context of his forgettable 'Razorback') prove he his a terminal lack of attention span for anything which requires more than 5 minutes of coherent screen time and filling more substantive than eye candy.Finally, let me record my astonishment that anyone on IPDB could rate this movie highly. Unless of course they are covert PR agents for the studios. Best we check their ring fingers ;-) "},{"Title":"A rip-off that's fun to watch!","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This movie rips-off Batman, Star Wars, and Enter the Dragon. Even if the Shadow is the inspiration for Batman, anyone who was born after the 1950s doesn't know who the heck The Shadow is. So watching this movie is like watching a rip-off of Batman. Regardless it's a fun and exciting movie to watch with good performances and a great score.***out of****starsA little side note Is it me or doesn't Alec Baldwin look like Stephen Baldwin (or one of those Baldwin brothers) when he's wearing the Shadow costume? "},{"Title":"Boo!","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  There seems to have been a rare thing of getting all the elements to work on Superhero movies in the 1990's. You would think that with a skilled and stylish director in Russel Mulcahy and Handsome screen prescence and strong lead in Alec Baldwin, that The Shadow would be a classic of the genre. In fact it is hard to see just why The Shadow fails. But fails it does, and in spectacular fashion. It seemed to me that Universal Pictures viewed the success of the first two Batman movies and ploughed all the strength  and time needed in to making The Shadow into the next big franchise. That was before i got to see the film. The Shadow is a rushed, lukewarm 100 or so minutes and this can only be seen as a real shame. What could have turned out to be an exercise in the darkness of the skills of Frank Miller or Tod McFarlane,and an all round enjoyable and exciting adventure, comes over as rather juvenile and pathetic. Really a movie with the demands of The Shadow, the constraints of a 1930's settings and all the trappings that the styles and characteristics befalls this,needs something groundbreaking and fresh to offer the audience, and it is here The Shadow really fails. It comes over as dull and boring and resembles the worst moments from the Indiana Jones movies and the first two Batman movies. Russel Mulcahy is actually a good choice to direct this kind of period adventure,because he proved with Highlander 1986 he could take several time periods and blend them in together with a feel for a mid 1980's audience, while supporting flashy and interesting visuals. Mulcahy does quite a good job here, and actually milks the best from the script, wich is the real let down. David Koepps screenplay is waifer thin and doesn't require much from the actors, and you get the impression that the radio serials from the 1930's-1940's had more atmosphere to them. You can only wish and pray that Koepp's screenplay for this years Spider-Man is a billion lightyears better. Carrying the movie is Alec Baldwin as The Shadow. Baldwin is an excellent choice for a superhero and would have made a good Superman or Batman. He looks the part but cant do much for the script. Just as good is future Magneto in Bryan Singers X-men 2000and Gandalf in Lord of the Rings 2001,Ian McKellan, who strangles the best with what little material he is given. Tim Curry over acts as the second fiddle villain to John Lone Who is plain embarissing. Curry would have been much better as the central heavy. Also disopointing is Penelope Anne Miller, who comes across as Kim Bassinger on a bad day. Despite all this The Shadow is worth watching and is an O.K. bit of fun. Bob Ringwoods costumes are once again sumptious, and beautiful and perhaps the real star of the show. The special effects for the time and the budget of the movie are mind bogglingly excellent, and there are one or two good action set pieces, but this is conter balanced by bad performances, naff dialogue and stupid ideas. And Jerry Goldsmith's musical themes are once again on the mark, inspired by Danny Elfman yes, but with good cause because The Shadow is really, in all honesty, a rather cold carbon copy of Batman 1989. "},{"Title":"Who knows what incompetence lurks in this film?","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"10 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This has got to be one of the worst adaptations of  any character in the history of film.  For everyone who says just enjoy it or don't analyze it just proves that this film doesn't have much going for it.  Although the screenplay attempts to pull as many details from The Shadow's history as possible, any attempt to tell a good story was made as transparent as the Shadow himself.  I am disappointed that with such a great supporting cast (Johnathan Winters, Tim Curry, Peter Boyle)  was given NOTHING to do!  Curry goes from a sniveling coward to a sweaty maniac with no transition or explanation.  And poor Ian McKellan, award winning actor, is simply wasted.  The Shadow himself is poorly written, making wise cracks (Next time, I get to be on top!), something that he never does and is out of character.  Many good moments are ruined by the intrusion of some silly one-liner that deflates what little tension was building.  The Shadow even makes Uncle Wainwright forget about the Shadow, all the while driving around in a futuristic cab with sci-fi gadgets in it.  Not exactly subtle.Don't forget, The Shadow in this film doesn't even save the city, he just stops the bad guy in a climax stolen from Highlander.  Margot and her father are really the ones who saved thousands or millions of lives. Supposedly two different scripts were written, a dark serious one and a funny camp one.  Shame the second one was picked, because we might've gotten a good film instead. "},{"Title":"I do remember a little bit more besides than the title.","Date":"28 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  The Shadow, I saw this movie a HELL of a long time ago,and all I can remember are the dark eyes and then you hear a voice say The Shadow.Actually,I do remember it. It had alot of suspense and alot of surprizes too! For example The guy knocks into the woman and the woman shrieks! Man! I sure get a fright when she shrieked.This movie was , to me was a typical thriller, always getting you excited and out comes a surprize. I recommend this movie to anyone who likes thrillers also known as thriller fans.For thriller lovers like me 7/10. For thriller haters 2/10. "},{"Title":"don't waste any of your time on this one.","Date":"13 August 2003","Score":"8 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Although any film based on cartoon or comic characters is meant to be taken lightly this one really is appalling. I actually couldn't finish watching it because I felt I was wasting too much of my life sitting there bored out of my wits. From the opening scene, where Baldwin (who seems to have forgotten how to act) is converted from evil to saviour of the people, you know this isn't going to get much better and it doesn't. Even the wonderful Tim Curry can't save this dross.  "}{"Title":"What a stinker! Punch yourself in the face instead, its better.","Date":"27 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" This movie is so bad that I watched it when it first came out and totally forgot about it. So much so, that I thought I found a 'superhero' movie that I had somehow missed.Baldwin is Baldwin. I wasn't expecting anything there. Knowing now that the guy hated on his daughter like an evil bully, its hard to forget what a schmuck he is when trying to escape reality for an hour and a half.The graphics are dated and obviously fake, the cast was the same from many other movies which gave it an even more obviously fake feel.The cheesiness of it is just dreadful.Seeing all the glowing remarks about it just confirms what I had already thought you cannot trust the reviews on this site. Either they are all cheesy little lib-tard art-majors (also called 'unemployed'), or hacks for the companies that pump out this bile.Either way, skip this flick. Even if its free. If you decide to watch it and somehow find yourself liking it, please consider that your life is worthless and you should not be voting, breeding, or consuming oxygen around others. Seek professional help. "},{"Title":"The worst movie I have ever seen","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"6 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I saw this film on a wet day on the Gold Coast in Australia. If it wasn't for the fact that it was pouring down outside and there was absolutely nothing else to do in this tiny town we were stuck in(already had 2 lunches to waste time) we'd have left. Everything about this film is unspeakably bad, the plot, the script, the performances are risible. Whoever thought Alec Baldwin could play leading man in a comic book caper needs their head examining. Just awful! "},{"Title":"Great Show, bad Movie","Date":"4 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" This is one of the worst movies I have ever-seen, even with its cast, which is impressing when you hear the all names, but they mean nothing, I doubt even if this had, the perfect cast(A Bond age Sean Connery) and Uma Thurman, even with them the plot would collapse, the cast would help, but not enough. The directions some of the worst I have ever-seen to, and the visual effects are surprisingly cheesy, not to mention that Mongols were not sword wielding samurai, without brains, but were horse folk who trained constantly to be able to ride horses without there hand, so they could fight with bows and arrows, they were far from the samurai this mess portrays, they were very noble people.If you liked The Shadow(And I hope you don't) you might enjoy, the much better X-Men films, or the equally bad Godzilla. "}]