[{"Title":"Magnificent film","Date":"26 June 2004","Score":"63 out of 76 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  Beautiful film, full of humanity and honest in ways sometimes jarring, but always right on target.  A westerner gets a sense of the depth of love for mother Russia, as well as the difficulty many faced during the 1930's Stalinist years.  The film is a winner, and worth seeing more than once. The performance by the little girl is incredible; I was taken by her talent and smarts. One of the best films I've seen this year. Thumbs up. Two thumbs up. "},{"Title":"Maladetz!  Bravo!","Date":"31 January 2001","Score":"60 out of 78 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  Having read all of the negative commentaries on this film, I would first like to point out that severely criticising the period of Soviet history in which Utoml'ennye Solntsem takes place, and in that effort, condemning the people of that era such as are portrayed in this film as being entirely culpable for their actions, is all very well and good to do from hindsight, and from the safety of a soft computer chair in the modern-day West.  Because of course, no one is tortured today in the West for a casual remark against the reigning despot; nor do we live under the threat that our families may be sent off to Siberia as one of the consequences of our actions, great or trivial.  I myself can't say what I would have been willing to do under the circumstances that existed during the time of the Soviet purges, whom I would have betrayed just to survive, or if I would have the courage to make some kind of moral, social, or political stand, and if I think I could have?  Well,if we all admit it to ourselves, we know that torture will break any man eventually...  In watching this film, I think that we should keep in mind that we are not necessarily here to judge but to take the director's journey to another time and place and yet we should still be able to remember and respect the fact that what we are seeing here is a piece of the history that lies beneath the modern day Russia.  This history is a shadow that has cast its pall over the lives of every Soviet citizen since then, including Mikhalkov.  The fear of the purges that swept over the Soviet Union during the 1930's and 40's is a kind of fear that will fade, but never die away entirely.  So, what can be the point in overly criticising Mikhalkov or any one in the former USSR for surviving under the system as it was before glasnost, knowing what they knew of the state and the full extent of what it could do and had already done (Stalin's purges may even have claimed 20-40 million lives)?  If Utoml'ennye Solntsem is Mikhalkov's attempt to exonerate his cooperation with the Soviet system within his own time, what has he really got to vindicate or to feel guilty about?  That being said, and despite the fact that numerous films, books, and media have copiously used this subject to tell a story, it is not a subject which can be exhausted but a rich treasure of unusual human experiences.  And, as some have pointed out, this film is far more than just a story of revolutionary politics or a tale of betrayal it IS a love story, between men and women, and between men and their motherland.  Moreover, I was sincerely moved by the love triangle between Marussya, Mitya, and Kotov.  Utoml'ennye Solntsem is not, however, a film that will make you laugh often, and would not at all were it not for the undeniable charm of the bold little Nadya.  Utoml'ennye Solntsem will make those who appreciate the tragic element within history, and in particular, this era of political turmoil, shed more than a few tears.  Because the truth lingers behind this tale, the truth of a time which was a nightmare few of us can imagine... or would want to.  In my opinion, the great thing about this film is that it throws us back for a while into that era and portrays what was good about it, what remains good, despite all obstacles; the film is a tale of love that survives the most extreme of human conditions.  It is fascinating and compelling, brave and tender, horrifying, and real.  Not for everyone, but certainly a masterpiece within its genre.   "},{"Title":"A palpable feeling of Russian genius","Date":"13 February 2006","Score":"47 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" Burnt by the Sun is a powerful example of what a genuinely Russian movie can be when it uses the good sides of western film-making  a coherent plot, professional camera work, and freedom of expression, all things that were rare for the cinema of Soviet times. Of course, it is not surprising that it was made by Nikita Mikhalkov, one of the few Russian directors who achieved lasting world success during communism, and therefore he had the right contacts abroad to get a decent budget. Though, Burnt by the Sun is way better than Mikhalkov's pompous Barber of Siberia, which was alloted more money than any other film in the history of Russian cinema.In Burnt by the Sun, Mikhalkov was able to give us a palpable feeling of the beauty and genius of Russia. The lighting is magnificent all the way through, and the ripe and wide wheat fields shine like gold. The action takes place in a cozy dacha among the birch trees, a house which seems to be the nest of a bunch of gentle and carefree eccentrics, all in an atmosphere that reminds pleasantly of Tchekov. Yet, you can tell from the start that Burnt by the Sun is not going to be just a comedy, as the first scene opens on a man cutting his veins in a bathtub while the telephone is ringing. However, this first forewarning soon gets forgotten throughout most of the film, which keeps a warm, light-hearted, slightly nostalgic tone almost all the time. It is only towards the middle you realize that it starts looming slowly towards predictable tragedy, and this only gets obvious in the very last moments.It turns out that the characters we see are all members of an old aristocratic family who were spared the horrors of the revolution because the younger daughter, Marusia, married a Red Army colonel, much older than she is. Thus, they keep on living as they ever did, playing cards, drinking tea from samovars, making private jokes in French. They even have a maid and a parrot. They seem totally oblivious of the reality around them. Except for innocent looking balloons with Stalin's face on them and a few parading pioneers, the communist regime is visible almost only through the presence of colonel Kotov, brilliantly played here by Nikita Mikhalkov himself.Colonel Kotov impersonates a character very familiar to the Russian mentality  he is tall, strong, authoritarian, but at the same time protective, warm-hearted, charming and prone to jokes. He is about just as sympathetic as the gruff milkman with a heart of gold in Fiddler on the Roof. Although he is a military, he is not the kind of guy you think as having blood on his hands. But of course Lenin and Stalin's aura over Russian people was also partly due to the fact that they represented strong and protective father figures.The story takes a sudden turn with the arrival of an enigmatic character disguised as a Santa Claus in the middle of summer. He turns out to be known by everyone in the house, as he is the adoptive child of the late grandfather. In fact, he was Marusia's childhood companion, and her lover in the first place, but was evicted by Kotov, who protected henceforth the whole family from repression. It soon becomes clear that the man, called Mitya, has come to take revenge for his shattered life.All performances here are good, even though Nikita Mikhalkov, as an actor, still manages to steal the show. But one will not either forget the performance of his then six-year old daughter Nadya , who also plays his daughter in the movie. A charming, energetic and witty child performance which impersonates the innocence of the family about to be lost.The French title for the movie was Deceitful Sun, and I find it more appropriate. Although the film bathes in quiet sunlight, it deals with one of the darkest eras of Russian/Soviet history  Stalinism. In the early 1930's, Stalin decided to eliminate much of the newly arisen communist elite whom he did not trust anymore, and hired former enemies of communism, or half-criminals, to eradicate his own official allies. Thus, colonel Kotov remains self-righteous and sure of himself almost until the end because he simply cannot believe that Stalin will not protect him. Needless to say that Burnt by the Sun is one of the first Russian movies that deals so openly with the subject. A subject which still remains quite sensitive since millions of people had their lives shattered by those events. Unlike what happened for Nazism, it was not until the end of the communist regime that it was possible to discuss it openly, even though Stalin's deeds had already been condemned officially a long time before. Therefore, this superb drama is also the symbol of a historical breakthrough. "},{"Title":"Ochin Horosho.","Date":"9 December 1998","Score":"44 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  Just saw this film as the closing class in my first term Russian language class. It's one of the ten best films I've ever seen. Our professor grew up in the Soviet Union and at the end (no spoilers, I promise) she had to leave because it was too familiar. I wasn't informed until afterwards that it was based on a true story, but it didn't matter. As I watched it I actually forgot that it was subtitled, and my memory of it now is as though it was in English. My point by saying that is that it was so real, so powerfully directed and acted, that the language barrier didn't matter one bit. Stunning film. "},{"Title":"Not all the Russians think the same","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"35 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  You know, here, in Moscow, the critics do their best to show that Nikita Mikhalkov makes popular pictures which aren't to be considered serious. To hear that The Barber of Siberia is a stupid sentimental movie is quite common nowadays. But the more time passes from his next in turn production, the more a strange effect seems to take place his films at last are rated according to their true value and not to somebody's opinion about them. It is always hard to say that something new is really good, but some time later...Utoml'ennye Solntsem is not a very emotional movie. I don't suppose you'd cry when watching it. But my opinion is that it's a brilliant one. It is historically authentic (I've studied that period of time quite carefully so I think I have a right to say so). And no-one on this site seems to notice the love story in the film, which actually brought about the whole tragedy (remember, Kotov made Mitya work for NKVD). It was marvellously played by Oleg Men'shikov (my favourite actor) and Ingeborga Dapkunaite, a remarkable Lithuanian actress. And Mikhalkov himself, of course - Kot means cat, by the way. Many people endow him with the characteristics of Kotov which only shows that he played his role well. A good actor is always attributed his character's traits.But still, for me the main feature of the film is the world of Mitya's soul created by Men'shikov. A young, talented boy with brilliant prospects is what Mitya was. He gets involved in the war, goes through many ordeals, then comes home and falls in love with the girl he knew from her very birth, Marousya. But their happiness is too short. He is given a choice to work for NKVD or...to commit suicide. He's only 24, and he wants to live. But hope for future slowly disappears as life goes on, cruel and senseless. When Mitya appears on the dacha of Marousya's parents, his soul is almost a wreck. But the last chance is killed when he sees that, after a suicide attempt, after months of despair, Marousya has married Kotov and doesn't want to go through everything again. Therefore Mitya begins to fulfill his revenge.   "},{"Title":"History determines your fate & you can't prevent the tragedy","Date":"29 October 2004","Score":"38 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" This movie is about the most desperate and tragic situation in the human life. This is when our life is determined by external forces. Even the most basic form of happiness - being with you family, enjoying your child - were impossible in the Russia of Stalin. Sometimes I think about people who were borne 20 years before World War II in Germany, Poland or Russia. I wonder whether they had a feeling that the life was extremely unfair to them. The feeling that your fate was determined by the time you were borne in, and that you couldn't do anything at all to somehow change it. If Mitya, Kotov and Marusya would not die then, they would have to wait for 50 years to be able to truly understand what happened to them and who was to blame for it.I was puzzled why Mitya picked up the phone and agreed to arrest Kotov. Why didn't he stop his suffering immediately, as he knew that he had no other option than ruining lives of the people he loved. Was it his hatred towards Kotov and the opportunity to take revenge for being expelled for 10 years? Was it the last hope that his love to Marusya would reverse her marriage?After watched the film again & again I decided that he knew from the offset there was no way out. Mitya went to his old home because he wanted just one thing - to say farewell to his dream that the old times would ever return. The dream that made him betray his comrades in the 20th, and come back from France in the 30th.I'm so happy that we live in freedom and that the iron curtain fell. "},{"Title":"Powerful yet Subtle and Original Look at Totalitarianism","Date":"15 October 2001","Score":"21 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  I just watched and loved this movie.It originally portrays the contrast in character, personality, viewpoint, and the relative consequences of the Revolution upon two people -a) Mitya, a handsome, charming, romantic, poetic, musical, child-loving man who before the movie began, lived in rural Russia, grew up with a girl who was 7 when he was conscripted into World War I, and deeply loved her parents, cousins, aunts, uncles and the household servants, andb) Kotov, an older man, military, probably more courageous and less intelligent, bluff and physical, sentimental and less artistic, stronger but simpler, equally child-loving, from a poorer background.Enemies in the Revolution, their behavior toward each other begins with cruelty by Kotov toward Mitya, Mitya's forced cruelty to others, and a changed and cruel man now (and knowing it) Mitya's cruelty to Kotov. And yes, a woman is also in the mix. The story is told as much through Kotov's eyes as through Mitya's.And guess what? With all this cruelty, Kotov and Mitya are both people you'd love to spend the day with.It's beautifully photographed - the same wonderful languor as watching say, Turgenev's A Month in the Country, the child is enchanting, the story is absolutely fascinating - far more original than such other political movies as The Conformist or The Garden of the Finzi-Continis. The movie is about social class, temperament, and how freely people make decisions in their lives, about love for the opposite sex, children, and country. It's compelling - you will truly always remember this movie.  "},{"Title":"A masterpiece out of Russia.","Date":"25 April 2001","Score":"24 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  Burnt by the Sun glides effortlessly, seamlessly though the genres as it tells of a handful of Russian characters who collectively constitute a family of sorts with great humor and drama, poignant and sweetly sentimental moments, and excellence both technically and artistically. What is more, the film's story is interesting, unpredictable, and well told with depth and thoroughly developed characters.The much which has been written about the politics of the our time, the Oscar award and the bravura with which it was accepted, etc. is much ado about nothing. This is a movie. This is art and entertainment. And, when taken for what it is, Burnt by the Sun is truly a masterpiece. "},{"Title":"infinite sadness of the Russian soul","Date":"16 September 2007","Score":"22 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" i remember seeing this incredibly strong, heartbreaking movie three times in three consecutive days. i couldn't get enough of the pure beauty of the scenery, the warmth of the characters, the pain you feel when you know what doom awaits them around the corner. i understand that for political or other issues many Russians don't like this movie, but i think it is a very honest, revelation story by Nikita Mikhalkov, who after this movie I came to respect as a genius artist. probably forever in my mind will live so many beautiful scenes from this movie the burning, yet mild sun by the lake, the forgotten secrets of two ex-lovers, the infinite 'ruskoe pole', the happy people at the beach, living happily unsuspecting of the terror machine of the dictatorship 'for the people'outstanding movie, one of my forever favorites20/10 "},{"Title":"A traditional film about the end of tradition.","Date":"26 April 2000","Score":"17 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  Like most film lovers I prize invention, originality and formal daring.  BURNT BY THE SUN is a very conservative historical epic, full of sweeping scenes paralelling intimate domestic exchanges; theatrical framings and acting with lots of dialogue; Jarre-esque sugary Romantic music; a fetishisation of nature.Nevertheless, I loved this film to bits, for all these reasons.  it was as rich as a novel (although it is an original), yet full of the vibrancy, life, violence, anger, and comedy absent from most literary adaptations.  There is also a sense of using a cliched mode to attack its assumptions, as Chekhovian comedy turns into a denunciation of totalitarianism, and a more absurdist register.  Mikhalkov's filming of a superficially ugly Russia is lyrical and emotionally charged, and his own performance is like watching an oak tree being systematically hacked, sublime in its reach.  Packed with memorable, searing set-pieces, but the filming of Marusya's confusion on Mitya's return, or his story to Nadya, shot with Nicholas Ray's feel for decor, stand out for me. "}{"Title":"One of the all-time great Russian films","Date":"15 January 2004","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  A beautiful film. It amazingly combines the gentle, romantic tragi-comedy of Chekhov or Turgenev with one of the most effective exposes  seen on screen of the corruption and underlying evil of the Stalinist era - the film takes place at the height of the Stalinist purges. Each of the complex characters is portrayed in detail and with affection by director Mikhalkov. The Red Army hero, Kotov, starts the film as a braggart, chasing away Soviet tanks from his local village. We then see him as a loving husband and a devoted father, living a pre-revolutionary rustic life in his dacha. But further less appealing character facets emerge as the film develops. His wife, her family and their six-year old daughter Nadia (a triumphant performance) reveal their hopes and fears, and come over as a very real family, with foibles and a past which shapes their present. The intrusion of Dmitri after ten years away at first adds to this rural idyll, until the dark truth slowly is revealed - although the opening sequence, when he is seen playing Russian roulette, hints that all is not as well as the glowing landscapes and happy peasants might imply.The end is shocking, but at the same time almost comic, as Stalin and Stalinism intrude brutally into the peaceful countryside. But there is a sense of completion and of a tale well told as the final credits indicate the fate of the main characters. Mikhalkov is a master story-teller, and this is one of the great films of the 1990s, and a Russian masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Post-watching thinking","Date":"27 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  Soviet times... Stalinizm... unlimited tyranny... millions innocent victims of the regime... Yes, it's all the surroundings, a terrifying picture of those times. While there's something more, deeper, actual in any epoch. Being true to yourself, your ideas and principles irrespectively of ideology. It's a story of one person, one family, it's a story of the whole nation; it's a story that makes think again and again, how to live this life with dignity, strength and love, not betraying yourself; with no remorse and regrets at the end. It's a story from Brilliant Mikhalkov, Splendid Menshikov. (though honestly, I still can't understand, how they could dare make a sequel... after the words was killed; after everything said. Is that just a mark of the time?)  "},{"Title":"Truly wonderful and sad","Date":"27 April 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" Burnt by the Sun is a fantastically made film, focusing on the injustices of Stalin. It details the arrest of a Russian Civil War veteran, Sergei Petrovich Kotov.At 135 minutes, some will say that the movie runs long but I disagree. While the plot does not really begin until the second half, the extra time is not wasted on viewers. We see much of Kotov, his family, and are made that much more sad when his fate is revealed.The characters are all incredibly interesting and well-developed. We learn much about Kotov, Nadya, and Mitya. The latter is especially interesting. We can see immediately that there is something wrong with Mitya and do not trust him. Then, when he and Kotov pretend to be friends around Nadya, we begin to feel he is not that bad of a character, and that the movie might end well (I did, at least). But finally, when he kills the lost farmer and salutes the image of Stalin (one of my favorite moments), we realize Mitya is gone.However, given everything that the film does to show cruelty, I was surprised by how tame it made certain scenes. The lost farmer is shot off screen, as is Kotov death. At first glance, this seems unnecessary. Why not show their deaths in full force? In the end though, I think the director made the right decision. There are some scenes that, no matter how powerful they are, will not live up to people's expectations. It was better to leave these moments off-screen so that the audience can imagine them as they see fit. It seems like these scenes are only revealed to the viewer when there was no other choice (like the balloon carrying the image of Stalin). This way, the movie tells as much of the story as it has to and leaves the rest to the audience. I enjoyed it. "},{"Title":"When Russian movies Westernize...","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  To be honest, this movie had its strong points, but in the end, fell short of the mark.  Especially due to the horribly prolonged ending........it should have ended with Kotov's daughter running out of the car, everything that followed was much too obvious.  For me, the best moment is when Kotov sits with his daughter playing her game; the look on his face says much more than the last 15min of the movie, the symbolic Stalin balloon, and the predictable...well, ending. "},{"Title":"About Mihalkov's aesthetics","Date":"29 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" The colonel Serghei Kotov is a handsome,energetic, impetuous,funny,exuberant,imposing, extrovert,successful man;he has a happy family life,in the most conventional sense.Kotov is robust,vital.At first,you could almost believe Mihalkov chose to play this larger-than-life character in order to serve himself and his image.Kotov's family abounds in picturesque persons,his wife's relatives,which are treated by Kotov with an amused indulgence and which create an oasis of ante-revolutionary way of life,benefiting from Kotov's own privileges.A communist colonel, man of the regime,lives in harmony with his wife's family some remains of an abolished world,a society of jesters and viscous vestiges of a broken order.Utomlyonnye ...'s script is a very intelligent and well-grounded one.There are several twists in the characters' depictionto take only Serghei Kotov,he is at first seen as a man with an ideal life robust,popular,loved, etc.;then,when Dmitri,his rival (a pianist with waggish charm and wantonness ,liked by the Ancien regime circle in which Kotov lives after a career of great military exploits),enters,Kotov diminishes and is a rudimentary,displeasing man;then,when all in the house dance can-can,and we see everybody partying as they used to do it once,and the colonel eats alone, feeling rejected by this frivolous group of peaky,obnoxious debonair louses and a stranger in their ridiculous world,etc.,Kotov becomes agreeable again.The twists continueDmitri has a tale to say,and Kotov,chasing his wife and making sex with her,is a loathsome crocodile.Finally,Dmitri talks to Kotov,and now each of the two gets his real face ,his real identity.There are some almost satirical etchings that remind Mihalkov's previous exercises in the aesthetics of Cehov's large works (the vast,ultra,immense Platonov,or the ulterior large composition made out of several stories) and Goncearov's,like revisiting them from a completely different angle.The show benefits immensely,visually as well as for the epic,from Mihalkov's previous incursions in the Russian literature's world.Mihalkov bets largely on the popular show,and he is again right.The large-scale show benefits from an inspired aesthetics of the carnival and the buffoonery and extravagant irony.Mihalkov mounts effortlessly and naturally to the level of a vividness,mastery, and piercing intuition that give an unusual depth and rousing concreteness to Kotov's debacle and make it a cruel show of an unmatched intensity.Seven more remarks(1)Menshikov makes one of the best icy deceitful villains in cinema's history;his effrontery,his cruelty are scary and shocking; (2)so many scenes are of an exemplary pace,dynamism,robustness,gusto and natty force;they express Mihalkov's huge cinematographic experience;(3)others,in fact all the scenes of the second part,are intensely suspenseful,some of the cruelest scenes ever on screen;here,Mihalkov's own acting gets an exceptional quality and taste;(4)the music is fitting;(5)the performances' level is way above the average;the characters are equally well-written;(6)this show is a compendium of the director Mihalkov's aestheticsthe realist element,and the spectacular one;the copious comic,the intelligent irony,the keen incision,the jolly and playful burlesque,the social remarks,the taste for beauty and breadth,the surprising lack of illusions,the seizing of the cruelty.Mihalkov always aspires,with his shows,at giving a homogeneous synthesis of the whole,UN-cleaved Russian culturegrisly realism,verve,and comic,and wisdom,and largeness,and circus-like exuberance,but also a certain restraint and virile discretion when certain matters are treated,and classical epic,a vast display of force,the variety and vastness of the composition, the plastic harmony,the sarcasm and mockery,the vitriol,the pleasantry,reuniting naturally the several streams of that culture,and choosing to synthesize them.The script is unobjectionable and dense.What is style?What would style be without an adequate content?Style over substance is always meager, unsatisfactory,mediocre.What is that style,uninspired by its content?Style over substance is not sovereign;it is meaningless.Style is the insight's quality.If there's no such thing,style means only an empty vestment.It is,at best,very partial and one-sided. "},{"Title":"As A Russian, I find the film nothing special.","Date":"22 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  As one reviewer had pointed out, the value of the movie is metaphorical. Viewed in that sense, the acting and cinamatography are excellent (especially compared to sound- and special-effects-based crap Hollywood is serving upon us), but the subject matter is quite trivial.To explain my attitude, I must add that unfortunately I (as well as many other Russians) have been through so many books/plays/movies dealing with the tragedies of the late 30s, that the movie is not as 'revealing' to me as it might be to a Western audience. I think Mikhalkov could have done better! Rating 6/10 from me. "},{"Title":"I've seen American movies awarded with several Oscar's for less.","Date":"24 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  It's one of the best pictures I've ever seen.  I watch it at least once a year.  Unfortunately for non-Russian viewers, subtitles are quite pale; they hardly deliver one tenth of the juicy Russian dialogues and don't let Western viewers to appreciate the beauty of the movie in its entirety.  "},{"Title":"What a nice boredom!","Date":"16 March 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" I was anticipated that the film would be boring at the beginning. Well, that was true, and though I think it was the first time that boredom was functional - useful - to the film.We knew, even before seeing the story, that those Stalin's years were all but tranquil and boring. Thus, who sees the film is maybe surprised to look at smiling faces, funny people, even tanks which stop in front of peasants. And of course a seren family, with a husband who loves his wife, and a lovely daughter who loves them and is loved back, is something boring - certainly not to be told a drama about.But this boredom, I said, is functional. Because, as the story goes on, we discover that what maybe seemed true love was born by a deceit; that old friends only come back to have revenge; that respected generals cherished by people can be tyrants; and so on. And yes, thanks to this initial boredom, Nikita Mikhalkov is able to catch us by surprise, and showing us that what in those seemed to be normal, probably was not.And maybe the biggest surprise comes from finding out that in this story it's all about love; that even the most politically intrigued plots are pushed forward by the simplest and oldest of all the reasons love. "},{"Title":"All In The Golden Afternoon","Date":"26 July 2007","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" Though I love Chekhov the better a production of one of his masterpieces I see the sadder I am that I am still missing wonderful nuances because 1) I don't speak Russian and 2) I have no Direct, or Primary Source if you will, knowledge of Russia and so have to rely on reasonably extensive reading which is, of course, no substitute. So in effect I know no more of Stalinist Russia than I do of, say, Wonderland, the Wonderland from which I selected my Summary for this critique but the fact that I cannot speak Jabberwock doesn't prevent me from enjoying Alice In Wonderland and nor does my lack of Russian prevent me from savouring this wonderful evocation of a totally corrupt regime viewed largely through a prism of innocence if not ignorance. In many ways there is a feeling of late Chekov here in the scenes of a languorous summer afternoon viewed through the eyes of an ex-aristocratic family gathered on a Chekhovian dacha in which they have succeeded in keeping reality at bay. Those with a taste for metaphor will find it in the delivery driver going around in circles before eventually being shot and those with a taste for acting of the highest quality will find it in the Writer-Director and Leading Man, Kotov, in his nemesis Mitya, and even in his own real-life daughter, Nadya. Love, Death, Pain, Laughter, Tears, Joy, Anguish, Bitterness, Despair are all present and correct in this exceptional melange which is too rich to savour at one sitting and requires multiple viewings. Did I say masterpiece? In spades. "},{"Title":"fantastic blend of history and drama","Date":"6 April 2004","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  This  movie is a fantastic blend of history and drama, beautifully written and acted, with a poignant message that simultaneously comments on the love-death dichotomy in our human lives, while providing an apt picture of the bitter ironies of life in Stalin's Russia.  Nikita Michalkov is a genius, Oleg Menshikov is a fabulous actor, and Nikita Michalkov's daughter is adorable.  The cinematography is particularly striking in this movie, and the mise-en scene is manipulated to highlight both the mood of a scene and the interpersonal story.  And the often forgotten categories of script and acting must be mentioned in any review of this movie.  Both were subtle yet passionate enough to be affective. This really has everything I would look for, or hope for, in a movie.   "}{"Title":"Burnt Offering","Date":"11 November 1999","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  Kotov (a role that director Nikita Mikhalkov awarded himself, doubtless after a heavy session on the casting couch), superannuated Hero of the Revolution and twinkle-eyed patriarch, is the proud possessor of a moustache of rare magnificence. In moments of romantic ardour, he is wont roguishly to twirl it into perky love-handlebars. Stalinesque in scale and sweep, the whiskers betoken both the Colonel's (oh-so-misplaced) political loyalties and his rootsy Russianness - in contrast to Mitya, the mercurial snake in the grass, rival for the affections of Kotov's young wife and his smooth-faced Nemesis.A glorious summer's day dawns somewhere deep in the bosom of the Motherland. Kotov's dacha, remnant of a pre-Soviet age, is filled with light, billowing curtains and good-natured Chekhovian comings and goings. All is well with the world, even as detachments of the Red Army perform clownish manoevres in the wheatfields. Except that this is 1936, and Uncle Joe has a few nasty surprises in store. For all the golden backlighting (staple of Soviet-export art cinema of the 70s and 80s), this day in the country is not going to end well for the old soldier.Lauded in the West on its release in the heady mid-90s, this is, in truth, a deeply flawed and thinly veiled apologia for Mikhalkov's former complicity with the Communist regime. He does not merely sympathise with the beguiled Kotov. He literally identifies with a character imbued, for good measure, with every honest manly virtue. In a scene of genuine tenderness, Kotov drifts downriver with his young daughter (sparklingly played by the actor/director's own child), extolling the promise of the socialist future. The ironies here are truly double-edged. Kotov's elegy is Mikhalkov's confused self-exculpation. The vision was a noble one. The Old Bolsheviks meant well. (Never mind that, in reality, Dzerzhinsky's torturers were busy from day one.) It was Stalin's Terror that ruined it all. You mustn't tar every Party member with the same brush.So an unwholesome air of self-justification, self-delusion and self-pity pervades the film, despite - or rather, precisely because of - its claims to truthfulness (manifested in the shockingly brutal ending, however manipulative) and its unfailing (and deadening) tastefulness. Mikhalkov merely exchanges the orthodoxies of the Brezhnev/Andropov era for those of Glasnost - itself (unfortunately for so practised a time-server) already old hat by 1994. In the good old days, the director was a leading exponent of the Soviet Union's answer to Merchant Ivory, purveying easy-on-the-eye pre-1917 languor (never forgetting - lest anyone should get the wrong idea - to point up the decadence). He serves up much the same dish here, spiced with some safe historical critique and a twist of something extra. The flip side of the film's Russophilia (Kotov's easy earthiness; all that wheat) is a curious xenophobia (cosmopolitan Mitya is NKVD). The odd result is that Stalin's supposed betrayal of the Leninist ideal is insidiously equated with the alien, the intellectual and the bourgeois. Kotov swears like a trooper, enjoys a game of soccer and playfully gooses the maid; whereas Judas Mitya quotes Shakespeare in the original, plays Chopin rather well and converses with his manservant in polished French.It is, of course, grossly unfair to mention in this context that Mikhalkov's father penned the USSR's national anthem. But then again - in the light of this film's insidious special pleading, and its disquieting taint of moral and historical dishonesty - it is hard to resist doing so. "},{"Title":"Accurate portrayal of totalitarianism","Date":"27 October 2003","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  Having lived in a Communist country as a child, this movie was not easy for me to watch. The presence of the ruling party is everywhere in this story. It's in the hearts of some, the minds of others; even casting its shadow on the innocence of childhood. It is in the air as people communicate in measured tones.Nikita Mikhalkov, and his daughter, Nadezhda, turn in great performances, as does Oleg Menshikov as Mitya. For comic relief, Vladimir Ilyin's portrayal of a very amusing Kirik is impressive. Art direction, score, and cinematography round out a good production. "},{"Title":"A long and slow political allegory that drags and drags...","Date":"6 November 2005","Score":"14 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" This film should have been half as long. The first section, in particular, meanders for no reason. Mikhalkov is trying for a Checkovian mood, but all we get is a tired romantic triangle with a very obvious resolution. The second section, more political, is stronger, but occurs way too late in the film. The end is again very obvious and expected. To the last minute I hoped to be surprised, and was thoroughly disappointed. One can guess the events in this film literally 15 minutes before they happen.I usually enjoy certain films with slow or deliberate rhythm, if they have artistic meaning, great style or emotional storyline. Burnt By The Sun is beautifully photographed, in that Eastern European idyllic style. Otherwise, it seemed to me empty like the hot air balloon with Stalin's image that features at the end. Full of obvious symbolism senseless parables, with characters drawn too broadly to keep us interested. Many reviewers have remarked on the touching scenes between Mikhalov and his daughter. These are strong scenes, but unfortunately they are the only touching scenes in this very long film. You wish the movie could have focused more on this relationship and less on the extended family and the political parable.This must have been a labor of love for Mikhalkov, who acted, wrote, directed and featured his own child in the movie. When Pulp Fiction received the Palm D'Or at the Cannes Film Festival, instead of Burnt By The Sun, Mikhalkov was incensed, and commented about Masterpieces being overlooked. I am sorry to report that this movie is no Masterpiece. It is a boring, slow paced, uninteresting film that goes on too long. At least for this viewer. "},{"Title":"Russian tank","Date":"19 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" You can see why this got the best foreign language Oscar an anti-communist Russian film - the Americans must have been purring. It's a decent film, basically sentimental (like The Pianist) though nothing to rave about. The General's tender relationship with his wife and child, with which we are beaten around the head for a couple of hours, is far less interesting than the almost shocking idea of post-revolutionary Russia in shimmering colour, where the sun still shines and people still picnic by the river - looking nothing at all like Eisenstein et al had it.Apparently, folks still hung out at the dacha in those days, and here we have the usual genteel bunch in white flannels as if transplanted from a Bergman film. Mikhalkov wants us to know and like them all, but the film would be leaner and better without the extra baggage. Plenty of scenes are vaguely unsatisfactory, like a joke told by someone you don't like. There is a fireball motif which doesn't work at all. But the real problem is that all the scene-setting means two hours of beating around the bush (literally, in some scenes), in order to set up the powerful and moving final ten minutes, which has beating of another kind, and which appears to come straight out of the Coen brothers. "},{"Title":"One of the best drama movie","Date":"6 July 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" The movie is of course one of the best in the world cinema...but after reading foreign people comments I must tell that Stalinism not the main theme of the movie...the main theme is that all the people making there choice themselves and it doesn't depend on the time they live. The people in all times are the same - they can be good or they can be bad...so i think that the movie is about this. Its not historical movie in the meaning of this world. For everybody who liked this film I advice to see another Russian genius movie The cold summer of 53-rd. Though I must tell that this Mihalkov's movie is a drama in the right sense of the world drama...This movie is excellent! "},{"Title":"Unforgettable film","Date":"28 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  One guy return to hometown with his old memory, and destroy everything. He lost his life, his lover and long years he suffer from this loss feeling and he prepared destroy his opponent, his lover and even himself. This movie filled with very delicate acting and expression.Lovers never say a word about their past. They hide devastating emotion and pretend as if nothing happening each other. This point made this movie differ from other films. Other movies, lovers spilled out their emotion. But this movie, on the surface, everything and everyone seems be peaceful. Only we feel the embarrassing feeling through glass spilled out water, and women tipped nervously glass with her finger. But inside there are long years love and hate, longing and loss, intense feeling.I like the moment that Mitya tells a story about his long suffering past life as a tale while sun is moving across the field and crashes the picture. It's excellent situation producing. It made me very sad.Oleg Menshikov's acting is wonderful. I can't take my eyes off him and every scene he is very authentic. If other actor act this role, this movie can't deliver this kind of deep emotion power.This movie made me feel as exactly like them and touched my mind. I think, it's a unforgettable film. Everytime I remind this film, I feel deep sorrow.  "},{"Title":"A remarkable movie","Date":"30 May 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  Mikhalkov did everybody good in this movie, I suspect too good, for some things look too well crafted - like the metaphora of that silly truck driver that pops up here and there looking for the village he'll never find. But for most part movie works. It's not exactly about Stalin, or even repressions, of which there are but glimpses in the movie, but basically about that bad things you do unto others come to haunt you in a while. Thus it is more of a moral tale than a historic account and whether it was based on the true story or not is immaterial because there are thousand stories like that happening every day. Nevertheless, Mikhalkov succeeds in creating a very eerie historic atmosphere for his tale set in the time of Stalin's repressions picking up the speed. 9/10.  "},{"Title":"The road to hell is paved with good intentions","Date":"10 September 2006","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" Colonel Serghei Petrovich Kotov is quite a likable guy gregarious, kind, dignified, a war hero, an affectionate father, a devoted husband, he loves people, hard work, his family, his country. He believes he is participating to the building of a great new Russia, by actively supporting a new regime communism. Like many of the original idealists who believed communism was the answer to a society plagued by severe income disparity, a large impoverished population, and a decaying aristocracy, he turned a blind eye when injustice and cruelty became the tools for building the great motherland, and people were abused and killed in the name of The People. In his blind credulity, he thinks he has achieved the position and power he holds through good, honest work, and he actually believes the patriotic slogans and mantras used by Stalin's regime to pummel the population into communist indoctrination. Since his life is good, he has no reason to think the regime is wrong.Enter Dimitri, a self-loathing informer. His work gets other people killed, or destroys their lives. He does it to avoid death, life in a Siberian gulag, or some other horrible fate. What he does goes against everything he stands for, but, as we learn, he believed that by cooperating he would redeem himself in the eyes of the authorities (as an aristocrat he was automatically considered an enemy, guilty of existing) and would be allowed to go back to his life and the woman he loved. Once he realizes there is no way out, and that his sweetheart (Marusia) abandoned him by marrying Kotov, the man whom he holds responsible for his miserable fate, he loses hope. His psychological death complete, all he has left is to commit his physical one. Yet, there's one more thing keeping Dimitri alive his quest for revenge. He wanted to show Marusia how wrong she was to give up on him, and to destroy Kotov and force him to face himself and the monstrous world he helped build. Dimitri's position as a highly regarded informer provided him with the chance of giving Kotov (a man who once was friends with Stalin himself and unaware that he was now quickly falling out of grace with the fickle leader) the final blow. Dimitri's quest for revenge allows him no scruples about what his actions would do to others, like little Nadya, or her mother Marusia whom he loved and who was only a victim of Kotov's deceit. In the end, Dimitri's suffering turned him from victim into monster this time he doesn't do the job only because he has to, but because he wants to do it, and, in the process, he is willing to hurt innocent people.Besides the artistic excellence of this film, what is amazing is its capability of presenting the multifaceted aspects of human nature, good and bad intertwined with all the gray areas, and how blind faith and deep suffering can destroy someone and ruin a world. Among many other things, this film is a great character study; it depicts two could have been decent men who became monsters, one blinded by his beliefs, the other tortured into it. They are both victims of the world they were a part of, both burnt by the sun of the revolution. As the conflict between Kotov, Dimitri and Marusia develops, we watch it intertwined with regular life - people working, loving, playing, believing in ethics, morals, truth, the future. I think this is a film that talks about how a totalitarian regime is built not only through lies, terror and coercion, but also by silence, half truths, compromise and complacency. It is a memento for any society, communist or otherwise.There is a moment in the film, after Kotov is arrested by the NKVD, as a result of Dimitri's informing, when Kotov is convinced that once his detainers realize who he was they would release him with apologies, but he soon discovers how wrong he was. As he endures the humiliation and beating in the car, he slowly understands the reality of the world he helped building. He begins to weep, then sob, and one can almost see what goes through his mind shock, regret, shame, despair.My comments only scratch the surface of this piece of great cinema. It would take many pages to do this film justice. The screenplay, the acting, the incredible cinematography, the masterful directing of every frame, all crafted this film into a masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Interesting Take on an Important Part of History","Date":"18 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" Russia, 1936 revolutionary hero Colonel Kotov is spending an idyllic summer in his dacha with his young wife and six-year-old daughter Nadia and other assorted family and friends. Things change dramatically with the unheralded arrival of Cousin Dmitri from Moscow, who charms the women and little Nadia with his games and pianistic bravura.Russian history is strange, especially for Americans. Was the end of the monarchy a good thing? How about the rise of Lenin? Or the takeover from Stalin? Depending on who you believe, any of these three could be heroes or demons. This film is set during the rise of Stalin, still a few years off from World War II.How accurate it is, I do not know. But it seems like a nice time to be a Russian. Perhaps even better than today (2015). Or maybe just a good time to be an important military figure. "},{"Title":"Personal Experiences of Burnt by the Sun","Date":"22 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" Burnt by the Sun is a propaganda film made in Russia. Nikita Mikhalkov exemplifies Stalin's reign as a force of terror that destroys all facets of life. The scene is set in the middle 1930s with a seemingly happy family under Stalin's rule. Sergie Kotov is a retired war hero and a very respected man amongst his village peers. Along with Kotov's (nearly) likable character, the movie also followed around a bright orb (sun) that ruined (burned) everything it came near. This orb became a clear metaphor for Stalin's rule. Nikita Mikhalkov's film was released in 1994 but the premise is in the heart of Joseph Stalin's tenure. Literature and movie censorship was at an all-time high during the Stalin era. Russians that made images that negatively portrayed communist Russia were banned all together. Even a film that featured Gary Oldman and Tom Hardy recently (April 2015) was forced to stop production because of negative publicity about the Stalin days. Even though this film does not directly point to Stalin's paranoia there is no mistaking the distaste Mikhalkov had for this time period. This writer enjoyed how Kotov was built up through the storyline. To the everyday civilian, Kotov was very respected but not feared. Not feared in a sense that a nearby villager can interrupt Kotov's day off in order to protect the villages' interests. On the other hand, his wife might hate him but I hear that is a rather common thing nowadays. All in all, the audience could see Kotov as the general 'good guy' of the picture. Kotov was enamored with mother Russia. One could decipher from the dialect that Kotov was a loyalist to his country. Pictures of Kotov and Stalin proudly placed within his home as well as having a personal line directly to Stalin. But his loyalty and years of dedication could not protect Kotov from Stalin.A golden orb was seen thrashing and destroying everything in its path for the duration of the film. The orb is thought to be Stalin's power that stretches as far as the sun can reach. The fireball can be seen traveling from scene to scene; once it came inside a home and destroyed a picture frame (family), a random tree (maybe the environment around you), and even Mitia (oneself). The best characters in the picture were Mitia and Nadia. Mitia was a hot and cold type of character. He was either the most animated character or the most depressing. On the other hand, Nadia stole the show. Nadia brought a liveliness that cannot be matched. It was definitely one of the best child performances on the big screen. Overall, Mikhalkov view on life in the mid 1930s was eye opening and informative. This slow paced film might have been in trouble if it weren't for Nadia's performance. "}{"Title":"A masterpiece of theatrical tragedy unfolding in one summer day.","Date":"29 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" This masterpiece of a psychological drama done in the immediate post-soviet Russia is very hard to review, for fear of saying too much.First let's say that the author clearly wants to give stalinist Russia its due. But there's much more depth to it than that ; this film is first and foremost about destiny, how fate can ruin even the most well-meaning and virtuous lives. It is also about guilt and remorse, in a very subtle way.In 1936, in Soviet Russia's countryside, a Red Army Colonel, loving husband and father of a little daughter, a dignified and proud man, receives a visit from an eccentric, playful and handsome man, to the great joy of the other residents of the house, who know him well, for he had lived in the place many years ago.Through the eyes of the little girl, in the span of one summer day, a drama will unfold...But who is the real culprit? The mysterious man (Oleg Menshikov, who gives a memorable performance!)? The stalinist system? And what about the immaculate Colonel (impeccably played by the Director, Nikita Mikhalkov)? Is he so really virtuous after all? Doesn't he have, he also, a dirty little secret which changes everything?Once again, to say too much would be counter-productive...Just for the immense performance, of Oleg Menshikov, up to its heart-wrenching conclusion, this film is worth watching...A must-see. "},{"Title":"Stalinism Exposed for all its Horrors","Date":"3 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" This is an interestingly broken-backed film. Set during the Stalinist era during one idyllic summer, it begins by contrasting the lives of Dmitriy (Oleg Menshikov) and Sergey (Nikita Mikhailkov) - the one a dilettante musician and pianist, the other a colonel in the Russian army and favorite of the premier. They both have a claim on Marusya (Ingeborg Dapkunaite) Srgey is married to her, and Dmitriy was a former lover of hers. It seems that the film's moral scheme is relatively straightforward Dmitriy is talented but feckless, while Sergey seems virtually untouchable - not only does he have a great career, but he is happily married as well. However director Mikhailkov turns the tables on our expectations and thereby transforms BURNT BY THE SUN into a penetrating analysis of how dictatorships corrupt everyone around them. Concepts of 'good' and 'evil# no longer prevail everyone simply does what it takes in order to survive. The ending is both shocking yet predictable. Visually speaking, the film contrasts the idyllic surroundings of Dmitriy's dacha with the behavior of the protagonists - it seems that no one can actively enjoy the delights of glorious summer weather, for fear of being discovered. Life at that time must have been precarious, with no one actually being sure as to what would happen to them next. BURNT BY THE SUN is slow-moving, but Mikhailkov's camera has an eye for telling detail and significant gestures. Definitely worth watching. "},{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"23 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" The Russia under Stalin was a fascinating world, full of repression and murder. Many wanted to leave and did so, but many remained because they did not have any choice.Was it going to improve over many years? It never did. Soviet Russia stayed oppressive throughout the Communist era. Althghough Soviets achieved a lot, they disregarded human life on the small level. It finally went crumbling down like a house of cards, but it took more then 70 years.This film portrays well Stalin*s purges. Similar purges are conducted today in North Korea, although Russia has a Slav soul, there was a little bit of humanity left even during those times. Nazi Germany was looming in the dark, Stalin was suffering from paranoia. What a film set, and used so well to make this film. Stronglly recommended. "},{"Title":"Burnt by the sun of revolution.","Date":"5 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" It's the year 1936. Russia under the communism rule of Stalin. A group of men were assembling a balloon to honour Stalin, and tanks threatened to destroy the fields. Colonel Kotov swung into action, given the village folk knew the man was once part of the revolution.Also at the same time, things were going well with Colonel Kotov and his wife Marusia and six-year-old daughter Nadya and the other family members and friends. That is until the arrival of the young cousin Dimitri, Marusia's ex-lover. He re-acquainted with everyone in the family and became friends with Nadya.But Colonel Kotov knew something was up with Dimitri's arrival. It is not as simple as it may appear to be, a casual visit and all. The adorable and naive six-year-old Nadya never knew the story behind Dimitri's visit till towards the ending of the film.The ending of the film even tell the audiences what happened to Colonel Kotov and his family after Dimitri's wish has been fulfilled.My knowledge of Russia was on the early days of communism till the end of it which I first learned in my past school's history lessons, so watching the film does help me somehow to understand the events of what was going on under Stalin's rule. What is life like in communist Russia...this film will give an idea. "},{"Title":"A brilliant movie in every sense that will enter your brain and stay with you as you ponder the moral issues it raises.","Date":"26 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  Burnt by the Sun is a great movie for all who know Russian history and for those courageous enough to enter into the time--1936--when Stalin's purges were burning the Russian people of all classes and politics.  The film is beautifully acted and photographed, but what I will remember is the way it captures the characters of more or less ordinary people--individuals who also stand for the class or politics or humanity of various human types.  I especially liked Kotov's statement that a human being always has a moral choice, and that some choose out of fear, and some out of love of country.  The movie also shows how a person of despicable character can be quite charming.  We are lucky if we have not had to face such choices.    "},{"Title":"A very interesting movie with some very fine acting and an interesting story","Date":"15 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" I admit that I had some doubts about this movie, since I'm not too familiar with the Russian cinema. I've only seen Sibirskiy tsiryulnik or The Barber of Siberia as it is called in English. That movie wasn't bad, but certainly wasn't great either. I feared that this one would offer the same mix of slapstick-like humor and drama. But this certainly wasn't the case and this movie actually made me look forward to more Russian movies.In the summer of 1936, the revolutionary hero Colonel Kotov is spending an idyllic summer in his dacha with his young wife and six-year-old daughter Nadia, other family members and friends. Everything seems to be perfect, until Dmitri or Mitya as he is called most of the time, returns from Moscow unannounced, shocking the idyllic picture. He is able to charm the women and little Nadia with his games and by playing the piano, but Kotov knows better. Dmitri works for the NKVD and that his visit has nothing to do with seeing some old friends again...I must say that in the beginning I thought my worst fears about this movie were coming true. I had the feeling that this was another movie that tried very hard not to be taken very serious. But that was only in the beginning. Once you get to see how the tension between Mitya and the other members of the family and in particular with Marusia builds up, how Mitya struggles with his inner demons, how he has to make sure that the others don't know what is going on,... this movie started to become a lot more interesting for me. So much even, that I really started to like it a lot.Another reason why I liked it so much was the fact that the acting by all the actors was so nice. Oleg Menshikov was excellent in his role of Dimitri, Nikita Mikhalkov was very good as Colonel Kotov and Ingeborga Dapkunaite very nice as his wife. But if I have to pick one actor that I liked the most, than I choose the young and amazing Nadezhda Mikhalkova. She was so perfectly convincing in her role as the young Nadya that she made me completely forget about the fact that she was acting in this movie. What she did in this movie felt all so natural and real, that from time to time she almost made me forget about the other actors.Overall this is a very nice movie about an interesting chapter in the Russian history. The fact that a movie that deals with Stalin's repression and paranoia and the many murders performed in his name, is capable of doing so without really showing any graphic violence but only gives hints, is just wonderful. It takes the viewer serious by leaving him / her the chance to think for him- / herself and doesn't have to show every little detail in order to make it become some easy entertainment. I really appreciated that a lot and that's why I give this movie a rating in between 7.5/10 and 8/10. "},{"Title":"From russia with love (2/10)","Date":"19 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  Maybe I'm being unfair in giving this movie the thumbs down. If you're interested in russian history, literature or films you will definitely enjoy this. I watched this with a russian friend and neither of us could stop ourselves from finding some excuse to put off finishing the tape. The oscar committee must have been hard up for a good foreign film if this one won the oscar that year. "},{"Title":"mirror of East","Date":"29 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" or only testimony. or homage. a film in which Tchekov nuances are parts of a profound terrible lesson about values. about duty, about cowardice, about roots and fruits of love, about little things of life, about games as shadows and idealism as cage. about heroism and expectations. about death and power of sacrifice. about limits and beauty. about innocence and a cruel maleficent time. about portrait of a man. and its mark as mirror of a lost East.sure, a masterpiece. with many definitions. gorgeous images, Mikhalkov science of details, music, great cast, delicate questions. but its value is more subtle. it is art to create a drawing. a perfect image of a tragedy out of words, image, imagination. to make a gift to an universe for who the past is almost fiction. to reflect a present not very different by this hideous portrait. for say the Truth. as aura in a summer. behind the presence of a very familiar stranger. his words. his games. his mission. his death. letters of an old tale. about truth, faith and happiness. few money. and silhouette of Juda. a tale. same colors in a mirror. a mirror of East. "},{"Title":"Soak up the sun","Date":"12 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" Like the Italian film Life Is Beautiful which came three years later, Burnt by the Sun is an excellent foreign movie combining humour and colourful characters to depict tragedy in the first half of the twentieth century. Burnt focuses on Russia in 1936, just before the Great Purge. This movie isn't as funny as the beginning of Life Is Beautiful, but some whimsical discussion is heard of summer Santas and wizards; there's piano playing with a gas mask; there's a question about leaving the zoo. But this is a mostly serious movie. It shows a very close relationship between a Russian colonel, Kotov, and his young daughter Nadya. Then it bluntly shows Kotov being arrested, torn from her life. In this way, Burnt by the Sun reveals the human tragedy of Stalin's paranoia and purges.There's more- though Kotov is a man destroyed by the Soviet Union, the unfortunate irony is that he was actually a patriotic and loyal Soviet. The scene where he and his daughter are on a boat underlines that fact, and makes what happens later look tragically needless.I first saw this gem in a university class on the Soviet Union. It came with a disclaimer from the professor that sending people to summer homes of Stalin's victims was not the way the Purges were really done. Like Life Is Beautiful, we have to bend realism a bit, but it's worth it. I'm not sure if this movie needed the mysterious orb of light; when I saw it hovering over a field, I asked my professor if it was going to make a crop circle. Actually it was just symbolism. The ball of light and the sun mentioned in the title are the Russian Revolution, and this movie is about people burnt by it. Equating the Revolution to something warm and bright makes me wonder if the Revolution is seen in this movie as a mostly good thing; but this movie shows there were also negative consequences. Orb of light or no orb of light, this movie is still memorable and wonderful. "},{"Title":"A human portrayal of the Purges.","Date":"24 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" The story takes place in the summer of 1936 as the purges begin in the Soviet Union. The main character is a war hero and commander Komdiv Sergei Kotov who is spending the day with his family. The day is interrupted by the appearance of Dmitri, an old boyfriend of Kotov's wife Marroussia. The tension in the movie is not just from the emergence of Dmitri, but also that Dmitri works for the Soviet leadership and has been ordered to remove threats to the communist revolution, hence the dedication to all of those who were burnt by the revolution.The movie offers a humanistic look at the Purges and what they took from those who were affected by them. The movie does fail in explaining what the purges are, so some background reading on the historical events involving the purges and the rule of Stalin will give the viewer a deeper understanding of what the events and the tragedy of the movie. "}{"Title":"Haunting- a permanent burnt mark","Date":"3 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  Although I must admit that my knowledge upon Russian history is not enough, I nevertheless do know certain facts about the era of the Stalin repression. There is not much I can say, since I've just pointed out that I'm far from being an expert, but one thing I can tell- this film overwhelms me.Col Kotov (Nikita Mikhalkov, also the director and co-writer) is spending a carefree summer with his much younger wife Marusia (Ingeborga Dapkunaite) and their six-year-old daughter Nadya (Nadezhda Mikhalkova, Mikhalkov's daughter in real life), along with their family and friends. Everything seems perfect, until the unexpected arrival of the old lover of Marusia, Dimitri, aka Mitya (Oleg Menshikov), who comes with a warning for Col Kotov. Then the film turns into a tragedy.WARNING SPOILERS AHEADThe rising of the giant portray of Stalin in the air symbolises the shadow which eventually consumes Col Kotov's life (and many others'). His wife and daughter are also arrested, and later Nadya is released. Because of such dire consequences, Dimitri chooses to kill himself. Totalitarianism was just horrifying- repression, suppression and oppression. Dimitri's and Marusia's love is ruined by Col Kotov, who gives Dimitri two choices- working for the government or die- what a love triangle.As the ending statements tell the fate of Col Kotov, his wife and daughter, we see little Nadya runs freely in the field, which is an extremely poignant scene- as Nadya, Nadezhda Mikhalkova delivered an absolutely impressive performance at such a tender age. 'Burnt by the Sun'/ 'Utomlyonnye solntsem' is a haunting grand piece of work.        "},{"Title":"Such music!","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  Burnt by the Sun is an exquisitely, excruciatingly lyric piece.  The performances by (and the dance between) the actors playing Mitya, Kotov and enchanting small Nadya are of the highest caliber.  I was moved so much by the beauty in this film - it is only heightened by the grief. "},{"Title":"A film that burns all","Date":"20 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  The extraordinary acting, directing, cinematography, and storyline place it among the greatest Russian films ever made.  Its accurate account of Stalin's regime of terror are shown both on the political and personal level.  This film, for all those who know the whole story behind Stalinist Russia and how it treated its citizens, will truely understand the significance of this film for understanding Russian history and for seeing a great film. "},{"Title":"Subtitles...","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  A. The title - the correct translation is Exhausted by the Sun. Okay... Samurai X might seem to some rather tasteless people as a cooler title than Rurouni Kenshin - and why the hell was this done? B. I can't understand why Sony felt the need to mess up the song as well A tired sun gently said goodbye to the sea; At that hour you admitted that there is no love between us... C. Cursing wasn't added, but it was strengthened God damn your mother converted to the f-word, exc. D. These two I'm not sure about, but I think there was an untranslated phrase and another phrase that was supposed to approve a statement, but instead denied it - both quite unimportant. E. The movie itself ruled. F. You will not dub this movie. You will not dub this movie. You will not dub this movie. You will not dub this movie. You are getting sleepy... sleepy... slee... *snore*Anyway, with this sub, I wouldn't trust anyone to dub it. "},{"Title":"Brilliant analysis of the Great Terror from an idealist's POV.","Date":"24 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  The film shows the heroic Bolshevik Comrade Colonel Totov, and his blind idealism in the face of the grim reality of Stalin's purges of the State. Well acted, it showed how normal life, even for a hero, could continue in a state we, in the West, knew little about. The scene where Dmitri is playing French can-can music, to Sergei's annoyance as it was bourgeois, and not Russian, struck me as showing the nationalistic devotion of the society known as Old Bolsheviks. Learning more about the Terror, we realize how people like Totov were at risk; even Lenin's widow Nadzedah Krupsankya was at risk of receiving Stalin's ire. All in all, a great film about a troubled period. "},{"Title":"Warm tribute to the director's daughter","Date":"16 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  Burnt by the Sun pays warm tribute to a Russian summer in the sun, pastoral yet blind to the coming upheavals of Stalinism. Even higher tribute is paid to the character of Nadya, a six year old who loves life and everyone around her but especially loves, and is loved by, her father.  Director Nikita Mikhalkov paints all of the main characters and their inter-relations with charming strokes, but especially in the father-daughter relationship portrayed by himself and his own daughter Nadezhda.  Mikhalkov has a similar quality tribute, and further focus to the upheavals in Russian history, in Anna 6 to 18. "},{"Title":"The Nikita Mikhalkovs best film","Date":"15 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  This film have all the genres.Drama,poetry,tragedy,and much more in this moving film deserved of the Oscar to Best Foreign Language Film in 1995.With a beauty story and a marvelous starrings this is the Nikita Mikhalkovs best film and one of the best film of this time. My opinionBrilliant russian movie. "},{"Title":"Very good drama","Date":"20 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  I have seen this film a fiew years ago. It was recommended in a Belgian magazine (P-magazine, former Belgian Panorama). I like drama a lot. It's some time ago that I've seen this film, but I remember the contence and that I found it very good. Actually I am looking for a videorental company that has it because I moved from Kortrijk to Eindhoven. I don't know any better Russian film. Go and see this film.  "},{"Title":"Second to none","Date":"8 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  This film not only deserved the Oscar it got for Best Foreign Film, it deserved the Oscar for Best Picture.  A film as powerful and revealing and complex as Burnt by the Sun only goes to expose the often-times underachieving American film industry.  This film is without a doubt among the very best that I have ever seen, and I would encourage every single person who enjoys watching films to hunt this one down.  "},{"Title":"Powerful","Date":"27 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  I saw this film in St. Petersburg, Russia with a group of Russian friends, some of whom were old enough to have parents affected by what the film deals with. All I can say is that I have not seen many films that deal with such brutal subject matter so powerfully (Schindler's List, maybe the first twenty minutes of Saving Private Ryan). Anyway, this film is top notch and deserved the Best Foreign Film Oscar it received. Marvellous. "}{"Title":"Thankyou! Nikita Mikhalkov, Great Movie.","Date":"27 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" Burnt by the sun is one of those rare movies which take the viewers by complete surprise by the time it enters climax scenes. For more than first half of the movie we see a highly decorated Russian officer in his summer house with his family spending his day off in bath, beaches, playing football, dancing. During this time, an unexpected guest arrive in the house but then soon we know who he is and how he is connected to this house (although we don't know why he is there) and we again are lost in a lazy summer day in Russia listening to stories, songs, dancing. Then as we move on story starts to unfold before us and we are for a shock, especially last ten minutes, which for me, was one of the most powerful and harsh realization of history on cinema ever. It completely took me off guard after watching movie till that point, although there was this element that something is gonna happen, but I by no means expected this. As a viewer, I was lost for most part with so much peace around and little interference of the government in the movie that I forget not just what period it is set in, but the place too, as we are use to seeing the kind of Russian life during revolution and war times which is nothing but tragic. I guess movie did it part in not just portraying troubled soviet history but very convincingly showed us that even though people might have done bad deeds but during those period it was safe that way for them and their family. For them it was all about survival,living was secondary, but I can only guess as in current time I don't have to worry about survival but I worry about living. I sincerely salute every soul who lived through that sad period of history.Acting wise all actors were good but I must admit the little Nadya was amazing as the daughter of Nikita Mikhalkov colonel's daughter (she is his real life daughter) and she impresses us with her innocence, cuteness and boldness at times with elders (not rudeness, its just innocence of a child) throughout the movie. The scenes between Nadya and her father are one of the best aspects of the movie. Direction is top class. Music suits to the mood of the movie. Highly Recommended!! "},{"Title":"Blinded by the sun...","Date":"16 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" Blind faith in anything is dangerous; it can come back to haunt you in a big way- as it does the character(s) in this movie. I've lived my life questioning everything. Or, as the Greeks put it Believe none of what you hear and half of what you see. It's gotten me this far. Still, to this very day, I know people who have put total, blind faith in institutions as ephemeral as politics and religion. Fool's games, if you ask me, one and all. Like the belief in fairy tales. BURNT BY THE SUN is an object lesson in believing in things you don't really understand. It's okay to think that you've seen the light; it's quite another to be blinded by it. "},{"Title":"Lurking terror - That last Sunday in the house of the famous Soviet Army colonel","Date":"19 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" Nikita Michakow's film became an event of the European cinema season. It won an Oscar and a runner-up in Cannes. It fascinated the Russian audience and it ended up on cinema screens of tens of countries. Whatsmore it caused conflicts and arguments like no other Russian film in the 90's.The chosen point of view is actually surprising itself. It is the summer of 1936. Terror of Stalin is gathering a plentiful harvest. Meanwhile, we fill with the taste of the idyllic country life in an old aristocratic nest. Today it is a Moscow house of a legendary hero of the civil war - colonel of the Soviet Army Kotov (played dashingly by the director himself). The plebeian, loyal the Stalin and the tenet, lives here with a younger wife Marusia (Ingeborga Dapkunaite), her relatives from an aristocratic, professor family that melancholicly look back at the aroma of the older days before the revolution, and his beloved sic-year-old daughter Nadia (Nadia Michakowa, the daughter of Nikita. The lazy days fly. The are filled with baths in the river, voyages with a boat, walks near the fields of grown wheat, talks and little argues at the table covered with taste. To this sanctuary hidden under the wings of the impudent comrade Kotov's authority suddenly comes Mitia (Oleg Mieszykow). He's Marusia's old love. A talented pianist and an ex white emigrant. Suddennly the facts from the past are uncovering. Family secrets. Deeply hidden feelings. And we're almost ready to accept a love story with a classical marriage triangle. But Michakow prepares us another, most important surprise. The comfort and calmness of this world's life turn out to be a naive illusion in that surprise's sinister light. Innocent gestures, behaviors and foolishnesses turn out to be a grim masquerade. The aura of a holiday carelessness gives place for tragedy.The director tell all of this very suggestively, with a lot of liberty and talent, with plastically taste and taking care of every detail. He perfectly associate Czechov's auras with the grotesque of the Soviet customs and rituals. He unites the ironic distance with the lyricism of his own memories from childhood. Memories from his house where his mother, a writer and a translator tried to develop the spiritual traditions of the Russian intelligence under a shielding umbrella of his father, a story-writer and a political worker, the author of the Stalinian anthem of the Soviet Union. In Russia it was said about Kotov that he was neither Frunze nor Tuchaczewski. The origin of Mitia was assigned to Siergiej Efron who was the husband of the poet, Marina Cwietajewa. Michakov assured that all characters are made up except for Katia Mochowa who was a reproduction of his mother's faithful servant. The cold analysis of the film led the critics to a statement that the director idealizes Kotov by hiding his own work from the 20's. He never gives information about Kotov's dedication to the terror of which he has been one of the creators. There is a lot of truth in there, but the film is not a historical debate. He doesn't say who is good or who should be forsaken (the phrases from the film state we were all guilty or can you forsake people whose faith, hope and love were stolen?). He tries to catch a single situation from a summer of 1936. The situation from a very well-known house. He neither gives a prologue to that situation nor he is building his characters' life backwards. Those empty spaces of the characters' life are left for the audience to think about. The symbolic meaning of the round thunder that crawls around the house being a untouchable witness of the happenings is also left for the audience's imagination. "},{"Title":"'Everyone was burnt by the sun of the Bolshevik Revolution'","Date":"28 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" Clearly one of the most visually stunning, intelligent, sophisticated films about life in Russia during the Stalinist years, BURNT BY THE SUN is an experience all lovers of fine film-making should see. Directed and starring Nikita Mikhalkov who also co-wrote the screenplay with Rustam Ibragimbekov, this film allows us entry into the inside stories of Russia under Stalin. It is an emotionally devastating tale.On the grounds of his dacha in 1936 revolutionary hero Colonel Kotov (Nikita Mikhalkov) cavorts in his sauna with his young daughter Nadya (Nadezhda Mikhalkova) and his elegantly beautiful young wife Marusia (Ingeborga Dapkunaite). Outside on the lawn is the rest of Kotov's family in a peaceful, sun-drenched summer garden, drinking, singing, and blissfully enjoying life in the country. On the vast horizon is a group of men assembling a balloon to honor Stalin, and a group of army tanks treads onto the wheat fields threatening to destroy the crops. The townsfolk workers run for Kotov to rescue the situation, underlining the fact the Kotov is their hero from the revolution, much loved and respected. Abruptly onto the scene comes the handsome young cousin Dimitri/Mitya (Oleg Menshikov), an ex-lover of Kotov's wife. He ingratiates himself with Nadia and the rest of the family as a pianist and singer, but there is a note of evil lurking. Kotov understands the threat that Mitya's arrival indicates, that he has been betrayed and has become one of the many to be purged by Stalin. But the life in the dacha remains leisurely and elegant until the fateful end when Mitya's mission is fulfilled. The film ends with phrases telling us about the destinies of Kotov and his family up to the end of the purge after Stalin's death.The story is history the telling is art. Blest with a cast of extraordinary luminosity, Nikita Mikhalkov directs this tale of repression with style and leisurely pacing, such as allowing for moments at table when one of the grandmothers sings an aria from Puccini's 'Madama Butterfly', an aria whose text foreshadows the future of the story. It is this contrast between the residual classy elegance of Russia before the revolution and the gritty reality of the cruelty of Stalinism that makes the film so resonant. The cinematography by Vilen Kalyuta and the musical score by Eduard Artemyev enhance the film immeasurably. In Russian and French with English subtitles. Highly Recommended. Grady Harp "},{"Title":"100% conjuncture","Date":"13 July 2008","Score":"11 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" The events shown in the movie are true. Those who are not Russian i.e. do not live in Russia and do not know the subject well, may rate this movie highly. Let them do this, it's not their fault. They do not know the subject well and anything about the movie director and the environment he was brought up in. They do not know anything of the family that he was born in and brought up as well. All his masterpieces created after the Perestroika are 100% show off and conjuncture and considered for the European/American audience; however this fact is clear to mostly Russian audience only. Hopefully, this will be recognized by everybody in the world one day. "},{"Title":"Maybe it's just me","Date":"25 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" When an old friend shows up at a family in Russia in 1936, at the very beginning of the great terror of the people by the Communist regime, it costs them their happiness. Eventually. Really, almost all of this is just steeped in that glee. A solid hour of this passes with nothing at all happening. And not much does take place after that. I have no problem with character development, but this has far too many roles for us to remember even half of them, and it doesn't seem like it's important, other than to emphasize that they are, well, all there, and all in a good mood. And this has a lot of noise, with singing, cheering and in general, you can hear something much of the time. This is filmed well, and the acting tends to be convincing. It shows what it was like back then, if it is a tad, well, covered in a sugary glaze considering what it's about. Charm? Sure. This does have occasional compelling imagery, as well. I suppose that this is like other movies from France, but I know that they can look straight in the eye of something negative, also, and I think it would have fit better to do so here, as well. There is sexuality, language and bloody, disturbing violence(mostly not shown) in this. I recommend this to, well, fans of this kind of thing. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Stalin's destruction.","Date":"29 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  1936 and Stalin's paranoia sends a disturbed young man to infiltrate the gathering of old friends to take away the charming hero of the revolution, Kotov. This film at first sucks you into a sense of security and joy as we spend the day with the family and town life, until the dirty politics slowly slides in for the finale. The relationship between father and daughter, (played by Nikita and his real life daughter Nadia), sets the strong emotional bond that the rotten Stalin never bothered to care about in the human condition.  "},{"Title":"Nikita Mikhalkov is clearly Russia's version of Steven Spielberg.","Date":"23 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" Nikita Mikhalkov won an Oscar for Utomlyonnye solntsem (called Burnt by the Sun in English). He plays revolutionary hero Sergei Kotov, living a sedate life in the countryside with his wife Marusia (Ingeborga Dapkunaite), daughter Nadya (Nadezhda Mikhalkova, Nikita's real-life daughter), and some friends in 1936. One day, Marusia's ex lover Mitya (Oleg Menshikov) arrives at the dacha, apparently for a visit. This guy knows how to charm everyone, which he certainly does here. But as he stays, Sergei not only becomes jealous of him, but it becomes clear that he didn't come just to be social it's the era of Stalin's purges, and Mitya is working for the NKVD, the Soviet secret police.In my class Twentieth Century Russian Literature & Film here in Lewis & Clark College, we ask some questions about the movies that we watch (who wins? who loses? who dies? who is happy?). Here, there are two possibilities for the winner it could be Stalin, just because he's so successful at mass genocide and his picture gets gloriously carried around by the balloon; or it could be Nadya, because the message at the end identifies that she eventually got exonerated (and, let's face it, Stalin is long since discredited). I would say that Kotov loses he acts on his beliefs - like when he stops the tanks from destroying the field - which get betrayed by Stalin. Many people die Marusia is betrayed, the truck driver is in the wrong place at the wrong time, and Mitya feels guilty (he's not cynical enough to live on). Nadya is clearly happy a naive, adored six-year-old, she gets anything that she wants (she even gets to drive), although she will eventually have to learn the ugly truth about everything.All in all, this is truly a masterpiece. As the end makes clear, it is dedicated to all who were burnt by the sun of revolution (the movie even features what looks like a miniature sun going around burning things).It's also come to my attention that they're making a sequel to this. I try to imagine how they would continue the story; maybe it features Nadya going all Rambo on Stalin. Just kidding, I'm sure that it doesn't have that. But I will be eager to see it. "},{"Title":"Burned by the Sun Incredible, multi-layered, unforgettable film","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  I have come back to this incredible movie time and time again. It delicately and brilliantly balances so many layers of life, all perfectly blended and flowing to the inevitable outcome. Firmly yet subtly set in a specific historical period, which it portrays  like no other movie (or a book) I have experienced. Unlike many a movie about this or other subjects, it's not a single note exercise (drama, romance etc) but conveys richness of life as we all know it to be under all possible well, suns. Lyrical and passionate loves between father and daughter, husband and wife, wife and a lover; humour - rich, both character and situation based, drama and suspense, horror and brutality of life, so life-like, and yet so symbolic.All this and so much more. It's an enriching experience. Everyone I recommended the movie to has been watching it again and again - just like I have. "},{"Title":"show business conjuncture.","Date":"12 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  Come on, people. This movie was done right after Gorbachev started the Perestrojka in Russia. Did Mr. Mikhalkov know about the so-called `Stalinizm' in Russia 63 years ago, didn't he? Why did he make his movie only at this particular time? Because it was very popular and profitable($)to make such movies after archived documents were released. A lot of violence, weeping, and a little bit of love - you will find all this in every movie about the Stalinizm. An of course, the tyranny of Stalin - it is behind the screen everywhere. This movie is not the only one that shows the horror of Stalinizm. It does not raise any questions and does not provide any solutions. It shows what everybody already knows (in Russia). People, who survived in camps in 1937 - 1953 are still alive, God bless them. They brought up the truth about Stalinizm and released it to people long ago before Perestrojka started. How many Russian movie directors do you know? You know only those, who can find sponsors to pay for their movies, it does not mean they are all talented. Where were all these smart movie directors before Perestrojka? How brave is everybody now! They show us the horror of the Stalinizm when it is allowed! This is called a Conjuncture. I do not appreciate any conjuncture in the show business. "}{"Title":"The filmmaker's goal is to show the toll that a repressive political regime can exact on the lives of individual citizens.","Date":"18 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" That rarity Burnt By The Sun is a film that feels as if the people who made it lived through the period it describes. During an idyllic summer in the mid-1930s Russia, a flamboyant colonel's (Nikita Mikhalkov) household is thrown into turmoil by the arrival of a figure from the past.The ugly betrayals of the Stalin era are documented in as pretty and lulling as any picture to have emerged from Russia in recent times; an advanced degree of historical and political scholarship may be required to grasp all the film's resonances. Burnt By The Sun received the Grand Prize at the 1994 Cannes Film Festival and the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film, among many other honours. "},{"Title":"A superb experience","Date":"26 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  I just wanted to mention how much I liked this movie and how much I enjoyed it not only because of the cinematography, I also liked the music, the acting and the sweetness that surrounded the rawness with which Mikhalkov reviewed the subject. The whole movie has a unique ambiance. If you are considering renting or buying it, do it, you will not be disappointed. I also enjoyed the soundtrack very much. "},{"Title":"A Wonderful movie","Date":"28 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" A Wonderful story in a perfect movie.It presents all the fears and all the violence of stalin Russia.A movie filmed with great poetry and sensibility - the character of Nadya is delicious and Kotov is fascinating, Mitya is at the same time charming and terrifying. A GREAT MOVIE! thanks Kotov... I say... Nikita "},{"Title":"This is a great movie!","Date":"8 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  Once i saw this movie i was thinking what were they having in the shower room? And then the story goes on when i finally notice the director was nadya's father and soldier. About to the last part i was little sad how the mitya died or i should say suicide. "},{"Title":"Interesting, and beautiful to watch. But nothing more.","Date":"29 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" I'd never actually seen an Academy Award Best Foreign Language winner until I saw this and my hopes were pretty high. I have to say I was a little disappointed. Firstly, the film was beautiful to watch. The locations really showed off the sheer beauty of Russia (I presume it was shot in Russia, and secondly the whole thing really did feel like a piece of art- carefully crafted and lovingly put together. I applaud the making of. However, the acting quality was inconsistent. Mikhalkov was very good at the lovable uncle Jo figure. Every moment he was on screen his presence felt commanding despite the kind jolly figure he played. I think that Oleg Menshikov stole the show. His portrayal of a bitter, vengeful man started off very subtle until he built it into something of a madman at the end, was brilliant. Mikhalkova was also wonderful to watch as the young girl, innocent and sweet, yet curious and smart. I do feel that some of the supporting cast were a little pointless, a few of them need not have been there perhaps, it added to the confusion of the film. Next, the story was really gripping, once it got going. I have no problem with a film starting slow and moving and a slow pace but this film of just over 2 hours felt like well over 2 and a half. I did thing the story was really interesting and once I got into it I really did feel the terror of Stalin's brutal regime. It was also an interesting film morally, I constantly felt myself drawn between the two main characters, not sure who to root for, which I felt was wrong because it was kind of obvious, I felt, who was supposed to be the villain. The ending also felt a little odd. With all of the build up that finally got going I felt that the ending was too underwhelming. I felt a little let down, I kind of got the message about Stalin but I felt that after all the build up it kind of didn't go anywhere. It was still a really good film and well worth watching for the performance of the leads and the scenery. "},{"Title":"My 309th Review The heart both sings and breaks every time I watch this - an extraordinarily evocative film","Date":"22 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" Burnt By the Sun is probably one of the greatest films of post-war Russian cinema. It is at first sight a wonderful, joyful, beautiful evocation of the perfect summer. It is filled with wonderful characters, laughter, joy and those small touches that make it a real joy to watch - yet behind this facade lie the darker side of the Soviet dream.The plot of the arrival at the Artist's Commune of a long gone Mitya, who is a talented handsome man with a dark secret, by the end of the film you will be heartbroken, broken, and left to ponder how many contrasts Mother Russia has.An extraordinary film that overbrims with ideas and character Burnt By The Sun remains one of the great films of world cinema that anyone who is in any way serious about film should see - but more than that it is a joy to watch - great, great performances and story and a wonderful film about Russia. "},{"Title":"Don't waste your time","Date":"14 August 2013","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" Finally KGB colonel Mihalkov shows his real face !In this awful movie, we see a good (!?!?) Bolshevik colonel, in... 1936 !Since 1933 till 1936, only in Ukraine, more than THREE MILLIONS died by starvation, because of these 'good' or bad Bolsheviks ! How many of the Russian elite died in the so called 'revolution' and the years that follows ? Ten millions ? 15 ? 20 millions ?How many Baltics, Moldavians, Caucasians or central Asia people died in Siberia camps, Ural or Arctic mines ? How many hundreds thousands of land workers, engineers, teachers, lawyers ?All the high Bolsheviks were bloody criminals, without exception, starting with Lenin, Trotski or Stalin.See also their children Mao, Kim Ir Sen, Fidel, Ceausescu, Enver Hodja, Pol Pot etc etc.Try 2 serious movies about the reds Soviet Story, 2008 or Katyn, 2007. "},{"Title":"Not 'historically authentic' but nice","Date":"13 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" This movie is a nice one. But it's not 'historically authentic' at all. For example, the scene of murder of witness (truck driver) by 'bloody NKVD members'. If you want to know, NKVD didn't kill anyone without written resolution (based on trial results). But of course Mr. Mikhalkov wanted to show that bloody NKVD and Stalin killed everyone without special investigations. But in general the movie is nice. It'll be interesting to see the next movie, but I fear it will be much more pathetic and much less 'historically authentic'. Mikhalkov hates Stalin and want to persuade everyone that 1930-s were bloody and terrible times, unlike times of Tsar (see Siberia Barber) and all this political issues. Mikhalkov is in the court circle, he shoots films ordered by acting political power. "},{"Title":"overrated exploitation of Stalin's theme","Date":"14 February 1999","Score":"8 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  This is another example in a long line of movies made by N. Mikhalkov who always tries to please the international film market. While you can't say that he is unsuccessful (quite the opposite), his movies look crafted, not created. It seems that Mikhalkov is very envious of his brother, Andron Konchalovsky, who is a really good filmmaker (Tango & Cash notwithstanding). Usually, Mikhalkov uses Russian classic literature, such as Chekhov or Turgenev, or well-known topics, such as Stalinism to generate interest in his movies . This movie is an example of the latter.  If you are interested in Stalinism as a period, go ahead - watch it, but if you like really good movies, skip it and pick up something by Konchalovsky instead. Oscar's foreign film committee should have made a better choice.  "},{"Title":"One of the Best Russian Films","Date":"14 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" Next to War and Peace and Russian Ark this film is very good. -Spoiler Ahead- The film Burnt by the Sun won an Oscar and takes place during the Great Purges. The film covers a day in which one of the leadership in the Soviet military, Kotov is going to be purged. During the purges, Stalin eliminated hundreds of his best men in the military, which is probably why the Russian military is as bad as it is now from the Afghan War in the eighties to the wars in Chechnya. So the film accounts how great Kotov is as a military leader and how he bonds with his family. In addition, his wife Marusia had a love affair with a man by the name of Dmitri prior to meeting Kotov. As such, Dimitri visits the family, because he will be the one that implements the purge of Kotov and the family. For the purges didn't stop at the individual, but the whole family was purged. As a result of Dmitri's actions he takes his own life at the end of the film. In the end, the film is very telling of the emotions that are played out during the Great Purges and it had good acting as well. "}{"Title":"A real life 1984","Date":"4 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" It's 1936, the inception of the Stalin purges of the party faithful. the stock of real counter - revolutionaries has run thin and the party is on the chopping block. The image of Stalin is everywhere floating on balloons dancing on the clouds across the countryside.The Colonel, an old comrade of the Big Feller, is summering at his dacha when the boogie men pay a call. The Colonel is red all over. A sandlot soccer game in the old cribbage court starts with the International. Soccer is the preferred Socialist game because says the Colonel everyone can play. And the Colonel is sure to remind all of his close personal ties to The Boss.The Colonel knows the boogie men haven't made a social call but still tries to bluff his way out.Can he? An excellent film BURNT BY THE SUN conveys the uncertainty of life in the police state. "},{"Title":"a good personal view of the evil of Stalinist Russia","Date":"28 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" There have been many documentaries describing the mass torture, starvation and murder of the Russians during the reign of Stalin. This film is unusual in that it really only centers on a TINY portion of the horror--in this case a beloved hero of the 1917 revolution and his family. He is a paragon of the community and seems to be a decent man down deep and he has a lovely family (though I was a bit confused by his relationship with his young wife--this was the only poorly written portion of the movie). The film begins with the family on vacation in their Dacha, when, unexpectedly, an old boyfriend from the wife's past shows. He is a charming and talented musical entertainer and much of the film then centers on his relationship with the daughter (who looks about 7 years-old). Where the film goes from there and the betrayals and tragedies I won't describe--it would spoil the film. However, it is important to note that you'll come to really care about the characters and their fates. "},{"Title":"About As Entertaining As Stalin","Date":"2 March 2007","Score":"13 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" This was another of those Academy Award-winning films in which you just shake your head in amazement, wondering what they saw in this film to be honored so much.Oh, sure this had some merit, such as the pretty cinematography but the story itself was so boring that I found it nearly impossible to finish. It's over two hours long and almost nothing happens, plus most of the characters are just downright stupid.Basically, it's the story about the life of a common man under the totalitarianism regime of Stalin. Even describing it is boring! Hey, this isn't something we have to watch in a classroom it's supposed to be entertainment and this is about as entertaining as Stalin himself. "},{"Title":"Good film, ridiculously exaggerating and lying plot. Some truths below...","Date":"4 November 2007","Score":"8 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" Taken that you know nothing of Soviet history you'll easily believe everything you see in the movie. BUT someone who has a better knowledge of the situation can get some things straight. 1.The purges were what? Anyone who'd speak in opposition to the regime would be imprisoned, executed, e.t.c.? WRONG! Anyone who was proved to act against the people's benefit and interest was taken in. And that included a)Government officers who were abusing their power, or not serving the people as they should b)Counter-revolutionists. You won't believe me, but there were many. Since 1922 when the soviet regime replaced the tsarist regime. The very reason that NKVD existed was for uprooting the counter-revolutionists, who were acting exactly like terrorist groups. c)Former tsarist officers and familiars. They were given the choice to live as the rest of the people. Most chose not to and cowardly left the country. Some others stayed in the country and in secrecy became spies to the western bourgeois. A small minority of them gave up on land and power and became part of the peopleTo be accurate, during the first semester of 1937 when the purge began, there were many innocent people falsely accused and ended up imprisoned or executed. And don't haste to blame the insane dictator Stalin for that. In most cases it went like this the local commissars included in the lists people they had personal differences with, the only member of the Central Commitee of the Party being aware of that being none other than Nikita Khruschev, who had been undermining Stalin from the beginning, and was cunning enough for his deeds to escape Stalin's attention. Letters of complains regarding arrests of innocents were being sent to the Party HQ, none of them to reach Stalin himself (again, Khruschev responsible for that). Until one letter was sent to Stalin himself. Stalin took action himself. The kept letters were found and the local officers were imprisoned in place of the innocent ones who were lucky to escape execution. When Stalin passed away Khruschev came to power and replaced the government officers with his own trusting people, who forcefully took out of prison especially for that cause. The fall of USSR had just began...That's something you'd never learn from your information sources and media. Bourgeois like those that rule the countries you live were never more afraid of the ones who established a worker's regime. During the Lenin and Stalin era the soviet people became educated, was receiving medication to the maximum availability point (the medicines available then were extremely fewer in comparison with today), had food and were being paid well. During Stalin the people's expectations took form. Take the extremely diligent preparation for the WW2 and you'll understand why Stalin was a fatherly figure to the soviet people. In short, yes, you have been taught almost nothing but lies regarding Stalin. And that movie does nothing more that showing the world what the ones who can afford that kind of propaganda think about Stalin. Do not make the mistake to consider their opinion as historical facts.I'm accepting emails if anyone wants to discuss anything about it "}]