[{"Title":"White as a wedding gown, as a dove...","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"83 out of 96 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Ostensibly Kieslowski chose white of the French flag to make a movie on equality. Equality if it can be reached in marriage, makes it work. Marriage is rocked when an equilibrium is not reached. A dove can be caressed and be a symbol of peace and purity; a dove can defecate and dirty as wellWhite in the movie is used as an epiphany of the joyous moments in marriage. The doves are weaved in Kieslowski visually and aurally to accentuate the marriage as a rite of passage in life. He brings in the phrase light at the end of the tunnel towards the end of the film. There is another marriage, that of Mikolaj in the subplot that also survives in a strange way.The film begins with divorce proceedings and ends with the wife signalling the reinstatement of the wedding ring on her finger. The film begins with husband recalling the wedding that has failed. The doves flying overhead unload excreta on him. Towards the end of the film, the husband again recalls the wedding as he sets off for the wife's prison.Kieslowski's treatise on equality is based on marriage as a great leveller with the doves flutter captured on the soundtrack appearing as a frequent reminder of marital bonds. It even appears in the underground metro, an unlikely place if you have a logical mind. You have to throw away logic if you need to enjoy this film.There are aspects of the film that are obviously unrealistic. Putting a grown man in a suitcase and letting the suitcase go through airport security is not feasible. Moreover, the director shows the heavy suitcase perched precariously on a luggage cart. Impossible to believe all these details.But the deeper question is whether Kieslowski was using marriage as a metaphor for politics? There is the mention of the Russian corpse with the head crushed for sale, there is a mention of the neon sign that sputters...The name Karol Karol seems reminiscent of Kafka.Sex in this film is not to be taken at face value. Impotence of Karol Karol at strategic points of the film is deceptive. He apparently does more than hair care for women clients at his hair care parlor in Poland (suggested, not shown). I have a great admiration for Polish cinema, having gown up watching works of Wajda and Zanussi. I met Kieslowski in 1982 when he attended an international film festival in Bangalore, India, promoting his film Camera Buff, another film with Jerzy Stuhr, who plays Jurek in White. I took note of Camera Buff but I could not imagine the director of Camera Buff would evolve into a perfectionist a decade later. Stuhr has been metamorphosed from a live wire in Camera Buff to an effeminate colleague of Karol Karol in White. White is a carefully made work with support of other top Polish directors in the wings--Zanussi and Agniezka Holland.Although the film is heavy in symbolism, it is also a parody. Karol Karol comes to kill with a blank bullet and a real one. Did he plan that out, when he did not know who he was going to shoot?The performances are all brilliant--the good Polish, Hungarian, and Czech filmmakers extract performances from their actors that could humble Hollywood directors, because the stars are not the actors but the directors. Great music. Great photography. And a very intelligent script.This is a major film of the nineties--providing superb wholesome entertainment and food for thought. The film deservedly won Kieslowski the best director award at the Berlin Film festival in 1994. It is sad for the world of cinema that Kieslowski is no longer with us. "},{"Title":"The Battle for Equality.","Date":"15 December 2005","Score":"52 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Imagine that the woman you love has successfully filed a claim against you, and that this claim has become so nasty the courts have awarded her all her freedom. In turn, however, all which you have worked for so hard has gone down the drain and a pair of scissors snip your access to monetary freedom, effectively making you a homeless person who can't even go back home.Much more vicious than its predecessor, THREE COLORS WHITE introduces us to this story of a marriage gone sour. Karol Karol (Zbigniew Zamachowski), named so for his clear link to the Everyman we all know as Charlie Chaplin (the actor has a passing resemblance to the character) is the man in question, who has lost everything and in turn is marinating in two very different emotions the desire to get even, but the need to get his wife Dominique (Julie Delpy) back.The tone established in WHITE is fate. Even in its darker moments there is an element that something beyond the characters' control is making its way to an uncertain conclusion. I can see that in the scene when Karol meets Mikolaj (Janusz Gajos), an enigmatic man who passes him by and recognizes a song he is playing on a comb their interaction under the streets of Paris feels almost preordained and it's not surprising when soon Mikolaj, a man with a secret, is helping Karol get back to Poland.What is surprising is the way these events happen, but I will not reveal them because of two things one of them has to do with a test of friendship that suddenly swings the film into high gear and liberates it from its moral heaviness seen in the first third of the film, and secondly, because Kieszlowski connects several disjointed scenes involving Dominique and Karol that will eventually reveal themselves not to be out of time or imagined but very real.THREE COLORS WHITE is all about the symbolic nature of the color inasmuch as 'equality'. At the beginning Karol is 'erased' from society. He has been whited out because he could not consummate his marriage. There is a gun fired, but it only has blanks. Dominique is a woman with a white-hot, destructive personality. White doves come into a scene where Mikolaj, an angel of sorts, saves Karol from a grim destiny, and the angelic face of love is the white bust that survives most of the film as Karol begins his plans to move against Dominique.At the same time we have two moments of its position in the French flag that also come into play when seen as a trilogy. At the beginning, Karol's freedom (blue) is destroyed as his bank card is repossessed. Equality (white) shimmers in one particular scene in which Dominique achieves orgasm. In the closing, irony-filled sequences, Dominique is seen enveloped in lush red tones, which will establish the tone of the next film RED, fraternity. "},{"Title":"my favorite of the trilogy","Date":"6 July 2004","Score":"48 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I love the entire Three Colors trilogy, but White is my sentimental favorite because I sympathize so deeply with the hero.  I've experienced the same kind of competitive, destructive love that drives Karol throughout this movie, and I'm also a nerdy schmuck like he is, so I found myself really commiserating with him.  Unfortunately, White has acquired a reputation as the weakest entry in the series.  I think it's the odd one out, but certainly not the worst.  It's the only one of the three that regularly stretches credibility (the plot twists are really wild), and the only one with a male protagonist, but it's also the most exciting of the films and, ultimately, the most disturbing.  The ending in particular is a killer.Red tinkers a bit with White; in fact, if I'm not mistaken, it entirely changes the resolution of this film for the worse.  That's too bad.  White works best on its own, as a pessimistic movie, without the more optimistic outlook of Red grafted on in retrospect.  But since both films are so great on their own, I'm not too bothered by their failure to gel properly.     "},{"Title":"Conjugal  wickedness that cries out for vengeance","Date":"29 April 2005","Score":"40 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" WHITE IS THE COLOR OF DOMINIQUE'S WEDDING DRESS at the exit of the church, surrounded by the blazing whiteness of an overexposed background, full of subtle symbolisms imbued with hypnotic nuances. WHITE is the glimmer of the impending reflexes in the background of a lazy town buried under the snow. WHITE is the bust of a statue caressed as a memento of a love irremediably lost. WHITE is Dominique's final orgasm, a real scream of liberation from the yoke of her spiteful stubbornness, the false revenge of a woman unaware of her impending calamity, completely unacquainted with the bitter game of make-believe inspired by a wickedness that cries out for vengeance. According to Karol, the main character, it's better to have loved and lost than never to have loved at all. His desire for revenge blows out his residual flickering flame of love after having suffered unforgivable affronts devised by his heartless wife.Trzy kolory Bialy (Three colors White), second episode inspired to the three colors of the French flag and to the three principles of the French Revolution (Freedom, Equality and Fraternity), brings back to us two old acquaintances, Zbigniew Zamachowski (very similar to the pathetic Italian character Fantozzi,) and Jerzy Stuhr. It may be considered the most unforeseeable movie of the whole colors trilogy, full of sharp and witty tones of grotesque melodrama, with a reluctant and peevish Julie Delphy never seen so cold-mannered on the screen before. The inborn sense of Kieslovski's BLACK humor comes out here in all its might almost counterbalancing the concept of absolute WHITE connected with he story.Three colors white is very different from the other two episodes of the trilogy, but nonetheless the unmistakable touch of the genius can be generously found in the accurate care of the details, in the emotional intensity of the dialogs, in the careful analysis of the individual values, in his safe distance from the events represented by him, in his constant application of the principle of casualness and in his large use of metaphors (look for instance at the sequences of simultaneous flights of pigeons, symbolizing an open concept of freedom often cherished in his works). And Julie Delphy's following words sound as a sort of sincere homage to Kieslovski's art Kieslowski is a director who draws his inspiration from the true life of people, who instills his own soul into his movie, who dwells upon the details as if he wanted to examine the life under a microscope. Absolutely true. There is nothing else left to say Three colors red looms on the horizon. "},{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"12 June 2005","Score":"20 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Another interesting chapter in the saga, it is not as technically impressive as 'Bleu' but the story's premise is certainly more fascinating this time. Delpy pretty much plays a stereotype of evil, but as her soon to be divorced husband, Zamachowski is great, and it is quite interesting to follow his experiences, even if his motivations are a bit hard to relate to. Kieslowski uses some great camera angles once again, and this is another very well shot film, as well as one with some brilliantly fitting music, plus slow motion is used very effectively. There are ideas about love, equality and revenge, the plot is intriguing, and there are some very intense moments, making it another solid entry in the trilogy, even if it is not as critically acclaimed as the first film, 'Trois Couleurs Bleu' or the last film, 'Trois Couleurs Rouge'. "},{"Title":"Obsessive Desire","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"19 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Seeing revenge in Blanc it's like you left the theater a couple of minutes before the end of the movie. The final scene is the explanation of Karol's strange actions. It is not a revenge story, it is a story of obsessive desire of possession. The love-story of Karol for Dominique. He tried to posses Dominique, he becomes a wealthy man and he is able to do ANYTHING to have her. Well, `anything' includes evil things. When a bird flies away from the master that loves it so much, what should be done? To put the bird into a cage. In this way, Karol will be able to see, feed, speak and listen Dominique every day. Karol finally posses Dominique.  "},{"Title":"White","Date":"22 December 2005","Score":"21 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" White is a Polish film in Polish and French with English subtitles. The film is the second series in the Three Colours trilogy which started with the film Blue and ends with Red. The film takes place in France where a man named Karol Karol whose wife Dominique just divorced him. To make matters work Karol's bank account is frozen and he has no money and no place to go. In the subway he meets a man named Mikolaj who helps him get back to his homeland of Poland. Karol eventually gets there, but not the way he planned on. Once he gets to Poland some friends help him get back on his feet and establish himself. Soon he is doing fine, but is still upset over what Dominique did to him. So with some more help he plans a scheme of revenge to get back at her. Winner of The Silver Berlin Bear for Best Director (Krzysztof Kieslowski, who also co-wrote the film) at The Berlin International Film Festival. White has good direction, a good script, good performances by the entire cast, good original music and good cinematography. White is a very interesting film. From where it started off in the beginning I had no idea how it would end or what would happen next. It kept me following the movie eagerly waiting to see what happened next. It is a very smart and sharp story and the acting and great direction make this film really stand out as well. This film is in no ways similar to Blue, the previous film in the series and I really admire the director for making two totally different films that each work really well. I really loved White because of it's sharp script and because it kept me compelled and interested and I really did not know how it was going to turn out. After these two great films I'm looking forward to completing the series by watching Red. Judging by what I thought of Blue and White, I'm sure I'm going to like Red very much as well. "},{"Title":"Least favorite of the three, but doesn't stop it from being genius!","Date":"4 August 2006","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is the second installment in probably the best trilogy ever created. Though this one is not as strong as its predecessor, it does offer a unique and stylistic way of looking at life. It's a dark comedy about acceptance, love and betrayal. Can one man really start over in a new place? Can he heal from the pain that his wife caused him? Like in Blue, it questions such things but does not mention it as much as it visually suggests it. And while it's not as powerful or complex as Blue, it does play as a very unique and flowing transition between the two more dominant and relevant films.White is a story about a man named Karol Karol (Zbigniew Zamachowski), a professional Polish hair-cutter who marries a young and beautiful French woman. He moves to France to live with her, and not long after, she divorces him because he's unable to have sex. He then again leaves France in an attempt to start a new life and win Dominique's (Julie Delpy) heart back. While on his journey though, he gets incredibly lucky and becomes wealthy, then pretends he's dead and waits for Dominique to come in order for him to see if she still loves him.This is of course a perfect plot for comedy and it makes a lot of room for silly, slapstick jokes. Kieslowski wants to emphasize on the philosophical aspect of the movie just as much as the comedy. He chooses element that represent freedom and life (the statue of the woman that reminds Karol of Dominique), and the post-communistic lifestyle of a born communist. There is both a lighthearted and a more dark, sinister quality about White. It's a typical 'you love me so you can't forget me' film, but does not play out in your conventional clichéd way. And while this lighthearted moment is shown, a dark overtone is prevalent. For example, when Karol meets Mikolaj and tells him of his beautiful wife, he goes and voyeuristically points her out, only to find her in bed with another man. He calls her and tells her he loves her, but she puts the phone up to her mouth and moans as loud as she can.I mention voyeurism because that is a very reoccurring theme in the movie. Even Julie from Blue acts like almost a spy as she walks into the courtroom while Karol and Dominique are privately settling their divorce. Kieslowski creates a very voyeuristic feel in the movie so that we as the audience feel like we are overlooking the lives of others. Unlike Hitchcock though, Kieslowski does this but does not make us feel guilty about it, since of course, we don't witness a murder! In this second installment, White is a quiet reminder that you can have a great film without going too deep into the themes and symbolisms. I have to agree with most of the people that White is the weakest of the genre, but it is a tremendously genius transition movie, a sort of light presence in the other two more darker films. "},{"Title":"Parallel Conditionals","Date":"16 March 2004","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Kieslowski's trilogy is usually explained, even by him, in trivial terms, this being the  equality segment. But this is an intelligent filmmaker, one of the type who actually  thinks about the narrative stance of his projects. In this case, we have Blue which  follows - but not quite - the standard convention of reporting something that  happened in the past.`Red' gives you a meditation on two folded presents. `White,' this film, is cast as  depicting the future, in particular the conditional future. While other films attempt this  more directly, ` White' - among the three - is so subtle that you have to actually pay  attention. Everything is what you would do, every detail and plot element from the courthouse  sequence. Is it all imagined? It doesn't matter, but if you consider it so - many parallel  futures - it is easier to see how it fits in with the others. Even to the tense of the French  Karol studies.I rate this as the least of the three because he does too much in the plot. The plot is there  only to provide a skeleton for the rest, and it is intended to keep us occupied while he  does his thing. But its just too elaborate to serve as a mere skeleton and gets in the way.  Many viewers even think the story is what the film is about.Each of the three is an excellent film, but you must see the others first to get this one to  register. Each of the three deals with a sense. This is `sight.'The DVD commentary is pretty useless, in my estimation. It is not enough to have been  there.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching.  "},{"Title":"Kieslowski a masterful painter in Blue, White and Red see all three!","Date":"6 November 1999","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It is not only difficult to comment separately on the three parts of Kieslowski's trilogy, it seems obvious that the filmmaker wants us to do just the opposite  view them in order, Blue, White, and Red, and consider them together as one complete work.  It is true they are distinct stories with distinct themes liberty, equality, fraternity, and each them is developed with unique applications of intrigue and artistry.  They are each well worth seeing independently, but I believe they are best seen as one work.  Collectively, I would rate the trilogy as a 9; separately, I place each in my top ten for the years 1993 and 1994.White is the fabric of a bride, chaste and pure at the outset of her marriage; later it is the flash of an orgasm in the dark; and then .... But any more said of the instances of white in this film might spoil it for the first-time viewer.   Unlike Three Colors Blue, White is a more plot-oriented movie, with two main characters to Blue's one.  And this is as it should be.   Blue's theme of Liberty, the first word of France's motto, is an individual's principle, while White's theme of Equality, the French motto's second word, requires at least two people.  The central quest for liberty is personal; the struggle for equality is fundamentally social. White is the most conventional of the three Color films, and while it is still one of my ten top films of 1994, I rate it an 8, slightly less than the highly visual Blue and the mind-bending Red. "}{"Title":"The Trilogy Continues With Another Stunning Chapter.","Date":"19 April 2003","Score":"14 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Krzysztof Kieslowski's second installment in his Three Colors trilogy does not quite reach the greatness of his earlier or latter work, but is still a strangely interesting viewing experience that ends up being a dominant success by its final act in spite of some shortcomings. White (representing equality to the French) plays more light-hearted than Blue or Red. It is modern-day France and a Polish hairdresser (Zbigniew Zamachowski) and his amazingly beautiful French wife (Julie Delpy) are going through a messy divorce due to Zamachowski's inability to perform sexually. The divorce crushes Zamachowski emotionally and financially. He is forced to leave France and go back to Poland, becoming a Metro beggar that has basically lost everything. However, with a little help, Zamachowski will get back up and vow revenge on the woman that ruined his life and took his self-dignity. Sometimes revenge can be sweet, but what happens when it does not necessarily accomplish what you had hoped? White is a little strange to the series. Its dark humor makes it stand out in an already unique set of films. The film is not near as emotional as Blue or near as rough as Red. Instead it uses heart rather than thought at times to get its story across. This is not a bad thing, but it is just an odd chapter for Kieslowski. My least favorite of the trilogy (not saying I don't still like the movie very much), White still creates a tone that makes it a cinematic winner. Watch for Juliette Binoche (the greatest performer of the series) in what ends up being a cameo role. 4 stars out of 5.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful, but c'mon","Date":"2 October 2010","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Equality, schmeequality. The protagonist's personality is developed at length, while we only have select glimpses of Delpy's character. Because her character is not developed properly, we're left with the possibility that Karol is in love with her because of her beauty. Her surface... Yet, throughout the movie, we see life thru Karol's eyes & feel for him...how could this woman be so cruel & not love him despite his flaws in bed. Obviously he loves her. So, this is the perspective...and we're led to feel at the end that she is put in jail as a punishment in a moral sense, for her inability to love him & overlook the flaws. It's a tiresome, weary moral that is drummed into us over & over in movie after movie, TV program after TV program, perhaps because so many stories are told by guys. The moral is this To all the beautiful, model-like women - you should love us (less than average guys), just look below our surface & see our cleverness, wittiness, resourcefulness, intelligence, innocence, (insert positive quality), etc etc. Yet, you still have to be a model (many movies fail to show other types of women). Anotherwards appearances shouldn't be important to you, but they are damn important to us. In fact, we won't develop your character any further, but show a limited snapshot (in this case, her vengefulness) & focus on your superficial beauty. MORAL LESS THAN AVERAGE GUY SHOULD BE ABLE TO GET MODEL _ IF SHE CANNOT BE PERSUADED, SHE'S (insert descriptive negative adjectives) We're starting off here with the oldest of inequalities...why not tell a story about a less than average-looking woman who is in love with a modelesque guy, if he doesn't want to be with her, he ends up in jail for being superficial, since he couldn't look beyond her flaws. Or better yet, even out the appearance of both...veer away from the tired clichés if you're striving to tell about equality in some way, shape or form. Of course, equality can never be attained, people won't be the same...but let's be a start off a little bit closer than this movie does.By social standards, Dominique is above average in beauty (thin with long beautiful hair and attractive features). Karol is below average height with short arms, OK features. Why not tell a story about him being madly in love with a woman of equivalent beauty. Maybe she's got short legs with a waist that isn't so thin & pock marks on her face. Develop her character a little more...how did she feel when her husband couldn't make love to her (starts to feel unattractive, feels confusion, sadness, unfulfilled, anger that eventually turns her into spite). We are expected to judge her for dumping him for not being able to make love to her. Look, guys cheat on their wives/girlfriends all the time for a lot less, even when they're 'performing' above standard in bed.So if directors habitually setup this double standard, it gets really boring. I want to see directors who are able to tell this story the gorgeous guy digs deep within himself to appreciate the wonderful qualities below the surface, below the flaws, frailties of a less than average looking woman & he finds that he should learn to look for all the endearing qualities, not be so superficial...I want to see directors tell this story too, especially directors they are able to critique gorgeous women for not doing the same (as what is asked of the gorgeous man in my previous paragraph)....and stop producing loads of movies to convince gorgeous women (or average woman who spend hours to become gorgeous) everywhere that they should go for the 'nerdy schmucks' or old men (who don't spend but a minute or two on their appearances). Well, I don't see that happening until the old men, nerdy schmucks, or sympathizers who make movies can see how hypocritical they're being. Honestly this type of movie would be OK, yikes, if it wasn't for the scalding criticism & lack of character development of Dominique's. You just want to hate her, hmmm? Besides this less than stellar moral, it was a great movie for the rolling sequence of events & character development of the others in the cast...really enjoyed it. "},{"Title":"Excellent story, in its context with superb direction, spellbinding","Date":"18 March 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" If you had to decide what could make a director great, to me, it would his ability to make the audience, watch, fascinated, while a suitcase travelled around the baggage belt at an airport. No explanation, no hints or clues, leaving one wondering is travel involved, is there a dark secret in the suitcase, whatever, but just brilliantly timed and photographed. A period piece now, and none the worse for that, we know that the cowboys days in Eastern Euope have passed but this is a story about the time when everything was up for sale and success was just a matter of being in the right place at the right time with foreign currency. Given the truth of the this, the story of revenge and regret is plausible. Add to direction and story a group of committed actors and you have a film that is part of a legendary set of movies about contemporary life. I enjoyed this one and Blue immensely. If I could give it 11 out of 10 I would, which says something about suspended belief. "},{"Title":"Beautiful, deep, yet entertaining!","Date":"31 December 2003","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A wonderful performance by Zbigniew Zamachowski highlights an excellent movie in the second part of the trilogy. Without talking this film to death, I simply want to say how impressed I am with the filmmaking, the performances, and the entertainment level achieved. Great work! I highly recommend this. "},{"Title":"Reviews the three parts of Three colours","Date":"22 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Apparently most people prefer Blue, I don't (I can see you coming and saying that's it's just my contradictory mind). Really, I found it beautiful, aesthetically and on the acting level (yes, I agree with everybody on the fact that Binoche is wonderful). But it was quite boring; especially it was so long to really start, but I guess it's how grieving is, long and boring. So people die, survivors survive OK, life goes on, we know that. Therefore I started White with a bit of apprehension, and finally was really caught quickly. I will even dare saying it's somewhat Kusturician. Is it because it's mainly base in Eastern Europe that I have this feeling, or is Eastern European genuinely crazier and more surreal than us? I guess the fact that Eastern Europe had a lot to catch up with Western Europe at the time of the film allowed to use crazy ideas as importing a dead body from Russia to fake your own death. Apart that, I was really interested by this man who couldn't satisfy his wife as long as they were married, and could start doing it again as soon as he was supposed to be dead, meaning as soon as any commitment was impossible. Power, commitment and sexuality such a millenary-old story. After this Red could have been a bit boring too, but it was very intriguing so it compensated the absence of surrealism. I just had a real difficulty to like Irène Jacob's character (Valentine) she's so naive and full of guilt, it's annoying, please shake her a bit! Which reminds me that I deny that any woman can be as Dominique (played by Julie Delpy) in White. Seriously, yes some divorces can be ugly, but it's rarely that intensely ugly. But I guess it's part of the surrealism of White. I think in fact which annoys me more in White is not in White but in Red. When you end up seeing the link between the three movies, you discover that Karol (the ex-impotent ex-husband of White) is finally back with her, and I find this so improbable first she was in prison, and unless he reported himself as having faked his own death (in which case he would be now the one in prison, not on this boat), I can't see how she would have been released; second, even if she had been released otherwise, how could she be willing to go back to him after he planned a so big revenge? And more globally, what is this stupid link between the three films? The three couples (or will-be couples) happened to take the same boat, and worse, to be the only survivors of this boat's sinking. This is so happy-ended and unnecessary I don't think the three stories needed to be linked more than by a random and meaningless meeting (when Julie in Blue steps into the courtroom where Karol and Dominique are divorcing for example, it's enough). Which by the way leads their meeting's number to twice what is the probability of that, people not knowing each other encountering, and then when not living in the same country anymore, meeting again on the way to a third country? And plus what is the probability that they survive all together? In fact I was expecting them to die when they started speaking about the sinking on TV I guess the probability that they die all together is not better, so maybe Kieslowski should have given up on linking them at the end. Because the link is already elsewhere loneliness and death are all along the three movies. People die, people survive, people fake their death, people stop loving after the death of a loved one... People are in love but lonely Julie is in love with a dead husband, Karol is in love with his ex-wife, Valentine is in love with a jealous long-distance boyfriend. People are together but lonely, more or less haunted by death. This is how I see the big theme. I can't see the meant-to-be Freedom, Equality, Fraternity. OK, not really fair in fact I can see some freedom in Blue, in how Julie chooses to deal her own way with her grief; I can see some fraternity in Red, in how Valentine and the old judge learn from each other; but I can't see any equality, neither in White, nor in the others (because I guess this three themes are not that simply distributed between the three movies). Anyway, I am sure this trilogy is far richer than this and that anybody would find something different in it. "},{"Title":"Perhaps the most underrated of all the Three Colours films.","Date":"29 December 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Blue was the first... It was bleak, it was moody, and held a lot of weighty issues dealing with loss, grief and personal liberation. Red was the final... It was rich in colour, deep with emotion and, had a multi-layered plot that drew comparisons with Kieslowski's earlier hit, the Double Life of Veronique. It was also his final film.Somewhere in between those deep, thoughtful meditations on the nature of life and love came the second film in the trilogy... White. Maybe because this film - which for all intensive purposes is about gaining equality - is less emotionally rigid than the two films that act as bookends - or perhaps because the issues analysed here are less weighty - White has always been somewhat overlooked and undervalued by the majority of fans and critics. I think this is a bit of a shame really, because for me, the film represents something of a pleasant change of pace for the director, allowing him to create characters that are much more lucid and three-dimensional (away from the anguished, metaphysical ciphers in Red and Blue), as well as offering him the chance to use moments of comedy and kind pathos to undercut the more thoughtful or reflective moments of drama. The characters here are wonderfully rendered, with our central protagonist Karol Karol - the most perfect example of a tragic-comic hero this side of the silent age - trying to find his place in the world after a bitter divorce and an embarrassing court procedure leave him uncertain of who he really is.The rest of the film charts his journey from nobody, to somebody, right back to nobody (with some devilish twists along the way), whilst also touching on notions of power, personal equality and the all consuming power of love. The relationship between Karol and his wife/ex-wife Dominique is one filled with paradox and contradiction, which to me seems a lot more realistic and believable than some critics at the time would suggest. Both characters profess a love for one another, but then go on to do absolutely vile things to try and subvert the power and equality between themselves. Ultimately, the film comes down to a simple equation... would you destroy yourself and sacrifice everything in the name of true love? Although filled with dark humour and a number of actions and rationalisations that seem to be brimming with bitterness, White is really an inspirational film... one that fills you with a sense of hope and makes you believe that anything is possible.The ending of the film, like the endings to almost all of Kieslowski's works, is a one that transcends everything that went before and subverts every nuance of the characters and their relationship throughout the film (making you want to go back and experience the whole thing again. As final scenes go, the closing moments of this film are amongst the most sublime and beautifully melancholic depictions of enduring love and hope that I've ever seen, managing to be both touching and emotionally moving, without relying on cloying sentimentality.The visualisation of the film is stunning with Kieslowski - as he had done with Blue and Red - utilising the colour of the title to give us a film that is both cold and neutral. His depiction of Poland in the later scenes of the film - replete with icy lakes, towering buildings and roads caked in snow - owes more to his defining Decalogue than the autumnal setting of Veronique, with the locations really going against the obvious actions of the film to give us the internal realisation of Karol and Dominique's true feelings (cold and emotionally barren). Kieslowski has just as firm a grip on his actors, with both Zbigniew Zamachowski (no, I can't pronounce it either!) and Julie Delpy giving great, multi-layered performances that manage to convey the loving, internal warmth, hidden beneath the cold, icy exteriors. Equally as impressive is Janusz Gajos as Karol's Polish confidant Mikolaj, who here plays an important part in much of the plot.Although this is a film rich in visual poetry and dense in symbolism, it is by no means a heavy film. In fact, it's the lightest and most enjoyable of the three, with Kieslowski and his co-writer Krzysztof Piesiewicz crafting a witty and anarchic film filled with moments of dark comedy and interesting drama. I even think it's a better film than the gloomy, though no less critically acclaimed Blue... but that could just be a matter of personal taste. At any rate, White is an enjoyable, interesting and greatly rewarding film that deserves to be seen in it's own right (as opposed to being evaluated alongside Blue and Red)... Get the box set and enjoy all three. "},{"Title":"Incredible","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have lived both in Paris and Warsaw, so this film was nostalgic in so many ways. The cinematography amazed me, as did the acting. The Polish actors are ones I have seen many times on the screen, and they proved yet again that talent knows no language. The story had some unexpected twists and stayed close to the depth of the human heart. "},{"Title":"The ultimate tale of revenge...","Date":"16 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Although I enjoyed Bleu and Rouge better in this trilogy, Blanc is a wonderful story in its own right about a husband who takes the ultimate revenge on a beautiful wife who has cuckolded him at the start of their marriage.Again, Kieslowski brilliantly weaves together individuals who greatly impact each other's lives in ways unexpected as the characters move from France to Poland.  The white imagery, such as a stunning sequence where Julie Delpy is shown as a bride in all her glory, is prevalent throughout the film.Julie Delpy is an actress whose talents are wasted of late on films where her range and grace are stifled.  In Blanc, however, she is uninhibited. Hidden beneath the innocence of her white gown, there is a vindictive woman who has the power to bring her new husband to his knees.  Little does she know, however, that he is not as spineless as she originally thought...Eight out of ten stars.  "},{"Title":"What we want and what we have when we get it are different.","Date":"10 August 2007","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" My favorite of the three. More things happen in this movie then in the other two, thus making it more accessible in some ways to viewers who need that, it is also the darkest of the 3 films which may be why it is popular. As I am sure you know the film is based on the colours of the French flag and their symbolism blue white red, is thus liberty, equality and fraternity. This is a movie about equality then, what can happen when there is inequality, and how you react to that person once equality is restored.Again this film shows how ordinary peoples lives are often more interesting then cardboard cut outs that sit in for people in Hollywood films it is beautiful to look at thought provoking and a some what disturbing pleasure to watch. A film that teaches us what we want and what we will have when we get it are two different things. "},{"Title":"Good acting and cinematography can't cover for a tatty first-draft script!","Date":"31 March 2004","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A Pole living in Paris has problems with his hairdresser wife, becomes a bum, but chances on a way to stage a comeback - and get his own back on his neurotic wife!While I have plenty of time for Krzysztof Kieslowski's work I find them a mixed bag. I started by believing that this was going to a farce, but somehow the movie seems to fight the only thing it is suited to being. No approach to any movie is wrong, but this seems a movie at war with itself.Small points seem laboured over, extended (Kubrick like) and others are painted with a thick brush. Don't let the drab Polish scenery fool you -we are heading towards an Alice in Wonderland finale!The truth is that the script isn't very good and no director can rise above a mediocre script. One scene reminds me of the Rockford Files where villains bang on the door in the middle of the night and Jim Rockford opens the door to a gun in his face. Here we have a guy who is a bum one minute and a sharp businessman the next! The same guy that was bamboozled as to how to get home without money! Maybe it is the hair-gel that has raised his IQ!People don't travel in suitcases to get from France to Poland because their passport is stolen. You would contact the Polish embassy! Or what about hitchhiking and sneaking across the border? Or borrowing money from people back home and getting a ticket back? And when you finally get out if it - wouldn't you, like, be a bit stiff or find the light made you blink a little? The one thing I have learnt is that I don't like too much nonsense in serious films. This film lives on its acting and its sense of intrigue. However it is actually poorly written (everything that happens could make sense with a bit more care and explanation) and ends with a scene I don't really understand at all. And I don't tell me you do - because where is the information to understand it fully? How can you understand a court case/legal process (and I have to presume that there even was one!) without seeing it? "}{"Title":"Unbelievable characters, unbelievable plot","Date":"11 December 2004","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I liked the first film of this trilogy, but this second one is making me wonder whether it will be worthwhile to watch the third.Its obvious that Kieslowski is trying somehow to speak of the eternal issues, love, death, wealth, poverty, loyalty, betrayal... unfortunately it just doesn't work.(Spoiler warning don't read further if you don't want to know anything about what happens in this film)We have here an impotant husband in love with a beautiful wife, who says she needs him desperately but divorces him and frames him for arson.The despondent husband becomes a homeless street dweller, trying to get some money for food by playing a homemade comb and waxpaper kazoo.He randomly meets someone who helps him get back to Poland, at which point, through a set of very unlikely circumstances he quickly becomes super-rich.Then he stages his own death to get his wife back, and when she has proved she really does love him, he frames her for the murder (also in a very unbelievable way). In the end, it appears that they'll be together again as soon as she can escape from jail, which, given the unlikely circumstances of the rest of the movie, seems a foregone conclusion. Does any of this make sense or mean anything? Perhaps to some, but not to me. If this had been a Hollywood movie, made using a commercial esthetic, it would have been lambasted by critics for its silly plot and nonsensical characterizations. Instead, it's an art film, and somehow this makes all the silliness seem profound. Don't be fooled. This movie just doesn't work. "},{"Title":"Not As Great As Blue But Definitely Still A Strong Piece Of Work","Date":"12 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Review In A NutshellWhite tells the story of a male Polish hairdresser, Karol, who was left by his wife, Dominique, with nothing. He deals with this loss by going back to Poland and rebuilding himself.The first I noticed when going through this film was how light it all felt, all the weight that I felt on the director's previous film, Blue, were mostly lifted. I wasn't so much disappointed with the change in tone as there are many moments in this film where the plot and narrative benefited from it, but I was underwhelmed by Kieslowski's execution. The director couldn't seem to make me feel comprehensively invested to the protagonist, as I personally felt he wasn't explored enough and the intentions of the character wasn't truly clear to me throughout. Thankfully I enjoyed the journey that the protagonist has taken, as we get to see him start off on the bottom of the world, figuratively speaking of course, and building himself up slowly to becoming a respectable and fulfilled man. He doesn't reach this stage without playing dirty of course, Karol is still a normal human being and would do whatever he can in order to get ahead, but it was handled in such a way that we don't think less of him. I saw this rebuilding as just a constructive coping mechanism towards the tragic loss he just suffered, and I think in a way all of what he has made for himself was all for her or at least something to prove to her. During the film's third act, we can see that he is still in pain and even though he could get anything he wants there is still a void in him that hasn't been filled, and that is love. It was her love that he has always wanted, and he blames himself for not being able to show and prove that to her during their marriage. For Karol, content doesn't come from wealth, respect and fame, it comes from Dominique.The film's photography was also a major change from the first film of the trilogy. Colors seem to be warmer, and the color seems to dominate a lot of the film's images, possibly enforcing the idea of purity and beauty. It connects really well with the film's plot and narrative, making certain situations coming off as comically charged rather than dire, giving us a glimpse of how the film would feel during its resolution. The score also was change from the previous film, switching from the grand and dramatic tone to something much lighter and sharper. I found the score to be effective, particularly during the moments where the film wants us to feel sorry for Karol or when he examines or thinks about his one true love, Dominique. We are able to understand his fascination with her, and the music helps support that.Zbigniew Zamachowski plays the film's protagonist, Karol. He was wonderful in the role, though it wasn't at the same level of amazing as Binoche in Blue. The actor was able to manipulate my feelings towards the character, with one moment feeling highly sorry then the next moment feeling proud of what he has become. He was able to change the appearance of his exterior while keeping his internal qualities the same. Julie Delpy was also pretty good in the role, but it would have been better if she was given a bit more screen time; then again this is Karol's story, not hers.White may not be a step up as I hoped it would be from Blue, but it's still a great piece of work from Kieslowski. Hopefully Red would be at least just as good as this, if not better. "},{"Title":"Equality is an Illusion","Date":"19 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Krzysztof Kieslowski showed the harsh Polish reality in his early films but the international production by him was characterized by aesthetic styling. Since No End (1985) Kieslowski had worked with the screenwriter Krzysztof Piesiewicz and the score composer Zbigniew Preisner - and White is also made by this amazing trio. In Kieslowski's interview book he talks about him being Polish and his own situation which was very paradoxical; the Polish reality was repulsive and unapproachable but on the other hand he couldn't see himself living anywhere else. He always seemed to be going back there and he said that he could never get it off. While thinking about this one could see White as a very personal film for Kieslowski. The result of Polish reality is the (Polish) feeling of superiority, stress caused from the pressure of everyday, which can be seen as apathy, disability in emotional expressions and social withdrawal. These symptoms also valid as Kieslowski's description of the new free Poland.The first part in the Three Colors trilogy, Blue showed how freedom cannot be reached and the people who think they're free are usually the most far away from it. Only love can show the true nature of it. White continues this and questions the meaning of equality. As ís freedom so is equality an illusion - for Kieslowski. White is about a Polish barber, Karol who lives in France. His wife Dominique wants to get a divorce, because of Karol's disability to please her. In result of this Karol gets abandoned and returns to Warsaw, Poland. The new 'free' Poland is full of corruption, criminality, black market and money exchange. Enjoying the new capitalist country Karol gets himself quite a fortune and with it is able to get back at his ex-wife. In White Karol is in the exact same position where Blue's Julie was, because he still loves his wife. Kieslowski had said that No one can be equal, and no one actually wants to be equal, because someone always wants to be more equal than the other.The first film of the tricolor, Blue, was very dramatic, sad and ethereal. But White was a completely different film if looking at the genre and style. It of course dealt with similar kind of themes, and put its characters in same kind of positions, but the way Kieslowski approached the subject was very different. White was an ironic tragicomedy, much more down-to-earth than the almost dream likely Blue. On Kieslowski's caliber it was almost cheer, joyful and also might just had been his most personal film - it can be seen as an ironic self-portrayal. About a man who has got everything the West has to offer, but still feels powerless 'impotent' as a man who is in a wrong place does.The main theme in Kieslowski's whole production was the paradox of love and freedom. In The Three Colors tricolor this is even more obvious and important - it is the leading theme of the trilogy. A man isn't free and the least when he expects he is, love and freedom can never fit in the same relation. In Blue Julie tries to escape but has to come back because she is still in love - she cannot be independent and free. Kieslowski returns to this theme, love as a prison, in White. The scene where Karol and Dominique beckon to each other through the prison window. They both are trapped by love and can't be free as they can't be equal either.Three Colors White is about equality and the paradox of love and freedom. It's a portrayal of Kieslowski's own paradoxical situation. But it's also a very fine, comical description of the new capitalist Poland. Kieslowski didn't fall in front of the communist Poland and neither in front of the new Poland. Even that White isn't probably as beautiful as Blue and not as serious as Red it's a very talented ironic comedy, a tragicomedy actually. I found many touching scenes in it, and it works very well even just as a story. The screenplay by Krzysztof Piesiewicz and Kieslowski was very good, reinforced by the masterful score by Zbigniew Preisner. A masterful piece of cinema art. "},{"Title":"Are you still certain?","Date":"19 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" While this may not quite be as perfect as Bleu, it is yet another amazing entry in the series. This is also quite different from the other two, in tone and look. It is a tragic comedy, and while I can't quite claim that I found that much of this to be all that funny(I'm not certain how many attempts were made for such in this, anyway), it definitely got me into the story. This deals with a Polish hairdresser and the messy divorce from his wife that he goes through. He suffers a lot of humiliation, and while I believe that at least some of it is played for laughs, there isn't really any of it that is gratuitous. It all has to do with the smart plot which is easy to follow without being simplistic. This is about the characters, and they are well-written, credible, and developed nicely. The acting is marvelous, and not only for the leads. This one deals with the subject of equality. The editing, cinematography, lighting, all are top-notch. There is brief mild violence, a little sexuality(none of it graphic or explicit) and infrequent strong language in this. The DVD comes with 55 minutes worth of informative and interesting featurettes, as well as trailers for the Colors Trilogy. I recommend this to all film-lovers. 10/10 "},{"Title":"I had not liked the color, white, but after seeing this film, changed my mind","Date":"11 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Blue was great, it was mesmerizing and there was a stunning story. Red was very disappointing to me, the story was not powerful and in terms of style, it was not beautiful as Blue and White. However, White is my favorite in the trilogy by far, the best in the trilogy. It has all that Blue had, but more. For some people, three colors are equal, all of them are masterpiece one each, to some, the last, Red is the best, it completes the picture and unfortunately for a minority like me, it is White. Yes, as everyone who watched the film says, White symbolizes equality between men and women, really yes, but not that simple. Dominique is an ordinary woman, she leaves her husband, because he is impotent, she is right, she wants something as every female want. However, she is not pure, she gets her husband listen her lovemaking with another man. Karol is an ordinary man, he is a nice man, just not healthy, so life-weary. He cannot do anything, because it is not in his hands. However, he is not pure either. Remember his plan. It is real life itself, you cannot repair your mistakes you have done, there is no way to go back to the past, the day you messed up everything. And people go worse easily, human being are too sensitive, not generally but. White does not glorify men as it does not glorify women that is a boon. It is not a movie which takes side with men or takes side with women. In addition, White expresses that men make strong friendships together, women make strong relationships together, but it is a little bit trouble to make an unproblematic relationship with the opposite sex. Thank you Kieslowski. Even if there is love, men can be good husbands and women can be good wives, but understanding each other is more easy when it comes the same gender. White is not a film which focuses on just the story and the characters. The music was one of the most great and touching musics, one of the best film musics of all time. It tells many things such as revenge, desire, regret, being rid of loneliness, liven up or refresh and distraction. Remember the scene that Karol takes a gun, the thing he does is meaningless, at least for him. Lastly, also White has one of the most sad finals ever, I rewinded and watch it again and rewinded again to see a gleam of hope. I don't like the color, white at all, but after watching the film, I changed my mind. "},{"Title":"A fantastic tale told..a worthy second chapter...","Date":"16 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Three Colours White is a film quite different in mood and atmosphere from Blue.White symbolizes the political ideal of equality from the motto of the French Republic.If the first film was heavy on the dark, melancholic mood, White is laced with some dark humour. The story revolves around Karol Karol, a Polish hair dresser, whose wife Dominique is seeking divorce. Eventually Dominique leaves her husband nothing, and he is left in dire straits. Fate introduces Karol to a man named Mikolaj. Things change for Karol from this point onwards and that forms the crux of the rest of the story. This is a brilliant film from start to finish with a superb closing scene.The performances by Zbigniew Zamachowski, Julie Delpy and Janusz Gajos portraying the central characters are superb. Zamachowski, especially deserves kudos for his performance as the husband down on his luck.As in the first movie, there is heavy use of the colour symbolism, the excessive use of the white colour in most frames in the film. The score by Zbigniew Preisner, as in the first film, is fantastic.This is a very worthy follow-up, even though this has been regarded by some as the weakest film of the three. "},{"Title":"Very Sensitive and Honest Movie","Date":"18 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I don't think I've ever seen a film that is so brave in its depiction of a man's sexual inadequacies. We've all had those times when we couldn't get it up, and the film sits us down and tells us to just face it. The film opens with a nightmare situation, a Polish man played by Zamachowski whose wife, a callous Julie Delpy, is divorcing him and stating to a whole courtroom that the reason is because he consistently can't perform in bed. We must thank the French for being famously progressive in the cinema, as well as other parts of their culture and country, because it makes them understand that it's a desperate deprivation of ego satisfaction that is the most interesting to people who find themselves investing a solid amount of care for the humbled, unworthy main characters.The evolution of the story is very satisfying because of its calm, which puts pressure on our interest in the resolution of the misunderstood and humiliated Polish man's life. It takes a steady medium fast time that wisely drifts away from the focus of the foundation of the story and expresses through its theme of white the confusion of pleasure and pain for the characters.The white in the movie's cinematography and settings has a very soothing effect, yet it can ironically be overwhelming. I don't know if Kieslowski intended the white to have that purpose. I wouldn't think it's hard to imagine since Blue definitely served an emotive purpose with its blue visual theme. Anyway, if he did intend something that subtle, he is quite brilliant for succeeding. "},{"Title":"Response to comment","Date":"22 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The other user mentioned that Delpy should not be on the cover as she is not the star of the film. You have to bear in mind that this isn't a Hollywood picture. Each film/colour in the trilogy is symbolic, with WHITE being a symbol of equality. Delpy's character (Domonique, with a q-u-e hehe)is a representation of inequality and therefore is basically the main thesis or idea shown in the film (and not the poor Polish hairdresser). Therefore, she has the right to have the cover all to herself (regardless of the length of her role but for the reason and symbolic significance of it). -The film White is a favourite, for many reasons. It uses more than one (foreign) language quite naturally which adds dimension to the story. Our protagonist gets along better with a stranger he meets on his journey than he ever did his wife (we can imagine) and language/culture may be the reason, not impotence. Karol's relationship with Mikolai(the stranger) is one of great equality (language, sex, class etc.) and Domonique contrasts that very well. We see in the first scenes that even though his wife is leaving him because he never did consummate the marriage that there is much more behind the divorce. By him being in France and not speaking French makes him not equal to her. By him staying in her house seems almost as if they are from different classes. Although, later in the film, one could argue that sex is the primary reason for their separation. The theme of equality is used well. "},{"Title":"The Synopsis for a Excellent Movie Spoiled by Hobbling Logic","Date":"1 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When I saw this film for the first time, I deemed it to be markedly superior to the blue and red movies. What I admired was primarily the emotions displayed, the way of displaying them, the interaction of emotions of different persons, and the interaction of different emotions felt by the same person. Today I might agree with this view, though only if each scene is evaluated in isolation. The logic of the film as a whole is hobbling, and it is not easy to believe that Kieslowski was aware of it. A Polish male and a French female hairdresser (Karol and Dominique) participate in an international competition in Budapest. They fall in love and start a sexual relation. After some time Karol becomes impotent. Nevertheless, they marry, though the marriage will never be 'consummated'. At the initiative of Dominique they eventually divorce. Karol is thrown out, and does not even have a place to sleep. Now, in his pocket he finds the key of Dominique's shop, so he can sleep indoors one more night. When Dominique arrives on the next morning, they make another sexual try. And if Karol had succeeded, a reciprocal love relation would have continued. However, when Karol fails, it is not enough for Dominique to get her key back. She wants mean revenge she lights the curtains and reports to the police that Karol has done it. Hence, Karol cannot even return to Poland in a legal way. So far, all logical problems can be solved without any extraordinary effort. The same is true of the next pair of events how Karol manages to go to his brother in Poland, and why he becomes the partner and personal friend of the owner of a greater building firm. But the logic goes astray when Karol takes his revenge on Dominique. He draws up a will and makes Dominique the sole heir of all his possessions. He buys a Russian corpse. His brother and his friend identify the corpse as Karol. The corpse is duly buried, and Dominique comes to Poland to participate in the funeral. (Perhaps someone had informed her about the will.) When she returns to the hotel, she finds Karol in the bed, and this time he is not impotent. - On the next morning the police arrives to the hotel Dominique is suspected of having murdered Karol. Her assurance that he is not dead at all, and that she has slept with him on the night after the funeral, does not improve her case. She is convicted (and may well have got a life sentence). While she is in prison, Karol sometimes leaves small bags to the guard, who passes them on to Dominique. She at her cell window, and Karol on the prison yard, are waving their hands with unalloyed positive feelings for each other. - Some of the problems of this sequence of events can be solved. Karol might live his subsequent life in secret. And the prison guard may believe that he is, say, Dominique's cousin. Prisoners have so few sources of pleasure that they are often prepared to forgive those who sent them in prison by perjury, in order to obtain a little human communication (I have first rate experience of this since I have worked in legal courts for 15 years). However, how could Karol be sure that he would have an erection at the hotel? If he had not succeeded on this single occasion, the entire plan for revenge would have failed. - Does Kieslowski mean that Karol can function adequately if either no emotions, or sadistic emotions are involved, while positive emotions prevent smooth functioning? If this is what he means, it is ill placed to give the spectator the task of deducing it. And the same pattern cannot be applied to Dominique. Despite her obvious sadism in one key scene, her unmixed positive feelings in the prison would be poor evidence of a masochistic attitude. "},{"Title":"8/10. Not perfect, but worth watching.","Date":"18 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The second part of Krzysztof Kieslowski's Three Colours trilogy, this one represents white.Much of the whiteness comes from the bleak snowy landscapes of post-Communist Poland, where the central character, Karol Karol (Zbigniew Zamachowski) finds himself. How he gets here from his marriage annulment in a Parisian court is pure farce. Talk about living out of a suitcase.Part of Karol's determination against adversity is to gain some kind of revenge on his ex-wife, Dominique (Julie Delpy), and the scheme he dreams up involves faking his own death.Part droll comedy, part satire, this is full of clever details and quirky moments, although the story does lose focus from time to time. Zamachowski puts in an engaging turn as the downtrodden man destined to be one of life's runners-up. "}{"Title":"Like The Middle Of An Oreo...","Date":"28 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The second film in Krzysztof Kieslowski's Blue, White & Red trilogy, White (1993), is decidedly lighter in tone than its predecessor and should manage to appeal to a wider audience. In it we meet Karol Karol, a Polish hairdresser living in Paris who has just been divorced by his wife Dominique (the gorgeous Julie Delpy, who is not unfairly compared to the Brigitte Bardot of Contempt in this picture), due to a spell of impotence. At first blush something of a nebbish, Karol soon shows that he is nevertheless quite the resourceful character. Back in his wintry-white native land, he manages to somehow get back on his feet, rebuild his life despite numerous adversities--as had Juliette Binoche in Blue--and even contrive a get-even scheme involving his ex. As in the previous film, the directing and photography are just outstanding, and Zbigniew Zamachowski is at once sympathetic, funny and charismatic in White's lead role. Sharp-eyed fans of Blue will note Ms. Binoche's Julie character in White's opening courtroom scene, as well as the same old lady at the recycling bin (this latter background character would also, strangely, resurface in Red); just some fun elements to help tie this loosely linked trio of films together, I suppose. Despite being a bit more straightforward than the other two films in the trilogy, White still offers food for thought, as well as some puzzling moments. For example, viewers who will be able to interpret Delpy's hand gestures at the tail end of the picture are certainly better than me. (Then again, I've always been pretty bad at any hand pantomime more involved than a raised middle finger; guess I'd make a lousy deaf person!) Fortunately, Delpy explains these mysterious gestures for us in one of the DVD's copious extras. I'm also somewhat at a loss as to how the color white's corresponding to equality on the French flag pertains here. Are we supposed to think that Karol and Dominique are equals of sorts by the film's end? I suppose so. The white of the title can just as easily be regarded, though, as corresponding to the sweet and pleasing center of an Oreo cookie, in the middle of two decidedly darker segments... "},{"Title":"My favorite color","Date":"22 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Krzysztof Kieslowski's Trois couleurs Blanc (1994) was certainly a surprise after the somber French language meditation of Blue. This (mostly) Polish black comedy -- with a heart -- was extremely funny (albeit with poignant touches). The acting (especially of Zbigniew Zamachowski as hopeless schlub turned suave business success) and dialog were superb, as was the cinematography. Julie Delpy doesn't have much to do, but does what she needs to very well (and certainly looks and sounds good).  "},{"Title":"class cinamphotography and evrn better plot make for 9.8 of a movie","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  a movie which has a very simplistic senario but at every turn asstounds and this happens right up till the increadable finale and at all times is very real in terms of human interaction of the charactors which make the movie hit home a lot harder at the end of the movie it makes you feel lots of strong conflicting emotions the main one being im glad i watched three colours white by far the best in my opinion of the trilogy. sorry mrs binoche "},{"Title":"Karol Karol, I love that name","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  White the second in the three colors trilogy. This is the least original of the three. Blue is a very character oriented film. Putting all it's time into just one role. This unlike Blue has two leads and a supporting role. It has a plot that means something to the story. This does have something in common with Blue, they both have to do with marriages. Blue about a widow trying to claw back into life after being crushed from the death of her husband & daughter. White is about revenge and about love. Karol Karol the lead is played perfectly by Zbigniew Zamachowski & his wife is played by Julie Delpy. Delpy is great here, to bad she has yet to come close to repeating her talent on screen since this film. The color white takes on many forms in this film, but I won't get into them. The direction is once again done perfectly by Kieslowski. Even though this is most normal of three color films, it still holds it's on. I give it a 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A sweeping majestic final sequel","Date":"18 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" So, the last of the three Color films, White, or Bialy in Polish, speaks mostly about Poland of the early 90's. The main hero, Karol, played by brilliant Zbiegniew Zamachowski, divorces his wife in Paris, because, as she claimed, he could not perform in bed. The trial is over, and Karol is penniless, homeless and even has no passport. His wife, Dominique, played by Julie Delpy, is cold and distant, so Karol goes on sleeping in the underground, where by chance he meets a cunning poker player, performed by Janusz Gaios. The Man helps Karol to get to Poland in a trunk, and although the very case is stolen by bandits and Karol is beaten badly, he then looks at a terribly smelling junk yard and says with a great irony Thanks God, I am in Poland! Thus, we witness his steady rise from a poor but famous barber / hairdresser to a rich and criminal boss. Karol uses his brain to make a tricky deal with lands which cost millions, he then sells them to his former gangster colleagues, then he starts a business and gets huge riches. At the same time, Karol continues his strange relations with The Poker Man, who once asks him to kill him. Karol refuses and the two become very close good friends. The cute plot weaves even deeper, and we see how Karol decides to stage his tragic death and funeral, writes his last will where all his wealth goes to his ex-wife, thus he lures her to come to Poland, and there they finally meet, have wild night, and ... The end of the film is excellent, dark, mysterious and very tricky. t makes you think of the real sense of that all. White. True, the last film is light white, it all is covered in snow and other white things. It seems so sophisticated and clean, even though there are bloody things that go on. Mostly, this film is great at depicting Poland of the 90's, when so-called Wild Market Capitalism started, and we see all those crooks, bandits, gangs, drug dealers and currency crooks vividly and shockingly true. The last film ends on a high, heart-aching note, and leaves us with an open book. What a real pity Mr. Kislowski never made another film of this excellent series... "},{"Title":"a very good film","Date":"29 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I wish I could give this movie an 8.5! It's much better than average and I really had a hard time choosing between a score of 8 and 9! The movie starts with a schmuck going to court because his wife of only a few months is divorcing him. He adores her but he feels intimidated by her and unable to consummate their marriage. It seems that based on the plot this is probably because the wife is a very sexy but very cold and calculating bitch. I could easily understand a man feeling too intimidated by her to maintain an erection.Her nastiness comes out just after the divorce is granted when she does everything she can to destroy him--even though he is a basically decent guy. You really feel for him as he's left with no money, no passport and she set him up to be accused of arson just because she could! Despite all this, he loves her dearly and I found myself feeling a little frustrated with him, as I wanted him to get mad or even or something! And, I was delighted to see just how delicious his ultimate revenge would be!! By the film's end, I was relieved to see him act, though the final scene is up to several possible interpretations and you really aren't sure if he intends to save her or keep her hanging at the end. Good job. "},{"Title":"Again a beautiful movie","Date":"7 October 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This second installment of the 'Trois Couleurs'-trilogy is, if possible, better than the first. Where 'Bleu' stands for freedom, 'Blanc' stands for egalité which means equality. Again this movie is directed and co-written by Krzysztof Kieslowski and again we get to see a beautiful movie. There are even a little more happy moments in this one.Karol (Zbigniew Zamachowski) is a Polish guy and the movie starts with his divorce from Dominique (Julie Delpy). She wants to leave him because he is not able to perform sexually since they have married. She also doesn't love him anymore, so she says. After Karol has tried one more time to get her back, without succeeding, he goes back to Poland with the help of a guy named Mikolaj (Janusz Gajos). In Poland he tries to make some good money and during all this he has a plan in the back of his head.'Blanc' is a beautiful movie. The cinematography and especially the music (as in 'Bleu') are great. The actors all give very fine performances. A little easier to watch than 'Bleu', and even a little better, this is a great movie. "},{"Title":"Sharp and ironic script","Date":"1 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  After watching Kieslowski's second Color film I didn't feel any more in awe than I did after watching his first film Blue. It is interesting and Zbigniew Zamachowski gives a good and solid performance but not as good as Juliette Binoche gave in Blue. Julie Delpy is underused I think. This film could have used more scenes with her character (Dominique) and Zamachowski's character (Karol) to give the film more clarity as to why Karol is so infatuated with her. We understand his revenge motive but the other is a little unclear. The irony is that Karol has to set up Dominique and have her locked up to get equality, of sorts.     Also, look fast at the beginning of the film in the courtroom and you'll see a glimpse of Juliette Binoche trying to enter. And the same old hunched over lady from Blue is still trying to throw away bottles in a recycle bin. "},{"Title":"Pretty good","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A French-Polish tale of a one-way love, and of revenge.  It's the second film in the Three Colors series.  It starts out in Paris and ends in Warsaw.  It's basically the story of a man who foolishly loves a woman who doesn't love him in return.  It grabs your attention the whole way through, as you watch the hero of the story go to hell and back.  Little by little, you see him pick up the pieces of his life, and it's really interesting to see exactly what he does to his love once he has regained success.  You get to see Juliette Binoche make quick cameo appearance in this film, but you'll have to see the first film in the series (Three Colors Blue) before seeing this film if you want to understand the purpose of her appearance. "},{"Title":"Beautiful!","Date":"24 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Only a beautiful story about love, friendship and betrayal. Very well- directed, brilliant actors, moving story. And way better than Titanic. "}{"Title":"excellent allegory on fate","Date":"17 April 2004","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Fate climbs into the theme of the Three Color Trilogy yet again this time,it rears it's ugly head. The character of Karol appears to have rotten luck with no chance of an happiness. His wife Dominique has taken him to the cleaners and even has the police after him for a fire she purposely started. He is in a subway where he meets a kind gentlemen by the name of Mikolaj. Mikolaj offers to take him to Poland if he'll murder someone who wants to die but can't come to the point of suicide. Karol recognizes that Dominique has moved on because her ex could not get it up(I will not elaborate if you don't know what that means). Karol goes to Poland in a giant suitcase,but more bad luck happens when several baggage handlers for the airport steal his suitcase with him in it. He,however,escapes these men with some bruises and finds his way to Poland to try and reestablish his life. He is a hairdresser,but this occupation reminds him too much of Dominique so he gets a job as a security guard for a less than trustworthy market owner. He discovers that his employer wants this area of land to run some businesses and decides to buy the land himself. This leads him to wealth,but the happiness is still not truly fulfilled because of his desire and love for Dominique that won't waver. The film was great to me despite many critic's opinions that it was a weak effort. I think it is ultimately about not being able to have true happiness because of lost love. This loss will not go away no matter how much success and possessions you have. Somehow in the long run Karol is able to find a solice. Dominique is a fascinating character to me because she can be cold and calculating,yet has this beauty that can be intoxicating.The color white is not as vibrant as Blue and Red,but does have a presence nonetheless. ****1/2/***** "},{"Title":"Good but pales compared to Blue","Date":"3 June 2004","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  My Rating *** out of ****. White is the second film in Krzysztof's Kieslowski's Color Trilogy(The first is Blue; The third is Red). I have seen Blue and White, hopefully going to rent Red soon. Blue was a brilliant masterpiece about dealing with a loss in a woman's life. Unfortunately, White cannot be called Blue's equal. It lacks the punch of Blue and there are several possible reasons why.First off, White has a much lighter tone than Blue. Blue had a somber mood to it, White has nothing of the sort. I guess you could call White the more enjoyable film but I did not find it anywhere near as absorbing as Blue.Another flaw is the characters just aren't as interesting as Julie was from Blue. Maybe Kieslowski just has a way with Women that they command my attention better than the leading man does. In fact, I actually wanted the woman in the story to become the main character. I am probably being too negative on the film, let me state that I think White is a good film. It's entertaining and will hold your attention through. It is also a very well-acted film. The acting is definitely solid. His character may not be as interesting as Julie in Blue, but Zbigniew Zamachowski is quite good here. He's able to make his character likable and gets us on his side. As good as Zamachowski is, it is Delpy who is the standout. Her performance is highly effective for having limited screentime. It makes me wonder that White would probably be better with her as the main character.Like Blue, White has some breathtaking cinematography. The snowscapes in Poland are absolutely magnificent looking. The score is very impressive and supports the visuals well. Overall, White is a well-made film that is definitely worth watching. The problem is that after Blue I was expecting a masterpiece. It is my problem. I do recommend White and acknowledge that it is a good film.   "},{"Title":"Not the great movie I was expecting","Date":"20 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The French film Trois couleurs Blanc was shown in the U.S. with the title Three Colors White (1994). It was written and directed by Polish director Krzysztof Kieslowski.The movie begins in Paris, but soon after that the location switches to Poland. The film stars Zbigniew Zamachowski as Karol Karol, a hair stylist who has moved to Paris from his native Poland. Within the first five minutes, we learn that Karol has been married to Dominique (Julie Delpy), but she's divorcing him because the marriage hasn't been consummated. Apparently, their sex life was OK before they were married, but, since the marriage, Karol has become impotent.The divorce is granted, and that's pretty much the last we see of Julie Delpy until the end of the movie. I was surprised by this, because Juliette Binoche was in almost every scene of Three Colors Blue. However, in this film, the female lead actually has a supporting role, and a small one at that. Of course, Delpy is very beautiful, and we know from other films that she can act. But she can't do much acting if she's not on the screen. (Incidentally, in regard to Delpy's beauty, the two young men sitting next to us proclaimed that she was scorching. I've never heard that term used to describe an actor's beauty, but I understood what they meant.)Karol ends up back in Poland, having faced numerous hardships, some of which are hard to believe. But, he had to get back to Poland somehow, and he did.The rest of the movie shows Karol using his wits to move from being a hairdresser in a very small salon to becoming a wealthy man with a chauffeur-driven Volvo.People keep telling him, You can buy anything in Poland now. I assume this is Director Kieslowski's way of reminding us that in 1994, the Polish Republic was only five years old. There was a frenzied capitalist explosion after the Russian troops left. Karol thrives in that milieu.The movie takes some more strange twists, and ends in a strange way. (If you're interested, you can make sense of the last few moments of the film by checking the FAQ for this movie.)I believe that Three Colors Blue is a great movie. I think Three Colors White is a pretty good movie, but not worth a special trip to see it. It will work well on DVD.We saw this film at the excellent Dryden Theatre at George Eastman Museum in Rochester, NY. It was shown as part of the Three Colors Remembering Krzysztof Kieslowski series. The movie has a high 7.7 IMDb rating, so, clearly, many people liked it more than I did. Maybe they appreciated the relationship between Karol and Dominique as symbolizing the relationship between Poland and France. Possibly I missed other symbolismIf you see Three Colors Blue and Three Colors Red, you'll want to see Three Colors White for the sake of completeness. Just don't expect it to be a masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Three Colors Desire","Date":"17 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" User comments for this one are way off the mark. One claims the film is about marriage, another assigns stubborn spitefulness to Delpy (she just wants her man to be able to get it on!), or how it's about French society. But most egregious are those who have taken Kieslowski at face value when he said that each film in the color trilogy is inspired by the French motto and try to explain how this is the equality film. People, Kieslowski was coaxing funds from the French by giving them something they could buy into! He's pretty much said so.The story as you see it never actually happened. That's why you have silly points like a man being flown to Poland in a suitcase, why you have a hairdresser turned into a business mogul just like that, why she's locked up in prison with no evidence, etc.Blue was about memory, something that happened in the past and now resurfaces to color reality. This one is about imagined anticipation desire. We have a marriage breaking apart, the courtroom bit is probably the only real one. She used to love him until he couldn't get hard any more, but even this might be his failure to save his marriage (a blow to male ego) taking shape as male impotence to consummate.The rest of the film is wish-fulfillment fantasy where he laments himself as broke and homeless, endures all kinds of hardship until he picks himself up, becomes rich and powerful (that's virility for his male ego), watches her cry over his grave and stages his comeuppance after a night of giving her the best sex of her life.But love for her melts away this vindictive fantasy of asserting himself. He never leaves for Hong Kong as planned. He visits her in prison instead. Watching her through theater glasses from below, she motions to him about getting married again. It resembles an episode from the Dekalog. But like most of the Dekalog, the plot overpower's Kieslowski's visual ability. "},{"Title":"I Just Chanced Upon These","Date":"9 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I did not know of these films. I'm late to the party. Also, I've viewed them out of sequence. It doesn't matter. What an experience! This one is about true love. The poor Polish schmuck is being divorced by his beautiful young wife because he has been unable to consummate he marriage. We do wonder why that is, but it could well be a medical condition. He is not give a chance. As a matter of fact, she takes everything from him without a bit of compassion, leaving him sitting on a steamer trunk in a Paris street. He manages to meet his savior, a complex to man who seems to have many secrets. With his help, he manages to accumulate great wealth. I won't go into the details other than he never stops loving the woman, no matter what. Granted, his intentions are not the best, but they make for a delicate balance between freedom and revenge. Karol has lost his freedom through no fault of his own and we hang on to see how this manifests itself. The closing scene is full of hope and resolution. One of the most interesting characters in all of moviedom. "},{"Title":"achromatic evenness","Date":"11 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The second installation in Krzysztof Kieślowski's Three Colors trilogy is considered an anti-comedy. Continuing the theme of France's national motto (liberty, equality, fraternity), Trois couleurs Blanc (Three Colors White in English) looks at equality, as a divorced man returns to his native Poland and eventually decides to get even with his ex-wife.As in the first installment, Kieślowski uses the title color to tell the story. This color that is a combination of all the other colors appears in almost every scene. White continues the first movie's theme of trying to break away from the past, while there remains an object serving as a link to the past. Blue had the blue beads, while this one has the two-franc coin. In the end, one might interpret the man's ethically questionable business practices as a warning about going overboard in reforming Poland's economy after the Soviet-backed regime collapsed.I actually didn't find White to be quite as good as Blue (I have yet to see Red). The previous one focused on the woman's attempts to make a new life for herself, while this one makes the man look like the victim. Not that these turn it into a bad movie. The worst Krzysztof Kieślowski movie is better than the best Michael Bay movie. I recommend the movie. I'm now eager to see Red. "},{"Title":"it is the weakest of the three Colors, still entertaining and devilishly subtle","Date":"10 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" In the story of 'White', one of the segments as part of the Three-Colors Trilogy that capped off the career of Kieslowski (this was released second after 'Blue', just before 'Red'), Karol (Zbigniew Zamachowski) is married to Dominique (Julie Delpy), but at the start of the film they're getting a divorce. What harm exactly did he do to her? We don't quite know. All we can really gleam is that he loves her passionately but, you know how the Golddiggers song goes, huh fellas? This is not to say that this film is misogynistic, or rather I don't think that is really Kieslowski's game with the satire here - and make no mistake, this is as biting satire (and out-and-out comedy) as it can get for such a director. While Dominique is conniving - she leaves poor Karol with nothing but a suitcase, and despite him trying to get her back he turns up (in more ways than one) flaccid. Can he win her back some how? He's still crazy about her - he even buys a statue that looks remarkably like her to keep by his side.Through a rather crazy set of circumstances, which include meeting another Polish man in France who wants him to commit a murder for money (a lot of it) and then finding a way back to Poland by, you guessed it, stuffing himself inside of a suitcase (sure, it gets stolen and he's beaten up by the thieves, but it's the price to pay for getting back to Poland). He tries to build himself back up, and does by chance and ingenuity - and screwing over other crooks before they get the chance to steal people of their land - and all of this is really to do one thing find a way to get Dominique back into his life. How will this be done? By some unlikely means necessary.A couple of points in White, perhaps mid-way through, seemed a little slow when the film wasn't sure quite what to do with Karol. What is he doing back in Wasaw exactly? Where will this story be going to? And, most confusingly, why does Delpy's Dominique pop up - randomly, to my point of view - two times in the middle of the film, just clips of scenes of her later on in the film? Kieslowski is much more sly in this film than he is in Blue or Red, films that dealt on more concrete terms about existential anxiety and about not connecting with people after traumas of lapses in connection (re Binoche, who randomly pops up in a bling-and-you'll miss cameo and Trintignant).I think the key to me came after seeing the film and noticing a reviewer comparing Kieslowski's approach as a critique of capitalism in the modern age. Before reading that, White was an entertaining film but, comparatively, light in what it has to offer. It is all still a divorcée-con-job story, with overtones in the third act of, of all things, The Third Man in its trickery of a character playing dead. But what does carry over in this film - which features its title color revealed at moments of revelation, the wedding dress Delpy wears, and an actual climactic moment - is the humor and commentary on a society picking itself up, as Poland was, in the days of the end of Communist rule. I wish I had put that context more for when I was watching it, and maybe on a re-watch it will be more interesting with that in mind.If it does keep from being great overall, it may be because it's a little too... short, in a way. A part of me wishes there was just a scene or two more development of Karol/Dominique's relationship, but on the other hand it's easy to see why Kieslowski keeps it to what it is love that is more about need and desire than full-on compatibility, on both sides.It goes by in a brisk 90 minutes, and Delpy is there for all of 20 minutes, tops (her appearance on the cover is more for advertisement purposes). When she does appear in the film, her character is raw and duplicitous at first, but strangely vulnerable when it comes to her sorta comeuppance when she really returns. In this midsection, and really our hero, we have Zamachowski, and he is terrific and funny and sad and all sort of things as this hapless guy who knows he loves his wife, even (especially) when he's enacting his obsessive-revenge-type of response to her rejection of him. If there was ever an American remake - not that one should want it, but hypothetically - Paul Giamatti would fit the role perfectly. He's an average, shlubby every-man who is three dimensional likable, unlikable, fairly slick one minute and idiotic the next.For a director who is often looked at as having very Heavy films, and for good reason, a film like Three Colors White is, for lack of a better word, fun, and it's enjoyable mostly to see the director work in such a mood - though the ending turns out to be rather tragic in what it suggests will come for these characters' double crossings. "},{"Title":"Three Colors White (1994)","Date":"14 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Krzysztof Kieślowski's Three Colors trilogy is his final cinematic work and revolves around the three colors of the French flag blue, white and red, and the ideals which they represent (liberty, equality, fraternity), as well as why these ideals are irrelevant or impossible on an emotional basis. At one point, Kieślowski was editing Blue while shooting White and writing Red.White is a story about equality and follows Karol Karol, a Polish man living in a loveless marriage with his manipulative French wife Dominique. Their divorce process is designated by the language barrier, and Karol soon loses everything and lives as a beggar until he meets a fellow Pole who arranges for Karol to return to Warsaw, where he quickly raises fortune through some wheeler-dealing business and returns to Paris to get even with his Dominique (to restore equality through revenge). The final scene, which has Dominique jailed and communicating to Karol from a window by sign language, thus mirrors the start of the film where Karol and Dominique are also separated due to legal and language barriers.Essentially, White is a political allegory about a impotent and broke Pole (communism) who returns as a shady plutocrat. He thus symbolizes all of Poland trying to rise among other European countries, but the story is much deeper than that. Like Blue, this is also a story a rebirth, following Karol escaping the Underworld (the Paris metro) by sealing himself in a suitcase (the womb), before getting released in a Polish landfill, after which he rises to power.White is, of course, the prominent color, and is used in too many ways to count. For example, during the long-awaited orgasm scene, the scene flashes white, not to mention the numerous white objects, shiny windows and suits. The white color usually symbolizes purity and innocence (coming back to the couple's fruitless marriage). Pigeons appear throughout the film and almost stand for Dominique - in the idyllic wedding flashbacks, the pigeons fly off and represent all that is beautiful or holy. However, before the trial, a pigeon craps on Karol, sort of how Dominique royally shits on his life later in the court.Going neatly with the theme of all three movies, some objects Karol owns are the parts of his previous life that still binds him. For example, the 2 franc coin or the plaster bust that reminds him of Dominique, the bust that gets broken and he has to reassemble it with glue. Once again, Kieślowski plays with interconnection of his universes, having Juliette Binoche and Florence Pernel from Blue appear in the courtroom in White, not to mention that the two stars from White also play the same roles very briefly in Blue.White's soundtrack continues the tradition of dramatic, orchestral, European sounding music, but also adds Polish folk songs into the mix. The movie also has the lightest tone out of the three, with many comical elements. It's entertaining enough and has all the neat hidden meanings to escort you during repeat viewings, but the story just becomes too confusing for me in the second half and some things, like why Dominique exactly ended up in jail, aren't really explained. Apparently even Kieślowski was dissatisfied with the ending. "},{"Title":"France!","Date":"26 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Second of a trilogy of films dealing with contemporary French society shows a Polish immigrant (Zbigniew Zamachowski) who wants to get even with his former wife (Julie Delpy).Apparently, the film has a political subtext, in which Karol's impotence and financial helplessness in France, and subsequent rise as a somewhat shady capitalist, mirror the attempts of Poland to advance from its disadvantaged position within Europe. Was this intentional? Perhaps. But it is certainly one way to read the film.Three Colors White was met with critical acclaim by film critics, but is considered by many to be the weakest of the trilogy; it holds a 90% rating on Rotten Tomatoes, while the first and third films hold 100% ratings. 90% is nothing to get upset about. "},{"Title":"White should be pure and equal but not in love.","Date":"8 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" White is the purest color and seems like nothing harmful in there, peaceful. That's my first impression of this movie and I changed my thoughts.The movie can be summarized as a word'revenge'. It was totally different with white color. The whole movie is full of plain color like black white grey, and they mean the life of Karol. However there are sharp colors such as orange and red when Dominique appears. She has strong desire of sex and love.So it is obvious that there is a contrast between Them and may be they are in different world.The most unforgettable part is the ending. Because Karol visited Dominique in the prison but they are in different emotions. Karol was crying and looking at her but Dominique smiled and did sign language. She said the Karol must wait her back and have sex with her(or marry again?). To me, They are in different stage of love. Karol did the revenge and still in love with Dominique. On the other side, Dominique was satisfied with the power she got in the relationship so she just want to enjoy that again but may be not related to her love to Karol.Overall, the color was the main feature of the movie and brought out the relationship between this couple. Krzysztof Kieślowski told us White should be pure and equal but not in love. "}{"Title":"Lighter","Date":"7 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'd say that this is definitely better than Blue, just because it manages to be more entertaining. But at the same time, it's not going through the same dramatic material so it's even harder to judge in that way. The performances are pretty good, and it's sort of a wonder seeing Julie Delp in something that isn't from the Before trilogy. Just such a beautiful woman. The plot is paced around smoothly and this film isn't as slow paced as Blue and Red, but it also seems to go for less sentimental emotion and that's pretty much what we get. I get what it's considered the weakest, but I enjoyed it enough. This is recommended, although not strongly so. "},{"Title":"the  other","Date":"24 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" at first sigh, a revenge story. in fact, only a window to Kieslowski definition of life. a portrait of cultural borders. and drawing of the need to be part of the other.a Polish story and splendid role for Julie Delpy. a film about love, fear, vulnerability and search of sense. and subtle, nuanced performance of Zbigniew Zamachowski. a letter from East. honest. so, cruel. with a beautiful end who defines entire cold poetry of movie. sure, it is a profound subjective review because, I admit, Kieslowski remains for me more than a brilliant director but a great witness , who not only present but defines the details of a period, the roots of a world who remains gray in light. "},{"Title":"The better second...","Date":"30 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The trilogy continues and now we have the second color which is white. In this movie we watch a separated couple and the man of this couple who tries get back his ex-wife.Krzysztof Kieslowski directs a masterpiece again and I think that the interpretations of Zbigniew Zamachowski as the husband (Karol Karol), Julie Delpy as the ex-wife (Dominique) and Janusz Gajos as a friend of the husband (Mikolaj).Three Colors White is a really nice movie and I liked more than the first one because in this movie we watch some different personalities of people and we also observe how difficult is to get threw some situations of life and get over them. "},{"Title":"Existentialistic, humane and wonderful...","Date":"20 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Polish screenwriter and director Krzysztof Kieslowski's eleventh feature film which he co-wrote with Polish lawyer, politician and screenwriter Krzysztof Piesiewicz, Polish screenwriter and director Agnieszka Holland, Polish screenwriter and director Edward Zebrowski and Edward Klosinski, is the second part of his trilogy which was preceded by Blue (1993) and succeeded by Red (1994). It was screened In competition at the 44th Berlin International Film Festival in 1994, was shot on locations in Paris, France and Warsaw, Poland and is a France-Poland-Switzerland co-production which was produced by French director and film producer Marin Karmitz. It tells the story about Karol Karol, a former Polish hairdresser who is left by his French wife Dominique only six months after their marriage due to not being able to meet her sexual demands. Heartbroken and alone in the streets of Paris with no money and no passport, wishing he could return to his native country, Karol has to join the homeless, but as an angel sent from heaven, a nice Polish man named Mikolaj shows up and takes an interest in Karol. As it turns out that Mikolaj is traveling to Warsaw the following day he offers Karol to smuggle him along in a big briefcase. Complications arises after the arrival in Poland and some criminals steal the briefcase where Karol is hiding, but when they discover what's inside it they assault Karol and leave him unconscious. When he wakes up he walks to the city and goes to his old hair saloon which is now run by his brother. Karol gets a job there and his new existence opens new doors. Distinctly and acutely directed by Polish filmmaker Krzysztof Kieslowski, this rhythmic and ingenious fictional tale which is narrated mostly from the main character's point of view, draws a profoundly moving portrayal of an unlucky man's strive to regain his confidence after being publicly and personally humiliated by the woman he loved. While notable for it's gritty and naturalistic milieu depictions, sterling production design by production designers Halina Dobrowolska and Claude Lenoir, cinematography by Polish cinematographer Edward Klosiski, the fine editing by Polish film editor Urszula Lesiak and symbolic use of colors, this character-driven and narrative-driven comedy-drama from the early 1990s which stands out from the other parts of the Three Colors trilogy much due to it's humorous tone, depicts an appealing and incisive study of character and contains an exceptional film score by Polish composer Zbigniew Preisner which emphasizes it's poetic atmosphere.This instantly involving, somewhat romantic, somewhat mysterious, charming and witty independent film which examines themes like identity, liberty, destiny and love, is impelled and reinforced by it's brilliant narrative structure, substantial character development, colorful characters, quick-witted dialog and the memorable acting performances by Polish actor Zbigniew Zamachowski, French-American actress, screenwriter and director Julie Delphy and Polish actor Janusz Gajos. An existentialistic, humane, masterful and wonderful piece of cinema which gained the Silver Bear for Best Director Krzysztof Kieslowski at the 44th Berlin International Film Festival in 1994. "},{"Title":"Morality Tale","Date":"27 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" White is the second of Krzysztof Kieslowski trilogy begins with a suitcase on a carousel at an airport but switches to a man in a Paris divorce court who has trouble understanding French, that his wife, Dominique(Julie Delpy) does not love him. It gets worse, with the disclosure that he can't get it up for his wife; ouch! The poor guy loses her, his beauty salon, and is soon to be deported with little money.He performs music at a train station when he is befriended by a fellow pole, Mikolaj, who offers him cash if he will kill someone for him. Karol is then smuggled in the suitcase from the opening scene, which is stolen by airport workers in Poland. He manages to get a job working for his brother as a hairdresser. He also works as a bodyguard and reunites with Mikolaj in a tunnel, where he is asked to kill him in an assisted suicide. He persuades his intended victim to stay alive.Karol's luck changes as he and his new friend buy and sell land at a huge profit. He has gone from rags to riches. With his new found wealth, he comes up with an idea to win back Dominique and seek revenge. The final shot is quite memorable, an excellent lesson in morality. Be careful what you wish for. "},{"Title":"A light change of pace.","Date":"18 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I went into Three Colors White with relatively low expectations, hearing almost unanimously that it was the worst of the trilogy by far. While it certainly doesn't hold a candle to the magnificence of Blue, I think that it works quite well in it's own right, although I'm sure my meager expectations helped me to appreciate it a lot more than I would have if I had gone in blind after it's predecessor. Still, White has a lot to be admired. I think that one of the more interesting things Krzysztof Kieslowski has going on in this trilogy of his is the way that he toys with people's expectations.Blue started with a woman losing her husband and child, and the whole thing was this very bleak and wrenching drama of a human being struggling with unimaginable loss, yet it never became a melodramatic tear-fest and strangely ended in a bittersweet, optimistic fashion. It became this sort of anti-tragedy, grown in the most heartbreaking soil but sprouting into something very much it's own creature. White follows the same idea, just in a much different genre.We open with Karol Karol (Zbigniew Zamachowski) in court, getting divorced from his wife (Julie Delpy) against his wishes, and the first act is a lot of tired clichés of the hapless loser getting cuckolded by his bitch ex-wife. She's a real piece of work and it's frustrating watching this moron stumble around trying to win her back when really there is no reason for anyone to not just murder her. Karol has a chance encounter in a subway station with Mikolaj (Janusz Gajos), who eventually brings him back to Poland and the whole thing goes down this wild path of wacky antics, with gangsters and guns and the standard scenery. Where Blue was the anti-tragedy, White is very much the anti-romantic comedy.The whole thing is staged around this premise of the loser trying to win back the woman he loves, with all sorts of comedic dealings in between. There are classic setups like Karol hiding in a suitcase that gets stolen at the airport, but Kieslowski presents them all in this very dour and interesting tone. He never goes for laughs, despite the obvious comedic setups and that's what makes this piece so interesting. No, it never reaches the emotional extremes of Blue and I have to admit that I was disappointed by the absence of visual panache that Kieslowski displayed so magnificently in the previous film, but here he focuses much more on telling this straight story without any attention to emotions or significant themes. It's a madcap comedy without the humor (although there was one scene that made me crack up a lot) and it all builds to a delicious twist of a climax.I think that going right into this after Blue gives you a certain expectation, and the drastic change in tone takes a while to get used to. It also doesn't help that the marketing for the film is basically, Look guys, it's Julie Delpy! You know her, isn't she great? Come watch this movie with her!, when she's only in the film for fifteen minutes. But once I got past those qualms and began to appreciate this for what Kieslowski was doing with it, I really began to enjoy it and by the end it had certainly won me over. "},{"Title":"White","Date":"30 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I feel kinder towards White than I used to. It does stick out like a sore thumb amongst the trilogy due to its differences from the other two. Male protagonist, more comic (although not radically more), Polish instead of French, more culturally specific. But these aren't reasons to judge it as inferior. It's just different. I actually looked forward to revisiting this one the most. The more light-hearted plot is a nice breather between the others. Zamachowski's performance is deeply endearing, and it's always a treat to see Jerzy Stuhr in any capacity. However, there are still some issues. The cinematography is less distinctive, although there are some lovely images. Kieslowski's characters usually feel very, very genuine. They may be inhabiting a concept, but their behavior is natural. Here, the characters themselves are twisted to suit the purpose of the plot. Dominique is cold and cruel because otherwise Karol wouldn't be so driven towards revenge. Even so, it's hard to believe that Karol would hold his grudge for so long, except that it has to take us to the end point. And the end point is too far-fetched. The scheme is insane, and the flimsy case against Dominique wouldn't hold up in any modern courtroom. It's hard to believe that Kieslowski's collaborator Piesiewicz -- an attorney -- wouldn't have pushed for a more sensible conclusion. Despite these flaws, the film provides an engaging storyline, intriguing situations, and handles the theme of egalité in a novel fashion. "},{"Title":"Weaker in Blue, Paler in Justification of Color","Date":"9 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Three Colors White is a puzzling film; it has an entertaining premise, competent performances and an air of mystery and yet there is something missing, something deficient. It may be the increasing focus on the plot instead of the character, but the most important thing that's missing in it is a 'Great Movie' feeling that was so evident in Blue. White has an undeniable appeal which made me watch it twice, but what I did not get after two viewings was any meaning in the film.Karol is a shy hairdresser who is divorced by his dissatisfied wife, and left on the streets with no money and little dignity. He moves to his homeland and starts building a name there and also plans on his ultimate revenge. Here there are two parallel plot lines, one involving a glum fellow who helps him escape and the second involving acquisition of land. Everything helps Karol in blueprinting his revenge.Three Colors White reveals nothing much and seems much frenetic in its pace compared to Blue, except that the effort is comparatively relaxed. I could not get the underlying subtext, perhaps there wasn't one but if there was, then I feel that the director failed in conveying it.Krzysztof is a clever director and here too there are clever scenes. I can enlist a few of them 1) The comb and the 2 francs which always remain with the protagonist 2) The cogent use of colors including inclusion red, blue and to an extent green 3) Karol shaving in front of a Mother Mary and Christ photo and getting the idea of donating his possessions to the church 4) Karol observing a funeral procession and then planning the 'fake-death' Had the focus been greater on the character, the film would have been memorable. 'White' would appeal to a broader audience but it pales in comparison with its predecessor.My rating 6.5/10 "},{"Title":"Equality (White) Arrived at","Date":"5 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Having not yet watched the other two of the Colours Trilogy, I have set down to comment on the middle one as I can't let my agitated heart-rate settle down in any other way. Needless to say, 'white' denotes one colour, of the flag of France, that stands for equality; and this equality is arrived at in the end between Karol & Domininque by the most promising scene of the film where she makes certain intriguing movements of hands indicating her acceptance of his wedding ring. The first hint of doves making Karol's shirt dirty before he enters the court to be mentally decimated my his wife's remarks is the miry & dirty ground whereupon the reconstruction of their broken relation starts & which turns clean, or white, in the end. Those scenes which show how Karol stages his own death to get back his life, i.e. his wife, bear the mark of the creative hammer of Krzysztof Kieslowski; the hot anvil of his always-excellent lighting arrangement & camera-work also delineates the gusto of the Polish procreator of films; the never-before soothing music, too, seems to come from a far away place. In a nutshell, 'Three Colors White' is a panorama of earthly images, though with some minor defects, providing corneal & aural bliss. "},{"Title":"The rebirth of desire","Date":"31 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The main character (Karol) parades his sorry self through the horrific destitution of identity, propelling his dejected preverbal self through a spiral of rejection which seems to be compounded with every turn he takes. The pigeon defecating on him certainly symbolizes that even the symbolic has termed him worthy only of excrement (as the image of his wedding appears, his beautiful wife running and the pigeons flying away, allowing the horizon to shine light on the newly-born couple). Excrement breeds excrement, he is returned to Poland and emerges in a dump, where he is unceremoniously reminded that the world rejects him, even without any good reason. The tone of the film shies away from just perpetuating silliness and wanton punishment, which makes a lot of sense. The only friend he finds has his own fatalistic journey chiseled in mud (&#x85;), the responsibility of which is too overbearing to deal with alone. Clearly Karol, despite being able to encounter wealth, is still completely enamored with his ex-wife; again, their communication was always based on primitive grounding&#x85; she said herself that any words of connection / affection would fall on deaf ears, so to speak. The reason for the marriage to end and the manner in which she cruelly punishes him on the phone do indeed sink to the utmost nonverbal level, and in this universe, intelligence is not even ballast. It is these primordial noises that transcend all forms of logic that indeed define his value as not only a husband but a human being. The unwanted wretch he represented to her could not sustain himself despite material gain. Regardless of the denouement and its perverse connotations, Karol did indeed need to destroy his former self in order to create a sense of desire in Dominique; she became attracted to the born-again, fully verbal, sexually potent man, and the climax during the sex scene radiates white light in a demonstration of a new unity being forged. However, he cannot look at her in the aftermath. When his fantasy fell apart in the materialization of his libidinal wishes, he could not maintain himself in this new life in its purest sense, he had to pervert it. In doing so, fantasy and libido are recreated, in a haphazard and messy way. The deadness in the couple is sustained at first by Dominique, then later by Karol, and these 2 walking corpses cannot juxtapose themselves chronologically in order to fulfill the requirements of a happy marriage or a mutual separation. In the end, the element of an odd voyeuristic pleasure of creating a 3rd conjugal reality projected somewhere in the unknown future comes into play, but the realization of this is left purely to interpretation. "}{"Title":"Kieslowski's art-house Farce","Date":"29 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Three Colors White is Polish director Krystof Kieslowski's attempt to bring the classic Farce into a modern setting. It features a plot full of unlikely developments which suddenly reverse the fortunes of the characters and there is also some misdirection about identity employed between them. In spite of its unusual genre trappings the film is still very much of a piece with the director's other work Kieslowski's visual style is immediately recognizable, particularly in the way he uses the camera to represent the viewpoint of his characters-here most noticeably with flashbacks to a wedding.The color white is used in the film to symbolize purity-specifically purity of a sexual nature. After seeing his wife in her white wedding dress Karol Karol loses his ability to perform sexually with her; it's implied that he can't stand the idea of soiling her in spite of her clear desire for consummation. Ashamed of both his desire for her and his inability to fulfill his husbandly duty, Karol flees her homeland of France to return to his native Poland where he manages to gain a fortune because of a series of crooked business dealings. Karol may be afraid of doing something to ruin his wife's purity but he has no such scruples when it comes to his relationships with anyone else. Basically, he has to rid himself of virtue before he's willing to take any part of hers.While Farces aren't normally known for their emotional resonance, Kieslowski had become so adept at conveying his character's feelings that it's impossible not to feel sympathy for Karol even when his actions seem least relatable. Although I have negative memories of my viewing of Kieslowki's previous film Three Colors Blue from three years ago I wouldn't hesitate to call this film a masterpiece and its director one of the best of the 1990s on the strength of this film and 1991's Double Life of Veronique. For that matter, Blue is a film that I plan to rewatch and I'll be watching Red soon as well. "},{"Title":"waiting for Delpy","Date":"5 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Dominique (Julie Delpy) is in Paris court getting a divorce from her Polish Karol Karol despite his pleads. He loses everything and becomes penniless. Fellow Pole Mikołaj befriends him and offers him a job to kill somebody who already wants to die but isn't willing to do it. Mikolaj helps him to stowaway to Warsaw inside a suitcase. He reunites with his brother and gets a job as an unlikely bodyguard. Through various schemes and connections, he aims to take ultimate revenge.I would prefer to follow Julie Delpy in this movie. She is the more compelling actor. The moment she sets the curtains on fire is when I couldn't wait to see what else she's going to do. That chick is crazy. During the whole movie, I kept waiting for it to return to Dominique. The schemes that Mikolaj gets into are way too convoluted and disjointed. It's almost more important to make certain symbolic points than to make a compelling narrative. That's certainly Kieslowski's prerogative. I imagine if Dominique is the central character who gets to ride in the suitcase, do those schemes and come back to trick the weak-minded Karol. That would be an amazing character in a fun movie. "},{"Title":"Three Colours White","Date":"30 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I heard about these films, and the result of this first instalment of the trilogy from director Krzysztof Kieslowski about the contemporary French society was brilliant, which explains the three colours, of the French flag. Basically Karol Karol (Zbigniew Zamachowski) is a Plish hairdresser working in France, with a beautiful wife, Dominique (Julie Delpy) whom he obsessively loves, but is in the process of divorcing for his inability to consummate the marriage. Karol loses all his earthly possessions, and is literally driven out of France by his Dominique. The rest of the film sees Karol fighting to get his wife back and his helplessness. Also starring Janusz Gajos as Mikolaj, Jerzy Stuhr as Jurek and a cameo by Juliette Binoche returning (very quickly) as Julie Vignon. I found the most memorable moments were Karol fitting into a large suitcase to get to France, and the great music by Zbigniew Preisner. The use of the colour white in most settings is not as obvious as blue and red. Along with the first and third films, all three were number 77 on The 100 Greatest Films. Very good! "},{"Title":"splendid acting in a different kind of love story","Date":"2 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" 'Blanc' is the mid film in the trois-couleurs trilogy of Kieslowski. It is a story of love like you have not seen or heard yet. It is also the film that is more connected to Poland, the mother-country of the director in the cycle.Karol is a Polish hairdresser who just at the beginning of the film is being divorced by his Frech wife on the worst possible reason for a man - not performing in bed. The two seem to be still in love, but they cannot communicate well, and Karol is left in the worst possible situation, without money, being obliged to return home illegally in a suitcase. What follows is very much similar to many East Europen films describing the transition of former Eastern Europe from Communism. In the desolated landscape of Poland everything goes, everything is possible, and Karol becomes fast a rich man. His dream is yet to win back his love. He will do it by simulating his own death, will win physically his love for a night, and then the story becomes something else - a story of revenge, which may or may not fit into the logic of the movie up to that point.The film is much more direct than other films of Kieslowski, maybe because the director wanted to say something about the fate of his country, but this is not in the same register and at the same level as the rest of the story and of the film. We can however enjoy here as well the color symbols of the series, with the white meaning not that much purity but the freezing cool of the Polish winter, with the red taking over in one of the final love scenes, connecting symbolically with the last film in the series. The best thing however in the movie is the amazing acting of Zbigniew Zamachowski in the role of Karol. Zamachowski carries the full intensity of unaccomplished love, desperation, will to win the love back and take revenge maybe not so much on people as on fate for the whole duration of the film. His performance here surpasses all other acting performances in the trilogy and brings the film almost to the level of the other two. "},{"Title":"Trois couleurs Blanc","Date":"14 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Trois couleurs Blanc is definitely the funniest movie of Krzysztof Kieslowski's Three Colours-trilogy. Its style is very similar to the two others, but its tone is much lighter. Julie Delpy does an amazing acting job, although I have some problems with her character. She has such an important part in this movie, she is the drive for all of Karol Karol's actions, that I just felt she had too less screen time. Dominique's character stays too vague for me. Zbigniew Zamachowski's Karol Karol however gets fleshed out very well. We understand his untiring longing for activities. In a way, he tries to regain his manhood after the humiliation he experienced on court. However, while I was watching, I didn't like the way he brought Dominique back into his life with his feigned death. It just felt wrong, although, afterwards I knew it was in her interest too, because she was loving him. But maybe she just isn't able to live with someone who has the physical defect Karol Karol has. "},{"Title":"Best of the trilogy","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  For me, this is the best of the trilogy! Why? This movie has everything the other two pieces also have, but it provides some extras absolutely great acting and the use of a bit of humor. The story is the most beautiful of the trilogy, better than Bleu and Rouge.One of the best pictures I've seen! "},{"Title":"A little too clever to be believed","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Some of this is not done in a very convincing manner, and there's enough hokum to please a sit- com producer, but in the area of tricky plot twists and original story ideas this gets accolades.Premise Little Polish guy living in Paris, an adorable and prize-winning hair dresser, is divorced by his beautiful French wife, whom he loves passionately, because of his impotence. She is unhappy with him, VERY unhappy. She takes everything from him but a trunk and even calls the gendarmes and pretends he is burning down what is now her salon after he fails her one last time. I guess this is the ultimate fury from a woman scorned, although he sure wishes he wasn't scorning her.He ends up on his knees in the Metro playing his comb for francs to get enough to eat. Then he arranges to get sent back to Poland in the trunk. After some mishaps he makes his fortune. It would be unfair to reveal anymore of the plot since it is so, so clever... But the white of the title is for a Polish dinner roll and the snow of Poland and for sheets of legal paper and for the white walls of new enterprises and especially for the white light of her orgasm.Julie Delpy, who plays the very frustrated wife, is pretty enough to justify all that energy, and Zbigniew Zamachowski who plays the lead, is convincing enough in a role that borders on the silly. Memorable for his sly portrayal of a bored-with-life, bridge-playing professional is Janusz Gajos.This is the second in the Trois Couleurs trilogy by Polish cum French director Krzysztof Kieslowski. I have seen Blue, and it is surprising that these two films are by the same director.(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"So much potential wasted, slowly","Date":"17 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" So much potential wasted, slowly.The second movie in Krzysztof Kieslowski's Three Colors trilogy. Each movie is separate and doesn't feature characters from the previous one(s) (except at the end of Red, but it made no difference to the story and was essentially Kieslowski showing off).The first, Blue, was engaging and mostly reasonably interesting. Doesn't end very well, but getting to the end was an interesting journey.White, however, doesn't have that same level of engagement or interest. Starts off okay, develops slowly and without a sense of direction, then all of a sudden you have some fairly bizarre and implausible twists. Then it ends. Even more unsatisfactory ending than Blue.Red is marginally better. Turns out that Blue was the best of the bunch after all. "},{"Title":"Least favorite of the three","Date":"9 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The story was nice but lacks a tight grip and feels unbelievable at times. The weakest point however, in my opinion, is the characters. Karol was nice but I couldn't understand his motives completely and couldn't sympathize with him. As for Dominique, there was not enough character development to understand better who she is. White felt less arty. It does have the camera concentration on object and the returning motive of recycling tin, but not as noticeable. Instead it had a richer plot and slightly more characters. White was never boring, but I didn't have any excitement watching it. The ending left me puzzled as to what Karol wanted to achieve.In summary above average, but not exciting. When comparing to the other two, it looks like an estranged sibling. "},{"Title":"Revenge destroys love","Date":"19 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" White is about a jealous husband seeking revenge on his wife by getting her to love him. The irony is that he succeeds in getting her love but the act of getting revenge ruins their chance of a life together as she's thrown in prison.Structurally the story is a bit loose, the revenge plot goes from success to success with no real obstacles while the love relationship also doesn't have many meaningful changes. It feels like the storytellers wanted to really focus on the irony of love/revenge at the end of the film that the journey getting there wasn't fleshed out in a meaningful way. The result is an enjoyable film but not a great film that will likely not warrant a second viewing because the controlling idea is not powerfully proved.The additional sub-plot of the friend seeking suicide because he is bored also does not resonate with the controlling idea much. The film is well shot and composed, but the controlling idea is certainly not proved.My Story Chart of the movie is at storycharts.ca "}{"Title":"White is the lightest of the three films.","Date":"20 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" In Paris, a Frenchwoman (Julie Delpy) divorces her impotent Polish hairdresser husband (Zbigniew Zamachowski), then burns down his salon and frames him for arson. He returns to Warsaw, determined to get rich and win back his wife.Three Colors White is an unlikely black comedy, with a nod to Charlie Chaplin's treatment of underdog characters. Amusing and humane, it remains the weakest link in director Krzysztof Kieslowski's trilogy - though at this level of brilliance, 'weak' is a relative term. The film won the Silver Bear Award for Best Director at the Berlin International Film Festival. "},{"Title":"Odd","Date":"3 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is the oddest of anything I've seen by Kieslowski.First of all, the use of color in it doesn't work as well as the other films in the trilogy, Bleu and Rouge. Perhaps because white is so hard to use to saturate the screen (after all, unlike using a blue or red filter, white balancing is typical color variation...), perhaps because when used to such a large degree it looks too much like somebody doing an impression of heaven or a flashback, white isn't allowed as much control over the film. However, the few times it is used defines moments in the main character's life when he reaches a transcendental level of happiness, and so its use is effective. There are, of course, exceptions to the rule... getting beaten up in a pile of snow can hardly be transcendental or happy.Also, this is the most comedic of anything I've seen by Kieslowski. It loses a lot of the depression and introspection and instead reveals a character who knows himself and what he wants to do quite well. It's also comedic dramatically in that it's a real rag-to-riches story, a man going from two francs to owner of a huge corporation just on wit and the ability to make the right friends. It almost seems ill-placed in Kieslowski's oeuvre.Still, it's very fun to watch and honestly makes one question a character's motivations. As a character study it has the most interest, as a plot-device it turns out to be kind of weird.--PolarisDiB "},{"Title":"What makes irony so compelling?","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The first viewing of this film prompted me to reflect on a question what makes irony so compelling?  While it lacks the brooding and shattering moody substance of Blue, White is rich with irony, employing it in the most subtle and delicate ways to achieve a magnificently dry humor and brilliant contradiction.  Again, Kieslowski has made a sensuous and complex film replete with symbolic imagery and multiple shades of meaning.  Also again, he has demonstrated his genius in the art of conclusion; the ending of this film is surpassed in brilliance and emotional power only by that of its subsequent partner in the Three Colors trilogy, Red. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"24 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The middle film of Polish-French film director Krzysztof Kieslowski's Three Colors (Trois Couleurs) trilogy of Blue, White, and Red is a very black comedy, and generally considered the weakest of the three films. This is true, although, given the high quality of the tercet, White (Blanc) is still an excellent film, and compared with the mind-numbing comedies that Hollywood regularly cranks out, it is exceptional. And, at a mere hour and a half, this 1994 film never drags on too long. However, one of the major misconceptions about the film and its hero, Karol Karol (Zbigniew Zamachowski)- literally Charley Charley, is that he is a Chaplinesque figure. I believe that the many critics who use this term intend it as a high compliment, as they reference the greatest of the silent era screen stars, Charlie Chaplin, and his character of The Tramp. But, in doing so, they show how little they understand of the character and its portrayer.There is a range of emotion that The Tramp shows in both the short subjects and feature films he appears in that none of the actors whose performances have subsequently been compared with his have displayed. There have never been moments the equal of the roll dance in The Gold Rush, nor the ending of City Lights, where the blind girl realizes her seemingly rich benefactor is The Tramp, nor the scenes of modernity run amok in Modern Times, nor the dance with the globe in The Great Dictator. This is not to demean any of the later performances, for some, such as Giulieta Masina's role as Gelsomina in Federico Fellini's La Strada, or that of Zamachowski in White are excellent, but none rally come close to that Chaplinesque mix of lightheartedness and dark pathos. Karol, as example, is a far more dismal and dark character than any played by Chaplin. Right from the start there is something 'off' about him. In Hollywood a character like his might end up a serial killer or child molester.That all said, White is a delightful if flawed comedy, and had it been a Hollywood film it would probably rank much higher in critical opinion worldwide. It's merely because American minds have been so cauterized by bad art that a film like this has to be judged against its superior European counterparts, and its own siblings in the Three Colors trilogy, rather than the minor leagues that American cinema represents. Were it judged against the standard fart comedy mindset, or that of the tired 'romantic comedy' formulae, it would be seen in a far greater light. Regardless, it is well worth seeing, and a good way to spend an evening. When was the last romantic comedy from America that such a claim could be made for? "},{"Title":"French Polish","Date":"9 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The triumph of this film is that it DARES you to find fault with a plot that makes a Swiss cheese resemble a block of granite. Take the protagonist, Karol Karol, this is a wimp who makes Mr Bean look as hard as Clint Eastwood yet a gangster hires him on the spot as a bodyguard? This is the same guy who smuggled himself into Poland concealed in a suitcase that was clearly exempt from airport security as we know it. A guy who hasn't got change of a match one day yet the following day turns up at a bureau de change with a sackful of zlotys to be converted to dollars; who is then able to buy a piece of land from a peasant and sell it back to his gangster boss for a handsome profit. The gangster's first instinct is just to kill Karol but changes his mind when Karol mentions a will leaving all his property to the Church. What happened to our old friend coercion? Surely all the gangster had to do was 'torture' Karol into making a new will on the spot which he, the gangster, would witness.So much for the flaws. The fact is we keep watching, admiring and even Loving this superb film - though the Polish Tourist Board may take exception to the picture Kieslowski paints of his native country; one looks in vain for a touch of green, a glimpse of sun, a blue sky, a 'touristy' view that would 'sell' the country. The three principles are uniformly excellent and the support is first-rate. Much has been and will continue to be made of symbolism, etc but that to one side this is simply a great movie. "},{"Title":"Julie Delpy the star?","Date":"8 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was a great movie, but something didn't set right in my stomach. Why is the movie starring Julie Delpy and why is she on the cover of the movie's poster and video box? Julie Delpy is only on screen for 1/5 of the movie. The rest of the cast was as good if not better than Julie Delpy.With fear that without showing Julie Delpy that the movie would not reach a large market, I believe the film is good with or with Julie Delpy's involvement. Any actress in her role would have not as good as job. Since she is not the center character of the movie, I see no other explanation why she is on the cover by herself.  "},{"Title":"I Didn't Get It","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  White has been described as the most accessible film of the Trois Couleurs trilogy to Americans.  I believe just the opposite. Blue chronicles a young woman's return to normalcy after devastating personal loss. Red illustrates how strange life's journey can be, and how weird some of its lessons. You don't have to be European to understand their themes. White is different. It's a tale of revenge by a wronged husband against his ex-wife, which in itself is understandable by Americans. But the manner in which White's protagonist throws all his life's work away for an act of revenge is, to this American, impenetrable. Do you have to be French or Polish to understand the couple's logic and motives? Maybe, I sure didn't. Nonetheless, I enjoyed White, but found it the weakest of the trio. See them all and judge for yourself. "},{"Title":"Thank Goodness Hollywood Does Not Make Movies Like This","Date":"8 January 2015","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Karol is a real loser. It is not just that he is impotent, for which reason his wife, Dominique, divorces him. He acts like a worm. Because he keeps stalking Dominique, she finally has to drive him out of France.Back in Poland, he inexplicably changes from being a loser into an entrepreneur, and becomes quite rich. But he is still small in spirit, because he still holds a grudge against his ex-wife. He leaves everything to her in his will, fakes his death, and fakes evidence to make it look as though she murdered him, resulting in her being sent to prison. But just before the police come to arrest her, he shows up in her bed, and they have sex. It must have been pretty good sex too, because when he goes to the prison and looks at her with binoculars behind the bars, she signals that she still loves him and wishes they were still married. And then he cries.And people wonder why so many Americans hate foreign films! "},{"Title":"Finding Excuses To Watch This Again","Date":"13 September 2006","Score":"9 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I once thought the only reason I would watch this movie again would be to view Julie Delpy, who has one of the prettiest faces I've seen on film (usually). But, writing this review made me realize it wouldn't hurt to admire the photography, now that the film is out on DVD. Also, the storyline was fine until about halfway through when it got a little confusing. It stayed that way right up to the ending, which was not easy to understand, either. Perhaps another look would clear up some matters.The film is second part in a three-part saga (all different stories with different beautiful lead actresses) concerning French society. Red and Blue are the other films so naturally they call it the Three Colours Trilogy. Delpy reminded me a young Catherine Deneuve, which is high praise (facially-speaking). Most reviews say this is not the strongest of the three films. "},{"Title":"The Three Colours film that makes up the numbers","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think I'll make one film for each of the three colours of the French flag...  A dangerous idea, if you only have good ideas for two of them; you're liable to accept any old idea for the third, just to complete the set.Imagine how it would look if the films were named, not after the colours, but after the ideals which the colours represent.  Red could quite happily be called Fraternity, and Blue could, without too much of a stretch, be called Liberty.  But it would be absurd to call White Equality.  There is real liberty in Blue and real fraternity (allowing for the fact that the English word doesn't mean quite what the French one does) in Red, but no equality in White; it is at most an ideal that the one or two characters pursue (Karol, perhaps, or even more doubtfully, Dominique) - and even this is saying too much.  Karol is torn between three desires he wants Dominique back, he wants to succeed in business so he can move on with his life, and he wants revenge.  Which of these can be justly interpreted as a desire for equality?  None of them.  If Karol thinks he wants equality, he's rationalising, just as if we think the film is about equality, WE'RE rationalising.  It's not even about symmetry.Or forget about abstract ideals and just think about colours.  Yes, there's as much white in White as there is blue in Blue and red in Red, but there's a difference - there's no point to it.  The colour blue made Blue a cold film, not emotionless, but chilled and wintry.  Blue symbolises grief, but also tranquillity.  Perhaps, being the colour of a clear sky, it even symbolises liberty as well.  The red in Red made the film rich and warm; it signified humanity, compassion, and radical ideas.  It's easy to recall shots from both films in which the colour MEANT something.  When Juliette Binoche fingers those blue glass beads in Blue, it's as if her feelings have been turned into crystals.The white in White is just white.  It's as if Kieslowski had a hard enough time finding enough snowscapes and bare walls and tablecloths and (although they make little sense) orgasm effects shots to justify his title, without worrying about such things as thematic relevance or resonance.  Admittedly, white is tricky.  There are no shades of white, as there are shades of red and blue there's just white and not white, although many tones of not-white are close enough to white to stand in for it.You know what the white conveyed to me?  Emptiness.  Just as Red is a film with little in the way of plot, but a strong story, White has little story and far too much plot.  The detailed plotting is not unpleasant to watch, exactly, but it has no overall shape and isn't part of any overall design.  It gets tiring.  Neither Dominique nor Karol have motives in the ordinary sense (this isn't an official complaint, but I was disappointed that Juliet Delpy, by far the loveliest of the Three Colours actresses, was cast as Dominique, the only heroine to be an utterly cheap and shallow creation), so even when they do something surprising one registers the fact that it was surprising without being surprised.  White may not be bad, but it's ordinary.  Its reason for being is that Kieslowski's trilogy needed a middle bit.SPOILER (for the whole trilogy)  Curiously, White is responsible for the only flaw in Red.  Red ends with all the characters together, as survivors rescued from a sinking ferry.  But given what happens in White what we see at the end of Red is scarcely possible Dominque and Karol both at liberty, both travelling under their real names.  How did THAT come about? "}{"Title":"Dingy white.","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  White tells and unpredictable and very unlikely story with an almost tongue in cheek pathos, bland but curious enough to maintain some nominal audience interest. Don't expect any emotional highs or lows from this plodding film told with a dingy sort of milieu as it works its way toward its unsatisfying conclusion. White is an earnest effort in the typical anti-Hollywood style of most Europics and will be most appreciated by those who favor same. Others beware of monotony. "},{"Title":"Definitely the weakest in the Colors Trilogy","Date":"9 October 2004","Score":"7 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I found White, the second part of Krzysztof Kieslowski's Colors Trilogy(the others being Blue and Red) to be the least involving and the least successful.Strangely enough, despite being the shortest of three films(White clocks in at ninety-two minutes, Blue at ninety-seven and Red at ninety-nine), this is the one that felt the longest. I'm sorry to confess that I became bored at about the one hour mark and started fidgeting like mad until the movie reached its unsatisfying and seemingly unfinished ending.I would go with Red or Blue personally, though White may be worth seeing for the sake of comparison.  "},{"Title":"An indifferent and illogical flick simulating trendy knowingness","Date":"23 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's hard to tell if this movie is presenting itself as a Woody Allen like venture into cleverness with a 'moral' but I think it's a pretty meager attempt at character development with humor. The main character is a Polish Dudley Moore look-alike who has somehow managed to marry a French girl who has obviously been suffering with him from the moment after she said Je fais (I do). It's impossible to see how they got together in the first place, and although his desperate return to Poland is managed with spare humor, his subsequent commitment to re-make himself has no real foundation. Not only that, the first major step he takes in gaining his fortune is the ruthless exploitation of a poor farmer.This unappetizing hero has some good instincts in him, the way he treats his friend, met when he was down and out in the Paris metro. But there is again no foundation set for the various motivations which drive the plot. And the end is barely comprehensible. The young lady to whom he was married, and who obtains a divorce in the first ten minutes of the flick, has been cruel to him in the way of a beautiful woman to a hopeless nerd. His 'revenge' is not only out of all proportion, but in defiance of his own desire.So it's a movie with some good shots, some humorous moments, but overall pretty incomprehensible, not particularly clever, and not as erotic as the blurbs or the front cover photograph would have you believe. "},{"Title":"Three Comments White","Date":"22 October 2003","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  ***May contain unintended spoilers***He travels by suitcase since he doesn't have money or a passport. A meek and gentle man, he can take on mafiosi types and beat them at their game. Without the  benefit of smooth transition, he becomes a slick-haired, well-dressed tycoon; and, although the police is interested in his whereabouts at one point, he has the nerve to walk into a jail house.Although this movie is not boring, and is a must-see if you want to understand completely the trilogy's conclusion, it leaves you with more questions than answers. For instance, why is so much of the French flag's white represented by dirty Polish snow? Because the authors of this piece are Polish? And, if such is the case, why do they make Poland look so unappealing? The movie absolutely lost me in the scene - thankfully at the end-- where Karol sees a woman in a window, framed in white, and when he looks at her through his binoculars, she is standing against a red background. "},{"Title":"A Disappointment","Date":"11 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I really cannot say much about this film since there was so little to talk about. I just thought it was unbelievably bland. It was just so boring. It is such a shame since there were some very clever ideas but they just did it in the most boring way possible. Many of the plot points were also very unbelievable. I was looking for something more profound. Not even the cinematography that popped out in Blue had much of an effect on me. All in all, this movie and its' characters were just uninteresting. Never the less, I am still going to finish up the three colors trilogy. I think I might have been expecting too much from it but it is then still just average. "}]