[{"Title":"This is adorable! Very underrated!","Date":"13 April 1999","Score":"32 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a triumph for Don Bluth! I really enjoyed it. The songs are sweet, & memorable. Jodie Benson (Ariel, The Little Mermaid) plays the title role, & she has such a great voice. I would recommend this movie to any family who is stuck in the Disney collection only rut. Give Thumbelina a chance!  "},{"Title":"I don't care that I'm all grown up!  I love this movie!","Date":"26 April 2003","Score":"25 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  So help me, this is the cutest thing I've ever seen!  I just love this film.  First time I saw it, I went with my 7 year old brother, and was determined to hate it - but, well, I just couldn't.  It's soooo cute, and the songs are so good, and the story is so well told - it's just impossible not to like it.  The first thing that I really like about this film is that it (unlike, oh so many Disney films) is actually very loyal to the original fairy tale by H.C. Andersen.  They've added a few things, and changed a few details, but all of the things they changed I had to agree with (hey, why not let Thumbelina and the Prince meet at the beginning?  It makes more sense for them to already be in love.  And what's wrong with making the Fieldmouse a girl?  It's Carol Channing!)  This is very true to the original story - so much more than Disney's THE LITTLE MERMAID (which was supposedly based off another H.C. Andersen tale - but you'd never guess it).The animation is good, it's not the best, but it's fine.  The real star of this film is the music.  A beautiful score by Barry Manilow helped out by fabulous voice work.  The wonderful Jodi Benson heads the cast (she was also the voice of Ariel in THE LITTLE MERMAID) and she is delightful as Thumbelina.  I've been lucky enough to meet Ms. Benson and I have to say, she is just the sweetest person you could ever hope to know.  She's got a wonderful, child-like speaking voice, and a glorious singing voice - just the perfect choice for the lead.  She's joined in the cast by Gilbert Gottfried, Barbara Cook, Carol Channing, and (another voice talent from THE LITTLE MERMAID) Kenneth Mars.  This film is just beautifully done.  It's faithful to the original, it's lovely to see, and has a marvelous soundtrack.  I don't care that I'm all grown up - this is a movie I can't help but love. "},{"Title":"Thumbelina is Thumbs Up","Date":"21 February 2005","Score":"20 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This is a movie that grows on me. When first getting a copy, made little mark, but after my 3 yr old daughter started requested this repeatedly several times a day, I've found the songs and animation to have grown on me. It has much of the enchantment and dreamy themes that Disney studios seem only to accomplish during those revitalized golden years of early 90's at Disney. But I trust my daughter's taste, and I have a new found love now in this 10 year old hidden treasure myself. Jodi Benson has a beautiful voice and it may be this is on of the leading attributes that captures attention the same way her Mermaid performance as Ariel has done.I believe the test of a good film, is one that captures year heart and you can call you're own, and this one has found a way to do that. "},{"Title":"Brilliant!!!!!","Date":"5 June 2005","Score":"22 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I totally disagree which Pynchov. How dare he say the film was terrible. The way he describes it makes it sound like a horror movie. This film was absolutely brilliant. It was fun, enjoyable, enchanting and had some memorable characters. I have had the video for years and I would still watch it. The songs in the movie were inspiring and the scenes were picture-perfect. It was nothing like that totally rubbish 2003 Thumbelina and Tom Thumb film. People must see the 1994 version!!!!! I think the frog characters were excellent and some of the songs they came out with were really funny. The beetle ball was a great scene and looked really unusual. The scenes were beautiful. Full of luscious green fields and beautiful flowers, it was so inspiring! One of the best characters was Jacquimo! I loved his accent!! Thumbelina and Cornelius were the perfect fairy tale couple in a perfect fairy-tale film. "},{"Title":"I love this movie!!","Date":"28 October 2004","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Ever since I first saw this movie I have loved it. It grabbed hold of my imagination. It also follows very close to the original story which is more than I can say for several other books made to movies. It has also captivated the imagination of my children. They will sit through this movie and then talk about it all day. They even pretend to be the characters. This movie is one of the greatest children's movies ever made. It has comedy, beautiful music,a love story and it also teaches a valuable lesson....To always follow your heart and you will have your dreams realized. I recommend this movie to anyone who is in the mood for a feel good movie that leaves you with the feeling that you can do anything if you want it strong enough. I love the songs, I love the story, I love it all. "},{"Title":"Charming, vastly underrated","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Charming rendition of the familiar tale... great songs, almost a show... and not too sticky.. the whole family loves it! "},{"Title":"LOVE IT!","Date":"23 November 2002","Score":"13 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I LOVE Thumbelina! My Mom taped it for me when I was little and I  would watch it every day. Now my niece does the same thing. I guess it runs in the family! A great movie for the family to sit down and watch together or kids to watch on their own. If you haven't seen it, SEE IT! YOU'LL LOVE IT! "},{"Title":"Wonderful Children's Fairytale","Date":"13 December 2004","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Keep in mind the comments you read about this movie ARE opinions. Don't base the movie solely off of those opinions. Rent it, and watch it YOURSELF instead of listening to any crock or praise that may be posted about it here.PERSONALLY....I enjoy the movie very much. I watched it when I was a tiny little gremlin, and I still watch it now on occasion. I'm 15 and one of my silly little fetishes are Disney movies. They're WAY better than the new ones at any rate. (...and cleaner too, heh.) Thumbelina is a wonderful Fairytale with pretty songs and the beautiful voice of Jodi Benson. Fairies, jitterbugs, mice, beetles, fish, frogs, a mole, and a swallow... all the tiny things. (With some big animals at the beginning.) I think the main reason why i like the movie is the images, the color (especially at the end) is beautiful. The story is a wonderful children's fairytale. I don't know if kid's nowadays would enjoy it or not, because they have all the Pixar stuff, but my five year old sister does enjoy seeing it once in a while. I loved it when I was little (and still do). "},{"Title":"Thumbelina.  Absolutely wonderful!","Date":"18 October 2005","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I positively adore this movie. I love all of the songs, especially Let me be your wings. The animation is fairly clear, and the story is just adorable. Thumbelina was drawn most beautifully. I thought the characters voices suited them perfectly, and I just loved the prince, Cornelious. My friend and I both remember as a child, younger than we are now, we were on the edge of our seats during this film, and thought it was very dramatic at the time. Even now, I beg my mother to let me rent it, or ask if she could purchase it for me. But even more, I like the music and want the soundtrack. But alas, she will not buy it for me just yet as I annoy her already by watching it non-stop when we rent it. My favourite scene was when they danced and sung on the water and were riding his Bumble, and I also like the part when he gives her his ring, and she gives him Forgetmenots. Oh, isn't it romantic? "},{"Title":"Beautiful","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"    My friend and I sat down to watch Thumbelina last night.  It was her first time, and I was excited to show it off for her.  She fell in love with it, and, since I hadn't seen it in a while, my adoration of it was re-ignited.   I'll be honest  you're not going to enjoy this movie if you don't like animated features.  While there ARE a couple cheesy phrases in this movie, if you watch it with good humor, you're sure to enjoy it.  This movie wasn't made for adults, but it wasn't made for little children, either.  I think that it's best viewed with an open mind and a friend.   First, I'll start with the animation.  The characters' movements and appearances are very reminiscent of other Don Bluth films, such as An American Tail and Anastasia, which is definitely a good thing.  Not only are all of the major movements very flowing, but smaller things are perfect, like the twirl of Thumbelina's skirt and the characters' hair.  In fact, if one looks hard enough, it's noticeable in every aspect  characters have little facial expressions, little movements, little changes in their eyes that fully represent real life.  I'll admit that some of the non-human characters are a little annoying in appearance and don't fit in perfectly with Thumbelina, in particular hero, the dog; but on average, they blend in pretty well.  One of the things I enjoy the most about the animation is that when a character holds on to something, it actually looks like they're touching it, unlike in most animated features (in particular, Spirit, but I'll not hold a grudge against it).   Secondly, I'd like to point out the scenery.  It's a bit simplistic in some parts, but it always alludes to something more, and it really makes you feel as if you were there.   The storyline, while a little silly, is very entertaining, and I really tended to feel the ups and downs of Thumbelina.  In some parts, it gets a little tedious, but in general, it's wonderful.  The movie, in my opinion, was very romantic, and, in a couple scenes, very, very sad.  There's also just enough humor to keep the story flowing without so much that it becomes the main focus of the plot.   Finally, the sounds are exquisite.  The characters' voices are all perfect, especially the mother frog.  Always Follow Your Heart, the main theme song, is horrible and extremely annoying, but all of the rest of the songs are great.  Soon, is very sad and simple, and it fits Thumbelina's mood perfectly.  Let Me Be Your Wings, is beautiful and is a perfect song to reprise.  The first time that Thumbelina and Cornelius sing it, it's very romantic.  *SPOILER* When she sings it to the mole after Cornelius, dies, it's one of the most tragic and beautiful parts of the movie, and my favorite.  Finally, at the end, when she sings it in the Veil of the Fairies, it's haunting, and when Cornelius cuts in and proves that he's not dead, it's uplifting. *END SPOILER*  On the Road is a cute song with a Latin beat, and is fun to watch.  The song that the beetles sing is a little annoying, but it's bearable.  Marry the Mole, is funny and well-placed.   Now, my friend is 14, and I'll be turning that age this month, so I can't honestly recommend it for adults, unless they're young-at-heart and enjoy cartoons (which, I've noticed, often have a lot deeper themes than most real-life movies).  If you're about my age, and you don't think that you're too cool to enjoy an animated film, give it a try.  Oh, and if you're bilingual, like me, rent the DVD and watch it in French.  They dub the songs, and everyone adds their own touch to it that makes it just as good as in English. "}{"Title":"Not bad...","Date":"30 May 2003","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  You know what? I liked this movie.  Its kinda of slow in parts, and the animation is dated too, but the songs really stick.  You know how I know? My kids, 7 and 12 years old, will watch this movie over and over when we break it out of our DVD rack.  They sing the cheery Manilow penned songs and they watch the story unfold each time like its the first time.  (The being slow part can be bridged with a cookie or two)...I like the voice of Thumbalina.  She did the voice to the Little Mermaid, so you can consider this a sequal..sorta...song to listen for? A cute little balad called Soon...one of those 'bring a tear to your eye' songs...I give this a 7+...instantly forgetable for adults...kids will love it though!!! "},{"Title":"Thumbellina is the story of a girl as big as a thumb and is based  off of a Christian Anderson story.","Date":"3 March 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This is a movie that after re-watching as an adult I really didn't care for. I remember liking it as a kid but that only goes so far in how much I'll like it for when I'm older. I have read the story before and the movie really isn't all that bad. The biggest things I have a problem with now after re-watching it is the songs and the lead character. The songs just in my opinion were really bad. I really don't care for Thumbellina cause she gets pushed around a lot and constantly says things are impossible. Not a very good protagonist to my idea. Of course I always have been one to like independent women as lead characters. My opinion, not good nor bad. Little kids for the most part should like it though. ) "},{"Title":"Theez eez ze Story erf un Eempossible Lerrrrv","Date":"27 June 2010","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" If there was ever proof that the it doesn't matter cause the kid's won't notice philosophy has any reason to exist, Thumbelina just might be it. I distinctly remember liking this movie, if not exactly loving it, when it was first released. But oh, how time changes things.Not everything about Thumbelina is entirely terrible. Jodi Benson still has a lovely voice and the I want song and love ballad, though moderately bland, remain largely unoffensive to the ear. Even Charo's performance had me cracking a smile. But beyond that...Characterwise, everyone is a nutcase, with the exception of the Mother, who gets the least screen time of anyone. Thumbelina is frankly dumb as a post, lacking anything that resembles a mind of her own. The other villains and protagonists alike garner no prizes in the brain category, but they make up for it with either general maliciousness or extra-large doe eyes. Jacquiamo does have the distinction of being the animated world's Jar-Jar Binks with his overblown french faerieness.Visually, the film isn't much of a stunner either. The leads, while not precisely ugly, have the absolute most ridiculous hairstyles I have seen outside of an indie space flick. The computer scenes, like the opening sequence and the frog boat are so jarringly CGI that the simply jerk you out of the experience of the movie to goggle at the disjunct. Don Bluth is well loved for his distinct visual style that at one point appeared to rival the Disney Empire. Part of what I love about films like All Dogs Go To Heaven is that they are so entirely unlike Disney fare, unlike most anything else out there at all. Thumbelina represents a different Bluth, one who began to doubt that he could overtake the big bad corporation, and scrambled together a bad imitation. It just doesn't take to his style, plus no one can ever out-Disney Disney. "},{"Title":"Thumbelina is wonderful","Date":"30 March 2005","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Thumbelina of course is adapted from the classic Hans Christian Anderson beloved story for children. Children especially can relate to the concept of a tiny person as someone they would love and care for. The movie is brilliant and shines as a work of art in employing many fine actors' voice talents, along with a large production team.Jodi Benson as always is wonderful in her voice and singing role, along with Gary Imhoff as Cornelius. Charo is entertaining as Ma Toad, and John Hurt is refined as Mr Mole. Thumbelina is gorgeous and charming in her various outfits and inventive hairstyles. Her innocence and virtuosity adds to her charm. At the beetle ball even dressed as a beetle, if she were a real girl, anyone would fall in love with her on sight. And the music is exciting, especially through stereo speakers.Barry Manilow of course has been a world renowned singer/songwriter, and he did no less for this production, perhaps his best efforts yet. The romanticism is overwhelming, perhaps overly so. This movie is fantastic for all age groups. The only minor negative points I felt, were being too romantic for children (it all centres on romance), Thumbelina marrying at such a young age, and that the soundtrack as wonderful as it is (it sounds like something from Fantasyland rather than from Earth), yet now sounds a bit dated.Children will still enjoy it today however, even after many viewings. Forget the ramblings of some gnarly old cynic perhaps bitter from some failed past relationship. Critics raved over it back then. Do yourself a favour and get it if you don't already have it. Your daughters will love you for it.Regarding the characters, much as in real life, most are flawed and a bit dull-witted. This no doubt is intentional. The swallow is too delusional and self-absorbed. The 'mother' is negligent and incompetent. Cornelius is perhaps as a normal lad given a sword to play with, and almost gets himself killed twice. He doesn't need to be a fighting hero however. That is part of the charm. He's young and small too.Regarding her dress, Thumbelina moves with grace, and her dress does the same. Why would she care when she's about the only human her size. The fact that the artists let it rise at times, is charming and natural. For someone that size, the slightest activity or breeze would cause it, and it's done with subtlety and finesse. I'm sure boys would be rivetted with anticipation, and that is probably part of the intent. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable","Date":"21 June 2004","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Thumbalina. This is a good family movie. The story is fun and sweet, the characters are memorable and lovable and the music is good (Let me be your wings and Once there was the sun are particularly memorable). Thumbalina is a good family movie, the kids will love it and the parent's will enjoy it as well. This is definitely a movie to see if you want to be reminded of 3 things true love conquers all, follow your heart, and nothing is impossible. Those are not the only life lessons it discreetly teaches, many others are buried deeply in it, like all great fairy tales. Don't see it if you want brilliant animation or movie perfection, see it if you want a feel good fairytale that. I would give this movie 7 stars out of 10.  "},{"Title":"At last - a nice, gentle movie from the recent days for very young age-groups. I'm 16 (17 in 5 months) but I do love it very much!","Date":"22 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Well, the animation isn't exactly stunning, I'll agree with that, and the production team certainly picked a rather silly name from the fairy prince - CORNELIOUS! What a silly name! And also it does get rather weak as far as sentiment goes, but above all, Thumbelina is just lovely! BEAUTIFUL. I just kind of think that those golden sparkles that trail behinds the fairies is actually quite unique. Not many cartoon films have those kinds of effects at all, not these days at least. Mind you, Anastasia had the same kind of effects (the 1997-cartoon, I mean) which may be considered in the 1990s and 2000s (our present time-period in fashion) a little old because Pinocchio had PLENTY of that but at least Anastasia received BIG respect and honour from many audiences worldwide. This movie very rarely receives respect and honour. Far too underrated! Just because it's all soft and sometimes soothing, with pleasant little songs, warmhearted character and a Disney princess that, for the first time in this era, is all kind and forgiving and not feisty. Come on! LOVE IT! See what I see in it! People (including my sister) find the grey and white bird with the big hat annoying. I'll admit that his jokes are rubbish but I wouldn't say he's annoying. He's got a good heart and he helps Thumbelina through hard times and he's a good bird - they're ALL good characters and Thumbelina's mother! Well she is the most warm, tender, caring, considerate mother I've ever seen in a cartoon film! She loves Thumbelina so much and she always makes sure she's away from harm! That horrible toad certainly proved her wrong, though, didn't he? There are three characters I hate and find irritating, apart from the toad; the Beetle, who is terribly shallow. First he flies Thumbelina up to a tree-top making her think he'd help her find her mother's cottage but instead he drags her off to a disco for INSECTS! He dresses her up to be the belle of the ball but when he dances with her, Thumbelina's clothes fall off and there she is stood in a red pair of trousers and a red blouse. He humiliates her, shouts, SHE'S UGLY! to all who attend that ball and then feels proud of himself! Lucky, the bird came to comfort her when he saw her sobbing her heart out. Then, there's Miss Fieldmouse; I know she took Thumbelina in when she nearly froze to death and served her some food and kept her warm, but her nature is unpleasant. She tells a very shocked, heartbroken Thumbelina her boyfriend, the fairy prince died in the snow and says who cares? You're only young, my dear! There are many more men to come! Hah! Nothing like being sympathetic, eh? Last of all, there's the fat old serial-proposer Mr Mole. He is just SO pompous! Thumbelina is sad as sad can be about her one true love being dead and not ever seeing her mother again and there he is! (The mole, I mean) munching away at his corn-cakes as if Thumbelina is his servant. Miss Fieldmouse even insists Thumbelina marries that pompous, over-sized twit and, what's worse, she won't take no for an answer! So our poor little heroine DOES marry the mole! It's such a sad story, although it's comforting with it! Only the odd one low point to this movie. Don't listen to those dreary-natured critics! They're WRONG! It's absolutely lovely! "},{"Title":"Don't believe the other commentators...","Date":"25 October 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I've been taught that in all DECENT opinion writings, one must cite credibility, so here it goes I am a 20 year old college student and I am doing things worthwhile with my life. I have an extensive background in watching movies like Thumbelina, and I must say that the movie is excellent! Younger viewers need entertainment like this movie to boost self-esteem and give viewers the idea that nothing is impossible. Had I not watched movies like Thumbelina while growing up, I would be some washed-up zombie with no sense of direction or goals in life. (I suspect that most of these critics with negative views of Thumbelina are washed-up zombies, seeing as how they have nothing better to do than to mock a child's movie and a classic storyline.) When watching movies like this one at the age of 8, I was encouraged to reach for the stars, and other nonsensical clichés. I still despise clichés, but I am happy with where I am going in life. I will admit that there are moments of cheesy dance numbers and slight inaccuracies in the animation of Thumbelina, but, overall, the movie was great. Buy it for your kids, watch it with them and help them grow up to be the humanitarians that you've always dreamed of. "},{"Title":"Good... but weird","Date":"28 March 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" First of all, let me say I hate that stupid swallow. I have never seen a bird who is a gay French Revolutionist (he was wearing a revolution cap and make-up). The beginning is kinda weird, seeing as how thumbelina is born full grown and clothed, knowing the entire English language. I just re-watched the movie and was creeped out at the amount of verbal abuse the animals at the farm doled out. The lyrics of the first two songs were insipid at best, but the rest are much better. The Frogs who kidnap Thumbelina are the creepiest things ever, but Charo was a very good choice as an ethnic stereotype frog. I was very surprised Gilbert Gottfried was in this, but most surprising of all is that anyone would make those retarded bug children. They were bouncing around the whole movie asking if she was going to marry this or kill that... They sound like they were voiced by a bunch of Satan worshipers with Downs syndrome. The repeating theme of inter-species marriage is disturbing, but not as disturbing as Jaquimo. All in all the songs are the best part of the movie, though the lyrics are horrendous. I would give it a 7 out of 10, but I voted 10 to up the rating. "},{"Title":"Two THUMBs down for THUMBelina","Date":"30 April 2011","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Good Grief- where to begin. Many of the critical reviews here have touched on most of what I disliked so immensely about the movie. Stupid dialogue, annoying characters (even Thumbelina herself), very odd pacing to the movie (holes), and Thumbelina couldn't keep her dress down. Weird scenes- she just meets the Prince Fairy and starts singing and they put their hands all over each other. She later is kidnapped but instead of being upset that she can't marry her prince she starts dancing and singing and thanking the mother toad- what??!!! Now, I love most of the princess movies and cartoons out there- but this one is very, very poorly made. It was torture to sit through it with my 6 year old daughter- it will be disappearing from our shelf this week. "},{"Title":"A lovely animated film despite its filler scenes and somewhat slow pace","Date":"14 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I might have seen a little bit of this film when I was younger and after having forgotten about it for many years, I re-discovered it on IMDb and have wanted to see it for ages. When I was flicking through the channels last week, I caught this film from the beginning on Movie Mix (a film channel on Freeview in the UK) but only watched about the first 20 minutes because I had a Zumba class to attend. I soon decided to rent the film from LoveFilm and upon watching it the whole way through, I quite enjoyed it despite its scenes of filler and slightly sluggish pacing.The animation is satisfactory if not as superior as that in 'All Dogs Go To Heaven' and 'Anastasia (my absolute favourite Don Bluth films).' It was mostly fluid with good cel shading and eye-catching colour schemes (such as the warmth of Cornelius's parents) but a tad flickery and blurry in places. A lot of the background art is intricate but some of it had CGI that stuck out a little too much. The musical score by, I believe, Barry Manilow is beautiful with the odd use of angelic choral vocals and the songs were well worth listening if most of them were split all over the place. My favourites are the uplifting 'Follow Your Heart (both the slower version at the beginning despite it being in a part I initially found irrelevant to the main plot and the faster version later on in the film),' the whimsically upbeat 'Thumbelina,' the lovely 'Soon (if it was initially forgettable but the reprise by Thumbelina's mother is suitably moving),' the sensational 'Let Me Be Your Wings (plus the instrumental orchestral version at the beginning and the typical 90s-pop-ballad-sounding version over the end credits),' the energetic and authentic 'On The Road,' the hip-hop inspired song performed at the beetle club and the unintentionally funny 'Marry the Mole,' in which the line about Romeo and Juliet being very, very dead is terrible but the beginning brilliantly sounds like 'The Wedding March/Here Comes the Bride.' While the dialogue has a few fairytale clichés, it is clever and amusing in parts. The best aspects of the story are Thumbelina wanting to marry Cornelius and wanting to go home when she is kidnapped but in addition to the filler, I felt that certain scenes didn't really go anywhere and I found the ending rushed but the story had some clever links such as the CGI-ish if pretty snowflakes separating Thumbelina wishing she could be back with her mother and her mother singing the reprise of 'Soon'. Moving on to the voice acting, Jodi Benson beautifully voiced the ambitious Thumbelina if she sounded like a higher pitched Ariel while Gilbert Gottfried's voice for Mr. Beetle sounded similar to his voice for Iago in 'Aladdin.' On a slightly more positive note, I liked Gino Conforti's French accent for Jacquimo the swallow and Charo's Spanish Accent for Mrs. (or Ma.) Toad. I also liked the tiny story book used at the beginning and the end as well as the book illustrations, some of which had a stained glass look to them.Overall this isn't quite Bluth's best but it was worth watching for the music and the main plot. 8/10. "}{"Title":"An OK Adaptation if you expect some flaws","Date":"23 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" As of 2011, Don Bluth continues to live as one of the best animation directors of all time. The Secret of NIMH, An American Tail, The Land Before Time, and All Dogs Go To Heaven were his most successful films yet and one of the most decent movies he has done was Thumbelina based on the story by Hans Christian Anderson.It revolves around Thumbelina, a small person, who meets a fairy prince named Cornelius and have now fall in love. Later, she stumbles upon an adventure as lots of furry creatures try to marry Thumbelina.Now, I haven't read the story or The Little Mermaid at all, but for a animated adaptation, this one is just a decent movie.I'll go for the bad parts The storyline was butchered and underdeveloped it attempts to be a Disney-clone and the characters were also underdeveloped. The dialogue was so lame it makes the characters lose their personalities.The good parts are The animation and art design were very colorful and creative, the songs were very good, the characters were very decent, and the voice acting wasn't that bad.Thumbelina isn't as good as Bluth's successful works, but it is a decent kids movie and it's kind of worth a watch.6/10 "},{"Title":"Wait... This is the same guy who did Anastasia? COULDN'T BE!!!","Date":"17 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Don Bluth has always been a good movie maker. His Disney movies and his ow hits like NIHM and Anastasia are sone of the best animated films of their times. I have lately decided to recap on all of my childhood movies and one I found online. I might have watched 1/3 of the movie before I couldn't take it anymore.First the opening scene is BEYOND AWFUL. the sparrow character is poosibly the most ugly, worst designed characters ever. He is also a bad singer. flying over a horribly CGI's environment. And then... Ooh I love the sound of my voice! Did they think that was funny? Anyway to the actual story. Bluth's 90's movies are well animated, but it makes some of the characters look bad. ALL of the animals and critters look like they're out of a 1940's Disney cartoon. The Thumbelina song was hard to listen to, the mexcan frogs were stereotypical. WHO HIRES CHARO TO PLAY ANY ROLE.on second thought, she might have been one of the only good actor on the movie. Marry The Mole was the WORST SONG i've ever heard ever. I would rather listen to a cheezy song from a Disney direct-to.Goods Barry Manilow sang good, animation nice. THAT'S IT!!! "},{"Title":"<3","Date":"24 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This is by far 1 of my all time favorite movies.I know at my age people think I'm not supposed to like these movies, but I LOVE them...haha. Thumbelina is among the many family movies which I can watch over & over again because of how much I enjoy it. The plot was different than that of most other movies, which gave a much more interesting appearance(though it is all thanks to Anderson; an amazing writer whom i greatly admire.)The characters were full of life & each had distinct & unique differences which either contrasted or connected to the perfect extent.1 thing which I like most is how there is a secret, yet very realistic meaning behind this movie, though I wont say my view because I think things such as this should be interpreted by only the viewer themselves. "},{"Title":"The worst animated movie of all time","Date":"2 May 2013","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I saw this as a kid and I actually liked it but now GOD does this movie suck really bad. For starters the animation was too cheap,the songs were dreadful except Soon and Let Me Be Your Wings which are my favourite songs in this movie,The voice acting was great only because it features Jodi Benson who's the voice of Ariel from The Little Mermaid and here she voice s the main charcther,the bird was so annoying,the prince was terrible as he was dim-witted and only cared for Thumbelina's singing voice,Charco was like Nikki Minaj's twin sister and that song On The Road was terrible and don't get me started with Marry The Mole which is the winner of the worst song in an animated film by the Razzie Awards back in 1994. Oh and the composer is of course Barry Manilow who done hits like Copacabana.Alright so let's dive into the story. An old woman wishes to have a child and she receives a magic flower that gives her a little thumb- sized girl named Thumbelina. So Thumbelina wishes to see people that are exactly the same size as her and she wishes to be a fairy.So here comes Cornelius who is a crowned prince who stumbles across Thumbelina,and what do you know the two are instantly falling head over heels in love with each other. But when Thumbelina gets kidnapped by a toad who wants her to marry her son,she has to find her way back home. Overall if you love Jodi Benson's singing voice and if you love really cheesy movies like this then check it out but for the rest avoid at all costs.2/10 "},{"Title":"Highly recommendable for children, but not so much for grown-ups","Date":"7 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Thumbelina is notorious for being probably the only animated movie that won or was nominated for a Razzie. While certainly not a great movie, I strongly disagree about the Razzie towards it. If we're talking about animated films that should definitely be priced with Razzies, then let's take a look at movies like Pocahontas 2, Home on the Range, 101 Dalmatians II, Madagascar Shrek trilogy and Monsters & Inc, for example.Enough talking about other movies. Now let's talk about what really matters on this review this one in particular.Thumbelina is cute and a little too childish at the same time. For that reason, I recommend it more for kids than adults. I believe that more likely kids will love it. However, I'm not so sure about adults. I am a grown up guy now and I admit that I used to like this better when I was younger.The main character of the movie, Thumbelina, is a cute and pretty girl. The idea of Thumbelina being as small as a thumb is cute but surreal and too childish at the same time, as well as the idea of her mother as a normal human being, which means absolutely gigantic for Thumbelina.The dog with a mustache is ugly outside, but his beauty is on the inside. He's one of the best characters from this movie. Other great characters are Thumbelina, the Prince Cornelius and the french bird Jacquimo.But if there's one thing that bugs me about this movie is its unbelievable frogs, as well as the fact that this movie features too much bugs, not to mention that Mr. Mole and Mrs. Fieldmouse are boring characters. Also, the songs by the frogs, the bugs and Mrs. Fieldmouse are quite weak. On the other hand, Jacquimo sings very nice and joyful songs with a french charm and accent.The artwork is very good, almost at the same level as Disney's standards. But, like I said, too much frogs and bugs kinda ruined this movie for me.But the worst thing about this movie is the whole thing of a frog and a beetle always chasing Thumbelina. What kind of nonsense is this supposed to be?? "},{"Title":"precious","Date":"16 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This is my all time favorite cartoon ever! I am 25 years old and still haven't outgrown this beautiful fairytale of perfect love at first sight! What little girl doesn't dream of finding her prince and for that matter, what little girl doesn't dream of being a fairy princess! This movie has everything the perfect fairytale story has. Romance, magic, drama, and the perfect ending. No tears. Only love and happiness! These are the things that women never depart from. Our hearts will forever be that little girl waiting on our handsome prince to rescue us from the ordinary and wisp us away to to his magical castle in the sky! "},{"Title":"Excellent animated movie","Date":"1 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I just recently watched this movie for the first time, and although I've read some bad reviews, I found this movie absolutely gorgeous. Not only is the animation brilliant, but the songs are really catchy and enchanting too, especially Let Me Be Your Wings.The story even stays true to the original fairy tale, with the exception of Thumbelina meeting the Prince before she gets kidnapped. And they even improved one aspect of the story I always missed in the fairy tale she returns to her mother in the end. I always found it so sad that she would never see her mother again after she got kidnapped. The movie finally has the great happy ending I always hoped for.By the way, there are some great cgi effects in this movie that must have been pretty sophisticated in 1994. The only thing I would criticize about the movie is the many many supporting characters. Thumbelina and her Prince didn't get enough screen time, because there were loads of other characters that somehow helped the story continue. Other than that it's great!! "},{"Title":"I've Always Loved this movie, Also don't read this if You don't want the movie spoiled for you","Date":"10 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" As a kid of the 90's I grew up with this movie and still love it. What really got me was the music, and just the story. And who ever on here said that Thumbelina did not deserve to get compared with the greatest of the Disney classics, I have to strongly disagree.Thumbelina is a story about a girl about the size of your thumb.Being so small, it was hard for her to fit in, let alone find a love. Then one night as she was singing(a very beautiful song called soon i must say), Prince Cornelious (of the veil of the fairies) comes to her, for he is drawn to her voice. It was love at first sight and Cornelious takes her out to fly and the song Let Me Be Your Wings is sung, which I must say is a truly beautiful piece, and the actors did a great job and had the perfect voices for the part. At the end of this night the two part their ways and the Prince promises to come back for her tomorrow.Their plans are ruined though due to the fact that Ms. Toad kidnaps Thumbelina during the night, for she wants Thumbelina to perform in her swamp show, and marry her ugly son. They then sing On the Road which is a catchy little tune, and I think Charo made an awesome Ms. Toad. They then leave her on a Lily Pad and say they will come back.Thumbelina then meets Jaucomo, a swallow. Who tells her to follow her heart and she'll do impossible things (Impossible Things another little catchy number)and she meets a lot of little bug friends. Then Thumbelina is on her way again to find home, and Jacomo is on his way to the Veil of The Fairies to find Prince Cornelious.In The meantime, Prince Cornelious visits Thumbelinas home and finds out she is missing. Prince Cornelious then sets out on a quest to find Thumbelina.On her journey, Thumbelina meets a Beetle, who convinces Thumbelina to perform at the beetle ball, where they sing Your'e Beautiful Baby (not my favorite tune, but still good). But then the beetles turn on her and call her ugly, and Thumbelina becomes sad and runs away.As all this is going on winter is coming, and in his quest to find Thumbelina Prince Cornelious becomes trapped in ice. And the Beetle and Mr. Toad (ms. toad's son) team up, and take the block of ice the prince is in.Ms. Field Mouse saves Thumbelina while bringing her into her nice warm home for the winter. And convinces Thumbelina to marry her friend the mole, for Prince Cornelious is dead (Marry The Mole another cute song). Thumbelina agrees since she is in so much grief.It is Thumbelinas Wedding day and Thumbelina's bug friends find the Prince's body and unfreeze him.During Thumbelinas wedding it is crashed by Mr. Toad and the Beetle. Thumbelina then figures out she does not want to marry Mr. Mole for she does not love him and runs out doors. While out doors, Prince Cornelious crashes the wedding and has a fight to the death battle with Mr. Toad.Thumbelina is then sitting on a tree, Juacomo then finds her and tells her that where she is it is the veil of the fairies. Thumbelina does not believe him, but he insist that it is the veil of the fairies and for her to believe with all her heart. Then Prince Cornelious Comes and him and Thumbelina have a happy reunion moment where Thumbelina gets her very own pair of wings. They then get married and live happily ever after ( Let me Be Your Wings Reprise).This movie can warm your heart time and time again. I am 15 years old and can still watch this movies for a week straight. I really do think that this movie can go up their with the best of the Disney movies. I think its even better than some of them, but I won't say which ones so I don't cause any controversy.I know I've told basically the whole story, so don't think the movie is spoiled. There is nothing like actually watching this masterpiece. "},{"Title":"A fine adaptation of the Andersen Faery Tale.","Date":"10 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  One fine thing about watching a movie based on a story you know(when the movie is faithful to the story) is being able to know whensomething is going to happen before it does, but not becauseyou've seen the movie. When it is based on something as shortand simple as a faery tale, it is fun to see how the movie dealswith it differently than the original source. This movie has all thecharm and verve of an old-fashioned Broadway show, much of itscharm coming from Manilow's songs. He could have been muchmore appreciated had he been born a few decades earlier andworked on Broadway. His songs are pure old-fashioned  Broadway, which means they don't usually have too much newmeaning to them, they are just fun and pretty and very VERY catchy. It is only when he tries to make a MODERN score and write songsto be performed like pop-song that he becomes pathetic. Sadly,this leaves him only open to fine children's movies like these. Onerare happening in adapting stories to movies is that the writers areable to keep the storyline and add new depth too it to keep thespirit of the Faery Tale alive, but also for older watchers. For onething, give the Prince an earlier meeting with the girl to make itmore complex, (and not have him admit he's a Prince at firstmakes it seem honest) and give the Prince a more rebelliouspersonality than making him the upper class figure regularly seenin story books. The animation and much of the vocal scores helpmake the scenes touching and funny when they should be. Butagain, the movie's main strong point is its score, and thespectacular cast of stars (Jodi Benson, Gilbert Gottfreid, BarbaraCook, Charo, and the spectacular Carol Channing Hello Dollyherself!) and some sadly lesser known celebrities. The onlycomplaints to be made are the scripts several weak momentstoward the end, when the sadness on the hero and heroine's partsseem a bit overdone, as do some of the 'heroic' scenes involvingthe prince. His heroism gives no feeling that he has accomplisheda lot to get his heart's desire. But still, this movie manages to bringout the spirit you can rarely see in the original story, and if you seeit just to enjoy it, which is what you are meant, you may just beimpressed by what Don Bluth could do before he startedcompletely losing his touch. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest animated movies EVER","Date":"24 July 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I probably first saw Thumbelina when I was two or three--that's more than ten years ago. When I pulled it out of storage two years ago one day when I was sick, I could still sing along to the music. This is a wonderful classic movie. The songs (especially Let Me Be Your Wings, the main love song) will make you laugh, maybe even cry. The toads (Los Sapos Guapos) had me on the floor laughing--especially Mama Toad.Even if you're over the age of four, there are important lessons to be learned from this movie 1) never, EVER blow a kiss to a toad while singing a love song. 2) if you are ever kidnapped by singing toads, get out of there as SOON AS POSSIBLE 3) don't let a beetle trick you into performing on stage at The Beetle Ball. It will end in disaster 4) don't trust a bird to find your Prince Charming. Especially not when winter is coming. 5) don't tell a love-crazed toad that you love the prince. He WILL try to kill the prince. 6) don't agree to marry a mole if you love the prince 7) never trust a field mouse--she's probably taking bribes 8) when there is frost everywhere and the bird tells you it is Vale of the Fairies and that you must SING, for God's sake just SING! 9) kiss the prince. You'll grow wings. And, finally... 10) love with conquer all. "}{"Title":"Stay away","Date":"20 November 2009","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I didn't have high expectations to begin with, but this movie was simply below all standards.. Call me old fashioned if you will, but I think part of the beauty in animated children's films is the innocence they portray, and in Thumbelina the constant battle for the girl was not after her heart, rather after her body! Huh, could you believe that!? The prince can't get his hands off her from 20 seconds into their first meeting, the dress which is supposed to be at her ankles shows as high as her panties, all the other male character are constantly smooching her and touching her against her will, while they discuss which of them will get to keep her to satisfy his needs. Not to mention the promiscuous toad-mom who flaunts her boobs and legs! Gosh, I never thought I'd be so appalled by a ****ing cartoon! Originally, I got this film to show it to my 5 year old niece, but who in their right minds would let toddlers see this camouflaged soft-porn with the pretense of being intended for children? My vote is to stay away. "},{"Title":"An adorable little film!","Date":"28 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I have never seen this version of Thumbelina before. I remember being in playschool, the other little kids and myself watched another version in which I can't seem to find on the Internet. 22 Years later in 2016, I managed to come across this little movie. This movie came out the year I was born so there was no way I couldn't have watched it! Anyways I will tell you what I have a thought about it!I honestly didn't know Jodi Benson aka Ariel was on this, as usual she always has her incredible singing voice. Seriously, I'm so glad she took part in being involved as Thumbelina. She is an amazing actress and singer. I thought the songs were quite nice but could easily be forgettable since this movie is quite a hidden classic gem. The drawings were absolutely beautiful. It's too bad nowadays, we normally use 3-D for movies. When I have my own kids, I will definitely show this to them! They would absolutely love to see it! "},{"Title":"She's in no rush...","Date":"30 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" What a strange and paradoxical little movie this is, for a girl who's most important purpose throughout the film is getting home, she certainly takes a roundabout way of doing it, not exactly helped by utterly useless accomplices who spend more time singing poorly written songs rather than lending her an actual hand!So what's the mango? The film starts with a lonely old woman who yearns for the company of a child to love. In response, the Blue Fairy (I would call her something else but the similarities between this and Pinocchio are beyond obvious) gives her a seed to plant in the garden. The seed grows into a plant, inside of which is a tiny girl the size of a thumb named Thumbelina (which to me seems like a massive con if I'm honest, a girl the size of a thumb, that's nice!). Anyway, one night she's visited by a fairy prince who immediately falls in love with her and takes her for a ride on his Bumblebee steed. Whilst riding, they garner the attention of a Mexican Mariachi band of Toads, who kidnap her after one of them falls obsessively in love with her too. The rest of the film is spent basically following the same story as Pinocchio, trying to get home whilst constantly being distracted by showbiz, marriage to a rich Mole, etc, etc.The biggest problem with this movie is the sad fact that it's shamefully ripping off Pinocchio. A fairy gives a kind elderly person a child who's obscure in some magical way who is either lost or kidnapped and has to find their way back home whilst being distracted by the glamours of a better but ultimately bad life. The only problem is whilst Pinocchio had the excuse that he was a wide- eyed child who saw things at their exciting face value with no consideration for the consequences, Thumbelina looks and acts like a grown woman in her 20's! The thing I found most jarring as well is the fact that when she does get dragged into various different situations, she really seems to get into it! No attempt to escape, even siding with the prospect in some cases!One example is when she's made to perform for a Beetle played by Gilbert Gottfried. With little to no convincing she has to dance while disguised as a bug, seems to enjoy dancing as a bug, only to be revealed as a human, laughed off stage, and then she sits and mopes about the fact that the bugs think she's ugly. Who cares what the bugs think? Aren't you supposed to be getting home?! Wasn't that your main objective? Or did you think you'd just failed the Garden's version of the X- Factor?And again later, she's confronted by the prospect of being married off to an affluent old Mole played by John Hurt, but rather than making a break for it, she joins in the utterly awful song sung by a Mouse and dances around before committing and going up to the altar with him, after only sharing about three lines with the darn Mole!I thought this girl wanted to get home? From the looks of things I think she needs to be continually reminded!But this isn't helped by her side characters, all of which seem to serve absolutely no purpose but to spew irritating songs. One of particular annoyance and uselessness is Jacquimo, a bird who constantly sings and fails to do the most obvious thing, pick up Thumbelina, and fly her home! He doesn't explain why he can't do that? It's not like she's too heavy for him or anything, he instead chooses to sing songs, even when she's pleading with him not to go! It's also very obvious that he's just a blatant rip-off of Jiminy Cricket, trying but failing to teach Thumbelina various morals and life lessons, even down to the fact that he's telling the story through flashback!To summarize, this movie is one without any guidance for its characters, and even though in other movies that would be only a minor problem, in this it's a major one because the movie could have been over in the first 10 minutes, but instead the characters voluntarily give themselves to the obvious problems! Aside from that, the story is very much a rip-off of Pinocchio and the songs are rubbish. I will give it two points though for some very good animation, which is really quite pleasant to look at, and the fact that Gilbert Gottfried throughout this whole movie was a constant source of entertainment. When he was on screen I really couldn't take my eyes off him.Other than that, I strongly suggest you give this a miss because it will leave you both annoyed and confused at the same time! Not a good combination! "},{"Title":"Thumbelina... it falls short","Date":"28 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" It seems every story about that has Thumbelina in it seems to always talk about her finding love and then being taken to marry some other creature only to be rescued by her lover. This one is no exception to the trend. The first one I watched was a mole, now it's a toad, what will be next? Maybe a caterpillar? It seems like in this version everyone wants to have Thumbelina as their bride. It feels sort of annoying because it was one thing after another. It was OK for an adventure story for kids but to me, the concept was going a bit long. When it's about 45 minutes of nothing but people fighting over her without even letting her have a say, it just bugs me. And then she picks someone who had almost no real character growth and was this side prince looking for her. Just&#x85; the characters felt boring and predictable. The only character who had any personality was a&#x85; I want to say French&#x85; sparrow who would sing about love and try to push the two lovers together. And he didn't even have much too even do in the story, he just would sing songs of love and slightly try to be the voice of wisdom though even then, he only talked about the thoughts in ones heart and not their head. Somehow I don't think that's being the voice of wisdom but he was the better one out of any of them.The animation was actually the better part of the show. It was beautifully done and rather clean. The only problem I had was characters would move slightly strange, putting their arms up in ways that feel slightly awkward. Other then that, the clothing is really fluid and I didn't really find any hiccups in the animation where they would forget something or they would forget a frame or two. The characters are really beautiful, looking much more proportional then some other's I watched, except for The frogs. I don't think they really ever seen a frog before because next to all the other characters, they just look like blobs. The brothers act more like Moe, Curly, and Larry by the way. Smacking each other and acting like idiots, you could wonder if they are just in their for comedy. Sadly, even when I was little, I just did not get the humor.The soundtrack to this is actually not that bad though there are a lot of songs. Some sound like Disney songs while other's fall pretty flat. The same goes for the voice acting as I liked some but others just did not have enough power that they should, Characters like Thumbelina (might I remind you main character here) sounds way to quiet and childish. I don't like her's much. Why the characters have such strange ascents also is beyond me. You start with Jaquimo who is a French ascent (Beautifully done I think), then we have The crazy toad family that sounds like a mixture of Spanish and French with a little bit of Jamaican, the unmistakable voice of Gilbert Gottfried as Mr. Beetle (Seriously, what the hell is that accent anyway?) and then Thumbelina and her Mother, even the fairies, have a old English ascent making me want to yell out 'choose a country already!' All these things add up to a movie that doesn't exactly live up expectations. If feels like it hit the mark a bit flat from where it should of though at the time of its release, it was a pretty big seller if I remember correctly. I had even went to see it in the movies when I was little which was a big deal being a family with not that much money or time. "},{"Title":"Good animation, but not much else...","Date":"8 June 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" They do say that art is subjective, but in this film's case, it is VERY subjective. Yes, I was one of those people that loved this movie as a little kid, and being the Don Bluth fan that I am, I wanted to give it a try again as an adult, and I must say, while it is marginally better than Bartok the Magnificentand A Troll in Central Park, it fails to have the lasting impact of the 80's Don Bluth films, and Anastasia.Thumbelina, as a film, is mediocre at best. I know that the Hans Christian Anderson version didn't have a lot of substance to it either, but that story was written in a time were fairy tales were more simpler and by-the-book. This movie's main problem was that it tries to stick too close to the original fairy tale, that it comes off as boring and well, rather, predictable. Thumbelina herself, unfortunately, is not very interesting as a heroine. She's constantly getting kidnapped by shady-looking animals, and never really learning from her mistakes (except when it involves love or romance). Then we have her love interest, Cornielious, who's hardly in the movie, an obnoxious love-crazy Swallow named Jaquimoe, and a group of antagonistic animals who have only one common goal Steal Thumbelina's hand in marriage and/or use her talents for money! I know Rock-A-Doodle and Pebble and the Penguin weren't particularly spectacular either, but at least they had some creativity put into their stories. Rock-A-Doodle even had a handful of likable characters, this movie only had one likable character (Mr. Beetle). The point is, Don Bluth was usually known for making original stories. Stories that often separate themselves from the Disney formula. This movie tries so hard to be like a Disney film, that it ends up looking like a shallow ripoff.So Don, where ever you are right now, don't stop doing what you love, and please stick with what you're really good at. "},{"Title":"Jodi Benson is back in another animated version of an Hans Christian Andersen fairy tale","Date":"24 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Jodi Benson is back in another animated version of another Hans Christian Andersen fairy tale - Thumbelina. This time Don Bluth (director of An American Tail) took charge of production. I was shocked by the negativity towards it and I know I said that many times, (and I am sorry) but I love this film from beginning to end. You know, it's kind of hard to choose which film version of the story is the best. I would say that this version and the Japanese anime version that was made 16 years ago are the best versions...I'm not one to take sides you know.I should also tell you folks, that Thumbelina is another favorite story from the pen of Hans Andersen, because of the fairies and I believe in fairies. So, my last words are that I love this Don Bluth classic and I always will. "},{"Title":"Brilliant.","Date":"4 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" A few weeks ago, pre-Christmas, I had a sudden urge to watch Thumbelina. I can't place where it came from, but it stuck. I have re-watched it a few times now, especially the Let Me Be Your Wings scene. That song, wow, I have hat on my ipod now too. Thumbelina may be a little poor on the animation side of things in places, and Thumbelina lifts her skirt a little high in places (I keep thinking why? why does she do this?) but the characters are lovable and the songs are pure magic. It's scary and annoying where it should be (the beetle, the mole and the toads) and stupidly romantic at the same time. Let Me Be Your Wings, Soon and the song about the sun I forget the name of are all heart-wrenching songs. Don't be overly critical when watching this film, or else you are gonna be missing out. Also, apart from some strange hair, I am weirdly attracted to Prince Cornelius. The only prince I prefer to him is the one from Sleeping Beauty. "},{"Title":"Wonderful Musical by the Bluth team.","Date":"11 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" For those looking for a less grandiose version of a fairy tale (Bluth once worked for Disney, but this is a post-Disney film), that still carries with it the weight of high animation and classic songs, this is the movie to see. The love songs are touching, the song with Charo is funny and unfortunately rather true (watch it to see!), and Jodi Benson (The Little Mermaid)is always a pleasant voice to hear. Don Bluth's films are often criticized for not having as elaborate animation as Disney films, but his also have a slightly darker edge, never shying from darker hues or plot lines. Don't rely solely on reviews of his work; see it for yourself. And Thumbelina is a wonderful place to start. "},{"Title":"Razzie winner...?!","Date":"30 September 2007","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I just adored this movie as a kid. Thumbelina (voiced by Jodi Benson- best known for Ariel on The Little Mermaid) is well, um, a little lady, needless to say. She meets up with fairy Prince Cornelius (HA!HA! His name!) after a romantic sing-song in Corny's bee she's kidnapped by a toad (way to go, Charo!). Ma Toad tries to convince Thumbelina to join her and her three toady sons to go with them On the Road- a catchy little song- where she promises that she'll make Thumb a superstar. Thumb gets away from her thanks to Jaquimo (my favourite character) and as she tries to find her way home she has a few adventures but, as you'd expect, it all ends happily ever after. I was just shocked when I found out that this got a Razzie for Marry the Mole!. I like that song- it's incredibly funny and NOT meant to be taken seriously. So just watch this film without expecting logic from it and you'll have a good time. Thank you for reading this and have a nice day! ) "},{"Title":"Better than most Disney movies","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Don Bluth does not only make a great movie with Thumbelina, it is better than most Disney movies by far. It has a great mix of voices, a great plot and some interesting and beautifully drawn characters.If Disney would´ve made this movie, the characters would not look human, they´d look abrupt and ugly.The greatness of Don Bluth animations, is that there are so many different songs, or nearly no songs at all. In Disney movies, the main character sings at least 3 songs of her/his own, and the little love duet together with her/his love and the villain sings 1 , the highest 2 songs, or there are no songs at all.In Bluth´s movies, the main character may have at the highest 2 songs, a duet and at least 2 villainous songs, or nearly no songs at all.That is why Don Bluth´s movies are better than Disney´s, there is a such big mix.Thumbelina does not ONLY have this, it has sweet characters that you learn to love, villainous villains, and interesting drawn other characters. "}{"Title":"Something Bluth should leave off his resume","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  My little sister went through a stage when she was about four where she insisted on watching a movie two or three thousand times.  We endured so many viewings of The Lion King, All Dogs Go To Heaven, and Balto that the songs were indelibly stamped into our brains and we could say the lines along with the characters.  We endured my sister's voracious viewing habits with varying degrees of grace, but the breaking point came when she started watching Thumbelina.The movie plays like some sort of grotesque nightmare.  Sure, you can try to describe Gilbert Gottfried's beetle character and Carol Channing's nagging mouse, but the sheer horror of the movie can't be comprehended until you actually SEE the scene where Thumbelina is mocked in an insect music hall.  Trust me, it really must be seen to be believed.  The plot, which follows Thumbelina's mis-adventures, isn't terribly coherent or consistent, and you will feel serious  loathing for each character within moments of their entrance (especially Prince Cornelius). The one person whom I didn't absolutely hate by the movie's end (which was viewed many, many times) was Thumbelina herself, who was such a pathetic, rag-doll of a figure that she only inspired an uncomfortable sense of pity.  Really, there's absolutely nothing entertaining about this movie, and it ranks right around Rock-A-Doodle (which my sister thankfully was NOT attached to) as Things Don Bluth Should Leave Off His Resume.  My sister has since grown past this habit and I haven't seen the movie in years, but the thought of the singing frogs still gives me chills.   "},{"Title":"Horrible movie with disturbing message","Date":"4 May 2005","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" The animation is mundane, the songs are forgettable. What else could be wrong? A lot. The scariest thing about this movie is the way Thumbelina reacts when she is kidnapped. Twice. Each time, she seems to enjoy being captive, and sings and dances with her captors. Weird. Disturbing. What kind of message does this send to children in the audience? The first time, the toad mother kidnaps Th. and takes her home to be forcibly married to the toad mother's ugly son. Kidnapping. Rape. Arranged marriage. What does Th do under the circumstances? Fight? Cry for help? Struggle? Argue? Nope. She starts singing and dancing with a smile on her face.Second time Evil Mr. Beetle kidnaps Th (what is with this plot Cant a female protagonist get along by herself?) and takes her to a dance. Again, instead of fighting for her freedom, Th. breaks into a cheerful song-and-dance routine. Oh, and her dress falls off so she has to dance in her underclothes.These are disturbing messages for young kids.Avoid this movie. It has nothing going for it. "},{"Title":"Ooooooooh, my head (","Date":"27 April 2009","Score":"25 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I went to the store the other day and was looking through the five dollar bin and found Thumbelina, it's Disney, so I figured I would give it a look. Admitingly, I am under that Disney truck, about 98% of Disney movies I absolutely adore and have quite a few in my favorite movie category, so why not just take the risk on Thumbelina? I had absolutely no clue that this was possibly the most insulting movie of all time. This is the movie that Enchanted also had a good time making fun of, see at a time when Little Mermaid, Aladdin, and Beauty and the Beast were very popular with the songs, characters, story lines, and princesses, Thumbelina is a very blatant rip off of every Disney classic that was popular at the time.A lonely woman who's biological clock is ticking so she cheats by getting a magic flower. One day, a good witch gives her a barley corn to plant, and the next day the flower blooms, revealing a little girl no bigger than her thumb. The woman names the girl Thumbelina. Thumbelina spends time with her mother's farm animals, but is worried that there is no one around of her own size. One night her mother tells her a story about fairies. After being put to bed, Thumbelina imagines that someday she'll be able to find someone to love. Oh, hum, will someone ever love this thimble size girl? Yes! Prince Cornelius of the Fairies flies by her windowsill and is enchanted by her, a la Sleeping Beauty. Just by the sound of her voice he knows she's the one, a la Little Mermaid. The two take a ride on Cornelius' Bumble Bee, during which they fall in love, a la Aladdin. During this ride, a toad named Grundel sees Thumbelina and declares to his mother Mrs. Toad that he loves her. Pretty much everyone wants Thumbelina. Thumbelina goes to sleep in her walnut bed, and is kidnapped by Mrs. Toad. Mrs. Toad declares that Thumbelina will join their family singing group. Thumbelina's cries for help are heard by Jacquimo, who helps her free of the lily-pad and encourages her to follow her heart and find her way home to her mother. Despite the fact he's a bird, he doesn't offer to fly her home, so she's going to have to figure her own way home I guess. But as Thumbelina would say It's impossible.Believe me there are more just point blatant rip off's of good Disney movies, but I can't go into all details. But seriously this movie is just pathetic, none of the characters are lovable, I can't tell you how much I just wanted to step on Thumbelina. This is the movie that I'd refuse to show a girl because to be honest, it's kind of sexist. Thumbelina lets there be rain on her happy parade because ONE bug calls her ugly, she basically says she'll die without her boyfriend, she pretty much has nothing to offer but her looks and gets slapped on the butt and just accepts it. This is just a really bad movie, I have such a headache from banging my head against the wall five million times, but at least I have a new DVD case to help balance my couch.1/10 "},{"Title":"Cute and Decent","Date":"28 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I watched it for the first time today, so I don't have the nostalgia a lot of reviewers do. In fact, the only Thumbelina movie I ever saw as a kid was a knockoff one with parts done in live-action, probably from about the same time. A few things about it were really annoying for me. There are a few plot holes, (Why can't Jacquimo just fly Thumbelina back home? How does winter come the day after Autumn begins?) some characters were really annoying, (the little bugs, the toads, the beetle, Jacquimo, etc.) and how hard the moral was nailed into my head from beginning to end. Take a drink every time you hear Nothing is impossible! or Follow your heart!, you'll be wasted in no time. Also, don't listen to Marry the Mole. It's not sung well, the background music isn't too good, and the lyrics are just plain bad. But it's an okay, cute movie for the kids. It's no Disney Princess movie, but it's decent. "},{"Title":"Better message than any Disney film!","Date":"13 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This is the first film I saw in the cinema as a child and re-watching it all was easily remembered including scenes and words to songs and how I felt at the time when seeing it, as I find with a lot of films I re- watch from childhood, 'I don't remember this happening...or this'. So it must've struck a chord with me. This is so underrated! If it was indeed a 'Disney' film ( as the trivia suggests ) it would've done so much better, such a shame for Warner Brothers. It's heart breaking to see such a genuinely good film be received so poorly. 'marry the mole' certainly wasn't the best number of the film but it had three other great songs to make up for it. Why it was so poorly received is beyond me, and I'm not wholly blinded by sentimentality, if I watched this for the first time today, I'd be enamoured, there is not a single boring segment or poorly written part to this film.'You're sure to do impossible things, If you follow your heart' "},{"Title":"A little person with big dreams!","Date":"19 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I have read a few reviews about this Don Bluth classic and I am truly disappointed by its scrutiny. Bluth's Thumbelina tells the traditional story of the little girl no bigger than your thumb and transports audiences into a world of fairies, toads and adventure. While not critically acclaimed, the film features catchy songs, family fun, and the traditional story of following your heart as shared with Hans Christian Andersen readers many years ago. As a little girl I loved this film, it was enjoyable, but also magical - exactly what children love. How could it be better? It's a heartwarming family film that I'll one day share with my own children. "},{"Title":"Leave this thing up to Disney","Date":"4 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I remember liking this film as a child, so at least on that level Thumbelina is a success for it is a film aimed for the children, but whilst many Disney films can still hold some of their magic for the older audiences, that is where Thumbelina falls down for once the viewer reaches the age where they become critical, then this film will give them much to be negatively critical about.I'd like to say that, visually at least, the film is just as stunning as anything I've seen Disney create. And even the story was enjoyable to watch. However, there were plot holes, the music never sounded original (even the main song 'Let Me Be Your Wings' sounded and looked like a rip off of Aladdin's 'A Whole New World'), and the passing of time was never clear, so you were never sure whether a couple minutes had passed or several months. The script was nothing special either, with very few laughs or witty comments, and all the characters felt like regurgitation's of previous characters, cartoon or not.It is a sweet film, and I'll always be glad I watched it as a kid. I do regret however watching again now, many years later, and finally seeing the truth of what this film really is. I would have much rather be left with the magic. "},{"Title":"Incredible Interpretation of a Short Story.","Date":"6 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Anyone who thinks this is a rip-off of Disney films is far out of their league when it comes to good old fashioned who came first Hans Christian Anderson's timeless tale of a small girl with big dreams is interpreted wonderfully within this film, unlike other stories that Disney has animated such as The Little Mermaid and Snow white in which didn't follow the original story whatsoever. I think this is a fantastic movie for everyone of all ages because it's a more realistic princess movie.Unlike what the clichéd princess genre portrays, Thumbelina follows a young girl who is subject to bad advice, harsh criticisms, and sheltered from the outside world with no true knowledge of how other people act or should act. It shows as Thumbelina find her way towards a more secure view of herself after being told throughout the film she isn't good enough. After being told lies and almost being forced to marry someone she doesn't love, Thumbelina eventually takes her life into her own hands and stops being subjected to what others try to make her believe.For everyone who thinks this is a rip-off of Disney princess movies; One must always realize that Thumbelina was not subject to one specific bad guy like everyone else. Her adventure also follows the true story of Thumbelina by Hans Christian Anderson closer than any other princess movie I've ever seen. "},{"Title":"A lot better than what people say!","Date":"18 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I grew up watching Pebble and the Penguin and Anastasia. I was introduced to this about a month ago, I watched it, and I was actually impressed. It is not as good as the above titles, but I can name a lot worse animated films, believe me, the Secret of NIMH sequel anyone?! The film is flawed, but on the whole it is a fun sweet film for kids. The animation is very good, but is a little flat in some places. But the animation sequence in Let me be your wings is breathtaking. Speaking of the songs, they aren't bad at all. They are very pleasant, and beautifully orchestrated with lovely tunes even if some of the lyrics were hard to understand. The incidental music was lovely too. The best aspect was the story. It stayed close to the original fairytale, while adding a little bit on. All of the characters are very much the same, and none of the essence is lost, save for some slow scenes in the middle half. The characterisations are fine. Jodi Benson is a very talented singing actress, and she had the best song of the movie, Let me be your Wings, which was stunning audibly and artistically, and she does do a good job as Thumbelina. People find Thumbelina annoying and patronising, I find her cute and pretty and she means well. Cornelius was a little bland, but I warmed to him. The toads were funny, especially during that really fast Spanish song. My favourite character is Jaquimo, what a great accent, and Thumbelina's mother is a warm and loving character and provides the film's most touching moment in the reprise of Soon! Other voice actors are Gilbert Gottfried, John Hurt and Carol Channing. All in all, a pleasant animation, that is misunderstood. 7/10. Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"One of the best!","Date":"8 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" What can I say? I used to watch this movie all the time. I am 14 now and I still love watching it with my 3 year old sister. The story is well told, the characters and songs memorable (I love let me be your wings, I cant put into words how great this song is). The only thing I might say is a downside is that Thumbelina's voice is a little annoying at first, but once you get used to it is fine. Some people also say that its cheesy, and that Prince Cornelius and Thumbelina fall in love a little too quickly, but thats the point isn't it? It supposed to be completely unrealistic, which is why it so much fun to watch. All in all, one of my favorite animated movies ever!(p.s. the little bug that asks his mother are the prince and Thumbelina gonna get married or something to that extent is adorable) "}{"Title":"Weirdly not-quite-right","Date":"27 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I guess Don Bluth was trying to cash in on the Hans Christian Andersen mania (Disney's Little Mermaid, 1992).  His Thumbelina shows a lot of talent and work, yet nothing is quite right1. The look of the film essentially based in the 1930s, with rotoscoped people, rubbery comic characters, and lush rainbow palettes.  That's OK with me.  But then there are a few computer-animated scenes, and a painful disco sequence.  Overall, incoherent.2. Timing never quite right. Things seem a little too slow.  By this time, Disney had caught up with nineties sensibilities and was making things move faster.3. Characters Thumbelina is VERY cute, but doesn't have much personality. The toads are supposed to be Spaniards, and manage to insult all Hispanic culture (references to enchiladas, you name it).  There is a repulsively cloying swallow named Giacomo whom you just want to slap.4. Music Do you want to hear some Barry Manilow tunes sung by Carol Channing and a variety of others using horrendous, grating accents?  Go for it.Having said this, I'll add that I found it oddly moving at some points, and was kind of charmed by Thumbelina.  And my 3-year-old daughter enjoyed it (though she couldn't understand the horrible accents of the bad guys). Now she wants to pretend to be Thumbelina all day.Recommended for little kids and for adults who are curious about how many things can go wrong in an animated film. "},{"Title":"Wretched kid's movie","Date":"11 July 1999","Score":"10 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Try the following experiment.  Search for the words Ariel and Disney into AltaVista, and see how many hits you get; in particular, see how many hundred pages you can find created by men, and even by women, who are hopelessly in love with the fictional mermaid.  -Sure, there are one or two other pages devoted to this or that other animated heroine, but that's just a dutiful follow-on effect.  The only animated woman (well, sort of woman) who has this strange Helen-of-Troy effect, is Ariel.There are several reasons an important one is the voice artist, Jodi Benson.  She delivers a truly great performance, unmatched by anyone in a similar role, which would have made people fall in love with even a shabbily animated stick figure, which Disney's mermaid, of course, was not.  But the very perfection of her performance prevents its being repeated.  Even Don Bluth ought to have known this. Jodi Benson may never again play the young female lead in an animated movie.That's why it's so heartbreaking to watch Thumbelina.  (It's not why it's so painful - there are other reasons for THAT.)  We reach the low point when Thumbelina's age drops from at least sixteen to at most ten, after she has been humiliated by a Broadway chorus of insects and plays the children's morality play role of a child who needs to be comforted after being teased at school.  Since it's probably illegal to send very young children to cinemas unsupervised, why was this scene included?  Worse still, I can't positively swear that this is the low point.  I simply walked out.My patience had been sorely tried beforehand.  The story (or at least, the first fifty minutes of the story) is flabby and unmotivated.  The animation is truly appalling.  Some of the insects are drawn in that ugly rubberhose style that Disney had, for the most part, done away with by 1936.  The best animation is mildly awkward.  The dialogue sounds as if they made it up as they went along.  Computer effects are both garish and ghastly.  We get all of these terrible features in one hit in the first ten minutes a weakly drawn swallow flies through a lurid purple computer-generated city to land on a book and begin narrating the story of Thumbelina with words no more imaginative than these Theece eez ze story of an eempossible lerv. (Sorry, I can't sustain the cheesy accent.) Romeo and Juliet!  Ah, an impossible love!  Cinderella and the prince!  Ah, that was an impossible love!  But the most impossible love of all ...  Oh, please. "},{"Title":"Follow your heart . . . to a better movie","Date":"6 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" During the closing credits of 'Thumbelina' I actually checked to see when this movie was made. Seriously, the animation in this movie is so tired and washed out that I thought that it was a film from the early 70's being rereleased without any retooling. If that sounds like a supreme insult to the animators just wait because I haven't yet described the movie.'Thumbelina' is another in a long string of duds from former Disney animator Don Bluth. He has made wonderful movies like 'The Secret of NIMH', 'The Land Before Time' and two underrated films 'Anastasia' and 'Titan A.E.'. But, Thumbelina isn't a work of imagination, it is a striking assumption that kids will eat up anything that you throw at them as long as it happens to be animated.To begin with Thumbelina herself is a lifeless bore. She is as big as a thumb and falls in love with a geek named Cornelius. I have no problem when animated heroines look away and dream of what could be, but about the eighth or ninth time that Thumbelina did that, I started thinking that she didn't need Cornelius, as much as she needed an anti-depressant.Nearly every supporting character in the film seems preoccupied with trying to get the girl married off to everyone but Cornelius. She is kidnapped by a Toad who tries to marry her to one of her sons. We meet an alarmingly dismal cast a characters, all of whom are thrown in to sing a song, do a dance and then let another character have a turn (the songs by Barry Manilow range from forgettable to instantly forgettable).Then Cornelius shows up to rescue her. He's a goofy looking doofus with a bad hairstyle and a personality as languid as tree bark. Then there is the animation in which every scene seems flushed and faded as if the film had sat on the shelf for about a decade and a half. As I watched the film I wondered if I was seeing a bad print. This is one of the most worn out animated features that I've ever seen. "},{"Title":"I don't understand why this film has such a low rating?","Date":"11 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This film is amazing to put it bluntly. Speaking as a 17 year old girl, I first watched this film when I was around 5/6 and instantly fell in love with the protagonist (Thumbelina) and the extremely catchy songs throughout. Around 11 years later, I'm still completely besotted with the film.It is a beautiful film and definitely worth a watch. People who have slated the film for different reasons have taken the film too seriously considering it is intended for a younger audience, which needs to be taken into consideration. Over all, however, I give this film a 10. Guaranteed it is worth a watch, you will love it. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite animated movies!","Date":"18 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Oh come on! All you people out there complaining that this was bad, gimme a break!It's a wonderful retelling of a classic fairy tale, it's got a spectacular soundtrack, and it was directed by the talented singer/composer Barry Manilow! Which makes the songs memorable too; as a matter of fact, I practically searched for the soundtrack for a very long time after I was old enough to use the internet.Not to mention the way they expanded the story a little more was a creative plot twist.Plus, they've got Jodi Benson, hear me, the Jodi Benson, in the star title role; you gotta love her sweet singing voice!!My sister and I loved it when we were younger, and we still do! "},{"Title":"an original work of art, classic Don Bluth","Date":"4 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This movie really has the Don Bluth feel to it. It's a little darker than your average Disney movie and the story doesn't have your basic plot equation. I remember watching this movie as a kid and being completely mesmerized. The songs are unforgettable, with Let Me Be Your Wings as a sort of recurrent theme that is truly heart-wrenching at times. It is a truly great love story that kids can understand and be moved by, as I remember I was. Truly, this director has a style to him that makes his movies stick in your head for giving you a whole different feel than the same kids movies that are being churned out again and again. As an adult, I love it just as much as when I was a kid but I can appreciate it new ways. It's perfect for all ages. I can't emphasize enough the diamond in the rough that this movie is, and I don't think it's just the nostalgia talking. "},{"Title":"Not to be taken lightly","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  A seemingly innocuous tale of a young girl forced into exotic dancing whilst waiting for her prince to appear.  Not a film to which I would subject impressionable children.  Sadly the film does not redeem itself satisfactorily.  For a much more fulfilling story, see Mulan. "},{"Title":"Someone loved this movie?","Date":"6 November 2005","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This is the worst movie I have ever had to watch. I had brother and sister way younger than I who watched it incessantly. I abhor this movie. It is cheesy, terribly written, and has weird, but not cool weird, cameos. M is for money, O-L-E? What the heck? And she is the stupidest girl ever. Let's teach our children to make terrible decisions based on circumstance and not on reason or patience. Let's tell little girls it's OK to marry a potential abuser. The villains are the creepiest in any movie. Juacimo, or whatever, is an idiot. No one in the movie has any intelligence, except the irresponsible parents who are going to die soon and leave poor little idiot Thumbelina all by her lonesome. "},{"Title":"Bleck.","Date":"8 May 2003","Score":"7 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I can't tell you all the horrible things about this paper thin piece of poop, but I can point out the worstThumbelina was WUSS! Not since Cinderella has there been a weaker female lead! Sure near the end, after she thought Cornelious was dead, she started to act like a real woman (Refusing to marry the mole, stomping on the frog's foot, ect.), but of course as soon as that stupid bird rescued her, she was back to her old self (I almost married the mole! She nasally whines. Well, I don't LOVE the mole!).And speaking of the bird, who makes Pepe LePew look politically correct...Gaucmole or whatever his name is. Boy was he grating. And even worse, he OPENED the film! Yikes!All the little tiny bugs who were so darn cute it was sickening. I wish there had been a giant can of Raid. In the words of Plato, It's too cute! Need hatred... Oh wait. Maybe that was Plankton. Never mind.As others have said, the songs are terrible. Let's see, we've the bird singing the opening song, not once but TWICE, a big A Whole New World rip off, a singing toad quartet that goes so fast that you need to put it on closed captioning to understand, and that's just for starters.Well, the bell's going to ring. I better sign off with this warning You love sickly sweet Disney films where the heroine has no brains, you'll probably love this. But, if you want to see a film where girls kick butt and can take care of themselves, steer clear. "},{"Title":"Can you say, Skin flick?","Date":"17 June 2004","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Blah, blah, blah about feminism, the singing rodent and the parakeet. The problem is that Thumbelina can't keep her skirt down.In a live-action film, if an actor has a wardrobe malfunction, it either gets edited out or they figure it's too brief to notice. For example, in Starship Troopers there is a scene where Denise Richards runs out of the dissection lab and her skirt flies up revealing a flash of white underthingies. It was an accident and they left it in. And in Grease during the Look at Me, I'm Sandra Dee number Stockard Channing flashes her cotton panel to the camera. It was an improvisation and they left it in.In an animated piece, however, every single frame is drawn deliberately. NOTHING is unintended. Early in Thumbelina, the main character is being blown down the length of a water trough by a cow. As her skirt is ruffling in the breeze, she is waving her arms to brace for a fall. This seem normal. But as the frames click by, her skirt goes up and up, while her arm keeps going down. Eventually, her hemline rises plainly ABOVE her waist, and her arm is pointing down between her legs. She is obviously panty-less. This is not normal. Not for a cartoon. Check the freeze-frame yourself, and once you have the picture on hold, consider that in the Don Bluth studio, an artist sat at a desk laboring over that exact image you're seeing. Somebody actually drew her raised skirt, her bare hips and thighs, and her arm carefully covering her private ink. The frames leading to this image were already drawn, and then the artist drew the following frames for her skirts to lower.Another example -- when Thumbelina is climbing out of the teapot, she swings her leg over the top. Again, her tricky skirt rises up until her entire lower half is revealed, from her ankle up to her butt. If it were a live actor, we'd think, Wow -- I guess they didn't catch that she just showed her butt. But being animation, we should be thinking, Wow -- somebody sat down and purposely drew this cartoon nudity that I let my kids watch over and over again just because it's marketed to children.No, I'm not a cartoon perve. It's just that some things struck me as weird while watching it for the first time, and I went on to verify my suspicions when the video became available. Bluth's team created a weak female lead with no willpower who can't keep her clothes on. I don't let my kids watch this movie.  "}{"Title":"What can I say about this movie...?","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"8 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  ONE thing you can say about this awful, awful movie is that the reviews of it are pure entertainment. This is like one of those vacations where the brochure is more fun than the trip. Maybe that's what Bluth intended because he knew that every aspect of Thumbelina is totally horrid and only worthwhile as material for creative IMDB users who want to shoot it down. The only good part of this movie is when John Hurt shows up as this mole who's so desperate for a spouse that he's actually considering Thumbelina. Always noble, perhaps the greatest humanitarian of our time.. Who but John Hurt would try to assist this wretched film that is a 76-minute result of whatever extraterrestrial brain-sucking creature got a grip on Don Bluth's head in 1990 and hasn't since let go or stopped feeding? (Though it did vomit in '97 and return to him enough sentience to produce Anastasia.)This is the WORST. (Except for possibly A Troll in Central Park, which I haven't seen.) Worse than Rock A Doodle and much worse than The Pebble and the Penguin, full of songs I could criticize if only I could remember anything about them, full of blah like the follow your heart spiel which is trite here, well after being trite in The Land Before Time, and before being trite in Nimh 2 and Cinderella 2. The plot is incomprehensible all around, following Thum as she dances around with a bunch of racially insensitive frogs and then gets involved (somehow) with a lot of insects.. I don't even remember how. Trying to call up the reasons and explanations but they just aren't coming because nothing makes sense in this movie. (Characters appear and then just leave at random.) Also it's BORING. I SO wanted to turn it off, and had to force myself to get through the whole thing without hitting the FF button.. (I knew if I touched it even once, it'd be all over.)  I can't conceive of any reason why ANYone over 2 years old would like this movie. The only cute thing in it is the fuzzy bumblebee that Cornelius rides-- nothing else is even remotely interesting or worthwhile. It is NOT good for the whole family. I highly do not recommend renting this for a family night or a solo night or any night. Oh and don't be fooled by the trailer, which is highly deceptive as it includes the only really coherent sequence in the whole thing, the part where Thum and Cornelius first meet.For more intelligent fare, rent any of the Teletubbie adventures and be awestruck by their sophistication.   "},{"Title":"Do NOT watch this film alone.","Date":"19 January 2001","Score":"4 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Thumbelina is yet another Don Bluth hodgepodge of depressing plot, wasted talent, and annoying songs.  The only reason to watch this movie is because the woes of Thumbelina are so ridiculous that it's almost laughable. Watch it with a friend and crack jokes while you watch, and this is almost like a Mystery Science Theater flick (except that it's not science fiction).The woe-is-me storyline follows Thumbelina, voiced by Jodi Benson.  In The Little Mermaid playing Ariel, Benson gave her character headstrong ambition and determination.  As Thumbelina, she's a whiny, wimpy tiny woman whisping away wherever the writers take her.  And they take her on many painful misadventures; from her initial run-in with a troupe of dancing frogs, to a swinging dancing hall of bugs led by a beetle voiced by Gilbert Gottfried (perhaps a tongue-in-cheek reference or homage to Tex Avery), to a buttinski fieldmouse who would rather have Thumbelina marry a blind mole instead of the fairy prince of her dreams.  Oh yes, and each disaster or rescue is accompanied by a musical number, one that is invariably mind numbing and/or insipid.  The fieldmouse's Marry the Mole song (done by Carol Channing in a typically annoying drone), unnerved me the most since it demonstrated that the songwriters know extremely little about Shakespeare (Romeo and Juliet/were very much in love when they were wed), among other things.Combine that with a multitude of annoying characters (the fieldmouse, the frog troupe, Jacquimo the pigeon narrator, the fieldmouse, the fairy prince, and did I mention the FIELDMOUSE?!) and the masochistic plot, and you have a movie that stands up well to Rocky Horror-esque heckling.  I mean, there is a certain sick pleasure in watching Thumbelina's spirit get repeatedly broken...As long as you have a high endurance rate for awful songs. "}]