[{"Title":"Sick and subversive treat from John Waters","Date":"20 January 2005","Score":"43 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Beverly Sutphin (Kathleen Turner) seems to be a typical Betty Crocker suburban housewife. Unfortunately, people are dropping like flies around her! Could this perfect mom be a serial killer? Serial Mom is a ridiculously charming and clever film that never really received the credit it deserved. It is John Waters' best mainstream film, and its tongue-in-cheek portrayal of suburbia, domesticity, the media, and conventional gender roles is delightfully subversive. Kathleen Turner was criminally underrated--this was her best performance to date. The dialogue is hilarious, the murders are wickedly funny, and the overall atmosphere of the film is disturbingly bright and shiny. Co-stars Waters regulars Mink Stole, Ricki Lake, Traci Lords, and features a dynamite cameo by grunge goddesses L7. My Rating 9/10 "},{"Title":"Serial Mom (1994)","Date":"7 March 2004","Score":"35 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Just last year, Roger Ebert sang the praises of the serial killer B-movie Kalifornia, citing it -- and vastly overestimating it -- as a brilliant character study with something intelligent to say about our culture of violence. While that film took itself way too seriously, Serial Mom manages to get Kalifornia's attempted message across by a far more successful means humor. It is a John Waters film in the purest sense, in that it's entirely IMpure. More edgy than his last movie, Cry-Baby, but not nearly as extreme as Pink Flamingos, Serial Mom is filled to the brim with his trademark over-the-top gross-out humor -- but this time it has a purpose. It tells the simple story of a conservative housewife (played indelibly by Kathleen Turner) who murders whomever is unlucky enough to get on her nerves. While her husband (acclaimed actor Sam Waterston in a different light) and two children (Matthew Lillard and Ricki Lake) begin to suspect her criminal nature, the suburban town's death toll rises as more and more people make the mistake of p***ing her off. Turner's performance does for suburbia what Al Pacino in Scarface did for the mob it wallows in its outlandish excess (Oscar snub, anyone?). The murder scenes themselves are so outrageous (they range from stabbing a man in the back with a poker and removing some anonymous inner organ to lambasting a woman with a pot roast) that the film can't help but NOT be taken seriously, and this is where it makes its point. As Stanley Kubrick did with A Clockwork Orange, Waters rubs our faces in our own inner obsession with violence -- but unlike others who have attempted this feat, he remembers to do more than just condemn his audience. Rather, he exposes us for what we really are -- and shows that he wouldn't have it any other way. While others might have stopped as soon as Turner is caught, Waters keeps the story moving throughout her trial -- which features the most entertaining act of courtroom self-defense since Woody Allen in Bananas. One of her killings involves dropping the stage lights at a concert on the head of her son's friend and then proceeding to set him on fire while the audience applauds her sadism, but Waters doesn't glorify the act during the trial, the prosecutor displays photographs of the burnt corpse, but everyone in the courtroom is distracted by the presence of Suzanne Somers. Critics who have attacked Waters for being gratuitous are mistaken he DOES show the consequences of the corrupt acts he depicts -- but he also reveals the sad truth, which is that no one really cares anymore. Along with taking on our culture's passion for depravity, the film also addresses our OTHER potentially dangerous problem repressed conservative housewives. Having no life outside of the home, Turner is so obsessed with doing the best for her family that she's willing to (permanently) get rid of anyone who gets in the way. Rather than being frightening, her killings are just examples of how soccer-mom perfectionism can go too far. In one scene, a future victim of hers is watching Annie and singing along to Tomorrow while her dog licks her feet now THAT'S frightening.Grade B+ "},{"Title":"A kitschy classic","Date":"19 October 2000","Score":"29 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" An uproariously witty satire on petty bourgeois American values, John Waters brings his own distinctive madness to the screen by focussing on cardboard cut-out caricatures of pop culture Americana.Turning his outrageous gaze on an archetypally perfect housewife and mother from the Baltimore suburbs in Maryland, supportive to her loving husband and teenage kids and possessing a real tlent for cooking, it appears that she is everything a stable, hard-working business man could want. However, there is a slight catch. She is also a serial killer.Mom's tendency to take bloody revenge on any poor neighbouring housewife who fails to observe her rigid socially acceptable guidelines, like not recycling rubbish or driving too fast, is so barmy you are sure to find it absurdly and darkly funny. Kathleen Turner, alternating between dizzy, unquestioning devotion to her family and clinically cool, yet psychotic anger to offending neighbours, either appears to possess a martyr's yellow halo above her head, denoting divine lightness and freshness, or a focussed smile as she carefully contemplates her next victim.If you are on the lookout for some perfectly vibrant, yet malicious black comedy, subscribe to Serial Mom, one of the most ruthless, patronising skits on good manners and nosey, voyeuristic neighbours ever to hit the screen. If you like Waters' latest irreverent venture into visceral, cutting black humour, then get all his other movies, because they are all even more extreme and grotesque - Pink Flamingos, Hairspray, Cry Baby - all kitschy, underrated classics in their own right. "},{"Title":"Sick, twisted, bizarre, depraved...and a damn good time!","Date":"17 January 2006","Score":"25 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I saw Serial Mom for the first time as a fairly young kid, and thought it was pretty good. I've just seen it for the first time as an adult, and it turns out that I'd forgotten just how good this film really is! It's certainly not to everyone's taste, and if you can't handle high camp, you definitely don't want to see this; but if you like your films wild and wicked, Serial Mom is a treat indeed! The film follows a slasher plot line, but it's clear that director John Waters didn't want to merely make a slash flick. The film is a parody of life as a housewife, the media and modern society in general; with a heavy dosage of sick humour and a very unique mean streak running throughout. Serial Mom is the sort of film that puts a smile on your face, and it follows the story of a not quite so normal American mother. While her fellow housewives are cooking dinner and cleaning the house, Beverly R. Sutphin is out dispatching people that have got on hers and her family's nerves in a variety of nasty, yet hilarious, ways. Her kids think it's cool, and her husband is duly worried...Kathleen Turner takes the lead role, and does an excellent job of performing in a serious, yet jokey way; which does the film no end of favours on the parody front. She looks the part, acts the part...and really, I cant think of a better middle-aged actress to take the lead in this film. The support cast, which includes Matthew Lillard and Ricki Lake, is good; but it's the director that's the real star of the show. John Waters has made a name for himself by creating odd and twisted films, and although I haven't seen a great deal of them; Serial Mom is his best as far as I'm concerned. It's one of those films that constantly make you laugh (providing you've got a sick sense of humour), while poking fun at society and offending all the right people all at once! I love originality in movies, and this really is one unique film. The nineties saw the release of lots of obscure social commentaries that were lost under films like Schindler's List and Fight Club, and Serial Mom, along with Francois Ozon's 'Sitcom', is one of the best 'under the radar' films of the decade. It's not a film that everyone will like, but everyone should see it just in case! "},{"Title":"Surreal Mom","Date":"2 March 2003","Score":"13 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Truly a dark comedy if there ever was one, this film won't be to everyone's taste. I first saw it several years ago on network TV, immediately liked it, but also realized that a fair amount of critical flavor had been bleeped out of the movie due to editing it for television. So just recently I purchased the DVD version, which gave me the opportunity to watch it in all its unedited glory.Kathleen Turner is awesome as mad housewife Beverly Sutphin (where DO they get these names?). I can't think of a modern actress who has such a commanding presence on the screen as Kathleen Turner, and here she uses it to full advantage. I don't know if it's her supreme confidence in the delivery of her lines, or her captivating facial expressions, or just the way she carries herself as a woman not to be trifled with, but somehow she grabs you by the ears and doesn't let go.There is a goodly dose of carnage in the film, including a particularly gory scene where a guy gets skewered in the men's room with a fireplace poker, resulting in his liver being torn out. But in the capable hands of John Waters, plus the presence of Kathleen Turner in the scene, it all just seems so natural, and perfectly hilarious. Here I couldn't help thinking about the great film Harold and Maude (1971), where Bud Cort's character fakes his own suicide various times throughout the film, and by golly, he made suicide actually seem FUNNY! You get the same reaction from Serial Mom, where Beverly Sutphin's murders come across as being somewhat on the level of laugh-inducing college pranks.The cinematography is superb, the co-stars (Sam Waterston, Mink Stole, Ricki Lake, Matthew Lillard, Patricia Hearst, Traci Lords, et al) are spot-on well cast, the pacing is excellent, and the film wraps with a very satisfying denouement. Granted, the film is not for the squeamish, nor for those who are averse to John Waters. But for those who can deal with a whimsical horror film, I would recommend seeing this &#150; and get the DVD version if possible, as the director's commentary by John Waters is worth the rental price. I actually purchased the DVD, as I want this one in my permanent video library. I only wish they would make a sequel. Perhaps, Serial Mom joins the PTA.  "},{"Title":"Beverly Sutphin is not to be trifled with","Date":"17 July 2004","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Imagine this the main character is a woman called Beverly Sutphin. Her husband is a dentist and she does her best to bring up her children. In short, she is a respectable human being with the particularity of being a real stickler for good manners . Maybe, a little too respectable so that when someone speaks ill of one member of her family, Beverly is ready to kill to defend her family!Only one filmmaker seemed designated to shot this highly entertaining black comedy John Waters, the king of bad taste and extravagance. In Serial Mom, most of the comical situations are structured about the two quoted characteristics. The whole is condensed in one hour and a half. You don't get bored one moment and you honestly laugh in front of all these murders. In Serial Mom, you also recognize Waters' strong taste for bloody, gore and horror movies. Moreover, for this extraordinary director, it is the occasion to harm the model image of the American family.All in all, a delightfully politically incorrect comedy led by a Kathleen Turner on top form.  "},{"Title":"A delightful, dark comedy","Date":"16 April 2001","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This film won't be to everyone's liking, but is certainly an all-time favorite of mine. Only a film like this can combine so many great elements into one entertaining movie.Kathleen Turner is just purely brilliant as sweet mother Beverly Sutphin, who would look more at home in a show like Bewitched. However, we soon learn that she's not all that she seems. I love any movie that takes a classic element (in this case the innocent housewife) and completely turns it on its head.And so the film leads us on a journey through Beverly Sutphin's life and motivations. The film grabs on, and doesn't let go, keeping the pace until the very last scene.In bad taste? Well, yes. Sick humor? Quite often. Good? Oh yes. If you have a dark sense of humor, don't miss it for the world. "},{"Title":"Give 'er a happy face!And then recycle her!","Date":"9 May 2003","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Ever have that day when someone gets on your nerves and you feel like pulling the axe on them?That's exactly what John Waters demonstates in his dark comedy Serial Mom.After starring in the cheesy family movie House of Cards, Kathleen Turner has created one of the best performances in her life as the beautiful, heroic, misunderstood, law-obeying serial killer Beverly Sutphin.Eversince six murders, she has been placed with some terribly untrue charges and the only 'serial' she knows anything about is Rice Krispies!.But she has good reason for butchering six people they all commited a crime that no one understands, like dumping her daughter, eating poultry (because Beverly loves birds),smart-alacing about her dentist husband, refusing to rewind a rental tape, critisizing about her family skills, and witnessing one of the other five crimes.You may think she's insane, but really, she's just expressing things we'd rather hide inside of us.Like, say you work in a store and someone wants to return something but they don't have the recipt.It can't be returned without the recipt, so you tell them No can do.Then they start cursing you out like you're worthless.Wouldn't you get the urge to shove a bullet in their brain?Well then, you now know how Beverly Sutphin feels when someone decides to be a wise guy.This movie is perfect for anyone who loves to laugh.Plus, the DVD contains the theatrical trailer, a behind-the-scenes featurette, several TV spots, four interview clips, and extra behind the scenes footage.I give this one a 10/10! "},{"Title":"I'm sorry officers, but we don't allow gum in this house!","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"13 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Serial Mom has long been one of my favourite movies. John Waters once again demonstrates his unfailing ability to tap into our fear of the gross and disgusting, and, perversely, help us to face our fears - we may know someone who picks his nose, but Waters gives us an obnoxious woman who lets her dog lick her feet clean after a shopping trip. Maybe your mother caught you jacking off when you were younger, but Waters brings a whole new dimension of toe-curling embarrassment to the scenario in the brilliant sequence where Scotty 'enjoys' (ahem!) a Chesty Morgan video. Waters also throws in close-ups of people eating noisily, a dentist's drill in action, a messy impaling (made hilarious by Kathleen Turner's flawless performance), an ankle-nibbling rat, signed photographs of Charles Manson and Richard Speck, respectable middle-class housewives swearing like construction workers, an all-female rock band called Camel Lips and a Pee-Wee Herman doll - still in the box! All this would mean nothing if the film wasn't incredibly funny, and thankfully, it is. In fact, it's one of the most subversive and inventive comedies ever to come out of a mainstream studio, and you'll be quoting the dialogue for weeks to come. And in case you think it's improper to laugh at serial killers, consider this - how often have you wanted to blow away an irritating gum chewer, a teacher who gave you bad grades, a careless driver, whoever stole your last boy or girlfriend, or pretty much anyone who got on your nerves? Serial Mom is the perfect escape valve for all those negative emotions, and is the perfect film to unwind with at the end of a stressful day.Are those PUSSYwillows? "},{"Title":"He killed people, mom.  We all have our bad days.","Date":"2 October 2007","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Black comedy can be a difficult genre to get right, in the cinema as well as in the theatre. We can, I am sure, all think of films which were intended to be gross but hilarious and ended up as simply gross. There are too many examples to list them all, but high on my personal list of offenders in this regard must be The Sweetest Thing, Beautiful Creatures and Drop Dead Gorgeous. On the other hand, when black comedy succeeds, the result can be superb. Two of my favourites are Kubrick's Dr Strangelove and Scorsese's King of Comedy, both of which derive humour from serious subjects (nuclear war and crime) but do so with a brilliant satirical wit.John Waters's Serial Mom is not quite in the same class as those two films, but is one of the better black comedies of recent years. The main character is Beverley Sutphin, a middle-aged, middle-class Middle American housewife. Beverley, happily married to dentist Eugene with two teenage children, Chip and Misty, lives in an affluent, idyllic suburb which looks as though it has been taken from a fifties sit-com. (Like most of Waters's films, this one is set in his home town of Baltimore). There is only one thing which disturbs the peace and tranquillity of the area. Beverley combines her role as a housewife and mother with a part-time career as a serial killer. Her first victim is Paul Stubbins, a teacher who makes some unkind remarks about her son at a PTA meeting, and she progresses to her daughter's unfaithful boyfriend, a couple who are rude about Eugene's dental practice and various people who commit minor social gaffes such as failing to rewind rented video tapes (the film predates the coming of DVD), failing to recycle their garbage, and wearing white shoes after Labor day. (This last is, apparently, regarded as a major fashion crime in America). Eventually she is arrested and put on trial.Waters has the reputation of being a director to whom the notion of good taste is quite alien, and, with a plot like this, Serial Mom could have ended up as nothing more than horribly tasteless garbage. It is, of course, horribly tasteless and not a film to see if you are at all squeamish- Waters does not spare us sight of plenty of blood and gore- but is saved from ending up as garbage by two things. The first is an often very witty script, displaying a refreshingly cynical sense of humour, which includes some great lines such as He killed people, mom- We all have our bad days. and Jesus said nothing to condemn capital punishment as he hung on the cross, did he? (the local priest is preaching a pro-death penalty sermon).The second is Kathleen Turner's manically over-the-top performance as Beverley, alternating between a model of bourgeois domestic virtue and a bloodthirsty maniac, and playing both with equal relish. My favourite parts were the courtroom scene where Beverley conducts her own defence with great brilliance and the scenes where she makes obscene phone calls to her neighbour Dottie, a woman who can be shocked by a phrase as seemingly innocuous as Are those pussy willows? Turner is an actress who has somewhat disappeared from view in recent years, but in the eighties and nineties she was one of Hollywood's best known leading ladies and gave some excellent performances in films like the neo-noir thriller Body Heat and The War of the Roses, another very good black comedy.Like most good black comedies, Serial Mom has some serious points to make. The mores of suburbia have been fair game for satirists ever since the first suburbs were built, and here Waters is sending up the culture of middle-class conformity which all too often attaches to such places. Beverley is far from being the only all-American soccer mom who looks with horrified disfavour on her neighbours' minor deviations from accepted norms; all that distinguishes her from millions of others is the extreme lengths to which she will go to punish such deviations. The satire, however, is not just aimed at Beverley, but also at her victims, some of whom are such obnoxious individuals that it is impossible to have any sympathy for them, despite their horrific fates. There is one grotesque scene where Emma Lou Jensen (she who fails to rewind her videos) sings loudly and tunelessly along to Tomorrow from the musical Annie while allowing her dog to lick her feet all over suggesting she is, to say the least, a somewhat strange person. Stubbins, who suggests that Chip is in need of therapy because of his love of horror films, is the sort of arrogant, self-important teacher who thinks that he is paid not just to teach maths but also to control every aspect of his students' lives, down to their taste in films.Serial Mom may not be the best cinematic satire on suburbia of recent years (that must be Sam Mendes's American Beauty), but it is, for all its lapses of taste, a witty and entertaining black comedy. 8/10 "}{"Title":"We all have our bad days...","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"12 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I am a hardcore John Waters fan, but this is not my favorite film of his. I can't really think of anything I would want to change about it, however, other than maybe setting it in the 50's or 60's so Van Smith could have worked his costume magic. I personally consider this film and Pecker to be his weakest. However, even my least favorite Waters film beats most movies. If another director, say Robert Zemeckis or someone had directed this, then based on the subject matter, I probably wouldn't have had any interest in seeing it. But hey, any movie containing the credits Written and Directed by John Waters (in this case, the credit is superimposed over an image of a pulverized fly who has just been swatted by the title character...he always picks the best shots for his credit, doesn't he?) well, I'm there, no matter what the premise is. Waters' films often center on 'troubled' but lovable female characters, and this one is no exception. Kathleen Turner does a great job portraying Beverly Sutphin, a June Cleaver-esque, devoted happy homemaker who doesn't even allow gum in her house, but has a short fuse and keeps a secret scrapbook (I wonder if it was from Waters personal collection) of clippings about serial killers.  We don't know how long she's been killing, but the first half of the film follows a week in her life and the various neighbors and acquaintances she dispatches simply because they pi$$ her off. Ever momentarily had an urge to kill someone when they stole a parking spot from you, badmouthed a member of your family, or committed an obvious fashion violation? We don't act on it (well, *I* don't anyway, maybe some of you have and I just don't know about it) but Serial Mom sure does.Again, only Waters could have pulled this movie and subject matter off. If you're a Waters devotee, then you are well aware that criminal behavior, trials, and serial killers are subjects near and dear to his heart-this is a man who is a self-confessed trial groupie.  With any other filmmaker, it could have been boring. Many probably would have been extremely offended by a movie about a lovable serial killer played for laughs (especially those who knew the victim of a violent crime) but the tone of the movie is so light and over-the-top that only people with no sense of humor could think it might condone murder. Who else but Waters could think of a victim being bludgeoned to death  with a  slab of pork chop (because she made the mistake of not rewinding a movie before she returns it to the video store) while watching a videotape of Annie? This is not the funniest Waters movie I've seen, but it has its moments. Among the funniest are the scenes where Beverly torments her neighbor Mink Stole with hilariously obscene phone calls to drive her over the edge. Also very amusing are scenes where Beverly's whitebread manner (oh honey, the only serial I know anything about is Rice Krispies!) contrasts with the horrified stares of her family and neighbors. Turner is best in the moments when she goes from a harmless Donna Reed to Charles Manson within seconds when someone makes the mistake of annoying her- just watch her face. Waters fans should also watch for cameos /small roles by Alan Wendel, Traci Lords, Susan Lowe, Mary Vivian Pearce (I only recognized her from her distinctive voice) and though he doesn't appear in the credits, Waters manages to work in Don Knotts.This is one of the few Waters films that I rent from time to time rather than own, but it's still lots of fun. I'll take one of Waters less memorable films over a teen slasher flick or anything starring Jean-Claude Van Damme any day of the week. "},{"Title":"like this movie or serial mom might kill ya","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I'm not a John Waters fan by any means but i thought this movie was a masterpiece in every sense of the word. Kathleen Turner plays serial murderess Beverly Sutphin who on the outside is a loving mother but upset her family in any way and she will kill you. Kathleen Turner was great in war of the roses but in this movie she was simply majestic.The way she combined her light side with her dark side was inspired. Some parts of the movie might make you turn your away in disgust and after the dentist scene I will see to it that I never have to go to the dentists again However some parts of the film are absolutely hysterical and during the masturbation scene I had to stop myself having a serious accident i was laughing so hard. Sam Waterston was superb as Beverlys husband and Matthew Lillard and Rikki Lake did a fine job as her children but this was Kathleen Turner's film from start to finish and i cant remember any film in which she has been better The way she manipulates the judge and jury at the end of the film is clever and really ,really funny.By the end you are actually hoping she will get away with it, This film is a masterpiece and deserves only the perfect score 10/10 "},{"Title":"The only cereal I know is Rice Crispies....","Date":"8 September 2004","Score":"13 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The above is just one of MANY great lines offered up by the cast of 'Serial Mom'.....The Sutphins seem to be the picture of a normal 50's-esque family - dad (Sam Waterston) is a dentist; mom (a FANTASTIC Kathleen Turner) is a grand house wife homage to Donna Reed, June Cleaver and such; daughter (Rikki Lake) and son (Matthey Lillard) seem to be your average teens with a perfect family life.... Or is it?Based upon actual real life events, John Waters manages to bring us another great film - and this time - he takes dead aim on the 'celebrity' we make of murderers and criminals....I'm sure that many of us have gone through our lives, being annoyed by this person or that object and we've never done anything about it.... Not Betty Sutphin.... When this suburban mom goes off - she goes off.... From minor annoyances (white shoes after labor day!) to major anger management issues, Betty takes matters into her own hands - by going on a killing spree - taking 6 victims to an early grave....Sure, in typical Waters way, it's a bit over the top and corny, but the film is great! Some of the humor is very low brow - in bad taste, but, as Waters mentions in interviews - bad taste can be good taste!I gave this a 9 - a greatly enjoyable film!  "},{"Title":"Love it!","Date":"4 August 2004","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was offensive, vulgar, shocking, and yes, mean spirited. Forgive me if I'm wrong, but isn't that was John Waters is all about? Kathleen Turner and Sam Waterston do a wonderful job of overacting (badly) in classic Waters fashion. Liver on a fireplace poker? Turner as June Cleaver making obscene and threatening phone calls? Juror 8 (Patty Hearst) wearing white shoes after Labor Day? How can you not love it? This movie ranks up there with Citizen Ruth or Heathers as one of the best black comedies ever. And it also seems to have given some inspiration to Natural Born Killers, the finest of the genre. (Although not nearly as easy to stomach.)  "},{"Title":"My favorite and first John Waters movie","Date":"23 August 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I wasn't familiar with director John Waters or dark/black humor-except the Addams Family movies. But since 1993 to the present, I've familiarized myself w/ a lot more. For starters, this was my first movie by JW and one of the first with Kathleen Turner. I first watched this at age 13, so needless to say, I was rather naive then. I've owned it on VHS, DVD(both editions) so obviously, it's one of my favorites. Along with Kathleen Turner, it also stars Ricki Lake and Matthew Lillard as their adult kids, and Sam Waterston as a rather goofy husband. Most of the murders look so goofy, you can't possibly take this seriously, but maybe that was the point. Plus, her killing motives are goofy, not to mention ridiculous, although most involved slander of her family, subtle or major. Even after (finally) seeing Pink Flamingos- funny but gross) Cecil B. Demented-talk about bizarre) Cry-baby-some good musical numbers, both versions of Hairspray-both fairly enjoyable to me, and lastly, Pecker is probably my least favorite, Serial Mom remains my all-time favorite John Waters movie, to this day. "},{"Title":"Thoroughly enjoyable dementia","Date":"12 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I really enjoyed this movie because Kathleen Turner and John Waters just let loose with the demented psychotic energy of a parent who takes many legitimate parental urges to the next level - or maybe the next 5 levels. She is protective, proactive, and supportive where her family is concerned, just a bit more so than is good for her or the rest of the world. The movie is funny and Turner is superb. The various strategems she uses to distract witnesses at her trial are delivered with the precision of a knife and she does more acting in the defendant's chair than most actors manage in a typical Hollywood flick today. I gave it a 7 rather than something higher because the action around her is okay but delivered more as a set-up for her various exercises in family values, and the plot itself doesn't seem driven by anything other than her proclivities for a particular problem solving approach. But it is a very entertaining film, though I wouldn't watch it with a kid under the age of 15, however jaded by the media today's youths may seem to be. "},{"Title":"laugh till your sides hurt (a little)","Date":"12 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Serial Mom is an absolute gem of a movie. Turner's acting is truly excellant, as is the whole casts. Although a little ridiculous at first, any flaws it has are made up for in the way Beverley carries out her murders, my favourite being the guy in the toilets gruesome demise. "},{"Title":"Never laughed so much in my life!","Date":"12 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I watched this film for the first time when it came out. I ahve to say I never laughed so much in my life! Especially the 'Abusive Phone Call' and the court case at the end...... If you fancy a really good laugh or are just a Kathleen Turner who really gives this film justice!) fan - this is a MUST!!!! "},{"Title":"Murders, Wipes and Pussy Willows","Date":"26 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is my first John Waters film and I think I've got a good handle on his style of filmmaking. He's a sort of campy, joyful and irreverent filmmaker. He's not too much of a serious artist -- at least not from what I can tell here -- but he's a heck of an entertainer. He is, well, a master of schlock. He's nowhere near as creative as the Coen brothers and not as uproariously funny as the Farrelly brothers, but we're almost in a state of awe watching the movie, smiling, but wondering if we should be when an overly-sweet, caring mother beats a woman to death with a leg of lamb. Thing is, it never seems bad -- it's not even morally reprehensible the way Waters shows it. It's like when you've just watched a gag in extremely poor taste done pleasantly with such giddy amusement that you just shake your head and say, That is just wrong!Kathleen Turner plays the mother who, underneath her thin veil of perfect mother normalcy, has a latent desire to murder those who offend her sensibilities. Sam Waterston plays her husband, a good-natured dentist who stands by his wife as long as he can. It's an interesting pairing of Sam Waterston and Kathleen Turner, two actors blessed with raspy, gasping voices. Ricki Lake and Matthew Lillard play the two's children. Lake, the daughter in search of a boyfriend, is the first to suspect her mother's dark side and Lillard, the son with a love for classic gore horror movies, is interested when he's told his mother may be a killer.It's sort of like a David Lynch movie, if you were to focus only on the gee whiz part of America and replace all of Lynch's darkness with campy situations, like a punk rock band called Camel Lips.A lot of the dialogue and the satirical jabs were pretty obvious, but I wasn't quite sure whether this was just unsubtle comedy or if the joke was in how obvious some of the stuff was (I made a killing!).The acting by Turner reminded me of Annette Bening's in American Beauty, but demented instead of one-note. All the leads are fine, but the big chuckles come from the supporting players like Mink Stole as poor Dottie Hinkle, the victim of a crank caller. Or Patricia Hearst, as a juror who's not in tune with what Turner sees as a fashion faux pas.I had a big smile plastered on my face for about the first half-hour, which is the best part of the movie, and while the last half-hour loses some steam, it's still a joy to watch Turner and especially Mink Stole. It's not really a criticism, though -- most movies start with a great premise and have trouble resolving it. It's not so much that there's no satisfying resolution, it's that some of the more shocking moments come in the beginning and middle of the film.The best way I can think to describe the movie is that it exists in a realistic place populated by unrealistic characters. It's a satirical, farcical black comedy that, despite its gruesome murders, is perpetually cheery and without a trace of mean-spiritedness. (Any modern movie that still uses wipes for editing...) With no pun intended (well, maybe some), it's a movie definition of queer.I think I'll have to go look for Cry-Baby and Hairspray now. And if I can find it (and be able to stomach it), I probably owe it to myself to see Pink Flamingos, which may help me understand the filth label Waters is often given. This movie isn't filthy or vile; I had a good time and it's a nice break to see a movie as demented as this and not feel as if you were just subjected to watching a director stomp on someone already on the ground.*** "},{"Title":"A Classic","Date":"22 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is one of the best black comedies of all time.  Every scene is flawlessly funny, and of course the courtroom scene is phenominal... Kathleen Turner does not let down, I swear to god this movie rocks, especially when your intoxicated "}{"Title":"John Waters at his best","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  John Waters meets mainstream and the resulta are spectacular! This was Waters' first real studio film-- 13million budget and it really took us where we wanted to go. Kathleen Turner is perfectly cast as Beverly (Serial Mom) and this is the definite must-see for all interested in superbly written comedies! "},{"Title":"A delightful, dark comedy","Date":"16 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This film won't be to everyone's liking, but is certainly an all-time favorite of mine. Only a film like this can combine so many great elements into one entertaining movie.Kathleen Turner is just purely brilliant as sweet mother Beverly Sutphin, who would look more at home in a show like Bewitched. However, we soon learn that she's not all that she seems. I love any movie that takes a classic element (in this case the innocent housewife) and completely turns it on its head.And so the film leads us on a journey through Beverly Sutphin's life and motivations. The film grabs on, and doesn't let go, keeping the pace until the very last scene.In bad taste? Well, yes. Sick humor? Quite often. Good? Oh yes. If you have a dark sense of humor, don't miss it for the world. "},{"Title":"I promise I'll use the safety belt, Mom!!","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is a really funny film by John Waters (Cry Baby, Polyester, Hairspray) and it's his sickest film. Kathleen Turner plays a sweet and perfect suburbia mom who suddenly decides to kill the people who don't do the right thing (just like bother her kids, not rewinding the rented videos or wearing white shoes after Labour Day). But she's not a complex serial killer she goes and kill, in the most sordid and hilarious way. KT's performance is great and funny, and the rest of the cast is good.Rated 8 out of 10. Hey, don't miss it!!! "},{"Title":"You almost feel dirty watching it","Date":"20 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  While I really liked both plot and storyline, the satire mixed with random acts of violence makes it almost sort of dirty watching it and makes you sort of say, actually that was sort of funny.  Any which way though, I gave this movie a favorable rating. Someday we'll see in lights  George Orwell, Kurt Vonnegut, and whatever twisted writer wrote this movie, cause it was pretty good.  "},{"Title":"Unusual and campy (may contain spoilers)","Date":"16 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  In every little picturesque American suburb, there's always the picturesque family the loving husband/father/breadwinner, the smart daughter, the ambitious son, and the doting wife/mother/homemaker.  There's also that dark side of the norm that the Cleavers and Ozzie and Harriet didn't show, and its depicted in this 1994 John Waters film.Beverly Sutphin (Kathleen Turner) is your typical suburban housewife and mother--she keeps the perfect home, recycles, cooks the perfect meatloaf,loves her dentist husband Eugene(Sam Waterston), loves birds, and keeps tabs on her two teenage kids, daughter Misty (Waters mainstay/veteran Ricki Lake) and son Chip (Matthew Lillard, in his breakthrough role).  Did I mention she was also a crazy and vengeful woman hellbent on serial killers and killing for vengeful purposes?  That's right, she's a serial kiler.Beverly will do anything for her family, even if it means murdering someone.  When someone rubs her the wrong way, she immediately plots revenge on them by killing them.  Even if its for the smallest infraction to her, it often results in the brutal slaying of someone who was just brutally honest.  There's her son Chip's math teacher, Mr. Stubbins, who says that Chip needs more focus due to his high interest in horror and gore films (Chip's the assistant manager of a video store), Misty's ex-boyfriend Carl, who stood her up, Betty and Ralph Sterner, for no apparent reason, Scotty, (Chip's friend) who just aggravated Beverly, Lu-Ann Hodges, who forgot to rewind the video tape, and Juror #8, who wore white shoes after Labor Day.(sorry, this may be a spoiler!), not to mention the obscene prank calls to neighbor Dottie Hinkle (they were so bad, I won't even say them here!).Ok, this is just a strange movie, and when I first saw it two summers ago, I was shocked by it.  Not only was it outrageously rediculous, it was almost sickening what this woman would do for revenge.  I watched it again last night with my brother (who happens to LOVE this movie) and my best friend (who had never seen it), but for some reason, I was enjoying it (scary thought on my part, since I thought Hairspray was strange, and Crybaby was almost unwatchable).  Kathleen Turner puts on an almost memorable performance for this role (I'm wondering how many cartons of Camel cigarettes she smoked prior to making this film, because her voice is SO HUSKY now!) as the murderous mother.  How old were Misty and Chip supposed to be?  I knew that Lake and Lillard were both 24 at the time this movie was released, but was Chip only supposed to be in high school?  Matthew Lillard certainly looked young enough to be in high school, and we noticed it.  What a stretch for Sam Waterston, playing this gullible husband.  How much did they pay him to do this, coming from an actor on Law and Order?!  Whoah, that's guts.My favorite scenes from this movie are The prank call scene between Beverly and Dottie, the Ted Bundy Tape (oh my god, I cracked up watching this!), the part where Beverly kills Lu-Ann Hodges to the tune of Tomorrow from Annie (we were crying during this part, it was so funny), the video store scene where Hodges brings in the video without rewinding it, and Chip informs her of the $1 charge for not rewinding, and when he asks her why, she informs him I didn't FEEL like rewinding!  My brother particularly enjoyed this line, because he works in a video store (and they don't charge for not rewinding!), and the serial mom scenes, when Beverly acts out her revenge.  I LOVED Matthew Lillard in this film (he is so funny and talented, and this was a great start for him, as he has made some memorable performances!)This was an unusual movie, and may be too strange for those who don't appreciate campy farce.  John Waters has done it again, in typical John Waters fashion, and for some reason, this film works. I couldn't begin to tell you how it works, but it does.  This may take two watchings to actually enjoy it, but its not bad, just strange.  This acting is decent, and this film is a real scream at times.  I recommend this film to any John Waters fan, as it is one of his own creations.  Don't do anything to make Beverly Sutphin mad, you'll pay for it later! "},{"Title":"Is This the Most Silly John Waters Film?","Date":"27 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" A sweet mother (Kathleen Turner) takes a little too much at heart for the defense of her family.I love the constant references to other films, from Blood Feast to Ghost Dad. The Cosby connection is even more unusual in light of all his terrible behavior.Roger Ebert awarded it an average two stars (out of a possible four) finding some of Waters' satire effective but feeling that Kathleen Turner's decision to portray her character's mental illness with realism instead of in a campy fashion, while brave, made the character difficult to laugh at, writing, Watch Serial Mom closely and you'll realize that something is miscalculated at a fundamental level. Turner's character is helpless and unwitting in a way that makes us feel almost sorry for her&#x97;and that undermines the humor. She isn't funny crazy, she's sick crazy. I think Ebert is wrong. Not wrong in saying it was not as campy as it could be, but the offbeat humor adds something. John Waters is not comedy in any traditional sense, and it would be beneath him to make this a straight comedy (no pun intended). And, you know, this may be his most accessible film, one you can show to your non-cult friends and both enjoy. "},{"Title":"Very enjoyable","Date":"1 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Funny, quaint, executed well.It's not really a horror film, but more a mixture of slasher and comedy. A refreshing change as the protagonist is a mother, and her family and acting provide fantastic dark comedy.The pace of the film is good, progressing the story in interesting and unpredictable paths, with a satisfying end.Some interesting cinematography and cool shots of action unfolding. The film is kind of cheesy, but in a good way. It's fun to watch and doesn't seem to have any lulls. The films other strength is its believability. It doesn't have many moments you think That wouldn't happen, they wouldn't do that etc, and it's fairly clever at setting this up. "},{"Title":"Rock on Serial Mom!","Date":"6 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Serial Mom is a dark and funny satirical comedy from director John Waters. Kathleen Turner is Serial Mom, a seemingly normal suburbanite mother and housewife. However, she does possess a dark side. If you don't recycle, chew bubble gum,or refuse to rewind your video tapes you could be on Serial Mom's chopping list. Also if you have anything negative to say about her family, your days are numbered. Compared to Pink Flamingos this is much more mainstream. However, Serial Mom is still campy and outrageous and John Waters fans of his earlier work can still dig this as his style is distinct and has'nt changed much. There are HG Lewis and Bloodfeast references thrown about all over the place. Beverly Sutphin's son Chip is a horror movie freak that has a job at the local video store. Her daughter, Misty is played by Rikki Lake and she loves to flirt with the boys. Kathleen Turner's performance as the wholesome, some times deadly, but always shaggable Serial Mom is perfect. Also check out a performance from all female punk/grunge band L7 that will take you down memory lane in the 90's time machine. Serial Mom is a good satire of suburban Americana and a great film that is very funny and holds up well. "},{"Title":"Pretty Messed Up.....and Funny!","Date":"29 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" If I was in the right state of mind, I would have hated this film because of the kind of story it is which seems to glorify mass murders. But, actually this film spoofs these crimes and the law enforcement/court trial that follows. This is a messed up film, but that doesn't stop from being a little funny, kind of creepy, and just a fun film in general.John Waters's film is about a middle-class, suburban housewife who seems content with her family, friends, and neighbors. But those who begin to disrespect her and her family, she brings out her secret identity and begins to terrorize them.The acting is quite good especially by Kathleen Turner. Many actresses would not have taken this role, but Turner did. She brought a new name to the word bipolar. One moment she has a sweet aura, the next moment she's a homicidal maniac. Turner was very brave in tackling a role like this.Overall, this is a pretty funny film that spoofs the law and order. The court scene in the end is a prime example of that. Some people may find this film sick, while others may find it funny. I thought it was pretty funny despite the gruesome murders. But I find it a good spoof of the American life and I loved how accurate Waters got all these details. I rate this film 8/10. "},{"Title":"Carol Brady she ain't.....","Date":"19 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Kathleen Turner rocks the house and her neighborhood as the picture-perfect mom who takes matters into her own hands to correct behaviors she considers bad manners. And if murder is the method in which she either corrects these behaviors (or simply eliminates them altogether), that's just too bad, because like fellow John Waters heroine Edna Turnblad (Hairspray), her diet pill is wearing off, and like Francine Fishpaw of Polyester, she just can't take any more heartbreak! Imagine if Divine had lived long enough to do this movie. The obese drag queen would have added a grotesque image to the character of Beverly Sutphin, suburban Baltimore wife and mother who doesn't allow her children to use the brown word, has a police officer remove the gum he's chewing, and treats her hard-working garbage men to mini-bottles as she comments on neighbor Mary Catlett's refusal to recycle. Then, there's the Annie watching video store customer of her son's who refuses to rewind (taken care of deliciously to the song Tomorrow, much like the art patron bludgeoned in A Clockwork Orange to Singin' in the Rain), the math teacher who considers her son a wastrel, and the patient of her dentist husband who upsets her even more as she plots his and his wife's demise by eating cute Cornish hens.Taking care of all of these ne'er-do-wells (in her mind) is Kathleen Turner at her most beautiful, her husky voice perfectly suited to an obscene phone call to obnoxious neighbor Mink Stole, and deliciously rubbing it in later on in an extremely funny court scene where she wins over one witness by doing a Basic Instinct Sharon Stone impression for him. She also gets to visit a men's bathroom in a hysterically gross sequence where she takes care of daughter Rikki Lake's boyfriend who has dumped her for none other than Tracy Lords.Sound like another visit to Stepford? This is one woman who hasn't been robotized for her man (Sam Waterston), even though she goes out of her way to please him much to her children's discomfort. Turner rocks in this film, and while it definitely continues her camp quotient, it also as a quote quotient of hysterically funny memorable lines that have ended up as sketches in various drag shows across the country. John Waters adds just enough bad taste to keep the film amusing throughout, and you will not soon forget it. In fact, you may find yourself watching the film over just as soon as you've finished it to make sure you didn't miss anything the first time! "}{"Title":"Fine entertainment.","Date":"19 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This mainstream effort from the great cult director John Waters is a blackly hilarious treat, taking satirical jabs at suburbia, family life, and the celebrity treatment often afforded real life criminals. Kathleen Turner shines in one of her best roles as Beverly Sutphin, a beaming suburban mom with a loyal dentist husband (Sam Waterston), a lonely daughter (Ricki Lake), and a horror genre obsessed son (Matthew Lillard, warming up for his not dissimilar role in Scream). The trouble is, Beverly is easily annoyed, and any person who offends her sets of values or threatens the sanctity of her family will find their time to be extremely short. Eventually, she's caught, and her trial is turned into something of a circus, with tie in products being peddled such as a book adaptation and T-shirts. The portrayal of the way that killers can become a part of the popular culture is really spot on. Serial Mom goes so far as to make a point of the inevitable made for TV version of the events, with Suzanne Somers, doing a cameo as herself, tapped to play Beverly and hanging around as the trial unfolds. The delightful tongue in cheek approach shows how people start rallying around Serial Mom and find the actions of those she hates - such as not recycling - much more heinous than anything she does. Waters's wicked sense of humour is just great, especially when he has a victim bludgeoned with a leg of lamb while the song Tomorrow from the 1982 film version of Annnie serves as accompaniment. Waters has fun with his methods of murder, not taking them too seriously and not having any two alike; as a result, there's not much in the way of gore. (Although there is one priceless darkly comedic gag when it comes to the heart of one victim.) Waters maintains a likably self referential approach, and clips from movies such as The Texas Chain Saw Massacre, Blood Feast, and Double Agent 73 show on screen, making this movie a treat to watch for cult film fans. The acting is enjoyable, from Waters regulars such as Mink Stole, Patricia Hearst, and Traci Lords, with Patricia Dunnock a delight as Lillard's gal pal. The movie has good energy, maintaining a nice off the wall sensibility from start to finish. It's just too hard to resist. Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"Counterculture Classic","Date":"15 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Kathleen Turner is hilarious as a mass murderess in director John Water's Serial Mom about a housewife who embarks on a homicidal rampage in Baltimore, Maryland. This wonderfully subversive black comedy depicts an apparently PTA mom who begins swapping flies and then graduates to cold-blooded murder. As Beverly Sutphin, Turner kills anybody who offends her dentist husband, gorehound movie buff son, and her hopeless romantic daughter. Nevertheless, Bev is pretty far gone before the spree unspools. The police are canvassing the neighborhood for an obscene caller initially when they poke their inquisitive noses in at Beverly's house. Waters ridicules everything from gory exploitation movies to culinary habits. Nobody escapes notice in this outrageous laugh riot except perhaps gay people. Beverly racks up seven murders to her credit, killing her victims with everything from a knife to a leg of lamb to a toppled air conditioner. Interestingly, Beverly's last victim is none other than Patty Hearst. Throughout it all, Turner similes and slays. Ultimately, of course, our leading lady is charged with murder and lands in court where she dismisses her attorney and conducts her defense. Serial Mom is such a bright, shiny, polished epic that it is difficult to believe that it is so bloodthirsty. Mind you, the language gets rather profane at times. Lots of pop culture references spring up, ranging from Suzanne Somers to Bill Cosby movies. Despite all the carefree blood and gore, the most agonizing scene occurs when we are forced to watch a couple as they gnaw on fried chicken. One of the most taboo scenes takes place when a concupiscent teen masturbates to the Chesty Morgan soft-porn spy movie Deadly Weapons. Chesty is determined to kill the dastards who killed her man so she smothers them with her ponderous breasts. "},{"Title":"Pitch perfect black comedy","Date":"14 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" SERIAL MOM is one of my all-time favourite black comedies, a genre that's notoriously difficult to get right (I mean, seriously, how many good ones can you think of?). I'm no fan of John Waters - in fact, this is the only film of his I've ever seen - but in this he has created pretty much the perfect antidote to the psycho-thriller genre.Kathleen Turner bags the role of a lifetime as Beverly R. Sutphin, a seemingly ordinary housewife with a sinister side she bumps off anybody who crosses her. Add in a quirky family (young 'uns Ricki Lake and Matthew Lillard are both particularly funny) and you have the scene set for plenty of unusual and unexpected laughs. The murder scene set to ANNIE is by far my favourite moment and one of the funniest things I've ever seen.What I like most about SERIAL MOM is the plot. In lesser hands, Turner would have successfully covered up her murders for the film's duration. Not so here - she's discovered, and becomes an unlikely celebrity, basking in her new-found fame. This gives Waters plenty of opportunity for satirising American law and order, fame, celebrity as well as suburban life and the nuclear family. DESPERATE HOUSEWIVES may satirise those kinds of things these days, but SERIAL MOM got there first! "},{"Title":"super-cheesy fun","Date":"26 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is probably one of John Waters' most approachable films for the mass audience--along with CRY BABY and HAIRSPRAY. Unlike Waters' earlier films, which were meant for a niche audience (i.e., weird people--and I don't mean that derogatorily). So if you are looking for the ultra-low budget over-the-top films starring Divine, you may be disappointed that this film has a lot more polish and higher production values. However, this is NOT to say that SERIAL MOM is normal--just a lot more normal than these earlier flicks. Plus, this is one of the few Waters films you can watch with your kids--provided they are older and not terribly impressionable!Kathleen Turner turns in her best performance as a combination between June Cleaver and Ted Bundy--complete with the pearl necklace. This movie, start to finish, is very funny and a great satiric look at life in the suburbs. In addition, like his later CECIL B. DEMENTED, it's an interesting satire that is a way over the top look at America's fascination with celebrity and how we admire and are fascinated with anyone if they are famous--even the vile and horrific.NOTE--Like many of John Waters' later films, this one features a cameo by Patty Hearst. "},{"Title":"Bye Bye Bye","Date":"22 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Sometimes we get ourselves stating we want to kill someone in specific, even thought we don't even mean it. Ms. Sutphin doesn't seem to understand it very well. For some reason-- which is, fortunately, never explained--, she takes everything too personally, murdering people all around for futile things they have done or said. Actually, Turner's character can NEVER be vexed, or the capital sin appears in the way. In the first scenes, Serial Mom strongly reminded me of 1990's Edward Scissorhands, maybe due to the very American neighborhood both movies have designed. The most funny aspect of this movie is how everybody reacts when they find out Beverly is the lunatic; instead of getting scared, her relatives just try to help her out. In real life, obviously, people wouldn't react that way, and that's makes this a hardly black humor of a picture. The coolest scene to me, moreover, is the rock show; the band playing on stage is sooo junkie that they don't even notice what's going on in the crowd. On the other hand, the acting isn't that good, which is why I don't give it a better rating. All in all, please don't get me wrong and try to believe it when we all say it's a COOL movie! "},{"Title":"Hanging there like a runny nose....","Date":"5 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Beverly is seen as being perfect in her quest to be just like the television mothers of the late 1950s. In that perfection, Beverly does and will not tolerate anything against her sensibilities, especially if it affects her or her family, and will take whatever measure to ensure people adhere to that sensibility. Evidence mounts that Beverly is the caller of obscene telephone calls to neighbour Dottie Hinkle, and the murders of several people in their neighbourhood who have crossed their family in some form or another. Beverly laughs off such suggestions, but even her family members end up believing she is guilty of all the murders, with possibly more to come. Those accusations end up being not an issue to most in the Sutphin family, who use their fifteen minutes of fame to their advantage. Even Beverly believes that she can clear herself of all charges despite the overwhelming evidence against her..........When John Waters wants to shock, he gives us Pink Flamingos. Now while this movie tries to go down the route of shock and bad taste, a lot of the performances feel forced, forced to be self-deprecating, forced to be tasteless, forced to be shocking, and forced to be be a parody of the fifties stereo-typical house wife.Yes, I'm talking about the titular character, and the way Turner portrays her, or doesn't as it appears in this movie.It sounds like a double negative, but it looks like she's forcing herself to be restrained in her role, whereas the film would have benefited her from being plain bonkers, rather than squint her eyes every time she gets miffed, and then then do the old breathe out and smile trick.The first ten minutes shows her more maniacal side, especially when she is making the crank phone calls, but the rest of the film sadly falls flat, and no amount of Waters trademark humour can resurgence the boredom.Not a bad film, Turner aside the performances are fantastic, but when the titular character is the boring one in the film, you couldn't care less about the rest. "},{"Title":"Please be kind and rewind...or DIE!!!","Date":"2 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" It's been years since I had seen this movie so I remembered a little bit but I guess I didn't fully appreciate the genius of Jon Waters at that tender age of whatever the hell age I was in 94 (I don't feel like doin' math and I'm too busy doin' this bad ass review for all of u to be destracted by time consuming stuff like addition and numbers and all that jazz. How great is jazz, right? I mean Kenny G sucks ass but he's not even jazz in my opinion...wait I'm getting off topic, sorry back to the review). So Kathleen Turner is the quintessential 50's type Mom who can prepare and carve the perfect turkey dinner and then carve up some good ole fashioned murderin'. You know the kind Mom used to do? The rest of the family is just swell but even they begin to wonder whether there seemingly perfect matriarch is more Charles Manson then Betty Crocker. Turner cuts and slashes her way thru the little town they call home and slowly reduces the population one or two at a time with Johnny Law watching her every move. The use of satire and the way Water pisses all over the perfect nuclear American family is just plain fun for anyone who doesn't have a stick up their ass and enjoys a dark comedy and a savagely original film. The laughs are frequent and Waters unapologetic way of using the bizarre and macabre to amuse us is something that has to be appreciated by the people that don't like to follow the status quo and can take a joke. If you like anti heroes, dark comedy and you have a bit of a twisted sense of humor then watch this movie...after all it's based on a true story and Serial Mom is due for parole anytime. "},{"Title":"An amusing tale of serial homicide","Date":"20 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Beverly Sutphin seems to be the perfect Baltimore housewife; she cares for her family, does the recycling, she even likes the birds that come to her garden&#x85;she is also a killer! To begin with her crimes were limited to making obscene phone calls to one of her neighbours but when one of her son's teachers says he thinks he needs psychiatric help because of the violent pictures he draws... he has to go. The police are soon suspicious but there is no firm evidence. Soon she strikes again; killing the boy who dumped her daughter. With the police following her it looks as though she won't be able to kill again but she soon does. By the time she is finally arrested six people have died at her hands! Her family are obviously somewhat disturbed by it all but that doesn't stop her son and his friend Birdie helping her escape at one point. Once caught she is put on trial and with all the evidence there is no way she will get off&#x85; is there?This is a difficult film to categorise; on the one hand the comedy it delivered with a light touch on the other the subject matter is dark and there is plenty to offend those who are bothered by swearing or violence. Kathleen Turner is great as the psychotic 'perfect mother'; I loved how her character was willing to murder but couldn't tolerate the slightest social faux pas. While it is very much her movie she is ably supported by Sam Waterston, Ricki Lake, Matthew Lillard and Patricia Dunnock amongst others. The violence isn't too gory; in fact the way it is portrayed is fairly funny in a bad taste sort of way! After the murders things get even funnier when Beverly is put on trial; she hilariously discredits each of the witnesses in a way that could only work in a comedy such as this. I'd certainly recommend this to anybody who wants a good laugh but isn't easily offended. "},{"Title":"The only serial I know anything about is Rice Krispies.","Date":"6 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Admit it. You know you have wanted to blow away that jerk who plays his music too loud, or the one who doesn't even begin to reach into her purse until the cashier has rung up all her groceries. Well, Beverly Sutphin (Kathleen Turner) doesn't just think about it, she takes action. Soccer mom by day, and serial killer by night.Only the mind of John Waters can come up with a perfect combination of gross and funny.The Sutphin family also includes Sam Waterston, Ricki Lake, and Shaggy (Matthew Lillard). Turner gives a highly underrated performance in a film that humorously exposes the culture of violence in which we all live. "},{"Title":"A fun... wait i live here...","Date":"18 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" To tell you the truth i did not even know this movie existed until i saw it when i was about 13. I saw it on vacation when it was raining out side. The first thing i said when the movie started was... I know that place. Then latter on... I shop there. I will always have a jaded view of Walter's films as many of his movies take place in my home town of Baltimore, and especially in and around Roland Park. as such i lived the film. its quirky and fun and its a fun movie to watch on days you cant go out side and need to entertain your self. Its not his best work but it was also his first.also just the fact that i got to see my home town in a movie was just great for me. "}{"Title":"Sadly true","Date":"1 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I will not be talking about the movie's plot or Kathleen Turner performance--these have been commented on extensively by many viewers. Instead, I am writing this review to question the popular opinion that this movie is a hilarious black comedy or spoof. It is, imho, a sad true story, exactly what it claims to be based on.I am as normal as you all are, says Mrs. Sutphin in her concluding words during the trial. The brilliant ambiguity behind this statement summarizes the message of the movie. Like in Clockwork Orange, the viewer is left to ponder on who and what has been immoral.If you are familiar with the tranquil, run-of-mine sh&te of the suburbia, you've got to feel bitter and sad after the movie simply because you can help but realize the story is true to life, even if it never happened. "},{"Title":"my favorite movie","Date":"26 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie and it was the funniest/scariest movie ever!  It's funny when Kathleen Turner sneezes and a big booger falls on a baby's head.  It was scary when a bloody crumb of apple pie falls from the math teacher's mouth. A funny part of the movie is the girl on the tv that was high and had messy black hair and serial mom said she was wasted.   "},{"Title":"Murder","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Seeing Kathleen Turner in the headmaster's office made me realize the meaning of the saying Looking at him with murder in one's eyes! Terrific! "},{"Title":"NOT RECOMMENDED FOR THE SQUEAMISH","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Turner is great as a housewife who kills anyone who really upsets her, her mix of redhot psychosis and cold calculation, are dead on.   The funny thing is she doesn't always kill who you think she will, but those whom she offs, she offs horribly.   The third murder is horrifically sadistic -- SO SADISTIC AND SCARY THAT THE AUDIENCE IN THE MOVIE THEATER QUIETED DOWN AND MUTTERS OF DISBELIEF COULD BE HEARD DURING THE BLOODLETTING -- however, the fourth & sixth murders are ludicrously implausible.The look on Turner's face at the end of the movie is quite scary.  Turner is scarier here than Woody Harrelson managed to be in Natural Born Killers. "},{"Title":"From the Twisted Mind of John Waters, comes...","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS           Serial Mom! The horror/comedy about a sweet housewife that's a combination of June Cleaver and Donna Stone. But she may be suspected of fowl play. The police show up at the Sutphin house one morning to show a note (that contained...language) that was sent to Dottie Hinkle, who also get's obscene phone calls. Unbeknownst to everyone, it was Beverly who sent those notes and made the phone calls and all because one day, just as Beverly had found a parking space, Dottie took it first.                        That day, Beverly went to a meeting with Mr. Stubbins, son Chip's math teacher. Stubbins inadvertantly insulted Chip and Beverly got even with him by running him down with the car. Police detectives Pike and Gracey are certain Beverly was involved but husband Eugene says otherwise. The next day, while Eugene (a dentist) was called away on an emergency call, Beverly discovers that her daughter Misty's boyfriend stood her up. She gives him his just-desserts at the flea market but shoving a fire poker through his gut. But the mayhem didn't stop there. Beverly went after the Sterners, Ralph and Betty, because Ralph was the one that called Eugene away on the emergency call. She took them both out.                       Eugene, Chip and Misty began to suspect Beverly as the killer. Chip has a job at the video store and when a customer, Ms. Jenkins, is incredibly rude to him, Beverly hunts her down and beats her to death with...Would you believe a leg of lamb? It was. She was soon arrested and during her trial, she was quite convincing in her speech on how she was innocent. She got everybody to believe her, and was found not guilty. But later on, she beat a poor woman to death with the phone for wearing white shoes after labor day;          A pretty entertaining movie! Everybody was good in it. Fans of John Waters will like it, and people who aren't fans will like it. But it does contain--language, like the f-word, the s-word and the p-word. But if that's your cup of tea, I recommend Serial Mom! Even though the only serial she knew anything about was Rice Krispies.- "},{"Title":"DVD features proper 1.661 OAR presentation of the film","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I initially did not want to purchase the DVD of this film because it said it was full screen.  I have the widescreen laserdisc and did not want to *downgrade* to a full screen dvd.  I finally picked up the dvd for the commentary by Waters (which is well worth the $10) and was shocked and delighted to see the film presented in it's original theatrical aspect ratio of 1.661.  VERY HAPPY I bought the dvd now ) "},{"Title":"GREAT FUN!!!!","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Yes, I love most of Water's work, and this is one of his better ones. One thing I can't assimilate My favorite critic, Roger Ebert, says it ain't fun because God knows what (didn't understand anything he said), well, I say this time, he's f$%#ing full of s#$%!!!. Sorry, just my uneducated opinion. Because I laughed out loud all along! Don't know what is f$%#ing problem is, guess it must be the same reason why he trashes the Tim Burton Batman films (he says he doesn't get the same feeling of euphoria he gets from Donner's Superman. Well Roger baby, you ain't supposed to!!!! Has he even read a single Batman number? 'Cause he sure's hell hasn't read The Dark Knight Returns). Like I said, he's the best in my opinion, but not perfect. This movie is though... "},{"Title":"Very good 'Serial', worth another bite....","Date":"12 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"   Although this film does contain a B type title...don't let it fool you. The film starts out by showing a loving suburban family getting ready to go to work and school, and of course...the perfect housewife making breakfast. All of this suddenly changes as we get into the moms POV and its certainly funny and it rocks the body.  The movies murders are not gruesome, some violent, but all make you laugh. Sounds psychotic, but you'll see what I mean.  This movie is hilarious from beginning to the ultimate Courtroom finale.  Enjoy! "},{"Title":"A little guilty pleasure of mine...","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  It is impossible to not smile at least once through Serial Mom. If you aren't grinning at Beverly's impression of the innocent birds outside, then you'll definitely be grinning at her deliciously nasty prank phone calls.Serial Mom was directed by John Waters, who is known for his seriously disturbed comedies, which I am pretty sure I wouldn't be a fan of. Serial Mom was considered too light for one of his films, but thats a good thing for those of us who aren't interested in shock factor, just wicked satire. (That's not to say that this film is completely void of shocks.) Kathleen Turner's performance as the perfect mother with homicidal tendencies is a comedy classic.Rent now for some twisted fun.The only serial I know anything about is Rice Krispies! "},{"Title":"Are those pussywillows?","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was hilarious when I first watched it on cable (my mother would have never taken me to see a John Waters movie, especially at 15 years of age).  It's a mild turn from his earlier work and started a new trend of going from trashy cult classics to black comedies.  Kathleen Turner as Berverly Sutphin is magical as she played the role perfectly.  And the perennial Mink Stole as the frazzled Dottie Hinkle is hilarious.  And Mary Jo Catlett plays her typecast of the only person on the parent portion of the PTA without children, just suburban concern and a desire for nosy gossip with a flair only she could pull off.  She seems like the last person you'd see in a John Waters movie.  But the highlight of the whole movie is the trial.  How Beverly uses each witnesses shortcomings against them is both comedic and profound.  There is actually is little message hidden in JW's portrayal whether or not he meant it (which I am sure he did).  And his thumb-to-the-nose of a justice system that persecutes solely on circumstantial evidence and turns it head blindly away from crime as a cause of celebrity is seen here too...or perhaps I am reading too much into it... Now let me check the zip code. Two-one-two-f***-you? "}{"Title":"scathing satire that's brilliantly conceived but poorly executed","Date":"30 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie's premise and foundation is the stuff Oscar-award winning scripts are made of- I was laughing to the point of crying at some points.  Some of the most poignant commentaries are made in the first hour.  However, the movie drags- moreso than any movie I've ever seen- to become very tedious, almost awful.  Great script, poor execution. "},{"Title":"Great Fun!","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Kathleen Turner plays the part of Serial Mom with great gusto and presence. This black comedy is a satire on American suburbia and holds your interest throughout.  Momism is carried to the ultimate extreme - tangle with Beverly Sutphin and your risking your life!  If you don't reform, then prepare to be Terminated!  If you like such movies as Mars Attacks! then you'll surely enjoy this one. "},{"Title":"Ms. Cleaver is Sick and Tired of Bad Manners, Eddie Haskel!","Date":"10 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Another hilarious vision of Suburbia from the sick and twisted mind of our greatest satirist late 20th century America.  Here in lies the essence of the serial murderer's need to kill, everyone has lost their good manners.  Obese people overeat, some don't brush their teeth, and a woman wears white shoes after Labor Day -- all insufferable crimes.  It's enough to make any good Mom want to kill these worthless scum.  They deserve it.  They broke the rules which the role models of our Moms, Donna Reed and Mrs. Cleaver, taught us to live by.Kathleen Turner plays the perfect Mom modeled on these 50's TV icons who snaps and starts killing those who will not follow society's rules.  Hilarious sendup those 50's TV Moms.  That is what makes great satire -- taking a very recognizable and common human foible just beyond the extremes of reasonableness.Only thing missing was a cameo by Jack Nicholson playing Eddie Haskel, with his Here's Johnny face and voice from the Shining, saying Well hello Mrs. Cleaver, that's a nice dress you're wearing today. "},{"Title":"hilarious","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  this is actually a really funny movie if not highly unbelievable, but what do u expect from john waters?  kathleen turner was casted perfectly.  i never knew she could be so sly and devilish . well with maybe the exception of her role in WAR OF THE ROSES.  one thing that bothers me though, how come ricki lake looks so young here but the film was made in '94.  "},{"Title":"Winning Satire","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  SERIAL MOM. Kathleen Turner plays Beverly, the seemingly perfect, cheerful housewife and Mom (who also happens to be a foul-mouthed serial killer on the side), in John Waters's consistently sharp, amusing satire Serial Mom. As far as plot structure goes, Serial Mom isn't all that impressive, but Turner's sheer comic energy as she kills typical suburban people for stealing parking spaces and not rewinding their rented videos carries this one quite a ways. Rated R. ***1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"With a woman like this there is only one thing to do.  Sell T-shirts!   First Class film and actors, bringing a well assembled script to life.","Date":"19 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Serial Mom was witty funny and extremely exciting and suspenseful, along with being thoroughly entertaining. I expected to enjoy the film for many different reasons.; But after the opening 15 minutes of the film and breakfast seen.  I knew this would end up being a film of high quality and laughter. The camera styles of the breakfast scenario made the scene go beyond capturing the reality millions of families experience in real time. just excellent.I found Kathleen Turner  portraying the innocent, harmless killer, perfectly.  The character came to life and seemed real. One of the best scenes thought, even I have to admit, was the very end scenario and expressions given between Kathleen Turner and Susan Summers for the closing scene which included Patricia Hearst; which only goes to show that even the most elegant and ravishing can not escape from bad fashion critics. Also Looking forward to seeing Patricia Hearst in longer more involved roles.  A natural getting polished and learning to fly.I know I will receive many hours of pleasure from this film for I will see it again.D.A.T.  "},{"Title":"Hilarious!","Date":"3 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The lukewarm official reviews I've seen of this movie are puzzling. Sure, you're not busting a gut every second, but seeing the plastic-suburbia dreams shredded by Waters is entertainment enough for me - and Turner truly BECOMES her character in the movie. You can watch it over and over and laugh at something new each time. "},{"Title":"Overwhelmingly strange but uproariously funny!","Date":"15 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This was my first John Waters movie, but after having seen POLYESTER, what i say is one of the MOST useless films in history that i've seen, I think SERIAL MOM is not as gross as i had first perceived it.  Kathleen Turner is a great actress and i love her as the sweet mother-next-door who goes mad at every little annoyance.  The film is full of foul perversions but is so laugh-your-*ss-off funny that i can't help being glued to the screen every time it comes on on TV.  From what Mr. Waters exudes in his films, i find him a very twisted man. "},{"Title":"He hee heeee","Date":"5 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  It is a maliciously funny movie, an unusually black comedy, divine (no pun intended) for parties (especially sleep-overs, when everyone else is bringing a chick flick). The acting is lovely, especially the title role. (Divine couldn't'a done it better.) If the other entries on the comments page don't convince you,G OS E ET H I SM O V I E !Watch it with your mom. Then again, don't give her any ideas. "},{"Title":"It's pretty sweet","Date":"9 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Each time I watch Serial Mom I like to invite all of my friends and their moms over and eat cereal while watching the movie and having a big Serial Mom party. I don't serve chicken in case any of the mom's have murderous tendencies.It was pretty toot sweet. I give it 5 kills out of five. "}{"Title":"Never underestimate the rage of a loving mother.","Date":"6 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is the film where director John Waters returns to the more aggressive and violent universe of his earlier movies. After wimpy Cry Baby and feelgood Hairspray he gives us a movie about a housewife (brilliantly played by Kathleen Turner) so eager to protect her children, her marriage and the wildlife that she is forced to harass and kill neighbours, ex-boyfriends and schoolteachers. Never before has John Waters given his characters so much room in an environment so nice and cosy. I loved this movie. And dont miss what's under the spandex pants at the concert with the group Camel Lips.  "},{"Title":"whatta great movie!","Date":"4 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  i don't understand why people just don't talk about this movie or anything...it's one of the best movies i've seen recently.  i'm in love with kathleen turner cos she's such a great actress, and the other people did a pretty good job in the acting department as well.  this movie is so great considering how john waters' films have kinda gone downhill recently. cry-baby & hairspray were a little too tame & lame for me.  i want trash!!! i want more killing!  i want more leg of lamb!  and i want more cussing! that's why i love john waters, and hopefully he'll read this and create the most ugliest movie yet and i'll be in love with him more... "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies ever made!!","Date":"28 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I have to say this might be the most hilariously politically incorrect movie I have seen in years!! I laughed the whole way through, and only have praises for Kathleen Turner's fantastic performance!!! If you haven't seen this one already, run to the video store right now -you won't regret it!!! "},{"Title":"A Great Movie!","Date":"2 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I`ve just seen this movie and would like to say its fantastic. It`s got humor,it`s scary moments and stuff. Kathleen Turner is perfect and funny as the mother who kills everybody that does not fit in her style. She starts killing more and more people....But what the hell! She`s The Best and I really like the ending,this is a movie everybody should see. "},{"Title":"A movie about how much fun it would be to kill people and get away it","Date":"14 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" If it hadn't combined Kathleen Turner's amazingly over-the-top acting skills and John Waters' genius writing, Serial Mom would've been lost cause and a complete missed opportunity. Thankfully, both talents are used exquisitely and we get a pleasant turnout from one of the most daring and provocative filmmakers of our time. Using words like exaggerated and unrealistic to bash Serial Mom is like criticizing water for being colorless. It's supposed to be like that, and I don't think that registers with a lot of people.This is a difficult film for the public to swallow, but not for fans of Waters. He knows how to create a film from the ground up, and choose specific films that don't have blueprints to their name. He can make an original story, the problem just stems from marketing and MPAA agreement. He's lucky to be understood since his first film, or else, he'd be living the Babs Johnson lifestyle.The story revolves around Beverly Sutphin (Turner) a mom living with her husband and her son and daughter. The family resembles something of a Hallmark commercial, or even an ad for burgers or Sunny Delight. Everything is colorful, vibrant, and dripping with satire. Beverly is hiding that she is really a serial killer, hellbent on giving comeuppance to anyone who annoys her in the slightest way. Whether it be her kids' (Lake and Lillard) teachers, a short fused customer, or Mink Stole playing the perfect nervous neighbor, Beverly will find a way to get even with them.Serial Mom doesn't take itself seriously, and knows exactly what it is; a silly satire built on top of cutesy characters who couldn't possibly do anything wrong. The family is almost perfect, with the exception of Sam Waterson as Beverly's husband who seems he was never let in on the joke of this being a satire. Mink Stole, like stated before, is wonderful and wickedly vulgar much like her performance in Waters' trash film Pink Flamingos.This could also be established as Waters' second stab at the mainstream market with the first being Cry Baby. This is when Waters started to loosen his grip on the trash element of his films and focused on making more appealing films, but still incorporating his unique spin on things. If anything, I commend him for changing his style (we can't all stay hooked on perversions and sick characters to make films can we?)I recently watched and reviewed Waters' tour titled This Filthy World where Waters went film by film discussing the fun and hard times he encountered which each one. When talking about Serial Mom he concluded it was a movie about how much fun it would be to kill people and get away it. Serial Mom understands that statement impeccably because we've all had that sick, sadistic desire to just kill someone who is just aggravating us or simply doesn't know what they're doing. Haven't we? Or am I just a sadist? Starring Kathleen Turner, Sam Waterston, Ricki Lake, Matthew Lillard, and Mink Stole. Directed by John Waters. "},{"Title":"Classic story of the Brie Van Der Kamp of the 90s going overboard","Date":"13 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Even after 15 years, this movie is still pretty much amazing, even though it's surely not as half as shocking as it was before. The story is fickle. You have one perfect family, on top of which a Stepford mom resides, like a queen bee. She hates swearing, bugs, and don't even think of chewing a piece of gum in her kitchen; if there's one thing she hates the most, is somebody messing with her family. She's perfect she's the Brie Van Der Kamp of the 90s. And one might think, that she takes her parental duties a little bit too seriously. Is she? The basic core of the movie is for a viewer to confess didn't you ever want to kill your neighbor? Of course, one might say, but I'd never do it. Didn't you ever want to kill that bitch from across the street? She's never been nice. Of course, but I'd never do it. The victims of Beverly Suthpin aren't nice people they're fake, they're nasty, they're everything that's wrong with the world. In some people's eyes, they should be eliminated. And that's where the true genius of the movie emerges the silly comedy has an actual moral discussion going on under the layers of ridiculous rage and gore. Waters is a genius he knows exactly how to play with all of the ingredients of his movies. He places words in right situations as it was a breeze; he puts some black humor when it gets too serious and just a little bit of scare and creepiness when it gets too kitschy. He's always one step ahead of the viewer he knows his stuff. Or maybe he doesn't care and just goes with his guts? Either way, "},{"Title":"Buckel Up Scotty","Date":"22 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is one crazy house wife that you don't want to be a rude kid or adult because she will find you and hunt you down till you are dead.Man this was the best movie that I have seen that is based on true events that is horror that I know and love.This b****Y mom was finally on the louse and insane to kill people that are rude,dressed badly,and anyone that messes with her family,any jokes.And when she went to court was really when she became wild and made each eyewitness into trouble.She is using facts about them and her body to make them crack.And very funny when the judge was flirting with Suzanne Somers when she came in the Court.And lastly,great ending when she kill a woman for wearing white after Labor Day.And that jury woman taught she was innocent right from the beginning,can you believe this damn woman.And she kills when she was just set free and kill,very stupid thing to do and stupider was the jury setting her free.Now she will continue her work,make a part two Mr. Waters. "},{"Title":"Excellent comedy which will leave a big smile across your face","Date":"30 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" SERIAL MOM, in my opinion, is an excellent comedy which will leave a big smile across your face. If you ask me, Beverly (Kathleen Turner) was very liberal about the way people should live their lives. After Carl (Lonnie Horsey) got bumped off, I was truly grossed out. If you want to know why, you'll have to see the movie. I really didn't like Dottie (Mink Stole) and Mrs. Jenson (Patsy Grady Abrams). However, when Beverly made those crank calls to Dottie, I laughed absolutely hysterically. When I saw an extreme close-up of the Sterner's (Doug Roberts and Kathy Fannon) mouths as they ate their dinner, I was absolutely disgusted. Before I wrap this up, I'd like to say that everyone involved in this film did an outstanding job. Now, in conclusion, if you're a fan of Kathleen Turner, you should see this excellent comedy which will leave a big smile across your face. "},{"Title":"Donna Reed meets Charles Manson","Date":"7 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" In the beginning we have very serene music playing over a very serene backdrop of sky and clouds while the credits serenely roll. All this serenity carries over into the opening of the movie, where the Sutphins are sitting down to breakfast. There's some ribbing, but nothing not seen in any family setting from a 50s sitcom. In fact, it was clearly the families out of 50s sitcoms that inspired this family. Dad's a doctor, Mom's a housewife with perfect hair at 700 in the morning, and the kids are good-natured and lovable. They have some issues, but perhaps nothing that wouldn't normally have been solved in under 30 minutes.So we have all this peace, when Beverly (played to perky perfection by Kathleen Turner in the last good role she's had to date) kills a fly with a flyswatter. Now, it creates a moment of tension, but this is still pretty standard fare. The calm that was created initially is only broken when 2 detectives come to the door. They have a note written to a neighbor with cut-out magazine and newspaper letters (like a ransom note) that they caution sweet Mrs. Sutphin contains language. It does indeed, and the note is the first big laugh in the movie. Mrs. Sutphin is shocked, of course; she's the perfect sitcom mother. But later on, she calls the person to whom the note was sent (played by Mink Stole, who has appeared hilariously in other John Waters movies but has never been better than here) and threatens her, using the same offensive word as in the note (among others). She is also a typical sitcom stereotype, as are most of the characters in the movie. The thing that's so impressive about this is how, as the movie escalates, Beverly rarely loses that perfect sitcom mother cool, even as she's killing people for eating the wrong things (her husband is a dentist), not wearing their seatbelts, and not rewinding movies. In another hilarious scene, Beverly is at an L7 concert where she just killed another character. Shortly after doing it, she sees her son and his friend in the crowd. She smiles, waves at them, and puts her hands over her ears and scrunches her face in a comically mock expression, as if to say It's too loud in here! Perfectly cool and natural. That's the genius of this movie. The cast is perfect, ironic in much the same way as the cast of The Brady Bunch Movie was. A lot of regulars return, including the aforementioned Stole, Patti Hearst (yes, THE Patti Hearst), Traci Lords, and Ricki Lake (who was always at her best in John Waters movies). Sam Waterston plays Dr. Sutphin, Beverly's exasperated husband, and he is perfect in the role, trying to keep his cool even as he's terrified of his wife and what he has recently discovered she's capable of. Suzanne Somers has a funny cameo as herself.Serial Mom is one of the most twisted comedies to come out in the 90s. Ironically, I think it's also John Waters' most mainstream movie, even given the material, which suggests he should make more movies like this. "},{"Title":"What actors will do for a buck!","Date":"24 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Sorry,for those of you who actually liked this movie...... but my husband and I share the same opinion on this one e,,,i had taped it and we sailed thru it in record time hoping to see her get her 'just desserts' at the end...it just went from bad to worse,and we personally feel the whole subject matter was in bad taste. i guess the catagory for this film should be Dark Humor...sorry Kathryn Turner,but this is not your best movie....  "}{"Title":"Simply dazzling!","Date":"7 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I am not a John Waters fan, but this film is great. Kathleen Turner stars as a the overly normal housewife who just happens to be a serial killer. This is a very funny, sarcastic film with a supporting cast that includes Sam Waterston, Ricki Lake & Matthew Lillard. If you are a fan of dark comedy, put this one on the top of your must see list.  "},{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Boo, Boo, a sick jellyfish could make a better movie than this.  Horribly disturbing, this movie is extremely violent.  I had the misforutine of watching this movie by accident and I promise never to watch it again.  I don't even want to recall the deaths in it. "},{"Title":"THIS is John Waters?","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  How about that?  A John Waters film with real actors.  Whodda thunkit? Anyhow, Kathleen Turner is the killer mom.  Not as gross as the old Devine films.  But still sort of Wateresque. "},{"Title":"Parody Of American True Crime","Date":"20 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" An ideal appearing, middle-aged housewife and mother named Beverly Sutphin (Kathleen Turner) terrorizes her suburban neighborhood, in this parody of true crime, set in contemporary Baltimore. Beverly uses murder like other housewives use cleaners, to get rid of life's little nuisances. She overreacts. Metaphorically, she uses a bulldozer to kill a gnat. She resents people who do not recycle their garbage, and she takes a dim view of drivers who do not wear seat belts, among other things. In an early scene, she announces to police officers who arrive at her spotless home I'm sorry, but we don't allow gum in this house.Despite the promising script concept, the film's main problem is that most, though not all, of the humor falls flat. Since Beverly has some psychological issues, we feel sorry for her. It is therefore hard for us to laugh at someone like that. Still, the plot does have its moments, like when Beverly dutifully puts on her seat belt as she gets into a stolen van to chase down a guy for not wearing his seat belt.The film's plot takes place over a two to three day period, during which the weekday and time are displayed on the screen, to give the plot a diary feel. Then, the plot jumps forward several months to a courtroom sequence. Here, the judicial system and the media coverage of famous criminals are heavily lampooned.Color cinematography is conventional, except for the use of split-screens in the first half. Kathleen Turner makes a great serial mom. Production values are credible. I did not care for all the gore; but I guess it is to be expected, given that this is a John Waters film.Serial Mom is worth a one-time viewing, mostly for the terrific story concept. And the film does have its moments of humor. It's mostly a dark comedy, a fictional satire on contemporary American culture, which unfortunately rewards outlaws who find ways to become famous. "},{"Title":"Great horror comedy!","Date":"8 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Serial Mom is a wonderful black comedy about perfect housewife turned serial killer.The mom is played perfectly by Kathleen Turner in one of the best performances of her career.Matthew Lillard is very memorable as a young horror freak.There is a bit of gore and some scenes are rather tasteless,so some people may be offended.The short clips from Blood Feast,Strait-Jacket and The Texas Chainsaw Massacre are also a nice touch.Highly recommended,especially if you like John Waters movies. "},{"Title":"Stupid and Crazy","Date":"8 December 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" You wouldn't think Kathleen Turner aka Jessica Rabbit would take this role as a killer? She was good but I just didn't think it suited her in my opinion. Yes she suited better as a mum but not a serial killer. They possibly should really have got an actress who would fit the role better. I think that's why this movie didn't get a 7.1 rating. It was surprising that this was Matthew Lillards first acting job, no wonder he became Shaggy Rogers, he was awesome and I have to admit, he was sexy too haha. Ricki Lake was good too, she definitely gives ya a smile, she could make anyone laugh honestly!This film was funny in some scenes but it wasn't the best either. I reckon it was fair to give this a rating at 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Beautiful And Moving Portrait Of Bravery","Date":"1 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Serial Mom is beautifully filmed by that natural heir to the French New Wave, John Waters. It tells the moving and inspiring story of a suburban Baltimore housewife called Beverly (played by Kathleen Turner). The film stands up very well almost as an analogy for what it is like to be a brave woman in the French resistance. Like women looking to liberate their homeland, Beverly bravely decides to stand up and take matters into her own hands against what she would no doubt see as her own equivalent of rampant Nazism around her. Be the Nazis in this case schoolteachers or people who steal parking spaces, forget to floss, refuse to rewind video store tapes or insist on wearing white after labor day (a sin I'm sure Hilter himself was probably guilty of!), Beverly is always ready to put on her brave face and become a proud one woman resistance movement with a variety of lethal weapons at her disposal (she even gets help from the brilliant girl rock band L7 for a particularly fiery version of justice). This is a brave and inspiring part of this fine film, but the story gets more harrowing for it's third act, when Beverly gets captured by fascist authorities and put on trial. I don't want to spoil the end of the film for those who have not seen it, but this is far from the end of Beverly's courage and ingenuity in the face of her enemies and the way she defends herself in the courtroom is a inspiration to us all. This is a very beautiful and well crafted drama and I hope that one day John Waters will return to the same kind of story and set it in Nazi occupied France this time. C'est magnifique! Everyone should see this stirring and beautiful movie about how to stand up for what you believe. "},{"Title":"Do You Recycle?","Date":"3 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is probably the most approachable John Waters movie for the masses, after Hairspray. That's not to say there is any dilution of content or lack of stinging social commentary. It's the serenity of suburban Baltimore, the setting of the story, that gives the non-Waters fan a comforting frame of reference.John Waters' movies changed the course of cinema and of gay life. To say I'm a fan is putting it mildly. While a lot of hardcore Waters fans may not care for this movie because it's more conventional, I like it a lot just for that reason.My favorite scene in this movie is one that points up every facet of Waters' take on modern life and demonstrates his masterful direction. It's set in a strip mall parking lot, after Dottie Hinkle has just beat out Beverly Sutphin for a parking place. It's the incident that starts Beverly on her quest for revenge on Hinkle. Just observe the shot of Dottie (played exactly right by Mink Stole) as she gets out of her car. As she straightens her poncho we can see the sign for a JoAnne Fabrics store in the background. It's absolute perfection.Don't miss this movie! "},{"Title":"Very dark comedy, but too silly to be very funny.","Date":"29 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I had hoped this movie would be better than it is. I like Kathleen Turner, and here she is pretty good, but the story is overly silly.Beverly R. Sutphin (Turner) appears to be your normal wife and mom with 2 teenage children. But she has a very dark side, when anyone offends what she considers proper behavior. The first incident we see is her talking very dirty to a neighbor, and we don't know why. But we see a mental flashback and realize it is because that lady had stolen a supermarket parking spot that Beverly was about to take.But that is very mild compared to the later incidents. Things as simple as failing to rewind a VCR tape brought back to the rental store, or a person failing to wear seat belts, or a teacher saying something negative about one of her children, all reasons in Beverly's twisted mind to kill them. The final scene plays out in the courtroom, where Beverly chooses to act as her own attorney, and in a mock trial for the movie wins a 'not guilty' verdict. Overall a waste of time.Sam Waterston is her husband Eugene Sutphin, Ricki Lake is her daughter Misty , Matthew Lillard is her son Chip, and Justin Whalin is a friend, Scotty Barnhill, who doesn't wear seatbelts. "},{"Title":"seri(al)ously cool","Date":"2 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" John Waters continues his trashing of traditional Americanism with the dark but masterful Serial Mom. Kathleen Turner plays Baltimore housewife Beverly Sutphin, who loves her family but also likes to kill people who don't adhere to certain social norms. You read that right. After all, this is coming from the man who gave us Odorama.Anyway, Beverly doesn't like it that a neighbor doesn't recycle, or that a boy doesn't wear his seat-belt, or that some neighbors interfere with her husband's birdwatching plans, or that the principal objects to her son's admiration of horror flicks. What a great way to trash the suburbs. But after all this, the movie starts looking at how we can use the media to get our way.The point is, this is something that could only come from John Waters. If it's gross, then Waters is doing his job. Also starring are Sam Waterston, Ricki Lake, Matthew Lillard, Mink Stole, Patty Hearst and Suzanne Somers. A camp classic. "}{"Title":"Some funny stuff in this twisted dark comedy...but Turner is miscast","Date":"10 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This deliberately cheap and outrageous mix of camp laughs and gross shocks from cult filmmaker John Waters needs (cries out, really) for an outrageous star in the title role. As a suburban wife and mother--and closet psychopath--who coolly eliminates those in her community who stand in her family's way, Kathleen Turner is too grounded in reality for a cartoony black comedy. The actress definitely has a cool, casual demeanor (as written), but there are no fanciful notes in her throaty voice, and no natural sparkle of dementia in her manner. Waters enjoys tickling his audiences by putting otherwise-serious actors in incredibly gaudy situations and encouraging them to go for broke, and Turner was apparently enticed enough to tear into the project with relish. Unfortunately, though her approach to the part was probably what Waters wanted, she's too clear-eyed and focused for the pulpy material. One can sense Turner trying to find a comfortable niche here, trying to be wicked and silly, but it's mismatch of whacked-out visual humor (stunt humor that probably doesn't go far enough) and a star who weighs heavy on the punchlines like an anchor. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Dark Humor, Yes, But......","Date":"18 April 2006","Score":"12 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Is warped a good word to describe this film? How about sick? Actually, that's what you get with a dark comedy, a movie you don't take seriously, a farce and usually fun to watch. It's shocking to hear the language on mom (Kathleen Turner) but that's the idea here shock.The film is a spoof on serial killers, horror movies and wholesome family values. They particularly make fun of the latter, something filmmakers love to do anyway, being of the unwholesome types they are themselves. As common as their bias is, the film is still unique as Turner plays a female Charles Bronson-like Death Wish character by instantly retaliating against anyone who ruffles her feathers and she is fun to watch. I'd still own the movie if they didn't go overboard on the family values trashing. They were probably serious about that part! "},{"Title":"I love it","Date":"12 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I love this movie. I feel like I can relate to this movie. This movie is so great. I could watch this movie repeatedly. Hell I can do the prank phone call scene over and over again. Hell I even get paid to do it in drag. If you wanna know more info please email me at DLTLDEVIL AT AOL dot COM. I love all kinds of movie but this one really loves me and I really love it. I would greatly appreciate all comments. All comments and suggestions are welcomed. I would greatly love everything that everyone is doing to make this site a wonderful thing. I love the site. Yes, I am gay and can love all movies. So anyone want to get to know me or some of the movies I have watched. AIM DLTLDEVIL YAHOO M4M2LUV MSN HENRYWLASTER (AT) MSN (DOT) COM "},{"Title":"Why did Scotty have to die??","Date":"14 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I like the whole movie up to the point where Scotty get's set on fire, and no one even helped him. He was my favorite person in the movie and he freaking dies. If I could re-make the movie, I would have him live, or at least have someone put him out before he dies. Movies don't really get to me, but I can't erase the image of him being on fire. I haven't seen it in years, and it was on TV last week and I just hate that part of the movie. It just gets on my nerves really really badly. And plus why would you limit yourself by going in a rock show??? If that had been me, I would have just started running up the street. Also when she started to chase him, Chip and Birdie were right there, I would have just ran up to them. I also thought it was dumb that after all the people she killed, she still was found innocent. "},{"Title":"Hilarious - a camp gem!","Date":"16 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  A marvellous piece of camp comedy from the king of bad taste John Waters. Wonderful comic performances from everyone involved make this a gem. If you want a really good belly laugh you are bound to get one from the obscene telephone call! This is of course not the only one and just sets the scene for what is to follow. As for the few reviewers who talk about this film as being disturbing or refer to it as bad taste (and they mean it seriously) I have just one thing to say - lighten up and GET A LIFE!! Any NORMAL person with a sense of humour is bound to find this very funny - see it! "},{"Title":"Funny Film, great one of a bad period of movies....","Date":"24 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of my favorite films of John Waters, and definetly in my top 25 of all time. Especially cuz it took place in Bmore(towson, where i go to school). This movie has an excellent plot, played by Kathleen Turner, who hasn't done a 'hit' film since Baby Geniuses. This jumpstarted Matthew Lillard's career, and was Ricki Lake's last good film(cecil b. demented was good but not as good as this). In Fact, i go to the actual video-store where CHip works at. So, this movie is an all around great dark comedy. Ranked #21 on my list. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Yes!","Date":"5 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Once again, John Waters skewers the pretentiousness of suburban culture in a witty, fun film about everyone's favorite mass-murdering mom.  Kathleen Turner is flawless in the lead role, and Matthew Lillard is equally fine as her media-savvy son.If for no other reason, you must watch this movie for the Annie sequence. I shall say no more. "},{"Title":"Serial YAWN","Date":"24 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Can we safely say that if John Waters' name wasn't plaster all over this thing, it wouldn't have gotten half as many good reviews as it did. I feel as if people like his movies BECAUSE they're so terrible. It's not the subject matter that is a turn off to me, it's that John Waters doesn't know how to write. Good grief, can we take an unbiased look at the film and point out how God awful the dialogue is? Who the hell says You bring me such peace during sex? The characters in crappy movies like this one. The plot is so contrived. How did she know her victim would stop running long enough for her to drop an AC on him. Everything just happens to fit into place for the main character. There are so many things that are just awkwardly unrealistic. Of course, if you're being chased by a murderous woman, you're OBVIOUSLY gonna wanna try to hide in a venue that for some strange reason is having band play at 3pm on a Sunday afternoon.Id say that since the 20th anniversary of Serial Mom is coming up, we should all celebrate by pretending this turd was never pushed out. "},{"Title":"Unwatchable","Date":"6 September 2013","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Uncreative, absurd plot, poorly shot, ridiculous acting and, above all, tremendously unfunny! I'm an easy going person and, still, this movie was a torture to watch. I would actually have stopped watching it after 15 or 20 minutes but, since reviews had been kind of okay, I kept at it hoping the movie would improve. Unfortunately it only got worse with every passing minute. And please don't think I simply didn't get it. I fully understood the supposed satire Waters was trying to produce. It simply didn't work. Watching this film was a complete waste of my time, except for the fact that it will keep me away from any other Waters movies. "},{"Title":"Guys, see it again, will you?","Date":"15 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Fellas, all this talk about Hey, what about fingerprints?, This is ridiculous! and so on ...I suggest you watch the film again. This is a COMEDY from start to finish, a so-called black comedy. You're not supposed to take any of this seriously at all. The exaggerated nature of everything in the film is what makes it so hilarious. In fact, every time I see this film it gets funnier! It's an absolute masterpiece. The This is a true story! in the opening sequence makes it even funnier.If you need an example imagine this young man running up the street, utterly panicked! Behind him a church-going woman wearing a spotless house dress, hair and make-up in perfect order, chasing him with a huge kitchen knife in one hand!! Brilliant! This just keeps getting funnier and Kathleen Turner is utterly brilliant.The world needs more comedies like this. It's so refreshing! "}{"Title":"kathleen turner as the mother that reminds you of june cleaver - at least the cleaver part","Date":"8 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Kathleen Turner is perfect as the loving caring nearly perfect mother to rikki lake and matthew lillard except for one little quirk - don't untidy her life! this includes wearing white after labor day, dumping her daughter..etc.. A black comedy that will make you snicker and occasionally laugh at the campiness of it all but doesnt live up to its potential... on a scale of one to ten..4 "},{"Title":"Like adding salt to your coffee...","Date":"10 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The cinematography in the movie is really very good , and it is obvious that somehow( in an obviously perverted manner the director enjoys what he is doing), so it could be a camp classic for some, but ultimately this blend of ( more bad than black) humor and disgust rather than horror mixes badly and will fail to satisfy most viewers... Not the case if you are a teenager who considers torturing cats fun or if you have hidden sadistic tendencies.. Plenty of gory murder scenes for the fans of bloodbaths, but the whole concept of the murderous housewife is unconvincing and annoyingly over the top.The motive for each murder is ridiculous and unfunny.Don't try watching this highly disturbing movie unless under coercion , or the influence of drugs or alcohol or otherwise in a very peculiar mood to watch senseless disgusting gore in (admittedly) beautiful colors... Now that i think about it i may watch it again someday... "},{"Title":"THE worst movie I have EVER seen.","Date":"27 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  It's not bad enough that John Waters shackled us with this horrid plot-line, the directing also stunk to high heaven.  Absurdity can be coped with if it has any other redeeming value.  This movie has NONE.  I am a worse person for having seen this movie.On a good note, Ricki Lake is featured.  She can be seen  squealing and annoying her way through the whole ordeal. "},{"Title":"Pointless slop fails even at low-brow humor","Date":"3 June 2007","Score":"6 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Let's be really edgy! Make a housewife a serial killer! Call it a dark comedy! Call it anything it's still junk.Kathleen Turner is completely miscast against type as a nut job who kills people if they don't adhere to some Martha Stewart type lifestyle. What? Who is this based on? Why is it presented as comedy? A lame attempt at shock value but not funny. Sam Waterston as her husband, Rikki Lake as her daughter, and Matthew Lillard as her son. What a waste of talent; all these actors have done so much better. All they get to do in this disaster is act paranoid knowing that they could be next.Idiotic scene with some guy exciting himself and dozens of people walk in on him. Not even humor at a sophomoric level. The serial mom gets ticked about somebody wearing white shoes after Labor Day. Such intensely cerebral humor. Look for Patty Hearst caught up in this; apparently, the producers of this rubbish thought an infamous name such as that might add edginess. It didn't.One might think this dreck could be laughed at in a drinking party. It doesn't even come close to being funny enough for that. "},{"Title":"Sometimes REALITY is the best humor!","Date":"1 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I LOVE to laugh and I love dark humor. I have no problem with women who swear, or SNAP from all of the expectations and stresses that usually come with being a woman. In fact, I laughed my A** off during some parts of this film because I can see some women really feeling that way. It's no surprise to me that there are people out there who 'snap' for one reason or another. Hell, I'm surprised my own mother didn't open fire somewhere after putting up with the demands of a husband and four daughters! Kathleen Turner was the perfect selection for her character, Beverly Sutphin. If you liked her in The War Of the Roses, you'd probably like her in this. I've personally met Ricki Lake three times, and I enjoyed seeing her in Serial Mom. "},{"Title":"SORRY FOLKS... This was the first and last Waters' movie for me...","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  AWFUL! I hated it. I think I can spend better my time, watching a decent movie. This movie is awful, not funny and with non-sense. Turner is fat (and I know that wasn't for the movie although fit to it). I can't understand why Sam Waterston accepted to perform on this movie. You have comedy movies, horror movies, black comedy movies. But I don't know how to classify this one. I know that Waters is like a cult director in his area, and I decided to watch this movie because I was told to be his cleanest and low-profile movie (maybe because of the cast). Well, it didn't work.... "},{"Title":"Wha' happen?","Date":"23 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  John Waters is one of my favorite US directors (if not my favorite), but I found this movie to be completely boring.  Maybe he made it that way deliberately in order to portray a sterile suburbia, but I don't know... 5/10. "},{"Title":"The only serial I know anything about is Rice Krispies. Total crap.","Date":"10 April 2007","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Serial Mom starts like any other day in the Sutphin house, Beverly (Kathleen Turner) cooks breakfast while her husband Eugene (Sam Waterston) get ready to go to work while their children Chip (Matthew Lillard) & Misty (Ricki Lake) prepare to go to school. All seems well but behind Beverly's average suburban housewife appearance is a twisted sick individual who has strange ideals & will murder to enforce them...Written & directed by John Waters I pretty much hated every second of Serial Mom, now I know that me saying this is going to be unpopular but I don't really give a damn about reputations & I just just tell it like it is. The script is supposed to be a black comedy, it's supposed to be satire, it's supposed to be clever, it's supposed to be silly & it's meant to have a message about stereotypes & the way the press make stars out of criminals but I thought it was terrible & not one single aspect of it worked as far as I was concerned. For a start I was bored out of my skull watching it, I thought it was very dumb & there were plot holes galore. I hated all the character's in it, I hated the story, none of the comedy was funny or even remotely amusing to me & I really did detest it, I couldn't wait for the end credits to roll frankly. A lot of people seem to like it & I will gladly accept that maybe I'm in the minority because I don't but that still doesn't change the basic fact that I hated every second of Serial Mom & it's as simple & straight forward as that.Director Waters has made something with all the charm & style of a made-for-TV soap opera, it's completely bland & forgettable. There's no scares, there's no excitement, there's virtually no gore so why does this exist exactly?I was amazed to see that according to the IMDb Serial Mom had a budget of about $13,000,000, wow where the hell did all the money go? There's no 'name' actors in it, there's no special effects, there's no action scenes & it's set almost entirely within a couple of houses. I thought the acting was poor & Turner annoyed the hell out of me whenever she was on screen.Serial Mom is a boring piece of crap that didn't do a thing for me & missed all it's targets by the proverbial mile, people seem to like it so perhaps it is worth watching but from my own personal point of view I'd rather have my fingernails pulled out that watch this again. "},{"Title":"The only thing 'Serial' about the film is the number of errors it makes.","Date":"3 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Serial Mom is a really nasty film about a really nasty person and is full of nasty content; not nasty in the sense that it's overly gory but nasty in the sense that it is unfunny, unintelligent and repetitive; for the record, there is also some gore in it to boot. Serial Mom is perhaps smart and engaging for about five minutes its opening of a perfect family in a perfect American urban neighbourhood is enough to make any far right capitalist gush in delight at the world he wants to think he's helped create in fact the only thing that was missing is a white picket fence but perhaps Walters went against the inclusion after Lynch's Blue Velvet, from several years earlier, had already included it. This opening and the way it was shot, scripted and acted had me thinking that it was taking a huge swipe at the 'perfect world' environment &#150; soon did I realise to my absolute horror that it was actually sort of serious since these conventions stuck for the rest of the film.I suppose the comparisons to American Psycho should run thick and fast when talking about Serial Mom; the book had been written but the film was half a dozen years away from release and Serial Mom sort of resembles the whole 'psycho in a perfect environment'. Both Beverly Sutphin (Turner) and Patrick Bateman have high standards, expect everyone else to conform by them, live in perfect surroundings (the home and the office, respectively) and hide their mask of insanity amongst all the daily things they get up to &#150; what else they have in common is that if someone steps out of line just a tad, they end up as sausage meat. The major difference between American Psycho and this dross is that American Psycho is believable. I think someone could go mad and become a 'Bateman' in the world they live but do I think a housewife with a husband, two kids, a car and big house would crack? No, I do not. American Psycho was also a brilliant take on getting 'one up' on friends and how Capitalist professionals live their working lives, go out and party and basically give their money back to the state through clubs, restaurants and gyms (the more expensive the better). Serial Mom is just a housewife gone nuts &#150; that's it.I know Bateman gets away with a lot of murder but the ending is left open and that's the genius of it &#150; did it really happen? In Serial Mom; Sutphin commits some shockingly obvious murders in some very public places a MALE toilet, a courthouse, someone else's home yet she gets off the hook by.........slightly spreading her legs? It's ridiculous. Serial Mom is a brainless exercise in comedy that doesn't exist, scenes that are more groan out loud than laugh out loud (a masturbation scene) and violence that is not only needlessly over the top but also corny and unoriginal she uses things like a knife, some scissors and a fire poker and doesn't have to worry about fingerprints or anything. Bateman, since he's in the privacy of his own apartment uses nail-guns and chainsaws once his lust for blood gets to a certain point but of course he starts out with knifes and axes as he gets into the 'spirit' of serial killing &#150; there is thought and a hierarchy behind it whereas in Serial Mom, Sutphin grabs whatever item is nearest and does the job &#150; no thought, no real 'feeling' that this is could be real or is planned out.I also found the Ted Bundy references ironic. It has been said that Patrick Bateman was modelled on Ted Bundy and here, Sutphin has received tapes from Bundy, models her spree like he did (perfect world with person gone nuts) and hell, she even defends herself in court like Bundy did. But Serial Mom suffers in overall production value since it's sort of ugly to look at, the logic completely goes out the window nearer the end when Scotty is being chased by Sutphin yet runs for the safety of a rave instead of a police station! Also, after Sutphin's family burst into Scotty's house as the police do; the Sutphin's don't seem to need to offer an explanation as to why they were there (they thought Betty was going to kill Scotty next); topped off with the fact the film basically re-tells us everything from the opening 90 minutes during the court scenes as the story is re-tracked. Serial Mom is tired, unfunny and completely misses the point it's trying to make. "},{"Title":"Offensive on so many levels.","Date":"3 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" A housewife goes on a killing spree, her victims anyone who has wronged or upset her family.First of all I found the killings unnecessarily gruesome and very graphic. In one particular scene she chases her victim through a crowded nightclub first of all by spraying him with some flammable substance then setting him alive in front of a cheering or ignorant crowd. Such sadistic tendencies should have no place in any half decent movie.However, what I object to most is the message this trashy piece of celluloid projects That it's OK to murder. Being a so called 'comedy' makes it even more objectionable and offensive as the message here is Its OK to kill for laughs. Well I wasn't laughing. Any credibility the film has in its earlier parts goes down the plughole with a particularly trashy, twisted and laughter-free court room scene. Needless to say the murderess gets away with it all at the end. But then again this moronic movie was made by John Waters so why am I surprised? "}{"Title":"Should've Been Funny But Isn't Remotely","Date":"23 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This film should have been wonderfully and darkly funny and we had high expectations when we watched it back in 1995. It really seemed as though it was going to be hilarious. However, it fails miserably and utterly. The parts which should have been darkly humorous are simply dark and unpleasant, and usually dull. When it's not dark, the film is simply boring and it drags on far too long. It seems that the film makers, Waters, et al., thought that the dark, inherent absurdity of the events are innately funny and they made no effort actually to make them funny. They were wrong. A story about an apparently typical soccer-mom type who kills people can be extremely funny if done properly, but in and of itself, a story about someone like that is simply a story about a murderer. As a result, the whole thing is a tedious waste of time that leaves a bad taste in the mouth. "},{"Title":"The worse movie I've ever seen","Date":"3 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Don't waste your time with this poor excuse for a horror film. When Turner stabs a guy in the kidney with a barbed poker and it comes out with a liver-prop I asked myself, Is this supposed to be funny?  The film made feel angry and sick.  What a piece of trash. "},{"Title":"An ultra-lame satire about an average housewife who is actually a serial-killer in her spare time.","Date":"1 January 2007","Score":"5 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" What a lousy, stupid movie this is. A one-joke film that tries to satirize (the American) society the way a child would. Starts okay, but after about ten minutes gets stupid and enormously irritating to watch. After the OK start, the film doesn't contain a single funny moment. At the end, even though it makes fun of the idiotic American legal system (though European justice is hardly anything to brag about, either, not to mention 3rd World Countries!), I still hated it, and there were no jokes at all, let alone any intelligent satire. No subtlety in the form of wit or sarcasm; instead it's just Kathleen Turner running around like a Loony Toon character with a knife, chasing everyone. (They should have just sped up the chasing and put some Benny Hill music over it.) The dialog is also moronic. At one point I had to wonder whether a four year-old wrote the script for this piece of s***. Was the dialog supposed to be symbolically dumb? Screw that, I don't think so - it's just plain dumb. However, it all makes sense considering who made this unfunny garbage. The junk-meister (and proud of it) himself, John Waters. This guy couldn't make a good picture if he were given a hundred Waterworld budgets, a thousand years to live, and with a gun pointed to his nuts. The cast of this film is actually alright, which further undermines his ability to direct. How can you bomb like this even with a decent cast? "},{"Title":"a travesty","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was the single worst movie I have ever seen in my life.  This was the one movie that I almost walked out of when I saw it IN THE THEATER back when it came out in 1994.  Several people had already walked out of the movie and my friend and I were about to follow suit, but we thought about the $7 or so it cost back then and sat back down and sat it out.  All in all, we watched the rest of the movie at the edge of our seats.  My friends and I refer to this sensation as the Bad Move Reflex where as you get further and further into a bad movie, you creep up further to the edge of your seat awaiting the next horrible act to be seen.  You cannot turn away from the movie as you must see exactly how bad the movie can get.  The climax of the movie is when Kathy Bates (a once respected actress until her role in this God forsaken movie) takes a fireplace poker, runs into a men's bathroom, impails a dude, skewers his liver and runs back out of the bathroom.  May God have mercy on the souls that watch this movie. "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies I have ever seen","Date":"13 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I was totally not expecting this movie to be so high ranked on IMDb, after watching this last night, I went to sleep scared. Not because the movie is scary, but I get frightened from time to time when I think how humanity can go so wrong, it is so disturbing that you can't even switch it off. I was praying with all my might that the actors would just stop, look at the cameras and say something along the lines of I can't continue making such a bad movie, sorry John, but it never happened, it continued going, with the terrible acting/story, and quite possibly the worst ending I've seen. Ever.The whole movie seems to be played in fast forward, where people change their mind every 3 seconds and decisions make no sense... Hey everyone, I know we're having dinner, but I'll be right back, going to the store.The whole cast seems to support the Serial Mom as well, killing is OKAY! It made me as a viewer, angry. It could have worked, but the non sense on this movie reaches the limits of everything, it's too cheesy and random at times it's just not enjoyable.The scene in court is just appalling, the arguments the 'mom' presents and how the crowd supported here almost made me want to flip my TV over.Those who really liked this movie, I can only ask that you watch some real black comedy... "},{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"8 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  No one likes and appreciates John Waters more than I do, but this movie is complete garbage from beginning to end, and extremely mean-spirited to boot. Kathleen Turner has no flair for comedy at all, and the rest of the cast isn't entirely successful either.  I hate this movie! "}]