[{"Title":"In a word great.","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"16 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I work in a video store, and when people ask me if I know a great movie, I am inclined to recommend Le Confessional.  This film has got it all drama, comedy, sex and mystery.  Lepage has written an amazing screenplay, which is greatly compelling for the viewer.  As a film student, I was also very appealed by the visual aesthetics of Le Confessional.  Lepage has used a lot of color symbolism, which is truly eye candy.  On the downside, the story is at times confusing, namely because of the two different time frames, but hey, it's Canadian.  Overall, I highly appreciated this film and I think you should see it. "},{"Title":"Truly innovative film","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Visually, this is one of the best films ever made. There are 3 elements, one in 1952 Quebec, one in 1989 Quebec and one actually from Alfred Hitchcocks I Confess, of which this movie seems to be a realy loose remake of.The way the film moves seamlessly between 1952 and 1989, and the odd dreamlike sequences that occur a couple of times, and the continous sequence of brilliant images is the best things of the film. The plot, however, does take a bit of a back seat,although the ending is excellent, and the Kristen Scott Thomas character is unneccesary.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful story telling.","Date":"12 March 1999","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A complicated family past haunts two brothers in search of the truth. Via flashbacks we meet the family in turmoil, coincided with the making of Alfred Hitchcock's I CONFESS. With the creative use of past and present interweaved, we slowly find the truth that has been sitting under our noses at all times. Very clever and a very effective piece of cinema story telling.  "},{"Title":"I confess","Date":"12 June 2006","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Robert Lepage, an actor and writer turned director, whose previous work showed great promise, has done wonders in this uneven, but interesting take on the life of two brothers in Quebec City, where he sets this multi layered story.The film mixes eras, as the original story dates back to the 50s when a young woman, of a working class and devout Catholic family, finds herself pregnant under the most mysterious circumstances. Although our suspicions point in one direction, nothing is completely black and white.The story concludes in the 80s as Pierre, who had been away in China, returns home to attend his father's funeral. Pierre's brother, Marc, never comes. Pierre finds out, to his horror, about Marc's secret life and meets the man who holds the key to the mystery at the hotel where he is working. Raymond Massicotte, knows more than he wants to tell.The other element in the film is a vignette about Alfred Hitchcock. The director had gone to scout locations and do local casting for his own I Confess, which in a way, parallels the action of this movie. This part is not completely as interesting, and it's somehow distracting from the other narratives.Lothaire Blutheau, one of the best Canadian actors, whose work we have admired for a long time, is seen as Pierre, in a great performance. Pierre Goyette plays Marc with sincerity and high intensity. Jean-Louis Millette has some excellent moments as Raymond Massicotte. Kristin Scott Thomas is seen as Hitchcock's assistant.Robert Lepage directed with an eye for detail in this involving drama. The film is worth viewing because it shows Mr. Lepage in great form. Sacha Puttman's background music plays well with the action. Alain Dostie's cinematography captures all the darkness in the story. "},{"Title":"Beautifully-Filmed masterpiece from a dramatic veteran","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Robert LePage is, in my opinion, a film-making genius. Le Confessionel has some of the best photography I have ever seen on film. The plot, the characters, the pacing, and the editing all come together perfectly to make a compelling and visually stunning film. I know Mr. Lepage has done a lot of work in the theater, as well as acting in film (e.g. Jesus of Montreal). He is multi-talented and truly gifted. "},{"Title":"Riveting","Date":"26 January 2006","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I caught this film on a movie channel on television today. Although I didn't know anything about it I was drawn into the story and couldn't stop watching it. The film has very pretty scenes with outstanding cinematography and framing of the characters. Great angles and editing. Wonderful symbolism. The pieces of the puzzle keep appearing but the puzzle isn't solved until the final moments. The movie kept me in suspense the entire 2 hours. Bravo! Oustanding acting and use of colors. The acting was very good and although I hadn't heard about this film previously I expect to pass it on. If you life foreign films and movies that make you think you'll enjoy this movie tremendously. "},{"Title":"Chain  of  stories","Date":"28 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Strange, gray and power. Chain of stories. Puzzle in cruel colors. A mother. Twoo priests. A movie. A great director. A taxi driver. Twoo brothers. A hotel. And a sick boy. Slices of universes and feeling of a rain circle. A museum with very old objects. A labyrinth with a lot of mirrors. A flavor of lost carnations. A piano song in a very deep room. The story is not very important. The point are emotions. Searches. Slices of hope. And the warm expectation. A film in which the spectator is part. Not another actor but a small bone of show. A show who exists in himself. So, it is not possible to be the outsider. Beautiful in a form without words,Le confessional is a interesting lesson about appearances and masks. About the cruelty of past and the red of present. About run and the Japanese refuge. About the death like huge shadow and the truth as oil drop. "},{"Title":"A lame attempt at movie making","Date":"20 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The trendy camera work (that in fact uses good old recipes, i.e. no creativity involved whatsoever) can't make up for the shallow characters, the overall bad acting and the story line that is as boring as the script. Some scene are in fact so badly directed that they end up being somewhat comical (check the scene when the police is coming around the swimming pool. Could have been a Charli Chaplin flick). The sad thing is that Hitchcok is called upon to try to give some height to the scenario. To no avail. It just does not work. If you liked the Déclin de l'Empire américain, you will probably enjoy it though. Same kind of crap. With the typical Quebecois theatrical repertoire of Chris, Tabarnac and Ostie trumpeted by uninspired and uninspiring actors who won't make you believe one second they could actually exist. If this is considered the best of the Quebecois cinéma, this is pretty bad news for the 7e art in this part of the World. "}]