[{"Title":"Another Casualty of the Middle School Formula","Date":"4 January 2007","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" We all know the story. There have been some pretty good Tom Sawyer movies made. This one capitalizes on star power for an audience that probably has never heard of the principle character. Putting these motives aside, it just doesn't work the best. While Jonathan Taylor Thomas is an adequate Tom, Brad Renfro is not a very good Huck. He is too much of a pretty boy. He is much too bright, though his character tries to make him otherwise. If you've read Twain, you know that he is tremendously superstitious and has really rough edges, both mentally and physically. He is kind of whiny in this movie. Becky Thatcher looks to be about 25 years old and stands next to Tom like a giant. She pushes him around and dominates. Obviously, the director decided to make her an attractive character to young women. That's not bad, but it betrays the spirit of the period in which it was written. They should at least have looked about the same age. There are good scenes. The graveyard scene is well done. Injun Joe is threatening and murderous. The funeral scene is a disappointment. It needed to be milked a bit. Some of the peripheral characters could have been more developed. The conclusion works OK. However, it needed a dose of truth and believability to carry it through. See it, but don't expect a lot. "},{"Title":"It looks real, but feels a bit fake","Date":"10 November 2003","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This version of the classic novel by Mark Twain makes a nice little movie, but fails to capture the humorous spirit of the book. Many hilarious scenes are missing and the writers have taken too many liberties with the plot.Jonathan Taylor Thomas is wonderful as Tom Sawyer. Unfortunately his charm does not last until the very end of the movie, but seems to fade after a while. It might possibly have something to do with the fact, that, even though this movie is based on The Adventures Of Tom Sawyer, it's actually Huck's character that steals the whole show.I had a bit of a problem with the way Huck Finn was portrayed in this movie. Of course Brad Renfro is a fantastic actor (his performance is probably the best thing about this film) and he manages to give Huck Finn many tragic and deep aspects. Unfortunately Mark Twain's Huck Finn is neither tragic or very deep. One can only wonder why Huck has been made the brooding hero, when it's actually Tom Sawyer, who is supposed to be the brightest star in this story.Despite the many sugar-coated scenes and the fact that both Tom and Huck are a bit out-of-character, this movie is still something worth seeing. Injun Joe and Muff Potter are both realistic and Rachael Leigh Cook makes a brilliant and not-so-girly Becky Thatcher! The sets and wardrobe look very authentic, but they alone are not enough to bring the evergreen story wholly alive. "},{"Title":"Visually, Tom and Huck is eye-pleasing","Date":"11 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Visually, Tom and Huck is eye-pleasing, and Jonathan Taylor Thomas and Brad Renfro make a good pair as Tom and Huck. Other cast members fit their parts. That the film did not strictly follow Mark Twain is no problem if you let the film story stand on its own. It is entertaining just for what it is.Tom and Huck is an interesting enough film, but the transformation of Eric Schweig in his portrayal of Injun Joe compared to his characterization of Uncas in The Last of the Mohicans, is the most fascinating thing about it. In the body of his films, he seems to be able to alternate between utterly noble and utterly disgusting (e.g., Missing). Great acting. "},{"Title":"Hit and miss adaptation of the Mark Twain story","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Spoiler warning! This is a mixed-bag when it comes to story-telling.  Some scenes work quite well, others are totally poor. One of the weakest is the famous engagement scene.  It is thrown away as a totally one-note sentimental piece, and misses the comic potential of the scene. The version of TOM SAWYER starring Johnny Whittaker and Jodie Foster delivered it a lot better. Brad Renfro does a technically brilliant performance here.  He can obviously relate to Huck very well and there is obviously some parallels with his own life.  Unfortunately, he doesn't suit Huck as a classic story character, and he certainly doesn't suit the style of the rest of this movie.  The effect is like Robert DeNiro doing his TAXI DRIVER role in the middle of a Laurel & Hardy comedy.  It takes a lot of skill to make these styles fit together, and it's certainly out of the league of the production of this film. Jonathan Taylor Thomas is fairly good as Tom.  He does the climactic court scene very well, and he is generally charming and mischevious.  But he lacks the depth to make the character really come alive.  The whitewashing scene is fairly good, though I've seen better. Not bad, but certainly no classic.  The previous film THE ADVENTURES OF HUCK FINN is actually a far better adaptation of a famous Twain novel. "},{"Title":"Pretty Lame","Date":"4 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" A mischievous young boy, Tom Sawyer (Jonathan Taylor Thomas),witnesses a murder by the deadly Injun Joe. Tom becomes friends with Huckleberry Finn (Brad Renfro), a boy with no future and no family.Going through the Top 250 lists from various years, somehow this ended up on the list for 1996. Of all the lists from 1996 through 2014, this first list is the most bizarre. Others have films that clearly do not belong, but none more than the 1996 list. And this is a prime example. How did a film that barely ranks above 5 out of 10 manage to be considered one of the best of all time? Not that this is a bad film. As far as kid stories go, it is alright, and not the worst introduction to the world of Mark Twain. But it is clearly not intended to be a masterpiece, but more like something one might see on the Hallmark channel. Just a showcase for the now-forgotten Jonathan Taylor Thomas. "},{"Title":"Preeeeeeeeeeeeeetty Bad Movie","Date":"9 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Maybe it's because I read the book before viewing it, or maybe I was over-analyzing it, but I swear this was one of the worst movies I ever saw. I mean it.First of all, why is it called Tom and Huck? After watching the entire movie, I came to the conclusion that the film really should have been titled Tom and a few other people. Huck rarely has any affect on the story, and his character is always in the shadow of Tom. Anyway, as I mentioned, I had to read this book for school right before also watching the movie,in school. Now, I know what happens in the Mark Twain's classic, The Adventures of Tom Sawyer. I know the plot, the story, the key events, and the settings of the book. However, I don't think that the creators of this movie do. Right off the bat, the movie features an event that never happens in the book. That's a bad sign right there.I also did not like the acting. I suppose Johnathan Thomas was alright as Tom Sawyer, but I did not like the roles of Huck, Injun Joe, or Becky Thatcher. The performances that these actors gave were bland and totally non-believable.The thing I hated the MOST though, was the movie's sheer stupidity. I can not believe how many inexcusable moments there were in the movie. And it's not just the fact that there are parts that aren't from the book. But there are some parts that just do not make any sense, whatsoever. I question sometimes what the writers(not Mark Twain) were thinking when they wrote this. There is a scene in the movie in which Tom is doing stunts on a bridge that's above a small, shallow creek. Becky comes along and PUSHES Tom off the bridge and into the creek! Now, this may not sound bad, until you realize that if his angle of fall was just a tad steeper, he probably would either broken his neck or have been killed. There is another part that absolutely made me grind my gears. There is a scene in the movie in which Tom and Huck need to get the treasure map from Injun Joe, who is sleeping in the forest after drinking a pretty good amount of alcohol. Tom and Huck then realize they need to blend in with the back round, so they cover themselves with mud. Tom starts walking toward Injun Joe, who wakes up and looks straight at Tom, but doesn't see him as if he is the Predator and Tom is fooling his infrared vision with the mud on him. I mean come on! I realize that Injun Joe is supposed to be super drunk, but can you really be drunk enough to not notice the giant piece of mud in front of you that looks suspiciously a lot like a boy? As for the rest of the movie, I can't say it doesn't follow the basic plot of the book; it does. But it seems to be butchered. There are many parts of it which either A) Don't belong there and come later/earlier in the story; B) Never even happen in the book; or C) Are missing.In Conclusion, I give this movie a 2/10. Why a 2 instead of a 1? Well, because the movie did supply me with some good laughs, but sadly, that's all it offers. "},{"Title":"light weight","Date":"31 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Tom Sawyer (Jonathan Taylor Thomas) runs away and is rescued by Huck Finn (Brad Renfro). They see Injun Joe and Muff Potter digging up the grave of Vic 'One-Eyed' Murrell to retrieve a treasure map for Doctor Robinson. Injun Joe murders Doc Robinson with Muff's knife. Muff is arrested for the murder. Tom is torn between an oath to Huck and his need to exonerate an innocent man.The production looks weak. This Disney doesn't have the needed edge and doesn't even have Disney money. The story has too many killings to be a kiddie movie. The movie doesn't have the grittiness to feel real. Jonathan Taylor Thomas used to be a thing back in the day. He's cute with a twinkle in his eye. I don't lay too much on him. He just doesn't have the toughness unlike Brad Renfro. Rachael Leigh Cook is a cutie in this one. This movie's tone is all over the place. "},{"Title":"Strife on the Mississippi","Date":"8 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Nineteenth century Mississippi River boy Jonathan Taylor Thomas (as Tom Sawyer) tries to runaway to New Orleans with his pals, but has to abort the mission with a bloody forehead. As punishment, young Thomas is directed to whitewash a fence, by guardian Amy Wright (as Aunt Polly). Thomas cleverly gets neighborhood lads to finish the job. He shares adventures with rebellious best-friend Brad Reno (as Huckleberry Huck Finn) and pretty girl-friend Rachael Leigh Cook (as Becky Thatcher).While nothing to write Mark Twain about, the Disney studio's follow-up to their The Adventures of Huck Finn (1993) is serviceable. Both films would have (and will) be much more appealing to the elementary and primary school set, who will hopefully read the books. Strengths from the earlier version look better with a simpler music score and more appropriate leads. One wishes they had waited on the previous film to release as a sequel to this Tom and Huck, as the original author intended.***** Tom and Huck (12/22/95) Peter Hewitt ~ Jonathan Taylor Thomas, Brad Renfro, Eric Schweig, Rachael Leigh Cook "},{"Title":"A good movie","Date":"10 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The first time that I remember seeing this was at my 5th grade teacher's house. Every since then, I liked it. Jonathan Taylor Thomas and Brad Renfro are some of my favorite actors of the 90s, and they delivered a clean performance in this film. The girl who played as Becky wasn't half bad either (although at times her selfish and rather stubborn attitude annoyed me). But she did seem to do a better job than Jodie Foster did in the 70s musical version of Tom Sawyer (no disrespect).I've seen several versions of the Tom Sawyer and Huckleberry Finn stories, and although it's not my favorite version of the story, it is amongst my favorites. All in all, I give it a 7/10. "},{"Title":"Good Movie","Date":"28 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I saw Tom and Huck about 15 years ago and I must say It was a Pretty Good Movie. The plot was pretty good about two boys named Tom Sawyer and Hucklberry Finn who go out to find a murder named Injun Joe who murdered the doctor of their town and framed their friend Muff Potter for the crime. The movie was just really great and had a lot of funny scenes in it including the scene where Tom and Huck disguise themselves in mud to hide from Injun Joe. Jonathan Taylor Thomas, whom I think is one of the most gifted child actors ever did a fantastic job playing Tom Sawyer and the late Brad Renfro did a fantastic job as Huck Finn. Both actors bought good performances to their characters and child actress Rachael Leigh Cook I thought did a good job as Tom's love interest Becky Thatcher. And actor Eric Schweig I thought gave a good performance as the villainous Injun Joe. Disney couldn't of cast a better actor to play the role. I say that Tom and Huck is a Great Disney Movie that the whole family must see. I give it a 10 out of 10. "}{"Title":"This movie was cute and a good family film.","Date":"19 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Director Peter Hewitt captured the essence of friendship in this family friendly film. Set in southern Missouri in the early 1800's, Tom (Jonathon Taylor Thomas) and Huck (Brad Renfro)reunite and have some very interesting adventures together. While trying to get rid of warts in the graveyard, they witness a murder at the hands of Injun Joe (Eric Schweig). They swear an oath not to tell and sign in blood, for fear of Injun Joe coming after them. Tom has doubts about their oath, however, when an innocent man, Tom's friend, is accused of the murder. Tom has to make a very hard decision, friendship or an innocent man's death? In the mix is an ancient treasure and an important map, making this a movie to remember. This is an action-packed adventure kids will love and parents will approve of. "},{"Title":"A very fun and enjoyably movie!!","Date":"23 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie had some humor in it!! After I saw it i went out to buy it!! The movie had a really good story to it! Although showing the graveyard scene is a little much but the rest is very good!! Becky wasn't a very good Becky. In my opinion Tom Sawyer could have done a lot better!! The movie for me kinda goes to fast but i liked it very much!! It is a great family film but for Jonathan Taylor Thomas it is no Home Improvements but it is the closest thing to it! Besides it is set up in the 1800s and Tom Sawyer and Randy Taylor dress totally different! If you are a J.T.T you will like this and if your not it is still a good movie!! "},{"Title":"A great adaption of Mark Twain's classic novel","Date":"3 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Tom and Huck is a 1995 movie released by Walt Disney Pictures starring Jonathan Taylor Thomas (T.V.'s Home Improvement, The Lion King)and Brad Renfro. It is based from Mark Twain's Novel about two mischievous boys Tom Sawyer and Huckleberry Finn who, after witnessing the murder of Doc Robinson, the town's undertaker by the evil, knife-throwing Injun Joe (who will remind you of Indiana Jones if you've seen it), they must sware in blood not to tell anyone. If they don't, they will remain alive and not die; but, if they do tell anyone it was Injun Joe, he will kill them. The morning after the murder was committed, Injun Joe blames the whole thing on the town drunk, Muff Potter, saying that Muff committed the murder when Tom knows it was Injun Joe. I first saw this movie when I was a kid and recently, I have viewed it over and over again because it is one of my favorite movies. It has everything a good movie (like I have stated in reviews of other movies) should have awesome music score composed by Stephen Endelman (The Hunt for Murrell's Map is a theme that fits the movie perfectly) amazing climax (being set in a huge scary cave, it makes one of the best you'll ever see), and a lesson for both boys; When a friend's in trouble, you don't run away. One of my favorite parts in the movie is when Tom says Last week Aunt Polly whipped me for swiping a pie, but it wasn't me. Figured it was Sid. Then Huck replies He wanted it, but I beat em' to it. Then Tom says I ought to punch you in the nose. Huck answers You're welcome to try. Then Tom's says Maybe later. The only reason I didn't give the film a 10 is because the accents could have been a little bit more country. Other than that, this film was great family fun. Rating 9/10! "},{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"2 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" A wonderful and underrated classic! First things first, R.I.P. Brad Renfro. His performance was splendid. Back to the review, the film is an adaptation loosely based on The Adventures of Tom Sawyer yet it is quite loyal to its source material, coming from someone who has read the book on more than one occasion. I enjoyed this movie as a kid and watching it again, now as an adult, I can safely say that Mark Twain would've loved this project!The movie is about two friends (Tom & Huck), who witness a horrific murder of a victim at a graveyard, after an argument over greed and a map that leads to treasure goes wrong. The kids are in peril when they realize that the killer is at large. Huck initiates an oath with Tom to keep their mouths shut. Tom has feelings for a bratty chick named Becky and Huck is disreputable to the town-people. Things start to backfire between Tom and Becky, while the sacred oath hangs between silence or the truth that can save a wrongfully accused defendant from being prosecuted.I also want to point out that the actor who played Tom's brother, Syd, did a great job and was the same person who was Uh-Huh in The Little Rascals. In conclusion, this was a fun experience and I highly recommend it for all ages! "},{"Title":"Alright film version of Twain's classic, but one of the weaker adaptations","Date":"12 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" There are things that Tom and Huck does do right. The three best things about it are the production values, the score and Eric Schweig as Injun Joe. The film looks very pretty with quite evocative costumes and sets, while the score is both memorable and relaxing. Schweig is perfect as Injun Joe and genuinely menacing, though the writers perhaps go a little overboard with the villainous and somewhat violent side to him. Brad Renfro does do well as Huck, the character does come across as too sullen and hard but Renfro is suitably mischievous and brings some fun amongst bringing out a somewhat conflicted side to Huck. There are some effective scenes, the graveyard scene is very atmospheric and the moment when Injun Joe starts to stir/stirs when Tom is reaching for the map sends chills up the spine. The whitewashing scene is very charming as well. There are some mixed feelings assets here. Jonathan Taylor Thomas(of whom Tom and Huck is like a vehicle for him early in his career) makes for a spirited Tom but the more dramatic moments(the courtroom scene is quite good though) show signs of inexperience. Peter Hewitt's filmography has been hit and miss, Tom and Huck is one of his better films and thankfully is not another Zoom or Thunderpants but his best film will always be Bill and Ted's Bogus Journey(that and The Borrowers, of the films I've seen so far of his, are the only ones that have ratings better than decent). Tom and Huck does have its failings though, the worst case was the grossly out-of-kilter way Becky was written, if there is a more selfish and bitchy Becky on any film adaptation of Tom Sawyer it's yet to be seen and Rachael Leigh Cook while attractive does come across as forced and stereotypical-teen-like in her acting. There are some fun moments injected in the more nostalgic and charming moments seen in the first half but the second half, where it's all suspense thriller and Injun Joe on the rampage feels like a different film altogether, the two halves just juxtapose too much. The crucial scenes are there even when the adaptation is quite loose but the heart is lacking. The funeral scene falls flat being very under-characterised and rushed through, and the engagement scene came across as overly-sentimental(an attempt by Disney to make the story more timely) and awkward as well. The worst bit of dialogue was Becky's What? I'm not the first? I hope you die, not only is it a terrible and shallow thing to say in the first place but it is something that Becky would never dream of saying. Much of the dialogue is weak, not just that line from Becky but the whole style is not very nuanced and it feels at times too modern. Little attempt also is made to bringing Missouri's dialect, language and how they speak, the production values did a great job in being evocative, why didn't the writing make an effort too? And this is coming from someone to makes a big effort in judging films/TV series/literary adaptations on their own terms. Other than Huck, Injun Joe and to a lesser extent Tom, the rest of the actors suffer from their characters being underdeveloped and don't register as a result really. To conclude, Tom and Huck is alright as a film though with many problems but along with the Soviet film(with the bad dubbing, pacing and editing) it is one of the weaker adaptations of a great book. 5/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"One word  Wow!","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Rase your hand if you thought no one could get into more trouble then Tom Sawyer.  Rase your hand if you thought on one could bet into more trouble then Huck Finn.  Everyone who rased their hand is WRONG!   They can get into more trouble together then any other boys in the world of fiction!Between running away, wittnessing a murder, and an adventure in a cave, Tom and Huck are trouble magnets!  Of course, it's no wonder, what with Huck's forced wildness, and Tom's wild nature.  The real wonder is that they manage to stay alive!I watched this movie for the first time today.  It's the first time I've gotten emotionally involved in a Tom Sawyer movie.  There are moments when the tention gets so thick you want to scream with fear.  Other moments are so sad that you want to cry.  And the ending will have you in stitches!This movie is great to watch when you have some time off.  It's a great way to spend an hour or so in the afternoon.  But if your sensitive, remember the tissues!  "},{"Title":"Good Movie","Date":"26 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Disney did good but still this version will never compare to the 1970's musical version. Tom and Huck for a New Generation is what this movie should have been called. The storyline stays true to the book but there is a modern day mid 90s feel about the relationship between Tom and Huck. Not unlike the old days when Tom and Huck in other filmed versions would simply drop what they were doing to go and play the ultimate prank on their unsuspecting prey.  "},{"Title":"Tom and Huck is a original take of an old story.","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"4 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Just recently I sat and watched Tom and Huck with the children i was watching.  I found it to be a delightful film with an exeptional and interesting take on the original stories of Huck Finn and Tom Sawyer by Mark Twain.  It was very interesting to see how the combined the details of both boys lives to make a story with both of them being the main title characters.  I would definitely recommend this movie to anybody. "},{"Title":"A disappointment","Date":"7 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Perhaps it was just that the VHS tape I rented was bad, but try as I might, I was unable to settle down and enjoy Tom and Huck. I was constantly trying to lighten the picture so I could make out what was happening in the murky forest scenes, which frequently were shot at night, without the use of newfangled electric lights, apparently. Even the daytime shots seemed too dark. This may be a function of shooting in the woods, which looked like authentic Missouri woods, although I live in Missouri and I have never seen a tarantula. Neither, apparently, had Mark Twain, because he spends quite a bit of time expounding on these novel arachnids in a chapter of Roughing It that takes place in the Nevada desert. But I digress.It seems that the filmmakers sought authentic locations, which meant having to do without sunlight for the entire film, and got authentic costumes without bothering to teach the actors authentic Missouri accents. The film had a grubby, depressing look to it that failed to capture my five-year-old's attention, although the remarkable amount of profanity in this kids' movie seemed to pique her interest momentarily, or perhaps secondarily. I think marketing Tom Sawyer to children, particularly the children of today, is an uphill battle without adding in a cute animated sidekick or some other Disney cliché. Twain's book was intended to be a nostalgic look back at childhood for adults, not children. It seems that the same thing happened with this film, which appears to have been written and shot for adults, and then marketed at unuspecting children. "},{"Title":"A Hit-Or-Miss Adaption That Misses Big...","Date":"19 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Jonathan Taylor Thomas stars as Tom Sawyer, created by literary legend Mark Twain (a writing alias). Brad Renfro plays Huck Finn, the mischievious rebel who gets Tom in trouble.The story basically goes the same way as the book, and could have been worse. But is also could have been better. Much better.Decent acting, some boring throw-in scenes that have nothing to do with the story and/or plot, and more flaws such as the preceding.2.5/5 stars --John Ulmer "}]