[{"Title":"Out of the closet and into the picture","Date":"17 September 2005","Score":"22 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":" The Celluloid Closet is a documentary that dares to go where others haven't gone before. Hollywood, that dream factory, has always been a magnet for the artistic gays and lesbians that have had a lot to endure and have never been recognized to the valuable contributions they have made to the medium.Rob Epstein and Jeffrey Friedman have compiled a comprehensible account of how homosexuals have been discriminated by the industry where they have been present since the early days of silent films. In fact, movies have always attracted homosexuals who, for the sake of being in the pictures, have gone to extremes in order to work in this form of entertainment.We are given excellent background by a lot of people that explain the many intricacies these closeted individuals have endured while trying to have a career in the movies. Interviews with Arthur Laurents, Tony Curtis, Armistead Maupin, Susie Bright, Whoopie Goldberg, Jan Oxenburg, Jay Presson Allen, Gore Vidal and others, expand on the material we are watching. Lily Tomlin's narration is an asset.Rob Epstein and Jeffrey Friedman deserve credit for their frank attempt to illustrate Hollywood's hypocritical treatment to the people who, in a way, have added to the prestige and to the artistic quality of the movies. "},{"Title":"Excellent documentary","Date":"14 February 2000","Score":"22 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":" Entertaining, thought-provoking and (at times) very funny documentary chronicling gay subject matter in motion pictures from the silents up to 1995. The narration (by Lily Tomlin) is insightful and the cameos and comments by various stars who have played gay (Tom Hanks, Whoopi Goldberg, Harry Hamlin) or are gay (Harvey Feinstein, the late Quentin Crisp, Paul Rudnick) are very entertaining and in two cases (with Susan Sarandon and Gore Vidal) utterly uproarious. Special attention should be paid to the Ben-Hur segment when you realize Stephen Boyd was playing it gay and Charlton Heston was totally oblivious! This is a very important film and should be seen by everybody gay OR straight. A must for film buffs. Don't miss this one! My only complaint--it's too short! The DVD version has extra interviews that are just great. "},{"Title":"The Power of Cinematic Image","Date":"23 April 2005","Score":"20 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":" Based on the book by Vito Russo, written by Armistead Maupin, and narrated by Lily Tomlin, THE CELLULOID CLOSET uses interviews and hundreds of film clips to examine the way in which Hollywood has presented gay and lesbian characters on film from the age of silent cinema to such recent films as PHILADELPHIA and DESERT HEARTS. Throughout the documentary, the focus is on both stereotypes and the various ways that more creative directors and writers worked around the censorship of various decades to create implicitly homosexual characters, with considerable attention given to the way in which stereotypes shaped public concepts of the gay community in general. Overtly homosexual characters were not particularly unusual in silent and pre-code Hollywood films, and CLOSET offers an interesting sampling of both swishy stereotypes and unexpectedly sophisticated characters--both of which were doomed by the Hayes Code, a series of censorship rules adopted by Hollywood in the early 1930s.The effect of the Code was to soften some of the more grotesque stereotypes--but more interesting was the impetus the Code gave to film makers to create homosexual characters and plot lines that would go over the heads of industry censors but which could still be interpreted by astute audiences, with films such as THE MALTESE FALCON, REBECCA, BEN-HUR, and REBEL WITHOUT A CAUSE cases in point. Once the Code collapsed, however, Hollywood again returned to stereotypes in an effort to cash in on controversy--with the result that throughout most of the sixties and seventies homosexual characters were usually presented as unhappy, maladjusted creatures at best, suicidal and psychopathic entities at worst.The film clips are fascinating stuff and are often highlighted by interviews of individuals who made the films Tony Curtis re SOME LIKE IT HOT and SPARTACUS, Shirley MacLaine re THE CHILDREN'S HOUR, Stephen Boyd re BEN-HUR, Farley Granger re ROPE, and Whoopie Goldberg re THE COLOR PURPLE, to name but a few. All are interesting and intriguing, but two deserve special mention Harvey Fierstein, who talks about the hunger he had as a youth to see accurate reflections of himself on the screen, and Susan Sarandon, who makes an eloquent statement on the power of film as the keeper of the dreams.Although the material will have special appeal to gays and lesbians, it should be of interest to any serious film buff with its mix of trivia and significant fact. The DVD also includes notable packages of out-takes from interviews that are often as interesting as the material that made the final cut. If the documentary has a fault, however, it is that it offers no summing up, preferring instead to show only how far the portrayal of homosexuals has come and indicating how far it has yet to go. Recommended to any one interested in film history and interpretation.Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer "},{"Title":"Everyone should see this film.....every film lover especially so; every gay person definitely!","Date":"28 November 1998","Score":"21 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":"  This is not a film in the traditional sense...perhapsThis is not a documentary in the traditional sense...probablyWhat is it??The Celluloid Closet is a comprehensive history of film - gay film, straight film, is she/isn't she?... film. Everything. It is the result of 10 years hard work - no-one (especially big film/tv studios) is keen to fund a 2 hour film on gay movie visibility, they're all too busy closetted away (often literally) making sure viewers won't be offended by their output...However the time, effort and sheer love that has gone into this is utterly evident and it may be a blessing in disguise that it took so very long. The film is based heavily on the late Vitto Russo's book of the same name. Russo was a film buff who catalogued in detail the visibility of gay and lesbian characters in cinema. He included film from across the globe and updated the book for the last time in the mid eighties (Parting Glances and My Beautiful Launderette having just been completed) before the explosion of new gay film of the last decade. The film takes the historical content of the book and uses the best editing *I* have ever seen to produce enlightening sequences on the treatment of gay people and issues. Although it only concentrates on Hollywood films, it has the advantage over the book in that it was right up to date at its time of completion.Not only does The Celluloid Closet use self-appointed gay films, it also takes enormous pleasure in covering those films we love and know as gay classics even though the tension is a subtle sub-plot often totally lost on a straight audience! Absolute treats are the celebrity comments (they will set a thousand conspiracy theories going in your head too!), better still is the input of relatively unknown behind-the-camera people, writers etc, who are at liberty to be far more honest about their views.There are also clips from classics like Rebecca, Calamity Jane (the dykiest show on earth if you ask me!), Ben Hur, My Beautiful Launderette, Parting Glances.......etc etc.. Any film you can think of is probably there - if not then maybe you should write a sequel!Did you ever think that Laurel and Hardy were very cosy with each other? Did you think Mrs Danvers was a little forward going through Rebecca's undies? Did  you explode at *that* kiss in Morroco? Have you always secretly thought The Hunger was a good movie? .............Well so did someone else. Quite a lot of someone elses - and some of them were the writers!This is such a good film for too many reasons. I'd go as far as saying it's perfect film.It has no characters/plot, etc  but it shows the progress of gay visibility as one of the best stories there is. The people who made those movies are the cast. It is a filmIt is informtive, funny, clever and revealing. It tells EVERYONE about their history and heritage. The general  observations about film-watching apply to anyone. It's impressively detached and lets you draw your own interpretation. It's a documentary.You will sit there thinking wow when it finishs. You will wonder how you view films - and how everyone else views them. It may even make you nostalgic for the days when closetted was the only option (and endless sex-scenes were impossible and forbidden so plot and dialogoue had to make do). You will think of omissions and ponder those included but it will get you thinking. That's the important part.If this film doesn't make you want to go out and watch all your favourite movies plus all those featured in it then I'll be amazed!It may sound like it, but it's no chore to watch. It's a pleasure.It's inspiring. wonderful. Ultimately uplifting. And you'll need to see it again.....and again....and again! ....oh yes! And kd lang sings Secret Love at the end! Wow!...  "},{"Title":"Eye Opener!","Date":"12 June 2003","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":"  I think this documentary is a total eye-opener. It gave me an insight into the American film history with respect to the particular topic of homosexuality. There are many original film clips as examples, and also have actors who performed the respective roles to comment on their views of this topic. This  makes the documentary so convincing and credible. "},{"Title":"8/10","Date":"16 February 2004","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":" A documentary that follows the appearance of gays in the history of the movies, the film takes a talking heads approach with interviews, splicing in some terrific film pieces. We get to see Marlene Dietrich, in Morocco, kiss another woman while dressed in tails -- and looking better than any man ever could. There's a brilliant in-joke clip from Red River where Montgomery Clift is told about the beauty of a Swiss watch and a woman -- and then asked if he's ever had a Swiss watch. The film looks at gay stereotypes such as the pansy or the sissy, the characters that Franklin Pangborn used to play. Some of the interviewees are exceptional, namely Harvey Fierstein, Gore Vidal, and the incredible Quentin Crisp. Vidal gives a hilarious recount of including a gay backstory in Ben Hur which Charlton Heston of course denies.The film is also touching and kind of heartbreaking. You realize that in the century we've had movies how enormously they've shaped our culture and our perception of people, and how if the filmmakers and studio heads hadn't been pressured by the horrible Hayes code, society's collective view of gays might not be so troublesome. There's a great moment where Quentin Crisp talks about census takers in England, asking about homosexuality. They were asked whether they knew any homosexuals. If the answer was yes, they were asked what they were like, to which they replied, just like everybody else. If they answered no, they were asked what they would expect to meet, to which they replied, someone with grand gestures and flamboyance and bright colors. So that there are two images we have in our minds -- one of what homosexuals are like, and one of what homosexuals should be like. And movies played a huge role in that. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Fascinating and important documentary","Date":"31 October 2000","Score":"17 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":"  The Celluloid Closet is a documentary that examines Hollywood and homosexuality, and how gays and lesbians have been portrayed in films..  It actually all began in 1895, with Thomas Edison's film of two men dancing together!Beginning in the 1930's, filmmakers, because of the strict production code in place at the time, constantly inserted gay and lesbian themes and storylines, and the earliest gay male character was always the `sissy', and lesbians could only be used if they were presented as dangerous predators. In viewing the film clips, some scenes from certain films are more overt than others, especially in non-gay or lesbian themed films.  For example, Jane Russell, in Gentlemen Prefer Blondes, sings in a room of half-naked man, none of whom pay any attention to her. A less overt example features a scene from Red River in which Montgomery Clift and another actor discuss their pistols after removing them from their holsters. Numerous writers, directors, and actors, including Gore Vidal, Susie Bright, John Schlesinger, Tom Hanks, and Susan Sarandon, all comment on their roles in this aspect of film history.  This is an important and always interesting documentary that should be seen by everyone, no matter their sexual orientation.Vote 10  "},{"Title":"One of the Most Important Documentaries I've Ever Seen","Date":"21 October 2007","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":" The Celluloid Closet is a fascinating, well-informed, vastly entertaining, heavily emotional, and infuriating documentary. It reminds us how aware we already were before watching it and makes us even more aware upon watching it that America has always been full of blind hate for things it hardly knows of, when those things may be innate parts of someone, both hoping and scared to be noticed and nonetheless only wanting acceptance. The Celluloid Closet, one of the most important documentaries I have ever seen, makes it clear that in over 100 years of movies, homosexuality has only been depicted on the screen every here and there and almost always as something to laugh at, or pity, or fear, thus hate. These images have always been momentary or subtle and passing, but they have left a deep imprint on America, and so the world. Lily Tomlin narrates, Hollywood taught straight people what to think about gay people, and gay people what to think about themselves. No one escaped its influence.Also, when you watch this film, you may hopefully slowly slip out of that defensive shell we as a culture have, a denial that movies affect us, or that any of that depends on age. This film proves beyond the shadow of a doubt how the subtlest alterations to a film and the slightest shades of attitudes can leave lasting conscious or subconscious imprints on us.The film takes us through the thrillingly interesting period of the 1950s, when screenwriters and directors acted almost as undercover operatives when slipping in the slightest ambiguous homosexual or bisexual undertones, the most shocking of which was Ben-Hur, and the staggeringly angering 1960s, but maybe the focal point of the movie's conclusion is that at the very beginning, starting with Thomas Edison's experimental film of two men dancing together and continuing sparingly through the silent era and shortly after, was a time when men were free to express tenderness with each other on the screen, but as the world grew more aware of homosexuality, affection between males would be seen as a completely unacceptable, shun-worthy act. Two guy friends can rarely even hold each other in a movie! However, there has always been a difference in how audiences look at two men being affectionate or sexual and two women being sexual. There's a comfort with female nudity and affectionate bonding that can be not only acceptable but considered sexy by the general public. Women somehow don't find it threatening the way it is with men, and men find it either completely nonthreatening or arousing, or both. Movies like The Color Purple, Personal Best and Thelma & Louise showcase things between two women that are still highly taboo between two men. Even hit movies like Philadelphia and Brokeback Mountain, which actually is not mentioned in this film only because this was released about a decade before it, are no true steps forward for homosexuality in cinema, because they are about the sadness and alienation of being gay, and, on a very obscure note in case someone hasn't seen one or either, they end with death.It remains to be seen whether or not Hollywood and American audiences will embrace a movie with a gay hero who lives, and can be integrated with other people. They are the only minority who has yet to be given solid recognition and voice in the most universal and popular form of entertainment and communication in our culture. "},{"Title":"fantastic","Date":"11 July 2000","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":"  I agree that this film is perfect and here's why.  It details its subject in a thorough and sweeping manner.  It explores films and details the homosexual portrayals in an intelligent and non-catty manner.  It's clever, well presented, no it's not a typical documentary but it's a very moving piece nonetheless, and it tells a story throughout.  I was really thrilled by this film and all the research and effort that went into it.  In interviews the filmmakers said that the only section they wish they could have kept was one about gay historical figures whose biographical lives were depicted on film as heterosexual.  Certainly this would have been wonderful, but as is, the Celluloid Closet is an incredible film.  "},{"Title":"A closet full of dreams","Date":"26 February 2006","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":" The Celluloid Closet is a history of the treatment of homosexuals and gay themes in the cinema from the silent days to 1995, but it is a very partial account, focusing almost exclusively on Hollywood. The strength of the film is a huge number of clips from a vast range of films which show that, after a fairly liberal early period, homophobia reigned supreme until the late 1960s, and still can be seen in mainstream movies today. One of the great gay clichés is the homosexual movie buff in love with the likes of Judy Garland, so it is ironic that so many gay people should turn to the Hollywood product for distraction, given how anti-gay that product was. Some of the industry people interviewed for the film boast of how the censors were outsmarted on occasion, for example Gore Vidal's account of how Charlton Heston was fooled into acting gay in Ben Hur, but it was not until Boys in the Band, the film of a successful stage play in 1970, that homosexuality broke through as a topic for candid treatment.With Brokeback Mountain in line for an Academy Award or two this year gay themes can clearly now be mainstream. This film reminds us that cinema reflects the society from which it springs, and the United States has not historically been tolerant to what we might call sexual minorities. Somehow things loosened up in the 1960s and film-makers followed the trend (though not the lawmakers in most states). The genie is now out of the box, gay rights are reasonably well established and there is no going back. It will be interesting to see how American gay cinema retains its edge, now that homosexuality has become domesticated. "}{"Title":"A feel-good documentary!","Date":"2 December 2000","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":"  It is a gay film in its humour and about gay-films in its story. It is a fact that we see a lot of things on the big screen without having the least idea what the meaning is. However, people follow usually the crowd and laugh at what they are supposed to laugh at and get angry about what they are supposed to get angry at! In addition of dealing with gay, sex and taboo issues it shows the pattern of cinematic mentality development across years of the past century. This film unravels subtly the preoccupations of the audience and it makes it acceptable to see scenes many people don't like to see.  The music is beautiful and the story is told in a tantalising way. You get out of the art-house with a feeling that we live in a hypocrite world, yet a world full of irony and humour. "},{"Title":"Sometimes the truth hurts","Date":"30 April 2005","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":" Celluloid Closet is in fact a political documentary. That's the saddest part about this movie, because what it uncovers is a systematic history of scapegoating in early Hollywood film-making. Americans, overall a generous and tolerant people, have been taught for over a century to despise and fear queers and queer relationships. This movie is about the part of that campaign that was conducted in American film.But CC isn't just a sad movie. As we see toward the end of the film, the attitude of Hollywood has shifted in recent years. People are slowly seeing past the hatred they've been carefully taught, seeing that queers are ... just people, people who love each other. People who love each other so much that they courageously hold onto that love despite generations of oppression from nearly all quarters of American society, official and unofficial.Ultimately, despite the contemporary knee-jerk backlash, the wishes of GLBTQ people to enjoy rights taken for granted by all other American citizens will be granted. Americans will come to regret, as with Indians and Blacks, their record of hatred directed against people they have refused to understand. Understanding comes with knowledge, and Celluloid Closet is a key picture, treating its subject with great heart and courage. "},{"Title":"Better than average doc.","Date":"18 April 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":" A history of homosexuality as presented in the cinema. It makes some good points, even if some are a little obvious. As an example, Lilly Tomlin, the narrator, points out that female homosexuality seems to be a little less objectionable to the public than male homosexuality -- and it's true in my experience. I've always been curious about alternative life styles and spent a good deal of time in and around gay bars in Greenwich Village and San Francisco (including the one and only original Black Cat Cafe on Montgomery), used the words campy and gay before they entered the mainstream lexicon. And as a cultural anthropologist I went through the workshop on Human Sexuality Training at UC Berkeley. I don't really care one way or another about a friend's gender orientation. Yet I still wince a bit when I see men kissing on screen, while I find lesbian love scenes can be a turn on. The movie offers no explanation for this common experience -- nor can it, since no one has figured it out as far as I know. (I'll skip some technical guesses here.) Oh, a note. I haven't read the book this film is based on, but anybody who wants to explore the dynamics of a gay community should check out Frances Fitzgerald's Cities on a Hill. The movie pulls a lot of information together and makes a convincing case for its chief argument, which is that gay people have been unfairly treated on the screen. In early movies they were mainly lisping and limp-wristed stereotypes, good mainly for laughs. Think of prissy Franklin Pangborn or Edward Everet Horton. I guess it must seem demeaning to gay people, but it really IS funny to see a person assume a different identity and use a bit of overkill. It's always amusing to see Robin Williams act gay (or do his Yiddish schtick) on TV. The humor in mixed identities goes back at least to Greek comedy. To explain why it's funny, you'd have to have a philosophy of jokes and humor, and a better one than Freud's.In a second filmic developmental stage, both male and female gays became villains. Again the movie offers no explanation for the change, although again maybe none is possible. And modern movies STILL turn many heavies into homosexuals -- even a liberal fave like Z, for instance. Or Gene Hackman's aide in No Way Out or Hitchcock's North by Northwest. I can't see any particular reason for this overlay of evil. It may be amusing to act out an identity different from the one with which you were biologically endowed, but it isn't naturally enraging to hand the same problem over to a villain. Not that there aren't evil gay people, just that there's no reason to think that there are more evil gay people than evil straight people, so why are they disproportionately represented on screen? I think I can take a simple guess at this answer. A lot of middle Americans hate queers. I would guess that if you were going to come out, it would be a lot safer to do it in a blue state than in a red state.The narration keeps us up with the clips we're seeing on screen but carries an accusatory tone -- YOU did it, you Fascist. I don't especially like it because, frankly, I didn't do a thing and neither did anyone else I know. Actually I think homosexuality may be Mother Nature's way of damping population explosions. (It increases among crowded mice.) The most penetrating remarks, and the only funny ones, come from the talking heads who have been in one way or another affiliated with movies about gays. Some of these interviewees are really witty and direct. Susan Sarandon points out that lesbians embrace affectionately and sometimes kiss at the end of the film while male buddies run off bravely to die together, as in Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid, in which they get their guns out because they can't get their d***s out. There's a lot more to be said on the subject, and on this film, but let us observe the limitations on space. The movie ends on a somewhat upbeat note. Hollywood is now beginning to deal with homosexuality in a mature way. The Boys in the Band is given as an instance. But the movie was released in 1996 and doesn't bring up a newer trend that may be emerging. If gays were stereotypical jokes in early movies, and villains in later ones, they may now be turning into sidekicks on the screen or into supporting people who turn the movie into something hip. Vide Copycat, Victor/Victoria, Internal Affairs, Single White Female, and a slew of others. It's probably their most encouraging cinematic function yet, showing us that homosexuality needn't be an earth-shattering mental disease at all. "},{"Title":"Brilliant Movie","Date":"13 August 2005","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":" This was a remarkable film, I thought it brought to light Hollywood's ability to subvert a society and to make it into victimizer or victim.The people who were a part of the industry in the times portrayed showed us, where one entity would censor us, another will find a way around it.I loved the film and recommend it to anyone interested in the evolution of gays in the media.The movies shown were interesting and in many cases were films I have seen and realized that there was a subtext to the film.The writers and the directors were brilliant in the way that they overcame the censors of their period. It also shows the evolution of the film goer and the hopes for those of us who want to see the gay hero live through the movie and find love and happiness. Calia "},{"Title":"some facts stay in the closet, unfortunately","Date":"26 April 2002","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":"  This is an interesting film with lots of entertainment and lessons contained within.But there is one small criticism to be made. Jonathan Demme is presumably to be commended for directing Philadelphia with its sympathetic and sensitive treatment of a victim of homophobia. Yet elsewhere in this documentary a fleeting image of the cross-dressing serial killer Buffalo Bill in another Demme film, Silence of the Lambs, is presented as an example of a smear against homosexual people (even though the film spells out that the character is NOT gay).Similarly, Cruising is attacked for its homophobia, yet director William Friedkin was also the director of The Boys in the Band, effusively praised elsewhere as a landmark gay film. But the audience is not told this.So two important pro-gay films were directed by men who have been attacked for two anti-gay films. Surely this was worthy of note. Why did the filmmakers not follow this up? Why were Friedkin and Demme in particular not interviewed? The lack of balance reminds one just a little bit of the selective use of facts (bordering on hysteria) in other documentaries such as Not Love a Story A Film About Pornography.The Celluloid Closet remains worthwhile and revelatory viewing, but it tends to be superficial and happy to avoid the complexity of films and the men (mostly) who make them in favour of sloganeering. Which makes it vintage Hollywood. "},{"Title":"Pretty good but could use an updating","Date":"19 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":" This was a very good documentary about the treatment of homosexuals in films. It presents a somewhat thorough journey from showing homosexuality in a very negative light (such as psychos) to the more modern sympathetic and normalization of gay life in films.However, from a historical viewpoint, it wasn't particularly complete or thorough, as in the years before the newly enforced Production Code (1934), there were quite a few films about gays. While some were the mincing stereotypical images, many were not and silent and international films had quite a few gay or heavily implied characters--all of which was ignored in this documentary. If you are looking for this, like I am, then this film ain't it.My final complaint is something you can't blame on this documentary. Because the film was made in 1995, many of the complaints about not having enough gay images in film seems rather out of date, as gay characters abound not only in film but seem to abound on television. The complaint I have is that although the many gays about on television because they are incredibly clichéd--usually being noble (to the point of nausea in some instances) or campy and clever (like the Queer Eye folks). While not politically correct, showing gays who are jerks, country folk (NOT like you'd see in DELIVERANCE), average folks, Mexicans, baseball players, pizza delivery guys or even idiots would be a nice change of pace--at least this would make them more three- dimensional. "},{"Title":"I never would have guessed.","Date":"3 June 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":" Narrated by Lily Tomlin (herself a lesbian), The Celluloid Closet looks at how gays and lesbians have been portrayed in movies over the years. Featuring a careful balance of interviews with actors and actresses, and footage from various movies, the documentary does a very good job giving the viewer an impression of how cinema wanted people to view homosexuality. Obvious representations include the sissy gay man and the bitchy lesbian, but other portrayals have made them look unstable.Particularly interesting is how, during the years of the Hays Code (part of which forbade portrayals of sexual perversions in movies), directors often sneaked in references to homosexuality in movies, such as Ben-Hur. I guess that if The Celluloid Closet has any problem, it's that it's now eleven years old, so there have been so many other portrayals than what the documentary shows. Examples include The Birdcage, In & Out and Brokeback Mountain.But other than that, it's a great documentary. Definitely something that everyone should see. Tom Hanks, Susan Sarandon, Harvey Fierstein and Tony Curtis work just as well in documentaries as they do in regular movies.Speaking of Tony Curtis, when he first appeared, I thought that he was Rodney Dangerfield! "},{"Title":"The great controversy on sexuality in Hollywood","Date":"21 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":" The Celluloid Closet is a documentary that focuses on the evolution of sexuality in a multitude of Hollywood films and movies from the early 1900's to the early 1990's. The directors, Rob Epstein and Jeffrey Friedman portrays the views of homosexuality through a series of clips from numerous films and interviews of early actors, directors, and screenwriters. Throughout this documentary, the interviewees reveal how society reacted from the beginning of the queer films and up until modern times. This documentary is heavily based on book, The Celluloid Closet written by Vitto Russo. There are no main characters throughout this film, but rather focuses on the comments of each of the interviewees on the incredible growth of LGBTQ films and its effect on society. Many simply think of watching movies for entertainment purposes. However, movies have a greater influence on everyone's life than one may think, whether he or she is straight, gay or lesbian. Actors and screenwriters described the impact of movies during their early childhood and how people mainly went to see movies to see if the movies could relate to themselves. In early American society, homosexuality was viewed as humorous. The documentary then continues to describe the slander on queer films by the Catholic Church and its role in the portraying of LGBTQ content, thus leading to complications and censorship. Homosexuality was then viewed in the roles of numerous cold- blooded villains such as Dracula's Daughter and was shown in desperate gay characters that were unhappy and suicidal. Moreover, homophobia was seen as a disease in the 1950's and many people resented homosexuals. Finally, Hollywood presented homosexuality in a positive manner, shedding a new light in American culture. Overall, The Celluloid Closet is an interesting documentary portraying the incredible evolution of queer films in Hollywood. Even though the content is portrayed in movies and films, its effect on society was greater than one may have thought. It is informative, interesting, and funny. It is incredible on how society during the early 1900's portrays queer films being risky, impossible, and forbidden yet exciting and daring. Therefore, this documentary is highly recommended to movies fans who are interested in the making of queer films. "},{"Title":"The History of Hollywood's Perception of Homosexuals","Date":"17 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":" The Celluloid Closet was a film that documented the use of homosexual characters in the world of Hollywood. Clips from films with LGBTQ characters, actors and writers of those movies, and current actors and actresses were all used to help display the history of the progression of homosexual characters in movies. The documentary was shown in chronological order, from the 1930s to the early 1990s, emphasizing the stereotypical and sometimes unfair to normal ways in which homosexuals were portrayed. The commentary from the actors, actresses, and actors provided an entertainment and informative factor that kept the audience attentive to the subject of the documentary. It was interesting to see how in the films, LGBTQ had transitioned from light hearted humorous characters, to stereotypical sissies, to villainous individuals suffering from some sort of mental illness. Hollywood has such an effect to the everyday life that many individuals in Presbyterian Church called for a reform on the homosexual exposure in films. The Hays Codes being enforced and the amount of censorship that had to be enforced in movies made directing a film with a homosexual character in it much more difficult. The coded language and subtle movements by the actors portraying the LGBTQ characters made it clear to audiences that there was homosexual exposure in the film, just not so obvious. This film is highly recommended for it brings new knowledge of the film world to light, in regards to the issue of homosexuality. It also depicts a clear representation of how the values of different eras change drastically throughout time. Because the documentary was made in the early 1990s, it would be interesting to see how the commentators view LGBTQ characters in film today. "},{"Title":"Journey Through Homosexual Film History","Date":"15 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":" The Celluloid Closet is a very informative, interesting documentary that evaluates the way Hollywood has presented homosexual relationships beginning in the 1930s. From the very beginning when homosexual relationships began to appear in films, Hollywood has always had an influence on the audience of what to think about gays, as well as how gays should feel about themselves. In early appearances, the homosexual hints in films was not discussed publicly after being viewed, it was sort of ignored and thought of as comedy. After homosexual scenes became more and more prevalent and common, the Catholic and Protestant churches grew very angry, starting boycotts of any film that hinted even the smallest bit of homosexuality. Film writers and directors began finding other ways to project homosexuals, by making it harder to catch the gay hints or even making the homosexual character a villain in a sense. This homosexual villain character was very common in films until the British film Victim. This particular film was the first to actually use the word homosexual, therefore beginning another era of homosexuality in films. Although the homosexual word was not used openly in films, gays seemed to perceived as having a mental illness now. In addition, audiences were applauding villains, killers, or the killed if they were homosexual. They seemed to enjoy the homosexual characters' pain while watching these films. Overall, The Celluloid Closet takes its audience on the journey through the evolution of homosexuality in Hollywood films. Clearly this film is wonderful in itself as it explores other very famous films throughout history, discussing how homosexual scenes were presented in many of them. "}{"Title":"A must-see for any film buff!","Date":"8 January 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":"  The Celluloid Closet is a necessity to understand film history in the USA. From the earliest days of cinema (a rare clip of an 1895 Thomas Edison experimental film shows two men dancing in an embrace!) up to the modern era, this film details how gays were depicted in the cinema (from the sissy fashion designer to the bull-dyke prison guard) and the problems film-makers had to deal with due to the restrictions of the Hayes Office and the self-proclaimed Legion of Decency.An incredible piece of cinematic history shown in the film is the (now restored) oysters and snails scene in Sparticus, where Marcus Licinius (Sir Laurence Olivier) tries to seduce his slave Antonius (Tony Curtis) in the bath.This documentary changed the way I look at cinema, and now I often find myself seeking for the hidden messages in the characterization (Calamity Jane, The Maltese Falcon, Johnny Guitar, Rebel Without A Cause, Ben Hur...I can never see the scene where Judah and Mesalla drink that wine and glance into each other's eyes the same way again!). My only complaint is that the film does not mention the 1919 German silent film Anders als die Anderen (Different From the Others), one of the first to seriously deal with homosexuality.Marvelous film! (To the film-makers k.d. lang singing (Once I Had A) Secret Love at the end is a crowning touch!) "},{"Title":"Everyone must have seen this documentary! Gay or not!","Date":"19 April 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":"  Ok I'm sure that you think that documentaries are sucks... ( I thought that!) But after this documentary...my god..You will interested by documentary! Ok... this documentary is about gay and lesbian in movies... but it's for everyone!(ok i'm gay but....) And you will learn, learn, learn about cinema industry,  the rating, the evolution and more. and all the whole documentary have good scenes, good rythme and some humor. Really the best documentary and one of my coup de coeur! Brief, to see! and do you know that some producers have censured in the 1950 years a scene of ben-hur? because this scene let supposed a gay friendship's???  "},{"Title":"Out of the shadows","Date":"1 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":" Before writing this, I briefly scanned the other IMDb reviews, to see how many of them had earned a yes/no reaction from the readers, and how many were left blank. It scored an incredible 44 out of 45, revealing an intense, and perhaps secretive curiosity about the shadows of gay Hollywood.If you're looking for landmarks, there's one from 1895 in an experimental clip by Edison showing two men in a slow, embracing dance. This startling scene, from the very pre-dawn of the movies, carries no explanation, but it confirms how little you and I know about the sheer persistence of the gay theme in the story of film.For most of that time, gay messages had to be made in code, just as they did in real life, 'lavender' and 'artistic' being among the more regular codewords. But inevitably, the government hit back with its own code (the Production Code of 1930), banning any narratives that threatened the sanctity of hearth and home. This, of course, was when the talkies were starting-up, the silent medium having provided its own discreet opportunities for slipping homo-eroticism into the story.For about the next thirty years, you could feature a more-or-less openly gay character, as long as he was seen to be distinctly evil, something to be feared and excoriated, preferably killed-off. Or it might not even be a 'he'. One early example of code-busting was Gloria Holden as a predatory lesbian, only permitted as long as she was cast as Dracula's Daughter! But the codes had to be rather more subtle when the man in question was not the campy one but the masculine hero with the Achilles heel - on which point Spartacus, Ben-Hur and Cat on a Hot Tin Roof come in for well-earned psycho-analysis. According to Ben-Hur scriptwriter Gore Vidal, they never revealed the gay subtext to the assertively normal Charlton Heston, for fear that he would walk out.By now, the industry was heading for another landmark. Just before the 60's became the 60's, the secretly-gay British filmstar Dirk Bogarde risked his career in a film called Victim, about a decent and responsible man confessing all - though he too is made to suffer for his sins. Not till 1970 and The Boys in the Band is the gay scene allowed to appear harmless and wholesome. One critic makes an interesting point about judging other eras There was a time when men were free to express tenderness on the screen. Ironically, in supposedly enlightened times, it may be our own generation who have become cynical, always ready to believe the worst.Narration is supposed to be by Lily Tomlin, but so many other commentators join in the debate that she is largely lost. We assume that Secret Love, sung by Doris Day, is supposed to be a lesbian coming-out song, but we aren't told. And there's a great irony in the clip from Pillow Talk, showing Rock Hudson acting a straight man pretending to be gay. News of Hudson's secret gaiety and death from AIDS was surely another landmark in the long, tortured history of the celluloid closet. "},{"Title":"Great Documentary!","Date":"21 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":" The premise of the topic of homosexuality and Hollywood was very concisely articulated through the documentary style, and utilized a chronological overview that lays the ground work coherently and engagingly, with just the right particular attention to both the various stereotypes and tropes of homosexuality, censorship, and the utilization of purposeful, yet subtle, innuendo that many filmmakers throughout the years utilized in history to work around censorship.The interviewees were a good selection of scholars, actors, and filmmakers. The Narrator, Lilly Tomlin, did a good job of narrating, expressing just the right tone and infliction for the subject matter. Despite there being a narrator, what was being said in the film did a good job of being expressed through the cinematic images being utilized, the narrator, and the interviewees such as Tony Curtis, Whoopi Goldberg, and Daniel Melnick to name a few of those whom contributed.Overall it was an excellent basis for the topic, very engaging despite its traditional documentary format, and you can tell that a fair about of care and attention went into its production. Despite the fact that it might be a little dated by 2015's standards, it is still relevantly informative and fascinating, and is something that should still be watched even now if you are a cinema history buff or just plain love cinema. "},{"Title":"The Celluloid Closet Review","Date":"22 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":" The Celluloid Closet is well-put-together documentary style film that does an excellent job in revealing how homosexuals were portrayed in Hollywood. The narration, along with movie clips, served as both informative and entertaining; with a perfect balance. It was informative enough to be taken seriously, yet at the same time, entertaining enough that the documentary was interesting, if not fascinating.In terms of organization, the film is very orderly and sequential. It starts with the early 1900s and proceeds to move forward till the late 1900s. I must also compliment the way the movie effectively compares and contrasts portrayals of homosexuals in different time periods, allowing for a smooth and easy to follow transition.What I loved most about the film is that it also features the varying opinions of different actors (such as Tom Hanks, Whoopie Goldberg, Tony Curtis, and others). This gives a wider variety of insight than just your own thought on watching the small movie clips.Although I do recommend the film, I did hope to see more on how the movies mentioned in the film became accepted. Another complaint is that the film lacked information on the directors or actors that should be given credit for exposing queer films into the public (especially during the early-mid 1900s when homosexuality wasn't socially acceptable). Overall, this is a great documentary for any gender or sex, whether you're homosexual or heterosexual. "},{"Title":"This documentary is enjoyable.","Date":"22 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":" The Celluloid Closet, released in 1995, gives a keen insight into the history of homosexuals depicted in the art of film. This documentary has a great set up of commentators. They are all qualified to be speaking on the subject matter. Names and job descriptions are all given in the documentary. A younger audience can even recognize commentators such as Whoopi Goldberg and Tom Hanks. There is a sneak peek into the political influence on film production. The classic movie Ben-Hur released in 1959 and directed by William Wyler, is just one of the examples given for film with underlying homosexual influences. This justifies the use of Closet in the title. In many of the films used in the documentary the sexuality of the characters is not directly addressed, but none the less evident after watching The Celluloid Closet. The documentary follows the changing social views of sexuality and what is acceptable chronologically, all the way from black and white films to colored films. Watching this documentary is sure to enlighten the viewer, and would be helpful to all who would like to have a better understanding of homosexuality in relation to films and film production. While being very informative the documentary is also enjoyable and engaging. "},{"Title":"Provides wonderful insight","Date":"21 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":" The Celluloid Closet is a wonderful documentary that gives an overview of homosexuality in films throughout the decades. This film manages to be both a joy to watch, while giving rare insights into classic films through actors and screenwriters such as Tony Curtis, Gore Vidal, Jay Presson Allen, and Whoopi Goldberg. Celluloid Closet manages to give a frank view of how homosexuals were portrayed without condemning or belittling any group of people. There was startling revelations of how far homosexuality had to come; from being portrayed as sissies, villains, completely ignored, something to be ashamed of, or something to be condemned. The discussion of how homosexuals were made into villains was particularly shocking and upsetting. In addition, the Hays Codes surprises a modern film goer with the strict regulations. The documentary brings to light how movie producers managed to get the point across while being subtle enough to avoid being cut. Perhaps most importantly, the Celluloid Closet captures how gay people felt ostracized and ashamed while watching films growing up. Overall, this film was a joy to watch, funny, at times heartbreaking, and a must see for anyone interested in queer cinema, one could only wish for a continuation into today's films. "},{"Title":"Evolution of Queer Cinematography","Date":"21 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":" The Celluloid Closet is an excellent documentary outlining the journey that queer films have taken over the last few decades. Directors Rob Epstein and Jeffery Friedman do a nearly perfect job at explaining the stereotypes, humiliations, and hidings that queer cinematographic love has had to face, fear and admit. Celluloid Closet is a film that bases itself off of some of the most famous motion pictures that the world has seen. Some of them, however, do remain as an underdog to some of the major movie successes.For those of us that are unfamiliar with queer films, Celluloid Closet is a spectacular orientation into that genre of movies; taking us as early as the silent films in 1895 (Thomas Edison's Experimental Movie with two male dancers) up to some of cinemas recent releases (Brokeback Mountain, 2005). Although there are no main characters, we are presented with some familiar actors, actresses, and directors such as Whoopi Goldberg, Tom Hanks, Tony Curtis and many others. This documentary presents its audience with films that some viewers wouldn't qualify as queer simply because they enjoy watching it. This documentary presents some of the questionable films upside down so the messages are clear to us but were able to remain uncensored by the Production (Hay's) Codes that had restricted certain theatrical content. Celluloid Closet is empathetic, understanding and entertaining. It is elegantly put together, neatly organized, personally touching and very well informative. "},{"Title":"the tremendous progression of queer film","Date":"20 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":" The Celluloid Closet was an overall great documentary on how homosexuality has evolved in film over decades of movies. In the early 1930s the film explained how movies portray homosexuality to be humorous. The actors that played the gay role were called Sissies subliminally portraying to the audience that they are homosexuals.As the movie progressed it had displayed other aspects on how the community now pictured homosexuals. The Hayes Code was created to rate movies on how appropriate they were. The Catholic Church as well joined in the process of rating by evaluating certain films to see if the movie was appropriate by their religious standards. Films later depicted homosexuals as villains such as Dracula's sister forcing the main actress to undress in front of her. In Albert Hitchcock the two villain murderers were homosexuals as well. At a certain point in these movies they had many gay subliminal symbols that the censors did not understand. During the 40s queer film was progressing to different degree. The Celluloid Closet explained that seeming gay was almost as bad as being gay. There would be films that would criticize a character for walking a certain way or even saying certain words. The screenwriter of Rebel without a cause stated that he would make the main character to be displayed as a gay outcast if it were during the millennium time period. In the 50's and 60's many characters of films were obviously gay. The first film to admit the homosexual intention was The Victim in 1961. Although there was a steadily progress of queer film, homosexuality was then presented as a crime. In the queer films the gay character would end up dying whether it be by a hero slaying the homosexual, or they became depressed and committed suicide. Queer film over the last four decades has evolved from a mental illness to being presented a sign of affection and love. Now in the 20th century queer film is accepted in the theaters almost everywhere in the nation. "},{"Title":"An Introduction to Hollywood's Development of Queer Film","Date":"19 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":" The Celluloid Closet is a documentary that focuses on Hollywood's evolution of queer film from the 1920's until the mid-1990's. The documentary's use of clips from complements clips from interviews of screenwriters and actors to show the chronology of not only queers and queer film, but also of censorship in Hollywood. The film also emphasizes how society's view of homosexuals shaped queer film. The film discusses how not only Hollywood's views of homosexuality have developed and shaped throughout the decades, but also all of America's (i.e. how all gay men were effeminate, and all lesbians were masculine). Screenwriters and actors further discuss how the Catholic Church became very involved in cinema and influenced the institution of the Hays Codes for censorship. The film emphasizes how screenwriters were able to avoid this censorship through connotations and subtleties; however, they still had to please the Church by portraying homosexuals as victims or villains to show that there was no happy ending for them. However, by the late 70's onward, depictions of homosexuality on screen became more positive as the Gay Rights Movement started in the United States, creating new norms and shaping more positive views of homosexuality in individuals.The Celluloid Closet gives an excellent history and analysis of queer film and how influential Hollywood can be. It was interesting to see how many old Hollywood films were considered part of queer cinema&#x97;such as Rebel Without a Cause, The Maltese Falcon, and Rebecca. It was truly enlightening, and it expanded my scope of queer film. The Celluloid Closet is highly recommended to watch, for it sheds a new light for watching films, old and new, and for how to pick up different themes and subtleties to bring a deeper appreciation for just watching a movie. "}{"Title":"An analysis of the perception of homosexuality in films","Date":"16 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":" The Celluloid Closet gave an in-depth analysis of the compilation of gay films that also provided a broader identification of how the role of homosexuality has progressed. The initial depiction of homosexuality in film best described the future struggle of gays in both society and media. Beginning with the use of homosexual content as a way of humor, the atmosphere was set for the harsh reality of the portrayal of homosexuals in film. The documentary best portrays the ups and downs of how societal view on homosexuality was clearly influenced by film. The documentary highlighted specific clips from films that gave both an educational and entertainment value toward each claim made. The documentary gave clear themes, ideas and thought provoking questions that best described and in some ways shaped the idea of being or appearing homosexual. While the ideas present a clear and logical time line, the content emphasizes the ever-changing identity and perception of homosexuals by their appearance as feminine, villainous, unhappy or even suicidal. Additionally, the analysis of censored gay films also gave an interesting look on how the need to relate to media influences the way people view a movie. Above all, a great effort and successful effort was made in understanding the progression and highlight of homosexual roles in film. "},{"Title":"An exceptional look at the evolution of queer film","Date":"16 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":" The Celluloid Closet was a beautiful collaboration of work displaying the evolution of queer films since the beginning of film history. The commentary from the screen writers and producers complements the wide array of film clips that were selected for this production. Winding it's way through the late twentieth century, the film takes both comical and heartbreaking turns whilst taking a close look at the impact of queer films on the queer society. In the beginning of the film was a comical look at the character that was sometimes shameful and unacceptable to the queers, The sissy, who made his first film debut somewhere in the early 1900's. Following the comical view of queers as the Sissy, in the Charlie Chaplain film Behind the scenes, it was upsetting to see how society's opinions of the queer made it into the movie. When Charlie Chaplain's character kisses a woman dressed as a man, he gets mocked by another man who dances prissily around them; in the age of the silent film, the prissy walk sadly but clearly displayed society's view of queers. The most entertaining part of the film draws on when screenwriters had to get creative masquerading queer characters as straight into their films in order to get them produced. Some of the best examples of these are Dracula's Daughter, Calamity Jane, and Spartacus, where a queer is only insinuated ever so slightly. Ultimately, this film displays wonderfully how society's views of queers through film has changed for the better. "},{"Title":"Very worthwhile intro to American gay cinema","Date":"15 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":" This is an excellent documentary, narrated by Lily Tomlin, on queer subtext and gays in American cinema from the 1930s to the 1990s, loosely based on Vito Russo's groundbreaking book (1981, revised edition 1987) of the same name. In it, a wide range of thoughtfully-chosen film clips is paired with director, producer and actor interviews (such as Gore Vidal, Tom Hanks, Susan Sarandon, Armistead Maupin, Tony Curtis, and Whoopi Goldberg). Beyond containing lots of wonderful behind-the-scenes factoids, major issues to queer filmmaking such as coded language, censorship/ratings, the Hayes Codes, and straight/gay actors playing gay are addressed. The only thing one could wish for is a revised/extended film that would include the important gay films made after 1993 or so. "},{"Title":"The quest to legitimize homosexuality cinematically still makes Hollywood nervous","Date":"13 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":" The Celluloid Closet doesn't play like a documentary; instead, it's more like an extended installment of Entertainment Tonight, with funny, bitchy commentary and mostly bright, lively film clips (it doesn't dig too deep). Made in 1995, an extension of the cult book by Vito Russo, the most revealing thing about The Celluloid Closet is how little Hollywood's perception of gays has changed in the intervening years (with the exception of Brokeback Mountain, we still get the proverbial gay best friend, gay co-worker, gay villain). There's been very little growth since on the movie screen, and the film--while insightful--is perhaps too light and non-threatening. Lily Tomlin narrates, with remarks by Quentin Crisp, Susan Sarandon, producer Daniel Melnick (who tells a story about a screening of Making Love that is funny and harrowing at the same time), Gore Vidal, Tony Curtis, Tom Hanks and Shirley MacLaine. The early clips are best, showing filmdom's initial acceptance of the sissy as a punchline--and in subsequent years as the psychotic--but a few of the movies spotlighted here don't really seem to fit into any gay mold (I never thought of Rebecca or Calamity Jane as having lesbian overtones). By the '70s, with violence prevalent in movies, it just stood to reason that gays would become the targets, and scenes from Freebie and the Bean and Cruising are just sad examples of human ignorance (yet many ironies aren't pointed out; the fact that William Friedkin, who made the landmark The Boys in the Band, was also responsible for Cruising isn't acknowledged). The filmmakers aren't shallow, but they tiptoe carefully through Hollywood history, walking on eggshells, and when they run out of relevant sequences they resort to showing the same old stuff. Still, there are several pointed passages here, and comments worth savoring, but perhaps an updated version is now due. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"MEMO TO HAYS OFFICE My gun is bigger than your gun!","Date":"28 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":"  `The Celluloid Closet'  What's in a name? Is it a cabinet where wet film stocks are hung to dry after they are developed?  Sounds reasonable. Maybe it's a sleazy, tabloid, documentary movie, done `Inside Edition' style, and hosted by Bill O'Reilly returning to his `journalistic' beginnings like the proverbial dog returning to its vomit, barking away as only he can while delving into the secret sex lives of Hollywood's liberal elites?  That really sounds like it.Was I in for a surprise.  It is a documentary alright, hosted, I would say appropriately by Lily Tomlin (playing it straight and minus her trademark nasal snorting), that devolves not into an `outfest' of movie stars' hidden real life sexual behavior, but unfolds as a fascinating study of the gay themes and symbolism embedded throughout mainstream film from the silent era to the end of the industry's self-imposed Hays Movie Production Code `morals' censorship in the late 1960s.You won't find out anything here, for instance, about what might have happened off the set between Rock Hudson and James Dean during the filming of `Giant,' but after watching `The Celluloid Closet,' you will never watch another old movie on late night T.V. in the same way again.  Be warned, your mind will be permanently warped, whether you like it or not.  If you want to keep your sense of celluloid innocence about Hollywood's `golden age,' that special time when matinee idols were always manly (at least on screen), method acting was unknown, and Ronald Reagan was president of the Screen Actor's Guild, this movie is not for you.***Slight Spoilers (but worth it)***Take `Ben Hur' for instance.  Certainly no indie film.  One of the righteous `studio era's' highest achievements.  The daddy of all sandal epics. Shown on all the `superstations' just about every Christmas or Easter season. Winner of eleven Oscars.  More than any other flick has ever won, even when stacked up against all those politically correct message movies made during the later, and often  blasphemous `director's era.' Movies with people like Meryl Streep and Susan Sarandon and Willem Dafoe in them.No, 'Ben Hur' is not that kind of morally relativistic trash.  It is a real straightforward man's movie.  Bloody chariot races where the bad guy cheats and the hero wins.  Stirring galley battles on the high seas.  Actors with British accents playing noble Romans.  Heck it's got Charlton Heston in it for goodness sakes!  But, it seems, it also has a strong hidden gay message in it too.  At least according to Gore Vidal, one of the movie's screenwriters, it does.  Vidal claims he wrote the scenes between Heston and his Roman friend turned betrayer (played by actor Stephen Boyd) as if the two were adolescent lovers, and discreetly asked Boyd to play his part as if that were the case!I suppose we are to look closely for that certain twinkle in Boyd's eyes when he looks at Heston, or a lingering hand on the shoulder during the reunion scenes.  I understand we are supposed to attach some sort of subliminal meaning behind a spear throwing contest between the two in one scene.  That sort of thing.I don't know if I would ever pick up on anything like that (I sure haven't in all the times I've seen `Ben Hur' before learning this), but if I were told generally that such a gay theme had been slipped into this movie and told to figure out how and where on my own, I would have assumed that it was between Heston and his older benefactor, the Roman, Quintus Arrius, who adopted him (that would have been more in keeping with the historical Roman tradition).  That; however, would be an intellectual assumption and not that of a `fellow traveler' picking up discreet clues in the acting, which I guess is what Vidal had in mind.  Whichever way it swings, you will laugh heartily when Vidal reveals that he gave strict instructions that Heston not know about his practical joke for fear he couldn't handle it and would just go to pieces!I don't really see any `smoking gun' for the NRA's Heston to worry about myself in `Ben Hur,' but you will be jaw-dropping dumbfounded, and slap yourself while mumbling, `how could I miss THAT,' when you view the short clip included from that classic old John Wayne western, `Red River.' Actor Montgomery Clift, playing John Wayne's son, and some other stock western actor are lovingly comparing the heft, shape, and size of each other's pistols during a quiet moment on the cattle drive.   No need for any screenwriter's commentary there.  "},{"Title":"Must-See For Movie Buffs!","Date":"2 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":" Plenty of ideas for future rentals!Films citedEdison Experimental, 1895 A Florida Enchantment, 1914 + Algie, the Miner, 1912 The Soilers, 1923 Wanderer of the West, 1927 Behind the Screen, 1916 Our Betters, 1933 + The Gay Divorcée, 1934 The Broadway Melody, 1929 Myrt and Marge, 1934 Call Her Savage, 1932 Morocco, 1930 + Queen Christina, 1933 + Tarzan and His Mate, 1934 Manslaughter, 1922 + The Lost Weekend, 1945 Crossfire, 1947 + Dracula's Daughter, 1936 + Rebecca, 1940 + The Maltese Falcon, 1941 Rope, 1948 - Caged, 1950 + Young Man With a Horn, 1950 + Tea and Sympathy, 1956 + Rebel Without a Cause, 1955 Ben-Hur, 1959 Calamity Jane, 1953 + Johnny Guitar, 1954 + Red River, 1948 + In a Lonely Place, 1950 + Gentlemen Prefer Blondes, 1953 Lover Come Back, 1961 Pillow Talk, 1959 Some Like It Hot, 1959 Spartacus, 1960 Cat on a Hot Tin Roof, 1958 + Suddenly, Last Summer, 1959 + Bride of Frankenstein, 1935 + Victim, 1961 + The Children's Hour, 1962 + Advise and Consent, 1962 Walk on the Wild Side, 1962 + The Detective, 1968 The Fox, 1968 The Boys in the Band, 1970 Cabaret, 1972 + Next Stop, Greenwich Village, 1976 Car Wash, 1976 Vanishing Point, 1971 Freebie and the Bean, 1974 Night Shift, 1982 Teen Wolf, 1985 Cruising, 1980 Windows, 1980 The Fan, 1981 Making Love, 1982 Wings, 1927 + The Sergeant, 1968 + A View from the Bridge, 1962 + Thunderbolt and Lightfoot, 1974 Sunday, Bloody Sunday, 1971 Personal Best, 1982 The Color Purple, 1985 Thelma and Louise, 1991 Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid, 1969 The Hunger, 1983 Midnight Express, 1978 Fried Green Tomatoes, 1991 Philadelphia, 1993 Torch Song Trilogy, 1988 The Wedding Banquet, 1993 Poison, 1991 + Go Fish, 1994 + The Hours and Times, 1992 Edward II, 1991 The Living End, 1992 The Crying Game, 1992 My Own Private Idaho, 1991 Silkwood, 1983 The Adventures of Priscilla, Queen of the Desert, 1994 + The Silence of the Lambs, 1991 Basic Instinct, 1992 Longtime Companion, 1990 My Beautiful Laundrette, 1985 Lianna, 1983 Boys on the Side, 1995 Parting Glances, 1986 + Desert Hearts, 1985 "},{"Title":"Oh, it's one of those films","Date":"16 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":" The Celluloid Closet is one of those stereotypical documentaries that explain how far society has come along with the film industry regarding taboo subjects such as sex, drugs, and race. It is easy to assume that when a documentary associates with such subjects, it's obviously either going to be boring or repetitive. However, this film depicted the issues regarding one of the most taboo subjects of all time that actually still exists today in an almost delightful and entertaining manner. Even if you are not queer, you somehow found yourself being able to relate to the issues regarding queer film during the 1920's and on. From the beginning of the film, you are immediately mesmerized by the black and white picture and the different actors or actresses that are portraying queer characters. The different opinion of actors, writers, or directors who have either played gay roles or are gay was insightful and alluring. It was interesting to see how films influence society immensely. Because of the way films were portraying queer people, it was assumed that the queer society was mental, disgusting, or simply villainous. These values however, were forced considering there were writers who were allowed to change story lines if it encouraged such behavior. When one film in particular, (Making Love) decided to expose an actual relationship between two gay people, there was an outbreak and people were horrified. It's interesting to see how far queer films have come along, but at the same time there are still obstacles and stereotypes about the queer society that still need to be addressed. "},{"Title":"The Wrong Trousers","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":"  Spoilers herein.I am particularly interested in films about films. Documentaries on film are generally at the dull end of the spectrum for a variety of reasons, but this one is not. That's because this film doesn't just report, it synthesizes a new narrative, thereby making a metafilm.And there are lots and lots of films included too, as the raw material. It is not at all unlike the book on film I'm working on which tries to tell a story about how some/many films tell stories. I've thought quite a bit about what makes this meta-story `true' in the sense that afterward people believe they had that insight all along. The easiest case is to spin a tale about social injustice in film. That is what is done here, rather like it was in `Bamboozled.' It seems at first to work, but the cost is great.The format is simple some talking heads (or in the case of Spike, a talky story) that somehow tells us what is right, then a collection of examples with annotative explanations that match/show that truth.The problem is the relationship that film has to the world. Powerful film invents the world, and in doing so taps into inner recesses of our imaginations and slides a few things about in there. We are unaware of how this sort of visual reasoning works on us, and that is precisely WHY it works. Logic never enters the picture. It cannot, especially political logic, and that's why this project is a mess and probably does more harm than good.Naturally, I'm for improved social justice all around and particularly in this area. And I agree with the filmmakers that film images can do incredible, long term, unforeseeable damage in society. And my comments here do not pertain to omissions in the project or flaws in the political stance.But consider the problem film is artistic, not pedantic. That's where its power comes from. The more polemic you get -- the more preachy -- the less power over us any film has. Any number of examples can be given, say `Cuckoo's Nest' or even the lesser `Rain Man' as compared to `I Am Sam' or `The Other Sister.' The more we try, the less effect we can have. Imparting greater awareness of whatever problem may occur. But in this case, all the power comes from snippets of the original films themselves. No talking head here gives us anything remotely powerful in their stead except recourse to a `Jiminy Cricket,' pretty thin stuff. And it is a step back, because with this new awareness of the problem we can feel better without having had any effect.In other words, the situation is that film generally has a relationship to the real world. Usually, films create inner realities that give them power. That's three worlds the real world, the film world and the world of film-within-the-film (often archetypes and stuff). The third layer is what affects the first. The second is only a channel. Documentaries like this add a fourth layer (film about film). It thinks it harnesses the parts that matter, but it only references the second layer, the one part that doesn't.That's why Tarkovsky is alive and Stalin is not.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 4 Has some interesting elements.  "},{"Title":"Very good, but read the book before viewing","Date":"5 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":"  Celluloid Closet is extremely well-made, but one hesitation must be registered.  If you haven't read the book of the same name by the late film historian and critic Vito Russo, you are missing out.  The film does not really engage -- perhaps it was impossible for it to engage -- in the wide-ranging commentary about the Hollywood scene that Russo is able to.  It is punchy, funny, devastating at times.  But the book is all that and more.  Take the time to search out a copy of the 1987 expanded edition, which has been reprinted several times since.Also, is there any irony in the fact that Lily Tomlin, who at the time had always refused to clearly and unambiguously come out of the closet, delivers the narration?  Read Russo's book, and realize that he would be spinning in his grave at this turn of events.  Celluloid Closet the book sounds a clarion call for the necessity of members of the Hollywood community to come out and claim the movies as their own.  Celluloid Closet the movie cops out on this point.9/10. "},{"Title":"An overview of Queer Film history","Date":"20 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":" The Celluloid Closet is a documentary that offers a comprehensive overview of portrayal of LGBTQ characters in Hollywood, from the time of first motion pictures up to the early 1990s. The documentary explores the various stereotypes that persisted in Hollywood when portraying queer characters and how they gradually gave way to a more realistic portrayal. The Celluloid Closet manages to include a substantial amount of footage from various films, and points out the subtext, for example, in films like Ben-Hur. It was especially interesting to see how, even when censorship was in effect, some film-makers still managed to include subtle hints, encouraging the viewer to see between the lines. The interviews with writers, actors and film-makers help to connect the documentary to the real world and to understand what real people who are closely connected to the industry think about the way the representation of queer characters on screen evolved with time. The Celluloid Closet is a fascinating look at the history of queer film, and it can be a great starting point for someone who is unfamiliar with the subject, as this documentary is both highly entertaining and very informative, with the amount of information not being too overwhelming. "}{"Title":"Eye-opening summary of the Old Hollywood portrayal of Queers","Date":"16 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":" This Documentary was a look into the way Hollywood used to expose the queer culture. Celluloid Closet had a flawless cast to comment on the chosen films which really helps the viewer grasp the overall theme of the documentary. It not only had writers in some of the films shown as examples but also had actors, directors, and even some critics. This variety gave a whole circle view and not just one-sided. I personally valued the different angles that each person came from when discussing each of the films. Some people idolized one character while others may have found the same one offensive. This showed me that even though Hollywood was trying to squash homosexuality, instead they were actually proud of the slight hint of homosexuality that did sneak through the edit. It was astonishing to see how many of the classic films were originally written to have gay roles and yet were completely rewritten to obliterate such a concept. It was also auspicious to see the screenwriters prevail in their scripts by still putting in homosexual hints without being direct enough for the editors to catch. Being a young adult, many of these classic films are ones that I've not yet seen, so it was a good review of how Hollywood used to do things. However, it would be nice to see a film starting where this one left off and coming into the present. There are many more queer films to be produced since then and it would be nice to have those shown as well, especially as a pedagogical tool in the future. "},{"Title":"A very artistic coup de tar","Date":"29 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":" The docufilm, The Celluloid Closet (1995) is enlightening on several levels. It has illustrated how film can be re-interpreted. In this case a few references have re-interpreted carefully selected film clips as a subtext of homosexuality. This is a retrospective prism from the perspective of a homosexual audience. This revised perspective of film becomes the premise from which to forge a tool to critique English speaking cinema, primarily that of the Hollywood variety. In other words the issue of 'homosexuality' is utilised in order to highlight the power of Hollywood and its conservative bent (pun not intended) on morals and values. The set of values are a reflection of public morality throughout the ages. This perception of morality by the audience is a further reflection of the contested and contrasting ideas of ideals between conservative and liberal factions. This is reflected as an ever shifting attitude by Hollywood's toward homosexuality, thereby exacerbating the public's confusion of morality.On closer examination this confusion is explained less by whether homosexuality should be referenced on film, but more about how it should be portrayed and interpreted. Where the stereotyped 'pansy' has been portrayed by film makers and promoters as none-threatening as it's more palatable, the actual practise of homosexual sex acts within film, is pushing the boundaries in order to force the audience to question their own values. Ironically, this forces an almost inverse immorality where the film makers portraying homosexual acts are moral whilst the audience are made to feel unethical even for questioning whether this is acceptable causing a collective, guilt trip among the latter.This 'guilt trip' of the film audience has been averted by the Conservative rulers of morality, which frees the public of their obligation towards shaping morality democratically. These conservative moral formers manifested themselves via the likes of the Hays' Code which actually permitted audiences to view films without moral obligations. At this point film became conceived as merely entertaining, rather than an artistic medium to challenge perceptions of morality.Conversly the Hays' code gave artistic license to creative film makers and actors to introduce subtexts into the plots. As such,The Hay's Code was an involuntary contributor to creative film makers who utilised the 'subtext' as a tool for the re-interpretation by differing audiences. The question is were these subtexts introduced to bypass the Hays' Code, challenge it, or an excuse for to advance the ego of the film maker, thereby promoting her or his credentials as an artist? The docufilm is after all a showcase of talented editing! Paradoxically, where the Hay's Code alleviated audiences of moral obligations, it awakened the conscience of some who became post modern moral leaders. These new moral leaders insist their interpretation of film is superior based solely on the fact that they assert that they can see what others can't. As such, these interpretations of film merely serve as instruments to promote a sense (as opposed to actual) authority to certain post modern commentators. Many of these commentators infer that Hollywood is a conspiratorial medium to cause an unthinking, unconscious, naive audience. Rather the post modern idealists who pride themselves on their advocacy of the individual who thinks for her or himself have hijacked film in an artistic coup for their own agenda.In sum, the celluloid closet is a most enlightening, informative docufilm. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"A good documentary on film & film history","Date":"23 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":" Rob Epstein & Jeffrey Friedman's 1995 documentary The Celluloid Closet examines the role of homosexuality throughout film history. From the silent era (including one of Thomas Edison's rare experimental films showing two men waltzing with one another) to Philadelphia, the role of homosexuals has traveled a road of one stereotype after another &#150; the sissy, the villain, the self-loathing tormented one, the hefty lesbian prison guard who takes advantage of innocent young girls and the victim. Examples of these stereotypes and others are shown through many film clips (some well known, many not mainstream) and are intercut with interviews from authors, filmmakers and actors who are and were involved in gay cinema throughout the years. What I found interesting was that the interviewees were not all gay, are gay friendly, or friends (Tony Curtis, Whoopi Goldberg) of the gay community.While I didn't notice a big emphasis on stereotypical gay icons (Judy Garland, for example) I found that in some instances they were possibly reaching. I say possibly because there were several scenes presented that simply are not homosexual related, they are just products of their times (Cary Grant jumping up in a robe and saying I went gay all of a sudden in Bringing up Baby) or just plain not gay (Doris Day telling another woman that she is pretty in Calamity Jane), which diminished their focus just a little bit. Sometimes a cigar is just a cigar, and I think that their reach was a little off-putting at times.Having said that however, that is one criticism that does not diminish my opinion of the film all that much because it isn't omnipresent. The merits to this documentary far outweigh the negative aspects, and I think it is an enlightening and important film. When the filmmakers point out certain themes (for example, the notion that all homosexuals ended up getting killed or killing themselves in the final reel) and anyone can look and see that it is really is true. When presenting their thesis, the filmmakers can usually back it up with film evidence or commentary, and that makes for a good documentary in my opinion. I found that I learned something while watching this film, which is always a plus for me, and I therefore give it a 6/10.--Shelly "},{"Title":"Makes you Waant the Gay Movement Back Underground","Date":"7 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":" A comprehensive documentary of the history of gays and lesbians in cinema, from negative to positive reflections of gay characters and the troubles of actors and actresses.What proposes to be a documentary is actually a propaganda piece that only goes to show you how gay lifestyle and the gay agenda has infiltrated the entertainment business.You are left with the feeling that no one in Hollywood is straight.And maybe they are not.The very beginning is a wee bit interesting but then the movie gets bogged down proselytizing an whining about gays in the cinema as if nothing could be right by them. Get over yourselves.Oh and they made Thelma and Louise gay! Huh? Didn't the two of them do Brad Pitt?And therein lies the problem with the movie. The movement is so desperate to be relevant everyone is gay.What a yawn. "},{"Title":"Historicizing the Hollywood Homosexual","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":"  The strength of The Celluloid Closet is its ability to present two important sides of one situation  Queer Representation in Hollywood Cinema. Well-crafted analysis in this revisionist history originates from an audience hitherto ignored.  The homosexual, both represented and viewed, are finally offered a voice. Directors Epstein and Friedman have an opportune forum, one with many advantages to present their history.  The Documentary offers a privileged place from where to preach audiences almost always assume authenticity where non-fiction content is offered.  Coupled with particularly equivocal subject matter, a very convincing history can be weaved. In this way, Epstein and Friedman appropriate the tool that has so long reinforced homophobic attitudes and marginalised segments of its audience. No less specious than past or present canons, The Celluloid Closet explains a film history as experienced by a queer audience. The 'meta-narrative',  functions as does the oppressor from the director's chair.  The moral of the story the cinema that makes social and cultural generalizations about its audience will never be plural.  "},{"Title":"Improvement?","Date":"9 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, History","Review":" Do you think films have improved? Philadelphia was shown as an example of an enlightened, but it more or less made Tom Hank's character holy while his law firm was demonic.Do you think The Birdcage (1996) is an enlightned view of gays? In and Out (1997)? Boogie Nights (1997)? Kiss Me, Guido (1998)? Billy's Hollywood Screen Kiss (1998)?I think not. If anything, movies have started to slide in terms of gays in cinema. Either they're portrayed as screaming fairies, holy martyrs, or sex-starved morons.The best gay-themed movie recently is probably Edge of Seventeen (1999), which deals with the issue with no political aspirations, stereotypes and so forth. "}]