[{"Title":"An understated, but brilliant film","Date":"14 September 2001","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Blue in the face is a follow up to 'Smoke' a film which I saw recently and very much enjoyed. I thought I'd give this one a try as well. Like the first film (even more so) this is a collection of beautifully acted, largely improvised vignettes, involving the customers and general passers-by of the Brooklyn based cigar shop run by Auggie (Harvey Keitel). There is a lose storyline involving the relationship between Auggie and his girlfriend Violetta (brilliantly played by Mel Gorham) and the troubled marriage of Vinnie the storeowner and his wife. The store has been a part of the local community for years and when Vinnie gets a very good offer to sell up, it's bound to badly affect a lot of people. The best moments of the film lie in the documentary style rambling of Brooklyn residents (including Lou Reed) as they describe what it means to them being part of the city, and also the brilliant monologues that some of the characters perform. There are moments of genius in this film. It is very funny in a very understated way, the assembled characters are all eccentric in their own way but totally believable. The dialogue is natural and you get to know and feel for the characters very quickly in to the movie. I loved this film; I thought it was better than 'Smoke' a film I also liked. 'Blue in the Face' might be harder to get in to for some people, it's improvisational style and lack of structured story might put people off or make  them think it's hard to follow, but it isn't. Don't try to make too much sense of what's going on you don't need to. Treat it as a series of snapshots in to the lives of a collection of colourful New Yorkers. Just sit back and watch the characters play out their lives, you'll very soon be engrossed by it.It was an absolute delight to watch. Not for everyone maybe but definitely for me! "},{"Title":"great flick for pop culture lovers - five stars, three thumbs up","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a light and fun - although intelligent - movie, worth seeing, if not for the whole marvellous opus of pop culture, for his cast alone Harvey Keitel, Roseanne, Victor Argo and precious appearances of Lou Reed, Jim Jarmusch (as Bob, in my favorite sequence of the movie), John Lurie and Madonna, to name a few. Soundtrack by David Byrne only adds to the mix.´Blue in the Face´ cynically, cleverly and ironically chronicles the life and the history of Brooklyn, NY. Watch it, it´s independent cinema at its best.  "},{"Title":"Disjointed but really funny look at the community of Brooklyn","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Wang's followup to Smoke is a series of improvised scenes put together to represent the diveristy of Brooklyn's culture.  Meanwhile Auggie is struggling with Vinnie's decision to sell the cigar store.The plot to this film doesn't really matter.  This was shot in the time that was left over when Smoke wrapped earlier than scheduled.  In many ways this is a much better film.  It's a huge amount of fun to watch and it all ends in a street party - it all makes you want to live in Brooklyn and meet all these weird and wonderful people that live there.  It's sketchy nature can mean that it feels a little piecey but most of it is funny or interesting and you may not notice it's lack of structure.  The actual story is actually quite good - Vinnie's decision to shut the store is handled as a threat to the friendships that exist around the story and also the importance of such places in holding the community together.  It makes a good point and, mixed with the humour, isn't hard to swallow at all.The cast are good - many of Smoke's faces are still there and are complimented by famous faces.  Stars such as Fon, Roseanne, Madonna, Lou Reed, Jim Jarmusch, Lily Tomlin, Ru Paul etc all make cameos - Madonna isn't great but MJ Fox is really funny.  The remainder of the cast are made up of real quality actors such as Victor Argo, Harvey Keitel and Giancarlo Esposito to name a few.Overall this is a light reward for watching the slighly heavier Smoke.  Both films are good in their own way but this is the most fun to watch. "},{"Title":"Good for them","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I wish I could make a movie this funny and so easily. Five days, improvisations, not a definite storyline and a great and funny movie is born. I loved it, it still makes me laugh and will keep on making me laugh. All the actors are great, but if I had to give an award to one of them it would be Jim Jarmusch, with his last cigarette speech. Fantastic also is Lou Reed, and his conclusions about life. The movie really benefits from its addition of well-known stars, including a much-in-the-gutter character Michael J. Fox, which is really funny. The film also includes some curiosities about Brooklyn, and works not only as a set of vignettes but also as an account of what's typical and traditional in that neighbourhood. It has some cool moments and some touching moments, but overall it's a movie to see and not to analyse.  "},{"Title":"Joyful meditation about life","Date":"24 June 2004","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Blue in the Face was a fastly produced follow-up of director Wayne Wang's and writer Paul Auster's 1994 art house hit Smoke. While Smoke was produced in the usual way with script, casts, etc., this movie was a quickly shot within less than a month, just containing vague ideas, interviews and improvisations with the same production unit and main actor Harvey Keitel, but without a script and with lots of popular supporting actors who were improvising their performance straight in front of the camera. And it works.Focused on Keitel's smoke shop in Brooklyn, his customers and visitors are telling stories about their lives, views, ideas, dream, relationships and carreers, all focused around the topic of smoking. Lou Reed can't remember his first cigarette, but presents his self-constructed glasses, Jim Jarmusch celebrates his last cigarette, Harvey Keitel reminds which war movie made him a cigarette smoker, and there are several more famous guests in the shop. Michael J. Fox plays a weird insurance guy, Madonna appears as a singing telegram girl, and John Lurie, Mia Sorvino, Paul Keith and the whole NYC artist's scene appear on the screen.Although the pointless composition of independent scenes and interviews might become a bit out of tune or boring sometimes, the movie works really well. There are lots of interesting (real life?) stories told by the actors, a great rare groove soundtrack that could fit into every Tarantino production, and some really good jokes too. Blue in the Face become a minor art house classic in Europe in the nineties, and one could wonder if this movie would have been the same ten years later in the times of anti-smoking laws and campaigns. Nice independent movie.  "},{"Title":"A romantic view of Brooklyn, excellent improvisation.","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Blue in the face might be boring to many because it doesn't follow a standard hollywood paradigm of rising action, climax, resolve.  It is more documentary style, although fictitious, and quickly jumps from story to story and  character to character.  The editing is an interesting component because it successfully brings together  disparate themes and characters (who are improvising  their lines and stories to some degree).  This and some fantastical elements provide a very romanticized view of Brooklyn.  Altogether a cohesive piece with some nice  performances and some insight into what it is to growup and live in a special loved place. "},{"Title":"Of certainly local interest","Date":"20 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I have founded this semi&#151;documentary about the Brooklynian way of life from an ordinary man's POV rather amusing and compelling&#151;and very sarcastic and mordant; it's studded with vaguely familiar faces (whose identities are mostly unknown to me, as I am not a frequenter of the culture in cause&#151;the Jarmusch/ Madonna brands &#133;). The movie is, as I suggested, ironic&#151;yet _unconclusively so. It is unassuming, sometimes funny, and Mel Gorham is very sexy. On the other hand, it's not too intense or particularly successful at seizing the hidden life of Brooklyn. It has the intelligent, not really intellectual or particularly inspired look of other similar attempts&#151;like some Mamet outings &#133;. It's not insightful or meaningful&#151;but funny, light, enjoyable. It is also cruel and merciless in exposing empty lives&#151;people to whom the Dodgers' leaving was the most important thing in their lives, etc., insipid, lifeless existences, withered humanity, banal destines soaked in ugliness. This world is wholly alien to me. This Auster intellectuality, like some Mamet mean intellectuality, seems not very far from the W. Allen intellectuality.I guess the film is for the most part ironic; yet if it was meant to convey a certain savor of Brooklyn life, it did not succeed&#151;at least with those ignorant of Brooklyn things. The Dodgers and the Belgian waffles are part of that Americana (what Amis once stated as 'too much trolley-car nostalgia and baseball-mitt Americana, too much ancestor worship, too much piety ') that is particularly unattractive to me. In this sociological sense ,the movie describes an utterly uninteresting world and humanity. These things do not seem to me childish&#151;but, on the contrary, senile and boring. These ingredients are particularly repulsive to me. What strikes is the artificiality and shallowness and inner poverty of these clichés. Some 60 years ago, some Europeans, many French Europeans hinted this might denote a style&#151;and even be a stylish thing. Maybe they meant different realities, or maybe things changed too much. "},{"Title":"Beautiful little movie","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  And then to wonder that this movie was never meant to be made!!Thank god for Wayne Wang that after shooting Smoke(which does not even come close to this little gem)he had some more footage to show to us.The leading performance by Harvey Keitel is outstanding,this man can really act! I already was convinced though after seeing Mean Streets,Taxi Driver,Reservoir Dogs,Pulp Fiction,Bad Lieutenant etc. The other performances aren't bad either.And then the (guest)actors.Names like Madonna,Roseanne,Michael J. Fox,Mira Sorvino and Lou Reed have small parts in this movie.Especially Madonna and Michael J. Fox are very funny.Another great part of the movie are the statistics of Brooklyn(Belgian Waffles?!).Although this movie is always seen as an add-on for Smoke I think that Blue in the Face is far superior to it's older brother and that movie should be more in the spotlights. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Slightly disappointing","Date":"28 June 2004","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Most disappointing detail about Blue in the face is the regretful fact that it's a sequel to Smoke - one of the greatest movies of the mid 90's. I would instantly rate terrific Smoke 10 out of 10. I've seen it a million times and I never get tired of enjoying it again. I know Blue in the face is supposed to be a bunch of spontaneous conversations but most of the stuff (Lou Reed parts, for example) are just plain boring. Scenes with Jim Jarmusch and Michael J. Fox are totally worth watching. I loved Malik Yoba's wristwatch selling rapper too. If you liked Smoke you might want to check this out as well but be careful and don't expect anything special.  "},{"Title":"Okay about LIfe in Brooklyn!","Date":"17 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Brooklyn, New York has changed over the last 18 years since this film first premiered. The location near Prospect Park is now one of the most desirable locales to live and reside in the borough and even in New York City. Brooklyn's transformation from a working class borough has changed in some parts. Brooklyn has become hip for the trend setters. It also gentrified in areas especially near the Prospect Park, Brooklyn's Central Park. Still, the film reminds me of another time when Brooklyn wasn't so hip or trendy but real. The people of Brooklyn and New York City like Harvey Keitel, Lou Reed, and others recall their likes and dislikes as well. They spend their time smoking at the Brooklyn Cigar Shop where Augie played by Keitel is the manager but not the owner. The cast includes top notch performers like Lily Tomlin, Lou Reed, Roseanne, Mira Sorvino, etc. A lot of the film's script seems improvised but it makes the film more authentic to documenting the life in a day. "}{"Title":"Messy, but fun","Date":"14 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A companion piece to Smoke rather than a sequel, and as such it works well enough, but the fact that it's made mostly of outtakes and improvisations is easily detectable, and it feels far too disjointed, while still trying rather feebly for a coherent storyline, especially in the epilogue. However, the acting is good enough that many scenes shine through, some of the cameos feel forced but most of them are spot-on (brilliant appearances from Madonna, Roseanne and Jim Jarmusch especially) and it's enjoyable for fans of the original Smoke as well as Jarmusch fans, although all too often it feels like a Jarmusch carbon copy that doesn't have Jim's unique spark and vision. "},{"Title":"Great movie, almost like a documentary","Date":"16 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" definitely worth a watch this movie is about Brooklyn in New york city and people living there. The Story is about a small tobacco shop with interviews of various people living in Brooklyn about Brooklyn. so its almost like a documentary in its own way. It got a good story and lots of tales to tell about people and their lives. Not an action movie more of a calm story type of movie with a lot of talking that gives you a lot of insight into peoples lives in that area and a personal story of the tobacco salesman that works in the shop. "},{"Title":"Not as poignant as Smoke, but great fun nonetheless","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Even though it can be considered a follow-up to Smoke, Blue in the Face is in many ways different. While Smoke was written with novel-like precision by Paul Auster, Blue in the Face is a series of improvisations. These improvisations generally revolve around life in Brooklyn and the characters' attitudes to New York. The best one has to be Jim Jarmusch's dialogue with Harvey Keitel, which is warm, funny and sometimes thought-provoking.Another example of the fact that capturing the characters' humanity is much more important than big-budget effects. "},{"Title":"Rocker was right.","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Now I know what John Rocker was talking about.  He spoke the truth of course.  This was a good entertaining movie with some of everything about Brooklyn and some great cameos.  Was it stupid? Of course it was but fun anyway. "},{"Title":"NY by new yorkers!","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  New York is not an unanimity! That's for sure! A movie about the city has to follow the same guidelines. You either love or hate it! Whomever comes to meet the city, makes one's own mind about it. Blue in the face is sarcastic, funny, rude and spontaneous. Just like the big apple! Sometimes it looks more like a documentary, with people talking loosely about all kinds of issues, from Ebett's Field to cigarettes. But always with the same Brooklinesque way of living, so peculiar and yet so universal. If you like NY, gotta watch the movie! If you don't, I am sorry!  "},{"Title":"Don't think of it as a movie...","Date":"19 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Blue in the Face is not a great movie. It is very entertaining and informative, though. It's more like a good TV show. I saw Smoke and loved it, and had to see this movie, no matter how bad people told me it was. I didn't like any scene with Roseanne in it. In fact, I really didn't like any part pertaining to the plot. I liked the interviews, and all the skits.I just liked that it gave me a feel of what life is like in Brooklyn, or at least what these people's perception of Brooklyn is. And it was funny. I've been to Brooklyn, but I don't know too much about what life there is like. I'd like to hear what someone from Brooklyn thinks about the movie.  "},{"Title":"Not good.  Almost worth it for Jarmusch.","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Another underwhelming contribution from Wayne Wang.  Why do people mention him in the same breath with other master directors?  Even after the execrable `Anywhere But Here' and `Maid in Manhattan'? This tiny tiny film is occasionally amusing, infrequently insightful, and shrill and inane most of the time.  Most of the cast appears quite uncomfortable improvising.  The real reason to watch the movie is for Jim Jarmusch's  short scene, cut into several small slivers.  Lou Reed is occasionally interesting but more often aimless; the rest make almost no impression, even Harvey Keitel.   It can only suffer more in comparison to its companion piece `Smoke.'  Another film where the characters are `colorful' meaning `annoying cartoons,' for further viewing on the subject watch Alan Rudolph's execrable `Trixie.'  Jarmusch is the only gem here, everything he says is funny, incisive, or both.Hopefully Paul Auster will write more for the screen.  Movies with screenplays, that is.  I don't think directing is the way to go, though.  This film suggests that an excellent documentary is waiting to be made about the different boroughs of New York City and the intense territoriality shown by the natives.  "},{"Title":"The skeleton of Brooklyn.","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Blue in the face, the second movie of Wayne Wang (director) and Paul Auster (writer/screen writer). With the previous one Smoke, both made up a world of hope, love and hate in a city called New York.The follow-up, makes a slight distinction. Far from the old several characters' story, little improved situations about Brooklyn, all meeting at Auggie's Cigar Shop.From the New Yorker philosophy and ramble ons of Lou Reed, to an old man who is still sad because the Dodgers left Brooklyn.  The movie is a testimony of Brooklyn and its people. From the thug youngsters, to the nostalgia of the Belgian Waffles and the Dodgers. Everything to create a story about the people and memories that live on through today.A Perfect 10!! Brooklyn revealed for the first true time. A Success for both fans of Paul Auster or Wang.Different from the previous but a true and honest portrait of the bones of Brooklyn. "},{"Title":"Not Smoke II","Date":"26 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Whenever Blue in the Face comes up in conversation, nothing angers me more then hearing it compared to as a sequel to Smoke.  It is clearly not a sequel.  When talking about Goldeneye you don't refer to it as just another sequel to Dr. No in the James Bond series.  While Smoke was a drama, Blue in the Face takes a comical look at those who go in and out of a corner tobacco shop in the heart of Brooklyn.  Besides, you can't compare a fully scripted film like Smoke to an almost completely improvised approach in Blue in the Face.Harvey Keitel plays Auggie Wren, the man behind the counter of the Brooklyn Cigar Store, who acts as a homing beacon for some of the most colorful characters in Brooklyn, including a mentally unstable girlfriend, a rapping watch dealer, an owner and his wife having marriage trouble, and so on. The cast also includes Jim Jarmusch, Malik Yoba, Victor Argo, Madonna, Lily Tomlin, Roseanne, Mel Gorham and Mira Sorvino to name a few.The topics covered in this film include Brooklyn, the Dodgers, smoking, eye glasses, lack of communication, relationships, surveys and much more.One of the unique elements of Blue in the Face is the use of both the film footage, and interview footage of the actual residents of Brooklyn all tying together.  Add on to that little introductions to each section of the film by legendary musician Lou Reed, the film flows through each subject very smoothly.If your in the mood for a great independent film, check out Blue in the Face at your local video store.  Just be sure not to start comparing it to Smoke as you watch it, otherwise you will get less enjoyment out of the film.9/10  "},{"Title":"Linden Boulevard, Represent, Represent!","Date":"11 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a great little set piece to celebrate the diversity and chaos that is, among many other things, my home. Brooklyn is the main character of this story and despite the film's limited scope (set mostly around a tobacco store near Windsor Terrace), it manages to really get at that feeling that makes Brooklyn the only place I wanna live. All the people here, whether they're bored by Brooklyn or fascinated by it, are connected by the genuinely weird way we manage to live together, despite our very prominent differences.  "}{"Title":"This is brilliant.","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw this on T.v last night and it was brilliant.I was somewhat overtired and overhung and this perked me up no end.Rarely has a film left me feeling so good.I liked every single character in it and now I want to move to Brooklyn and hang out at the cigar store. I want to share a smoke with Auggie,and I dont even smoke. Watch this film,it will do you good. "},{"Title":"another precinct heard from","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  (Most) everybody's wrong about this movie.  It's an absolute delight the whole way through.  The ad-lib scenes are true, all the monologues are intersting, the stars just pound on their likeability and it works. "},{"Title":"Love it or hate it","Date":"24 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I can see why people might dislike this movie, but I love it. It's a set of improvised scenes and interviews patched together to form a sort of a story. Definitely not an ordinary movie.It takes place in and around the cigar store at the center of the film Smoke. The only character from Smoke is Auggie, the cigar store manager, played by Harvey Keitel. Past that, it has nothing to do with the storyline of Smoke.It is really a love letter to the Park Slope neighborhood in Brooklyn, celebrating all the characters who live there. There are so many great standout hilarious scenes in this film. My favorites are the interviews with musician Lou Reed and indie director Jim Jarmusch, as well as the film about the guy who spends his spare time taking plastic shopping bags out of the trees in Prospect Park. Lots of other funny cameos too - Madonna, Mira Sorvino, Giancarlo Esposito, Michael J. Fox, Roseanne and Malik Yoba. And Auggie's hot mama Puerto Rican girlfriend, played by Mel Gorham, is a riot.I think it is very well executed and should be viewed as a bold, light-hearted experiment. It just looks like the actors are having so much fun, it is hard to resist. Give it a try, preferably as a double-feature with Smoke.  "},{"Title":"süfer","Date":"8 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I thought it was pretty good, the characters and the dialogue. a different kind of humor though, not everyone might like it.. I can recommend the movie to Jarmusch fans as he has a role in the movie. and I still wonder if the telegram girl was really madonna.. "},{"Title":"Two things  Brooklyn and Wang","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Two things need to be understood, Brooklyn and Wayne Wang.  Can those of you who saw Chang is Missing, really pretend that Wayne Wang's films push the envelope?  I mean, it's always a bit beyond the cutting edge with WW.  A great film maker, he has a great sense of humor and is smart enough to let actors take their heads sometimes.  OK. Now, Brooklyn.  Forget this crap about New York,  if you know Brooklyn and especially, the OLD Brooklyn of, say, 1956, that last great year of the Dodgers I was a young Naval officer there in Brooklyn Naval Shipyard that year, then you know there's a HUGE cultural barrier separating NY from there. Now, you're getting warm.  OK, when I saw Smoke, I saw a teaser of a sequel.  Now, we all know sequels generally suck but Smoke had that extra something that made me want to risk a buck to see Keitel in action again.  Well, waited and waited and then, this is on the shelves.  It's a GEM!  Don't listen to those chumps who don't know squat about WW or Brooklyn and, hey, let me ask you...did you pay to go see that Star Wars Prequel?  Sure you did.  So don't gripe.  This is the great SMOKE PREQUEL!  Go Wayne Wang!  Up with Brooklyn, old (definitely not new, i.e ., LA) Dodgers, Belgian waffles, and Sexy Puerto Rican girls dialoguing with themselves in the mirror, saying Ju lik Epanish gorls? YES! "},{"Title":"A special mixture of sarcasm and realism","Date":"9 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A nice movie, seems to have a subtle but interesting influence by many of the persons appearing Jim Jarmusch, John Lourie, Madonna, etc. It's funny and has still has some realistic goals. Others say it was terrible; I really don't think so. Maybe it's a kind of post-modern movie communicating really serious thoughts and not going into comedy, while seeming not serious at all. "},{"Title":"A Collection Of Scenes","Date":"1 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie, as before known, was made on the excess of Wayne Wang's ensemble dramedy Smoke.  Gathered among is a collection of actors improvising a collection of scenes that all have their own cinematic worth.Some of them are truly great (the plastic bag monologue is one of the great film monologues of the 90s), some are less than great (Madonna as a singing telegramist wow!), but they all are unique in their own, esoteric-vision-of-Brooklyn kind of way.Whatever flimsy plot Wang strung together concerns the apparent Last Days of Auggie Wren's cigar shop, set to be closed and re-done by the highest bidder.  And through that, we see characters of all kinds wander in, improv a scene, and wander out.  Kind of like a 24-hour acting class for working actors.Rent this if you're an actor looking for a good scene to do.*** "},{"Title":"Lighter than Smoke","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Blue in the Face is basically like a backyard barbecue for some seasoned actors (Harvey Keitel, Giancarlo Esposito), a generally good director (Wayne Wang) and a classy writer (Paul Auster).  I finally saw it on video recently, a number of years after seeing the earlier collaboration by the same artists - Smoke - and I'm glad I saw it on the small screen.  It's a tiny little picture; almost inconsequential.  A series of improvised vignettes in and around the Brooklyn Cigar Co. store from Smoke, anchored by Keitel's character of Augie.Some of the scenes played like great snapshots of life, in particular Jim Jarmusch's conversation with Harvey Keitel about his last cigarette, and Lou Reed's waxing poetic on smoking - they reminded of late-night chats in bars and coffee shops in my own north side Chicago neighborhood.  I also liked the videotaped interviews with folks around Brooklyn.  I don't know if those were just regular folks or actors, but the authenticity of their voices and stories made the whole neighborhood ring true to me.  Other parts of the film ranged from mildly amusing (I liked the scenes with the Watch Man and even Roseanne) to just plain awful.  I thought the appearances by Michael J. Fox, Madonna and (gasp) RuPaul were both gratuitous and distracting from the whimsical, and believable, mood established in other scenes (what was with the dance number?). Overall, not a bad little movie.  I actually recommend watching this one first, then following it with Smoke, which definitely has bit more meat on it.   "},{"Title":"Where do I get a pair of glasses like that? Where do I get a pair of glasses like that?","Date":"11 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  You can't catagorize this with other Hollywood flicks that have a specific story and overinflated budget. This is a curiosity piece, where the actors involved in Smoke made this on the side with the director, simply because they loved working together and wanted to try something different. Lou Reed and Jarmusch have great scenes, Rosanne is good, Keitel is good. Sorvino scene is a little dumb because you can tell they're making it up as they go along. Madonna is annoying, the Jackie Robinson scenes aren't bad. Like another reviewer here, I'd like to hear what someone from Brooklyn thinks. Overall, I really enjoyed it - there are some great impromptu scenes and although some pieces are better than others, it's a totally different film than Smoke and shouldn't be taken as serious entertainment.. more of a hey, come hang out with us, have a smoke, and we'll shoot the breeze. 8 of 10. Oh - Michael J Fox and Espisito have a great scene too -  There's always that one guy....that one friggin guy.... "},{"Title":"Disgraceful","Date":"27 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Possibly the worst film ever made, Blue in the Face is the worst incidence of actor over-indulgence and N.Y. self-congratulation ever captured on celluloid.  A downright queasily embarrassing exercise in forced, flailing improv, the terribleness of the film is made all the more baffling by a)its pedigreed cast, including Harvey Keitel, Mira Sorvino, Jim Jarmusch, and dozens more; and b)the fact that its source material (for characters and settings, anyway) is the lyrical and engaging 1995 film Smoke (my vote for the 2nd best film of that year, after Crumb).  Blue in the Face is one of the few films that could actually be described (with pinpoint accuracy!) as unwatchable. "}{"Title":"Jim Jarmusch rules!","Date":"5 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Lovely. Absolutely lovely. It was funny, and a bit serious. Loved the scenes with Harvey Keitel and Jim Jarmusch, especially the stuff about people on films throwing away guns. Great pic.  "},{"Title":"Absolutely pointless...","Date":"15 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Actors can improvise when a script is provided to build from, but this movie started only with characters and then allowed bad actors, and horrible writers, to deliver off the cuff lines. This is the movie actors do when they want to really experience their craft. Unfortunately, one learns, without writers, these actors have no craft. The movie is most unfortunate because it followed a very nice movie, Smoke, and came from a very good write, Auster. Someone, Auster and Wang most off all, should have finished the movie but then recognize it for what it is, a behind the scenes ego-trip for everyone involved, and just included it as an interesting bit on the Smoke DVD. "},{"Title":"Brookyln mon amour!","Date":"20 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  After filming Smoke, director Wayne Wang and writer Paul Auster (along with most of the crew and cast from that movie) decided to improvise some kind of tribute to the Brooklyn district. So we find the same tobacconist's in the same street-corner, and managed by the same guy (Harvey Keitel). Surrealist reflexions, small talks, and some of the freaks/weirdos that make up the Brooklyn fauna. Auster and Wang invited to take part in this hobby some of their friends, such as Jim Jarmusch, Lou Reed, Roseanne, and Madonna in person. Take it or leave it. I don't think they made this movie with any pretension in particular but to have fun, and improvise. So don't you think you'll find here sort of a masterpiece, nor the biggest script ever, 'cause you won't.It has some acid and lucid sequences, and lots of witty dialogues... and for the non-americans Blue In The Face is such a good way to know about Brooklyn's ways of life and history. That's all. My rate 7/10 "},{"Title":"As solid as a smoke-ring","Date":"31 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The monologues by Lou Reed, as well as the scene with Harvey Keitel and Jim Jarmusch (preparing to smoke his last cigarette) would be a perfect addition to a special edition video release of the terrific Smoke.  Otherwise, this is nothing but a curiosity piece of interest only to the most avid admirers of the earlier film (like me).  "},{"Title":"What a pity...","Date":"21 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I saw this film twice. As a cinema lover, I perfectly know what Paul Auster and, most of all, the actors, wanted to show in this movie. It's just a global view of Brooklyn what's good or funny or bad up there. The story is alright. But that's not what disappointed me when I saw it. What really bugged me was the way some characters were depicted. The female characters,for example, ( Violeta !!) are really dire. They are a summation of all female defaults yelling, crying, spoiled, selfish, and so on. What a pity...Though there are some funny scenes, I must admit (especially the shots featuring Lou Reed). There are also pretty great shots showing John Lurie (one of the best actors ever) playing with his jazz band. "},{"Title":"face it","Date":"8 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This semi-sequel to Smoke continues the adventures of Auggie Wren (Harvey Keitel) and his friends. I thought that the most interesting part was Jim Jarmusch as the man smoking his last cigar. But overall, Blue in the Face looks at life in general. Maybe it's not quite as great as the original, but still definitely worth seeing. And I remember when I saw it in the theater that it featured Jerry Garcia's last music video. Really good.All in all, this is another example of how great indie cinema is. Also starring Michael J. Fox, Roseanne, Lily Tomlin, Jared Harris, Giancarlo Esposito, John Lurie and Madonna. "},{"Title":"Improvised movie, not enjoyable for me.","Date":"9 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I don't mind improvisation. In fact, good improvisation is better than actors following a written script. Some of the funniest scenes have benefited from good improvisation. Think of almost any Robin Williams movie. Or, the Billy Crystal scene with Meg Ryan where he has her saying things in a funny voice. Or, how about the team that made such movies as Best in Show and Waiting For Guffman? But this movie, Blue in the Face, just does not come off as good improvisation. It is clear what they are doing, but it comes across as unsure and uneven, and not particularly funny. Interlaced throughout the movie are nondescript people reciting facts about Brooklyn -- how many potholes in the streets, for example.There is a thread of a story. The owner of a cigar shop intends to turn it into a health food store. And, the locals don't approve. There are tense moments when we wonder if the cigar shop will persist.Anyway, it is a movie for certain tastes, it just isn't a movie for my tastes. "},{"Title":"Blue In The Face v Smoke + A couple quotes","Date":"29 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I found 'Blue In The Face' much more enjoyable than 'Smoke' it is funnier and more genuine. Although I must admit that seeing 'Smoke' allowed me to discover Paul Auster's novels, many of which are also set in New York (Personally I would recommend The Invention Of Solitude and Oracle Night). Here are a couple quotes from 'Blue In The Face' that I found hilarious Lou Reed Yes, I'm smoking cigarettes and many of my friends have died of it. On the other hand, while I'm smoking cigarettes, I'm not downing a bottle of Scotch in 15 minutes. So looked at from this point of view, it's a health tool. Lou Reed My childhood was so unpleasant that I don't remember anything I think before age 31. "},{"Title":"This movie raised my spirits","Date":"9 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Equivalent to a cinematic rendition of an,albeit localised(heh) version of James Joyce's 'Dubliners' insofar as it evokes what to me (a non-Brookliner, in fact a Dubliner) what it might feel like to be 'part of a community'....beautiful at every turn, this masterpiece evokes,simply,the everyday interaction of 'characters'(The evocation helped somewhat by the presence of celebrities; i.e.- individuals that carry a 'Gravitas' and pre-known persona (we imagine) that yet inhabits the space of this wonderfully intimate piece of cinema.It is nice to see players allowed to be themselves, wonderfully devoid of all the usual personal and public affectations,and constraints that inevitably surround them in the context of a mainstream $X million dollar production...and produce something that immerses the viewer in the realm of 'an area'....a locale.....(in this case Brooklyn N.Y.C.)...and allows foreigners,such as myself to indulge myself in 'something' that is both 'known and familiar' and actually unknown.Kietel,Reed,Jarmusch,Malik Yoba,Gorham excel themselves in this epic vignette of real-town life in a place within a place.This could be down-town 'anywhere'.I salute all concerned with realising this refreshing piece of brilliance. -Love David Loughran "},{"Title":"Don't listen to Brandon...","Date":"12 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Yes, Blue in the Face is no Smoke, but his movie is filled with a multitude of delightful moments.  Lou Reed explaining his odd eye glasses, Jim Jarmusch kicking cigarettes, and Michael J. Fox (the tiniest Canadian) conducts the oddest of surveys. A highly quotable film.  7 out of 10.  Too bad Madonna's in it, otherwise the rating might have been a percentage higher.  Ok what's the deal; apparently you are required to leave ten lines of text in the summary.  Six.  Seven.  Eight.  Nine.  Ten.  Rats!  Well that didn't work.  I bet all the same people that like Madonna have at least one Michael Jackson record in their collection.  Probably History.  What's the obsession?!  Madonna has a horse face, and despite all his negative press M.J. is just a goon.  On occasion I enjoy music that is poppy, but the likes of Madonna and Michael Jackson make me ashamed to say that I enjoy pop music!   "}{"Title":"Enjoyable smoke","Date":"21 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  'Blue in the Face' is a low key assortment of ad-libbed scenes, unlikely cameos, and interviews with the real-life inhabitants of Brooklyn. There's no real plot, nothing much happens, and the dialogue has all the incoherence of actual conversation. What it does have is bags of charm, a celebratory spirit, and a huge (physical and spiritual) distance from Hollywood.  Well worth watching once. "},{"Title":"The best documental-fiction!","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It has everything, and shows in a perfect way the NY culture, involves every aspect, with a great cast, and with beautiful film editing.  If someone doesnt like it is cause the misunderstanding of it, it is made to inform, not to amuse. "},{"Title":"One of the Worst Movies Of All Time","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This was horrible, it wasn't even funny, or anything. It was dumb, pathetic. I wasted my time 0 stars or 1. Rated R for strong language and some nudity. "}]