[{"Title":"Exceptional low-budget philosophical horror film.","Date":"22 August 2002","Score":"39 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":" Abel Ferrara's moody, allegorical vampire tale makes fascinating and pointed statements on sin and redemption, spirituality and the nature of good (there's precious little of it) and evil (no one is safe from it). And unfortunately, but not surprisingly, it was relatively ignored in America.Lili Taylor gives a brooding, glib and haunting central performance as Kathleen Conklin, a New York University grad student who is pulled into an alley and bitten by a seductive female vampire (Annabella Sciorra), from which she emerges uncontrollably drawn into a world of violence and insatiable cravings for human blood. Ferrara's irredeemable urban hell landscape is more immediate and frightening than a million Transylvanias and by contrasting Taylor's addiction to the horrors of the past (war atrocities, the Holocaust) and present (heroine, AIDS), the film has more bite and impact than any fang-bearing, gore or special effects could even attempt to muster up. Nicolas St. John's intriguing philosophical screenplay and Ken Kelsch's gorgeous black and white photography (creating a world solely of light and dark, which is a key element in the plot), are not to be overlooked either.Call it pretentious for the philosophy references (Sarte, Nietzche...) if you want, but this highly intelligent and disturbing low-budgeter is one of the most accomplished and well-thought out horror films I've ever seen. Don't let over-hyped, attention hogging Hollywood productions like BRAM STOKER'S Dracula or INTERVIEW WITH A VAMPIRE keep you from seeing it. "},{"Title":"Fascinating, but heavy going for those not inclined towards philosophy.","Date":"24 September 2002","Score":"31 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":"  'The Addiction' is one of the most original vampire movies ever made. In fact, I can't think of another one quite like it. Abel Ferrara has made some strange and disturbing movies in his time, and this one is as strange and disturbing as any. Lili Taylor ('I Shot Andy Warhol') is brilliant as a troubled, soul searching philosophy student who has an unexpected and life-changing encounter with a mysterious stranger ('Cop Land's Annabella Sciorra). Dark, deep, sometimes blackly humorous, and frequently too obscure for its own good, this can be heavy going at times, but is never less than interesting. Christopher Walken, who did some superb work for Ferrara in his classic 'The King Of New York', has only a cameo here, but what a cameo! Walken is terrific and unforgettable. The rest of the supporting cast includes 'The Sopranos' Edie Falco and (briefly) Michael Imperioli, Paul Calderon ('Girlfight'), and Kathryn Erbe ('Stir Of Echoes'). This is a unique movie that will be appreciated by those with an open mind and preference for difficult viewing. Recommended. "},{"Title":"Cool!","Date":"29 July 2004","Score":"26 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":"  This movie was even scarier for me since I spent 2/3 of my life in New York City and all the settings were in my family's neighborhood!The acting was first rate, as was the storyline and cinematography, but all the philosophical dissertations annoyed the HELL out of me because it reminded me of some of the intellectual snobs I went to school with who had lower IQ's than my cat.Upon reading the previous review, it just occurred to me that all the snobbery made perfect sense.The character was probably in shock for several weeks. In HER mind, a vampire wouldn't resist his or her impulses they would just become feral. As such, to her, this constant internal dialogue of trying to figure out whether or not her addictions are psychological or supernatural somehow proves her normalcy (at least in her universe).Christopher Walken was GENIUS and so convincing that I never EVER want to meet him in person! His explanation of his adaptation to his vampirism made it seem so normal (it REALLY felt like he was giving the audience a confession under the guise of acting) that you got the sense that he WASN'T acting!I have to say that the graduation scene is one of the single most disturbing things that I have ever seen in my life! I saw it coming, but never really acknowledged before seeing this, that horror movies are realistic because all the writers/directors have to do is open up the local newspaper to see what a real monster is!  "},{"Title":"Vampire genre film, but really an excellent look at sin and redemption","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":"  In the sister film to the Funeral philosophy student Kathleen Conklin is dragged into an alley and bitten by Casanova and left to bleed.  Despite hospital care she begins to change and have strange desires.  With her desires controlling her turns to Peina for help.A sister film in that both film share a crew, a writer and some of the cast.  The genres are very different but the themes are the same &#150; religion and redemption.  The vampire thing isn't played like it usually is &#150; stakes through the heart etc, these are mentioned but not laboured.  Instead the story is about the origins of sin and the extent it controls us and how we can be redeemed.  It cleverly uses the vampire myth as an allegory for wider human evil &#150; `We are not sinners because we sin, we sin because we are sinners.  We aren't evil because we do evil, we do evil because we are evil'.At times it gets a little heavy &#150; the ending in particular takes some interpretation and the message can be easily misunderstood.  However ignoring the message this also stands up as a great vampire film &#150; the party which turns into a massacre is as good (if not better) then the nightclub opening of Blade, and much more meaningful to boot.  Ferrara is a master director who has never followed the money to blockbusters &#150; here he is in total control of his themes and the film rarely loses focus.  His clever use of music is also good &#150; a blend of all styles.  The theme song feels like it's going to be a 1980's romantic comedy, but this blends straight into hip-hop and others to create a mix that never feels strange &#150; in fact a baseline seems to run under the whole film like a heartbeat.Lili Taylor is on top form as Conklin and commands attention the whole time.  Walken and Sciorra are both good but have less screen time than in the Funeral, however here, as there, they have key lines of dialogue that carry tremendous weight.  Sopranos co-stars Falco and Imperioli are both good but are no more than bit players.  The real stars are Ferrara and writer Nicolas St John, who wrote this and The Funeral after the death of his son.Overall this is a great film that serves up more for thought than for action.  To this end it won't please those expecting a Blade style vampire film but to fans of Ferrara used to his themes this will be very enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Blood, Drugs, Philosophy - What's the Dif??   =8/","Date":"23 September 1999","Score":"17 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":"  Sublime, intriguing vampire flic from the very weird mind of Abel Ferrara, the man who brought the world The King of New York, Driller Killer, and Nine Lives of a Wet Pussy.  This moody, stylish, esoteric treatise mixes vampires, drug addiction, and Kierkegaard.  A bit too talky for some, and more than a little pretentious, The Addiction nonetheless delivers some very disturbing imagery and beautiful b/w cinematography.  For those who prefer their vamps with more of a philosophical..bite.  Lili Taylor is wonderful as the bookworm innocent drawn into a world of hopeless addiction and bloodletting.  But Ferrara's night children are not Anne Rice's brooding, romantic loners - they are as brutal and savage as any street addict, jonesing for another fix.  Christopher Walken provides yet another classy cameo, this time as a ray of vampire hope, showing Taylor's character that the addiction can be controlled, that humanity, while not restored, can be at least mimicked.  This moovie will not be for all...tastes, but the MooCow says show it to yer artsy-fartsy friends & watch them recoil.  =8)  "},{"Title":"Black & White - 7 (worth the time)","Date":"24 February 2005","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":" I haven't seen THE ADDICTION in ten years, but I do recommend it from what I remember. And the list of attractive concepts are, envelope please Lili Taylor, Christopher Walken, Anabella Sciorra, black and white meta-fictional film, and of course vampires galore! Abel Ferrara has directed other well known movies such as Bad Lieutenant, California, and the Funeral. Of these movies, I mildly recommend the first two but definitely not the third. The Funeral is plain boring and dreary, while the other two entertain by showing the gritty side of human nature.Caution, if you're the type of vampire fan who must have each actor decked out in fangs and yellow contacts, then steer clear of this movie, since it's really questionable whether the characters in THE ADDICTION are actually vampires or are just plain junkies in nice clothes.Lastly, there is a very complex philosophical feel to THE ADDICTION, as Lili Taylor muses about life and death in deep conversations in different venues around New York City a college book store, movie theater, etc. I recommend any philosopher out there to grab THE ADDICTION off the shelves as soon as possible.Speaking of the mid-90's, that short-lived era was a golden age for indie actors like Lili Taylor and Parker Posey. Taylor got a taste of vampire-hood early on in this movie, and fortunately for us, and for the committee, Posey got her fangs in Blade 3, which I was very happy to see happen. I mean, come on, all those party girls are really vampires at heart.JYJimboduck-dot-com "},{"Title":"Am I the only one?","Date":"24 November 2000","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":"  SPOILER ALERT Am I the only one who got this film?  I don't usually enjoy movies shot in black and white, nor artsy fartsy movies, but this one really had something to say of great significance (stated explicitly in the final words of the film), and it was also entertaining (at least I found it to be).I don't agree with the general reviewer's attitude toward the holocaust scenes.  The central message of the film does NOT deny reality to suffering, but explicitly acknowledges it (the fact that the holocaust was real and vampires are not real is entirely beside the point).  Suffering IS real, and is the common thread linking the vampire/addict and the holocaust victim.Has anyone else noticed that the central philosophy of the movie is not nihilism, but nondualism?  How the endless cycle of pain/pleasure (also known as addiction) controls all of us to one extent or another, and how all pleasure takes place against a background of pain -- an endless cycle of suffering for most of humanity?  The film also examines the notion of free will in detail, and ultimately concludes that my will against yours is the cause of much evil.  Nondualism concludes that free will is an oxymoron, and denies reality to the concept of personal volition.  This movie reaches much the same conclusion.Ultimately, the main character's spiritual redemption at the end of the movie demonstrates nondualism, not nihilism (a nihilistic ending would be the suicide or death of the main character in a particular violent fashion). Yet she is redeemed, and realizes that annihilation of self (the ego, will, conflict, separation, addiction, the cause of suffering) is the only true path of redemption.  This is a spiritual, non-dual message.If anyone who hasn't heard of the perspective of nondualism is curious, try your favorite search engine and searching on nonduality and/or advaita.Rating 9/10 "},{"Title":"I loved the Addiction","Date":"6 April 2005","Score":"14 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":" I loved this film. I was an NYU grad student and the process of getting my doctorate and writing the dissertation and dealing with the committee were perfectly captured by all the aspects of the vampire's experience and transformation. The hunger she felt was so accurate. I recall those days of struggle and grad student doubts about ever finishing and feeling as if no one would appreciate what I had written. The writers captured all that perfectly in the scenes of her trying to write and focus, all while something else was pulling on her and transforming her. The film itself was well acted and the emotional atmosphere was captured perfectly. The street scenes incorporated the neighborhood beautifully, especially in the way people in the village actually live there. It was a dark wonderful film and I have recommended it to many people, especially those currently in grad school, writing their dissertations. I hope it is released on DVD soon. I keep looking. "},{"Title":"Mostly metaphor.","Date":"1 April 1999","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":"  It's not about vampires, it is about resistance, or lack of it. About what may be right around the corner, about discipline, or about lack of discipline. About being in the wrong place at the wrong time. It can happen to anybody, and it happens to everybody. It's a pyramid scheme.Beautiful black and white composition by Abel Ferrara tied tightly in a wonderfully creative Joe Delia score. Casting the usual Ferrara/indie suspects Paul Calderone, Edie Falco, Kathryn Erbe, Lili Taylor, Annabella Sciorra. The theme of the movie presents 4 new questions for every one it answers. Do we have a choice? Can we resist? And just when we think we have it all figured out, Christopher Walken has to show up and throw an entirely new lilt on things.Such is life.  "},{"Title":"A confusing but worthwhile watch","Date":"23 January 2005","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":" I have watched this film twice now and am after the last viewing slightly less confused than I was, but still rather baffled.In magazine reviews that I have read of this film the emphasis is always on the use as vampirism as a metaphor for addiction - the first time I watched the film I was surprised as the majority of the film seemed to be about philosophy that I didn't understand and the addiction metaphor, though resulting in two extremely powerful scenes (when the main character is in withdrawal and kills the man trying to help her and also when she is fighting against her addiction in a closet...) seemed overwhelmed by all the talking! Now I think I understand it a little better; addiction can mean how we are addicted to hurting other people because of our own selfishness. The end struck me as strange - at first I presumed the Christian symbolism must mean something else that I couldn't fathom I suppose I think that people who direct these kinds of films must be entirely nihilistic and not have much time for religion! After some thought I concluded that the only way for Katherine to be redeemed, and for us all to be redeemed is to completely lose our own identity (tying in with Christopher Walken's earlier comment about how one has to blend in and not stick out) - however this is rather too troubling for a girl of little brain such as myself to cope with and I still haven't decided whether I think the end was positive or not! The film's flaw is I think the endless philosophical babble - if one hasn't studied the people Katherine is studying for her course, you will have a hard time keeping up. However the extremely good acting and direction makes up for this. The choice to film it in black and white arguably makes it more disturbing, and the graduation scene is truly scary. The highpoint is undoubtedly Christopher Walken's superb cameo but there is much to enjoy besides his brief appearance. "}{"Title":"speechless","Date":"13 May 2007","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":" i have watched this movie repeatedly since it was released on video. it is not a vampire movie! it is in black and white. the blood is not red, the blood is a symbol.we must accept the fact that we are imperfect beings. the more we attempt to help ourselves, the more we are lost, without an outside source.i love this movie.a key moment in the movie is when kathleen (lili taylor) sees the image of Christ, rips her clothing while she yells I WILL NOT SUBMIT!!!!. it is a powerful moment. in the end she submits. she understands that she cannot, by herself, be fulfilled. losing herself in the addiction is simply a distraction from what is inevitable.awesome freaking movie! "},{"Title":"Addicted to evil","Date":"29 February 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":"  I saw The Addiction just last night, and what I've immediately thought was...wow...that' impressive! Talking about addiction, Ferrara actually talks about human beings. Addiction, that today in many ways affects all of us, is the symptom of human condition, the alarm of evil which is inside every man. The big metaphor of the difficulty to detox from an addiction puts into light the difficulty to avoid evil, we suck other people's blood, as kathlin does, to satisfy out thirst and our anger, to satisfy our selfishness and our incapability to glorify the human race. Kathlin is all of us, is the violent and wide primitive man and she is the man of today, self- concentrated on his own distinctive addiction, unable to loose himself from the original sin and human sin. "},{"Title":"Magnificent portrayal of society.","Date":"24 October 2006","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":" I found this movie to be such an accurate reflection of the way society functions. Vampirism could easily be seen as an economic transaction, in the way we feed off one another (i.e., we rob each other of blood/money, both of which are needed to survive). From a Marxist perspective, we can see that capitalism is economic and social barbarism.For so many reasons, I cannot stop recommending this movie to everybody I know. Dialogue, cinematography, cast choice, lighting, set/setting, I cannot think of one factor that was left to chance. Stimulate your brain and see this movie NOW! "},{"Title":"overrated to a breathtaking degree","Date":"25 April 2010","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":" Ferrara's oeuvre in general, and the praise heaped on this movie in particular, confirms for me yet again the almost boundless gullibility of even that part of the cinemagoing public that considers itself to be more demanding than the average multiplex customer. The qualities that Ferrara has going for him, and that he never tires of REMINDING us he has going for him - that he is a maverick, an independent film-maker, and that he is cinematographically competent and able to give his movies a certain visual style - would be estimable if they were combined with any intelligence or with the presence in his head of any idea really worth giving visual and narrative expression to. Unfortunately, no film that Ferrara has ever made has given any evidence of either of these. His scriptwriter on this and almost all his other movies, Nicholas St. John, has regularly provided him with material of strikingly low quality, which Ferrara himself, and the generally top-class group of actors and actresses - Walken, Keitel, Sciorra - with whom he works must then labor as best they can to rescue.Keitel's bravura performance in Bad Lieutenant, for example, is the only reason I can think of for this film's being constantly praised as a landmark and a masterpiece. As a theological drama, it has about as much depth as The Song of Bernadette. And The Addiction displays the same facile, cheap, and cynically opportunistic relation to philosophical ideas as Bad Lieutenant does to religious ones. Anyone who has taken even a serious amateur interest in philosophy will recognize all the philosophical paraphernalia of St. John's script as entirely hokey right from the opening scenes on. (It is an indication of the level of Ferrara's intellectual and moral honesty that he is on record as believing, or as pretending to believe, St. John's ridiculous story that he studied philosophy at Heidelberg, Heidelberg, I suppose, being the kind of place you claim to have studied philosophy at if you want to sound really deep (those Germans, you know)). Nobody on the set appears to have been capable of instructing Lili Taylor in how to pronounce the name Sartre or the actor playing her philosophy professor in how to pronounce the name Nietzsche and, as Jonathan Rosenbaum and other intelligent reviewers have commented, the dialogue woven around this faulty name-dropping is clearly not based on any actual reading in any of these writers but just on puerile juggling with a few images and phrases gleaned from secondary and tertiary sources (the intendedly effortlessly erudite exchanges about anthropology between Lili Taylor and her first student victim about the concept of anthropology - Protagoras, Feuerbach etc. - are in fact the nonsensical result of running down a list of the historical occurrences of the term in some concise encyclopedia of philosophy).The Addiction, in other words, is as irredeemably dumb as US movies about super-clever people - Good Will Hunting etc. - invariably tend to be. Ferrara, maverick as he is or claims to be, thinks and feels no differently about the commodity intelligence than the most vulgar mainstream director. To him as to the peddler of Hollywood trash, intelligence is something that can be ordered up simply by slapping together whatever ingredients are recommended as being the right stuff if you're into that sort of thing. (This betting on heavy reps in these matters is also the reason why US cinematic portraits of intellectual life tend to lag, on average, about thirty years behind the times. The very idea that Satrre and Kierkegaard should be the burning topics of intellectual discussion at the philosophy department of a New York university in 1995 - where any student who took him- or herself even halfway seriously would have been at grips rather with Derrida and Foucault and would have laughed at the mere mention of existentialism - betrays the philosophy of this movie as philosophy for tourists.In short, an unforgivably awful movie - and another reason to shake one's head in wonder at how a relentlessly self-promoting quarter-educated New York hipster like Ferrara has succeeded in hoodwinking such a huge proportion of the cinematic establishment. "},{"Title":"We are all Vampires","Date":"1 December 2003","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":"  Spoilers( I state this just in case although i don't think there are any )A film of pure audio visual beauty, and unquenchable honesty. To be born a human being is to be addiction. The vampire metaphor (draining others in the pursuit of immortality) is used brilliantly here for the curse we humans are to each other and our environment. We humans are sucking out life on a day by day basis. Religion was partly invented to stop humans from committing suicide, for the truth of humanity is addiction with only a beginning, birth, and an end, death. For the period in-between, a human being's quantifiable success / failure depends on her / his addiction. This is the heart of Abel Ferrara's Film. Watch this again and take a look at all the obvious and not so obvious addictions the film checklists. To struggle against your addiction, is to struggle against your own humanity. To deny our addiction is to deny our own existence. Many humans on this planet seek to exorcise their addiction, through the destruction or enslavement of other humans. Capitalism, Communism, Totalitarianism, Elitism - (cultural / intellectual / spiritual / physical) are all addictions are all human are all vampiric There is no pretension in evidence within this film, only honesty. Overwhelming and debilitating for some, liberating for others. All human behavior is addiction, life is an addiction death is an addiction, there is no escape from addiction. There is no escape from ourselves. If you like this film then read William S Burroughs or view the films of David Cronenberg. My rating 10 / 10 "},{"Title":"Original Sin / Man's Depravity / Christian Redemption","Date":"22 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":"  This film is not merely about vampires, drug addiction, or resistance. It is about how we are blinded by and to our own evil, how we cannot resist it, how we are addicted to it, and how we are the parasites that feed off of it. It is about our thirst for sin and the possibility of having that thirst quenched by Christ - an excellent work not to be missed. "},{"Title":"All of the pretension, none of the substance!","Date":"25 January 2005","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":" Apparently, once one joins the ranks of the undead, one loses not only the ability to live but the ability to have a single original thought. If a pretentious black & white film about vampires quoting teutonic philosophers to each other (in place of actually having conversations) for two uninterrupted hours is your cup of tea... then you may find after watching this movie that your cup of tea really, really sucks.The high point of the movie is easily the appearance of Christopher Walken, whose presence on screen almost threatens to redeem the movie. Who am I kidding. 5 minutes of Walken does not make up for 2 hours of high power suck. "},{"Title":"Wash your dog before you see this film.","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":"  Fairly typical AF. faire over-indulgent and pseudo-intellectual twaddle.The first few minutes of the film are probably the most powerful, seeing the heroine returning to an empty flat after being mugged. The police can do nothing; she's very alone and this comes across well. Unfortunately, this is probably the high point of the film and fails utterly to redeem it.Christopher Walken puts in an incredibly over-the-top performance as an old (ancient?) vampire whose major boast is his reclaimed ability to defecate.On the whole, this film is pretentious rubbish. Probably the longest 88 minutes of my life; it even fails to fall into the so bad it's good category, taking itself on the whole far too seriously.  "},{"Title":"We are not sinners because we sin. We sin because we're sinners.","Date":"14 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":" The Addiction by Abel Ferrara is a heavily philosophical horror movie that is extremely underrated. The Addiction is an unconventional and original horror movie in terms of a horror movie that isn't based on or conforming to what is generally done in a horror movies. The Addiction is an appealing, unique and interesting horror movie that doesn't stick with the usual norms but instead tries to reinvent the wheel of vampire movies, which is what I admire the most about The Addiction. It is a low budget, black and white horror movie from the mid 90s that not many people have heard of, while it is essentially a vampire movie, it is full of hidden metaphors and subtext about such issues as religion, sin and redemption. Lili Taylor who plays Kathleen Conklin, a philosophy grad student gives us a haunting and intelligent performance. This has to be the most philosophical movie I have ever seen. It is full with philosophical quotes and ideas. Such asTo face what we are in the end, we stand before the light and our true nature is revealed. Self-revelation is annihilation of self.We are not sinners because we sin. We sin because we're sinners.This is just a marvellous low budget vampire movie that doesn't adhere to or conform to the usually traditional vampire movies. "},{"Title":"The Ultimate Truth","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":"  The Addiction is not primarly about vampires, it's not primarly about drugs, The Addiction tells the story of our lives. Abel Ferrara shows us that through living we are addicted to social standards and conventions, while we don't know if these conventions will help us any further. It questions science by means of simple but effective statements. Lili Taylor is superb in her leading role and Walken is a pleasure in his small but effective role. The Addiction is an ultimately depressing movie, but the truth needs to be told.5/5 "}{"Title":"It's about existentialism.","Date":"14 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":"  SPOILER ALERT!!  What is the metaphor in this film?  Feeding off of other people for self preservation (vampirism) is what the professors are constantly espousing as they quote one existential philosopher after another.  Each person is radically free and must come up with his/her own private moral system.  There are no absolutes (absolutely!).  Thus, the irony is that as she gets closer to her dissertation defense, she has learned more and more existential thought and through her vampirism, has embodied it as well.  She passes the defense with flying colors because by biting necks and thereby making more vampires like herself, she has imbibed the philosophy of nihilistic egoism to the point that her teachers admire her as they admire the existentialists.  The fabulous coup de grace is the end of the film, when she fights the addiction, but then begrudgingly embraces it and practices on the professors what they have been preaching to her all of those graduate school years.  It is a feast of rampant selfishness, giving them what they deserve (in a strange sort of way). Therefore, in the end, they become victims of their own teaching and she becomes its perfect instantiation. "},{"Title":"Philosophical vampire flick","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":"  This is a thinking person's horror movie. The vampire legend, rich in symbolism and metaphor, has never been treated with such intellectual depth and ironic humor.Anyone who has ever pursued an academic graduate degree will appreciate the nuances when vampires infiltrate and take over the Philosophy Department at NYU. "},{"Title":"This film is so realistic and disturbing, it almost feels like a documentary on vampirism in the '90's...","Date":"6 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":"  Abel Ferrara compares humans to vampires & we are (unpleasantly) surprised to find that the two are not very different.  This is the most humanistic and grim depiction of vampirism ever to grace the screen.  Lili Taylor's Independent Spirit Award (for best female lead) was much deserved. --J.B. "},{"Title":"Flawless... one of the best horror movies of all times!","Date":"9 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":" The Addiction is an absolutely perfect movie, the opus #10 of the great Abel Ferrara. Starting with a narrative material that's decidedly pulp, but ennobled by numerous philosophical quotations that are an expert miscellanea of the negative thought of the Eighteenth and Twentieth centuries, the director and his writer Nicholas St. John have built an anguished and tormented interrogation about the presence of the Evil in the world, a movie that instills a real sensation of anxiety and painful participation. Here the myth of vampirism is distorted and re-elaborated in a modern way as a metaphor of the addiction, and in particular of the only addiction that's common to every human being the addiction to evil. The main character comes to the conclusion that humanity is only attracted by sin and cruelty, but the end opens to a way of redemption that comes from the understanding and acceptance of her own condition. Everything is magnificently supported by an exceptional visual apparatus, by a black and white photography inspired by the atmosphere of the expressionism and of the American noirs of the Forties, and by an extremely convincing cast. In conclusion, this is a strange, deeply disturbing movie, that maybe can be judged as dirty, realistic and iper-realistic at the same time in its personal and expressionist poetic of horror, it's a movie about pain, loneliness, addiction, contagion, incommunicability and death, and it's surely one of the most mature examples of horror cinema. "},{"Title":"Vampires, Drugs, and All That Jazz","Date":"22 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":" A New York philosophy grad student (Lili Taylor) turns into a vampire after getting bitten by one (Annabella Sciorra), and then tries to come to terms with her new lifestyle and frequent craving for human blood.The film has been considered an allegory about drug addiction, as well as an allegory of the theological concept of sin. It contains philosophical, theological and other intellectual content, including references to Husserl, Nietzsche, Feuerbach, and Descartes. The film also features a vampire quoting the highly conservative Reformed Theologian R. C. Sproul, who is a critic of Roman Catholicism.Its connection to drug addiction and the parallels it draws are obvious, and it is not alone in doing so. Notably, Larry Fessenden's Habit also covered this ground. But the philosophy angle is new, especially with how far it goes. The references are not subtle at all, and as a philosophy graduate I appreciated them... I would love to see an analysis of the topics discussed and see if there is something deeper here, or just a superficial use of more profound thoughts. "},{"Title":"Interesting, but long winded","Date":"16 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":"  As interesting as a philosophical vampire may be, a pretentious one quickly stomps on nerves.  Lili Taylor is fabulous as always, and pulls what, in another's hands, would have been a drudgery of a role into the more than palatable.   Christopher Walken is blindingly funny, but unfortunately was relegated to the backside of this tale.  Overall, a little less mental masturbation and a little more character play would have taken care of a good deal of the problems in this film, but it's definitely worth renting. "},{"Title":"Confusing mix of vampire-like gore and philosophy lessons","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":"  POSSIBLE SPOILER 1st watched 2/16/2001 - 4 out of 10 (Dir-Abel Ferrara) Confusing mix of vampire-like gore including blood orgy with spiritual ending and philosophy lessons thrown in the middle. What are they saying? I'm not sure but I won't watch again to find out. "},{"Title":"Fangs and philosophy","Date":"4 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":" Abel Ferrara's gritty horror film stars Lili Taylor as Kathleen Conklin, a philosophy graduate student who is attacked by a woman in a New York alleyway and bitten on the neck. Soon after, she falls victim to an insatiable hunger for blood, much to the concern of her classmate and friend (Edie Falco) and her professors.Though a horror film by technicality, The Addiction is more of a parable on a multitude of things&#x97; the proverbial hole in the soul, the way we use one another, and yes, drug addiction&#x97; really, it's a film about the human condition. Stuffed with highbrow philosophy rhetoric and dialogues about William S. Burroughs, the film is admittedly a bit ostentatious in its philosophical commentary. At the same time, one has to remember that the film is about philosophy students, who are in and of themselves a very small fraction of the populace, and this gaudy display of intellectualist interpretation is standard in academia.Phenomenal black-and-white cinematography works as a fantastic mood-setter here, with Ferrara capturing the grimness of the world (in this case, New York City) enclosing around Taylor. The film has a progressively claustrophobic atmosphere, and the streetside photography of the city is powerful and oppressive. Taylor's performance is incredible and nuanced, with Annabella Scoria as the haunting femme fatale, and Edie Falco and Kathryn Erbe as fellow scholars. Christopher Walken has a minor role as a self-admitting vampire and addict who has learned to cope with the affliction.Overall, this film is a truly unique piece of work. It's rare for philosophy and horror to collide in film, but Ferrara pulls off a class act here. While the philosophical asides are a bit garish, there is still a valid subtext here that is upheld with phenomenal cinematography and great performances from all involved. Ferrara brilliantly captures the pernicious terror of the city, the claustrophobic bubble of academia, and the horror of the human condition. 9/10. "},{"Title":"i wanna get high","Date":"25 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":" abel ferrera is one of my favorites...the minus points comes from the main character i do not like moralizing people, especially at the beginning.i do like the fact that there's always drug-related topics in his movies... plus points. drugs are great, when nothing else can move you in this world for others they have no value.the movie got a lot better as it progressed.yes... very darwinistic and nihilistic.no dissappointmenst from abel in this one! not a horror movie though. i know people who have grown into vampires like her due to excessive drug use... they have no life remaining in them, and sometimes they have been very smart... it's a gloom that surrounds these people. so watch this movie, and keep away from those people, even though they might be your brother, or sister after they have crossed thin line there's no return.Yes ONYX...OK watch this one... a winner. "},{"Title":"Original and Challenging","Date":"6 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":" *** out of ****This black and white film by Abel Ferrara doesn't really have any established view or opinion, but it works in establishing what the obsession of adjustment is.The film is about a college student writing a thesis paper is bitten by a vampire and soon becomes intrigued by disease and the passing of a plague to another. She also tries to grow used to her new lifestyle as a vampire. She begins to neglect her thesis and when she finally is able to finish it, a vampire feeding fest is in order.Accompanied by the philosophy of Nietzsche, Kierkegaard, Heidegger, Sartre, Beckett, and Baudelaire among others, and with gory scenes interlaced with exploitive and cruel images of the holocaust, the film worked. Many people who see it feel that it is about spirituality, but i disagree. If the film were about spirituality, it would have been worked into the plot in a more comprehensive way. I feel that the film is more about the human condition to hate and want to hurt. It's interesting stuff. Check it out if you can find it. "}{"Title":"shockingly pleasing and very memorable","Date":"24 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":" One, if not the, most original and likable of the more recent vampire films. As it suggests in its title, this film takes the vampire genre and innovates it by portraying it as a disease what gives you in a sense, a drug addiction. Rather than some mystical beings what can turn in to bats the characters are people coming to terms with their problems. The film is entirely shot in black & white which I think was a very original step for director Abel Ferrara to take. It signifies that vampires can come out in the day but tend to stick to the dark under bell of New York where sky scrapers and chirpy people are nowhere to be seen. However to compensate for this we have alleyways and ghetto like areas filled with the darkness of night. Conveniently for them in the day. The composition and camera work has a certain simplicity to it which in a way counteracts, creating more depth and allowing us to become familiar with the characters. The characters them selves are deep and ultimately well portrayed. Kathleen Conklin, (played by Lili Taylor) begins as the delicate and unaware being who struggles with her temptation by secluding herself, further moor leading on to her very memorable pinnacle which in deed will stay with you for a while. Not to mention Peina, (played by Christopher Walken) which unfortunately has a smaller part than I would have liked to have seen him in, nevertheless as always his presence is original and wont go forgotten.Overall this is an Art house film, Which uses the stereotypes by going against them. If you like the usual vampire flick this wont be for you, even so if you want to see something original this wont fail to surprise and will stay memorable for many years to come. Without mentioning what happens the climax is shockingly pleasing and very memorable. 10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Addiction about life","Date":"23 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":" What kind of addiction is talked about here. It is the essence of life, an addiction to other humans life force, their blood, everything. Once you have tasted it you can''t go back.This story is about young philosophy student Katie (Lili Taylor) who has a very moralistic and sensitive view of life and human behavior. Writing her essay on the holocaust to show the evil in men she get's deeper involved in the dark side of humanity, until one night a mysterious woman (Annabella Sciorra) appears, assaults her, and tells her to if she is so afraid of being hurt all she has to do is tell her to leave. Katie,being in shock can''t say a word, and with a I didn't think so the mysterious woman bites her in the neck and whispers sinister in her ear, you just wait,and see what happens. After she takes her leave, Katie collapses, and is being hospitalized. The doctors say there is nothing wrong with her physical, besides a small wound in her neck, and she may go home. However traumatized by the incident, Katie noticed that she is starting to change. She can't take bright sunlight anymore, and needs sunglasses for her eyes, she is becoming very cynical about humans and their purpose, but above all,she craves a huge urge. an urge for blood...Ferrara has made a masterpiece here, which is so much more than just a vampire movie. It takes the horror genre out of it's frame, and humanizes it. It shows us the deeper influence of the beast in us all. Although some of the long monologues take some speed out of the film making it slow (Not boring, but slow). It also makes the movie harder to understand for the average movie viewer, and not everyone will like the story.The cast mainly IS Lili Taylor who gives a great performance, and takes one the serious lead very well. A lot of this movies believability rests on her shoulder and she gets away with it. She would almost take the movie if it wasn't for Christopher Walken. His (rather short) performances steals the show in this picture, as he is playing an intellectual vampire called Peina, who tells us about modern vampire-ism, and the addiction that comes with vampire-ism.Peina doesn''t preach about the beastof humanity like Katie, but says that being a vampire is just another way of which you can control. Although giving a good performance and having a strong ending monologue Annabella Sciorra is being acted away by Walken and Taylor.Other notable things is the Cinematography of Ken Kelsch, who creates with use of simply light and shadow a very dark scenery, to the streets of New York that is almost becomes haunting. Together with the score of Joe Delia, and his deep dark tones he uses, he feel this movie has is darker than most new upcoming horror movies have. Abel Ferrara truly has made a great film. Maybe no masterpiece for everyone's likening, but a great film, and worth watching. "},{"Title":"Worth a go Vampire fans..","Date":"4 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":" This is deffo worth a go from solid vampire loving fans, or at least most horror fans, if you love gory horror flicks lots of blood this will NOT be for you. But if you enjoy Horror like dramas with more acting than special effects this will be for you. Christopher Walken is Obviously the big name for this film, although he does not have a big part, the film runs at least 45mins without seeing him once but the part he does play in it is short but enjoyable like always. Lili Taylor(The Haunting) shines in her role! baring in mind this film is shot completely in black & white but don't let that put you off a lot of the good films are black & white. If you find it cheap give it a go. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good vampire movie","Date":"27 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":" Director Abel Ferrara has come a long way from his early movies; this '95 movie, The Addiction, is probably the point where he starts giving his films a more blatant ideology. His movies have always carried this intellectual philosophic tone, but it remained subtle, abstract; on the contrary, in The Addiction we have a full fledged philosophic dissertation in the shape of a urban vampire movie.Lili Taylor is Kathleen Conklin, a philosophy student who one night is bitten by a mysterious woman (Annabella Sciorra) and her transformation begins. Suffering a terrible hunger, an addiction to blood, she wonders if what is happening to her is either natural or supernatural. Her transformation will have an impact in her life and work as she struggles to finish her final thesis.Sure, with a plot like that the movie is really a case of love it or hate it, specially because it gets over intellectual at times and even borders boredom. The philosophical tone the movie has will probably be labeled of snobby or pretentious, but is really in character, as Lili is truly a pretentious woman and we follow her during her transformation and her realization of life and death. It is a very existentialist movie.The plot is full of metaphors, and in a way, it is more on the lines of Bergman's The Seventh Seal, although in a minor scale of course. The acting is truly impressive, not only Taylor and Sciorra, Christopher Walken makes a small appearance that truly proves his quality as an actor. His performance is outstanding.The beautiful black and white photography is not only outstanding, it is another device to take the audience to a walk on the dark side. The beautiful contrasts between light and shadow are a constant theme through the story, and serve its purpose of showing us the decay of humanity.While not the usual horror movie, The Addiction is a very powerful film that surely will make you think. Sure, it can be boring, redundant and pretentious at times, but this is the type of film that grows on you with time.This movie is truly among Ferrara's best work, and if you are interested in philosophy, it is good to give it a try. It is more than a typical vampire flick. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Philosophical Religious Vampire Junkie Flick","Date":"1 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":" Kathleen is a philosophy student in New York City who gets bitten one night by a mysterious woman and develops an insatiable craving for blood.This is an interesting vampire story (although the word vampire is never mentioned) suffused with Ferrara's arch-Catholic sensibilities, shot through with junkie metaphors and philosophy double-talk - it's a heady brew. It doesn't particularly add anything new to vampire cinema mythology (it's quite similar to George A. Romero's Martin), but stylistically it's terrific; Ken Kelsch's black-and-white photography is tremendous and seamy, seedy NYC steams and clanks. The cast are good - Taylor has a great remote, impersonal quality as the bloodsucker, justifying her monstrous acts with existentialist quotations, and Walken and Sciorra steal their scenes with great aplomb. It's an art-house movie for sure, but it has at least one great creepy horror movie sequence (the graduation party) and is much more unsettling than your standard teen fangs flick. I'm not quite sure I get the link between classical German philosophy, war crimes (of which Ferrara shows many disturbing images) and modern-day vampires, but it's all intriguing stuff. Dracula meets A La Recherche Du Temps Perdu. "},{"Title":"Impressive Philosophical Vampire Film","Date":"22 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":" The cult film-maker Abel Ferrara has had a prolific and controversial career, but this low-budget gem has to rank among his best works.In present-day New York, philosophy student Kathleen Conklin (Lili Taylor) is attacked by a female vampire, and is soon on the hunt for human blood herself.Less of a conventional horror film, the movie is more interested in the philosophical aspects of evil (including real horrors such as AIDS, addiction, violence and war atrocities), and it interestingly equates vampirism with drug addiction (especially noteworthy are the scenes where Kathleen injects blood from her victims into her veins like a regular drug addict).The film is incredibly atmospheric, shot entirely in black-and-white. It is not a conventional vampire film, and the long philosophy discussions sometimes seem pretentious and dull, but this is a powerful and memorable piece of work.One of the film's highlights is a great cameo by Christopher Walken as a vampire. "},{"Title":"Mislead / Disappointed","Date":"27 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":" People all around the world are interested by vampires. Some believe they actually exist, while others find them merely a source of entertainment. I must say I fall strictly into the latter category. It would take me a moment to recall all the vampire films I've sat through. The Addiction however is my latest. Then again, perhaps its unfair to label it a vampire flick.Lily Taylor stars as a women studying for a degree in philosophy. Not only does she study it, but it's her life. It intrigues her, makes the wheels in her head turn. Then one late night, she's bitten by a female vampire (Annabella Sciorra). Only she doesn't see it that way. Believing it was just an attack of a sick twisted woman, she tries to go on with her life. Then she starts getting really sick and her doctor can't find anything wrong with her (and so the story goes). Finally she figures it out - she's a vampire, accepts it - and doing like vampires do - goes about her new found way of life. Anything more than that I can't tell you. Simply because the movie gets bogged down in heavy exposition and lost me.Having only seen one or two other films from Abel Ferrara (the director), I assume 'The Addiction' is meant to be less story and more character study. On that note, it was a fine decision to present this movie in black & white. It adds much needed atmosphere to the proceedings and also takes away from the violence. I would suggest they filmed it in this way for that exact reason. This isn't a horror movie. It's a study in character ... philosophy ... with a large splash of blood. Still with a running time of 82 minutes it felt long. Partly because I didn't understand. Partly because I wasn't entertained. Partly because I felt cheated.The movie box boasts it stars Christopher Walken and Annabella Sciorra, but be forewarned both have no more than five minutes of screen time. I honestly decided to give this film a chance solely because Walken starred. I was given the distinct impression he portrayed a major supporting character and he hasn't popped up yet and I'm past the halfway mark of an eighty-two minute film. When he finally does, it's disjointed, quick and I'm sore ... and the climax turns out to be more funny than scary ... and I'm pretty sure it wasn't intended to be that way. Some people will appreciate 'The Addiction'. Vampire fans or not. However for many reasons, it wasn't my cup of tea and I strongly believe others will feel the same. "},{"Title":"Postmodernism Sucks!","Date":"12 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":"  Ferrera demonstrates, in this film, the similarities between thought and exsanguination; he shows how the academic community has become parasitic. His film, perhaps too overtly symbolic (vampires attacking tenured professors rings of an obvious symbolism any post-grad student can laugh at), does a fine job of bringing in remarkable questions of ethics and identity.   "},{"Title":"Not just a run of the mill vampire flick","Date":"7 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":"  If you can't stand Anne Rice, you'll probably enjoy The Addiction. Though ostensibly a vampire story, it's just a metaphor in this film. It has more to do with the nature of addiction and (in a surprisingly clever treatment) original sin. Though the plot is almost skeletal, a lot of meaty thoughts hang on it. "},{"Title":"Boring, depressing vampire story","Date":"2 October 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":" While trying to finish her thesis, a college student finds herself bitten by a vampire and tries to come to grips with the deadly affliction as she's mentored in the ways of their species and tries to avoid giving away her new identity.This one certainly has some pretty decent ways to go here, mainly through the use of the clever gimmick that gets this one over by having her compare vampirism through philosophical queries, but unfortunately that only has a two-pronged effect that doesn't do anything for the film at hand. On the one, it makes the film just incredibly boring and not really all that interesting, since she spends the majority of time simply doing nothing but complaining about the utterly useless knowledge given to her by the school and relying on other means to get through the change. Eventually, it all just comes across as pretentious nonsense that makes no sense at all and just tends to sound whatever it needed to do to agree with their principle ideas. The other factor, as mentioned before, is that not a lot happens in here and it tends to just ramble on, like she does, and nothing gets done because of that. Even the novel Black-and-White can't save this one.Rated R Graphic Violence, Language, drug use and Brief Nudity. "}{"Title":"Another attempt to make psychopathy interesting","Date":"25 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":" Vampires are essentially a romanticizing of abject psychopathy. They take pride in their superiority and, at best, feel somewhat sorry for their unfortunate but inferior prey. They just can't help themselves, of course, they are victims of their own nature. When they observe normal, caring people with actual consciences, able to love one and other, able to sacrifice, able to believe in a higher power, they become enraged, which, to them justifies more predation. For some reason, we are attracted to sociopaths, whether it be portrayed by a politician, movie villain, serial murderer, bad boy with the tight jeans, or bad girl with the hard, gray eyes. Maybe it is their perceived power, maybe their life free from guilt, I don't know. But for whatever sociopaths (and vampires) are thick on the ground in modern movies and TV shows. I'm tired of them. This is just another movie about sociopaths, not even cute or sexy sociopaths, just sickies. Good acting (I love Walken and Taylor as actors, but despite its pretensions to philosophy, it is just another movie glorifying the coldness that resides in the hearts of some humans. "},{"Title":"Not a vampire movie","Date":"29 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":" This movie is not a vampire movie. The entire concept of vampirism in this movie is itself a metaphor for addiction (alcohol, drugs etc.).And why do I say that? Well, for one thing, it lacks many of the non-addictive parts of vampire lore. A human does not transform into a vampire by just being bitten. The very idea of that is ridiculous, since if that was the case, and just 1 person bit another per day, who then turned into a vampire, who again bit 1 person per day etc., the entire world would be populated solely by vampires in a matter of months.This movie is supposed to depict the descent into drug addiction or alcoholism. When we first encounter the addiction, it (personified by the first vampire in the movie), says Tell me to leave. Say it as you mean it!. This is the drug/alcohol talking. But she can't. This is the ambivalence of the addicts' mind, when she knows that it is leading into descent, yet is unable to resist. After that, the urge just increases, and gets more and more evident.Finally, she goes to see a therapist - personified by another vampire, Peina. This vampire is an passive alcoholic, who has been through what Kathleen has, but now is clean. But the therapy is not helping. When she says What do you want?, and he angrily replies, No! What do YOU want? You came to me!, is the therapist's notion of that she is beyond reach. He then leaves her with her addiction.After that, the abuse grows more and more insane. The feasting is an indicator of a raging addiction beyond control, and it leads us to the last stage - the hospital bed. There, all hope is gone, and death wish ensues. But even there, alcohol/drug manifests itself again in form of the initial vampire, who laconically states According to R. C. Sprouse, we are not evil because we do evil things. We do evil things, because we are evil. We are drug addicts by nature, and there is nothing we can do about it. With this ambivalent comment, we are left without knowing whether death sets in or not.The movie's title, The Addiction, does indeed refer to exactly that, the addiction, and follows an addict from her clean stage to the last stage of substance abuse. If only viewed (or at least solely) as a vampire movie, one would not 'get' the movie's intent. "},{"Title":"Russel Simmons Presents Def Vampires","Date":"17 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":"  The premise is interesting enough Comparing the addiction of Vampires to that of of a compulsive drug addict. But the product does little to capitalize on the cool concept. Lili Taylor stars as a doctorate candidate whose whole philosophical life changes once she gets bitten by a street-walking vampire. Along the way she recites some Vampire-inspired philosophy, shows the 'hood whose boss, and gets spooked by the always spooky Christopher Walken (whose presence is always welcomed in a film, especially in this dry film). The rest is a mix between gritty realism and unintended camp. The moments that are supposed to be terrifying suffer from jumbled hand-held camera operating. It seems the idea behind this is to make the audience feel the same way that you would if you were being chased around by a bunch of bloodsucking vampires. The problem, however, is that the combination of both loose editing and horrible camera angles result in many of the supposedly terrifying moments falling flat (Granted, watching actors 'necking' for over an hour and fifteen minutes is somewhat comedic to begin with). The writing is serviceable It hits on some of the clich vampire stuff while also interjecting some nice attempts at philosophy. But in this film, it's hard to reward good intentions. The same can be said of the director's choice of tone and soundtrack (which really takes away from the subtext of the actor's performances by spelling out 'I can just get high all day.' We get it, Vampires=Junkies). Lili Taylor gives one of those rare go-for-broke performances (screaming, slicing, throwing things, and at one point doing a really odd 'straight-jacket' dance on the floor of a room), but sadly her dedication is lost in a film that aims high and scores low. ***By the way, it's shot in black and white-apparently they decided to suck the blood out of the color tints.  "},{"Title":"Made we want to chew my leg off!!","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":"  The Addiction is a so called modern day vampire movie with Lili Taylor and Christopher Walken. Don't be misled, Chris Walken only shows up in two brief scenes, seems his name appears so high on the cast list to attract viewers.After being attacked by a female vampire on a dark New York street, Kathleen slowly becomes a vampire herself(excruciatingly slow I might add).  After almost two hours of Kathleen spouting philosophy and close-ups of Holocast photos (huh?!) I would have happily put a stake in her heart myself.The interesting moments are few and far between in this film.  Chris Walken's scenes are good and the feeding frenzy ending is OK, but the suffering you have to go through to get there is too much.  "},{"Title":"According to all these reviews, I think I missed the point","Date":"28 December 2012","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":" I respect the user reviews here a lot.I am genuinely in the minority in not admiring this movie. I admire the work of Ferrara and many of the actors in it. However, I thought that the great Lily Taylor sounded fed-up and was simply reciting memorized pages of Philosophy for Dummies.There has to be some connection between the director and Dick Wolf or w/LAW AND ORDER FOR so many of the L&O actors to have been involved w/this project. Maybe it's D'Onofrio's connection w/Taylor and their masterwork, HOUSEHOLD SAINTS.I am pleased so many people find this an amazing work, but I just didn't get it. "},{"Title":"the ultimate goth movie","Date":"26 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":" Great vampire movie from film maverick Abel Ferrara. As about a hundred people have stated this is not explicitly a vampire movie. No one ever mentions the word vampire and we don't know whether or not Kathy is, in fact, a vampire. Vampirism is used as the grand metaphor for 20th century ills. Disease, AIDS, crime, drug use. Everything. The Addiction stirs it all like a big stew.Kathy Conklin is an NYU grad student bitten by a mugger one night. She starts to think she has become a vampire and even drinks blood and avoids sunlight. The plot doesn't progress in the usual Hollywood fashion. There is no villain to be killed or hero to be saved (although there is a rousing finale).People into movies like Van Helsing will (I guarantee) dislike The Addiction. It has definite horror touches and the ending leaves you shaken but it is not strictly a horror film. It's also a mood piece (shot in lovely black in white by Ken Kelsch) and a drama. It may be too slow for the average horror audience and all the philosophy talk and discussion about war atrocities will confuse those looking for quick, cheap thrills. But for the patient viewer, I guarantee a rewarding experience. This film has MUCH to offer (much more than Van Helsing!) Also, there are so many little fantastic touches. The brilliant use of New York city street locations and the lowlifes who hang out, smoking and shooting their lives away with drugs. The great use of Cypress Hill's I Wanna Get High, which we hear several times during the film (particularly when we see Kathy or some other street lowlife taking shooting up) and is the PERFECT song for this film. The cinematography is astonishing, turning New York into a kind of American Trannsylvania. The super freaky party scene. The scene where Kathy's friend sends her flowers and Kathy dumps out the flowers and lays on the floor sifting the dirt in her hands soothingly (perfect!).The Addiction is interesting also because it presents horror from a decidedly female perspective. And not the perspective of the perky ingenue who easily foils the villain, or a kick-butt tough girl hero, who picks up a gun and blows away the bad guy. A real female. One who is absolutely horrified in the beginning when she is mugged (and then bitten!). We see her come slowly home after this happens and her shock and terror really register. It's something you don't usually see in a film. Women just aren't presented realistically. There are lots of wonderful qualities to this film. Check it out! "},{"Title":"Boring and pretentious to death...","Date":"27 September 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":" After watching most of Abel Ferrara's works I'm certain of one thing Ferrara is a two hits wonder. He made two good movies (Bad lieutenant and The funeral) and that's all. His reputation is by far so out of proportion.In The addiction Ferrara made a pretentious and pedantic mixture of vampires cinema and philosophy. The issues he deals with in this movie are way too transcendental for a 60 minutes film., so everything is so arbitrary and senseless.As for Lily Taylor, she's a nice actress but she has an unusual capability to choose the most boring projects. Again, she's not a bad actress at all, but her curriculum would send an elephant to sleep.*My rate 3/10 "},{"Title":"Plato and a Vampire walk into a bar...","Date":"31 October 2007","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":" The Addiction is yet another fledgling disaster by director Abel Ferrara. Yep, I am going to come out punching with this one, because for nearly 80-some odd minutes, I tried &#133; I tried to get into Ferrara's mind, into his details, into his rhythm, but could not find anything to attach myself too. This was one of those films college philosophy classes drool over trying to find the inside jokes, the powerful double meanings, and the hidden power of the words &#150; but for me, a simple film viewer, this one went over my head, displayed a lack of talent, yet showed me strength with failed opportunity. The Addiction remains on VHS without the transfer to DVD for a particular reason, and while I will honestly give a reason for my disgust, I don't foresee a transfer in this films future, unless the dollar bin has any space to fill.The Addiction has two prerequisites one must accomplish prior to even thinking of enjoying this feature. The first is that you must have some knowledge of philosophy to comprehend the rants that Taylor gives (both in and out of character) &#150; even if it is simply an introduction class, you will be in a better position that I was. The second is that you must have watched or have heard of the Jim Jarmusch film Dead Man. In fact, when looked closer upon, these two films could be companions to each other &#150; both giving nearly a full college credit within the parameters of the opening and closing credits. With these two prerequisites under your belt, you are ready to endure the truth &#150; no matter how painful Ferrara makes it. I tried to enjoy Bad Lieutenant as much as I could, the cult status sky-rocketing the hypothetical stock price of Harvey Keitel's portrayal of a corrupt cop, but it just wasn't the film I was hoping for. The Addiction falls within the same. I wanted a powerful moment of cinema helmed by Lily Taylor, Christopher Walken, Edie Falco, et al, but instead a was handed 80+ minutes of incoherent gibberish. Have you seen I Shot Andy Warhol? If you find yourself with the answer of yes, than you have seen an identical character delivered by Lily Taylor. Ranting, raving, and pushing the limits of independence, Taylor finds herself welcomed unrepentantly into the world of the vampire. Using reverse psychology, philosophical rants, and even the taste of drugs, Taylor becomes a creature of the night &#150; ready to suck blood and bore to sleep.The rest of the characters attempt to give something to camera, but that piece of machinery doesn't lie. Falco is as stiff as a board, Walken tries to steal his scenes, but they merely interpret into hack philosophy quotes. Then we have others (like Fredro Star) that one could mention, but it would just waste your time. The camera focus' on Taylor, and while I can get lost in her blunt mannerism, this wasn't the film for her talents. The picture didn't seem to match the artists, and vice versa. The music didn't seem to match the theme, and the emotion didn't seem to match the words. Addiction felt like a student film, pushing the limits of nothing while trying to seem more artistic than entertaining. The line was fuzzy. I needed either a deeper character study or a deeper plot, I wanted something that would make me think &#150; not bend my mind unwillingly. The language seemed forced and the plot seemed unrealistic. I realize that this is a film about vampires, but two scenes made me shudder uncontrollably (and not in a good way). The first is when Taylor drugs her professor using the infamous in and out method, and the second was when Taylor has the party and everyone goes ballistic &#150; as if nobody will notice that people are missing. I needed more development, more explanation, more voice to this philosophical film. Ferrara could have made this into a breathtaking film that explored possibilities, but instead he let the camera slide, let the music destroy the scene, and allowed our actors to go character-less throughout the entire film. In essence, the film imploded.Overall, I wish I had something positive to say about this film. I wanted to like it, because I thought the cast was incredible &#150; such big names &#150; but nobody seemed to work for the pennies they were probably making. This film is a blemish on Walken's career, proving that he cannot save everything. The hokie black and white choice for cinematography was creative, but not original. It distracted from our central focus and forced us to scurry around near the end of the film to find it. This is an independent film, but that doesn't mean that it is a good independent film. There are problems throughout this feature that destroy the characters, sound, and sights throughout. It is hard to watch, just like Dead Man, and may even put you to sleep before you know what happens. The characters were forced or non-existent, the sound was horrid (completely didn't match the film's tone), and the story was bland. This was yet another way of trying to appeal to smarter viewers without actually listening. Sure, throw in philosophical words &#150; that makes any feature better (did you hear the sarcasm?) &#150; but with Addiction nothing could save it. There is one final scene that is the epitome of how I felt about this movie, it is right before the party when Taylor is so angry she destroys a closet while trying to rip her clothes off. If one had a camera in my house, I believe you would have seen the same thing as this film came to a close. Please avoid &#150; it isn't worth the VHS it is printed on.Grade * out of ***** "},{"Title":"Ethical Relativism In A Horror Film","Date":"9 November 2003","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":"  As I`ve said in just about every movie with the name  Abel Ferrara  in the credits he`s a director who doesn`t deserve a reputation for being a maker of video nasties simply because he`s not . I can understand why some people detest his films , they`re often very low budget and deal with topics people would rather not think about . In many ways Ferrara films are very similar in style to Martin Scorsese`s masterworks but Ferrara stays true to his ethos of social realism and allegory THE ADDICTION is almost certainly Ferrara`s most art house movie and possibly his most unlikable to a mainstream audience . It`s a bleak disturbing drama filmed in black and white featuring the allegory that being a vampire is very similar to being a drug addict . My problem with it is that I couldn`t help reading other things into the subtext . For example after being bitten by a vampire the main  protagonist Kathleen resembles the victim of a sexual assault so is being a vampire the same as being a rapist ? Kathleen spreads her vampirism to others so is THE ADDICTION an AIDS/ hepatitis / STD allegory ? . I`m confused about these points . I was also initially confused about the graphic images of Nazi death camps and the Bosnian war but these are later explained ( read my one line summary if you don`t get it ) but the appearance of Christopher Walken`s character brings nothing to the plot    "},{"Title":"Boring nonsense.","Date":"12 October 2006","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":" The Addiction is set in New York city where anthropology student Kathleen Conklin (Lili Taylor) is bitten by a Vampire called Casanova (Annabella Sciorra) one night & turns into one herself. Kathleen craves blood to satisfy her addiction & there are plenty of unwilling donors walking around the streets of New York...This American Argentinian co-production was directed by Abel Ferrara & I personally hated every dull second of it. The script by Nicholas St. John is basically a metaphor for drug addiction, the way Kathleen craves blood & will do anything to get it, the way she ends up in hospital with blood pouring from her mouth which I suppose could be seen as the Vampire equivalent of vomit. To my mind I found it incredibly dull & boring, when I watch a film all I want is to be entertained & The Addiction fails in that simple task spectacularly. Sure there are plenty of great films out there with strong messages, Trainspotting (1996) for one which as it happens also deals with drugs, so why can't The Addiction be both entertaining & have a meaning? I don't know...Director Ferrara films in black and white for absolutely no reason that I can think of, seriously why was The Addiction shot like this? There's no real style or particularly strong use of light & shadow so all I can think of is that the filmmakers thought it would look more arty, or something like that. Forget about decent blood or gore, there's some fake blood splashed around but nothing graphic.Apparently shot in twenty days technically The Addiction is alright although the black and white cinematography did nothing for me. The acting was OK, Christopher Walken fans should be aware that despite his near top-billing in the credits he has nothing more than a cameo.The Addiction may appeal to some upper class film critics who think they can see lots of meaningful moral messages in it, personally I thought it was crap & nearly put me to sleep. Did nothing for me at all I'm afraid. "}{"Title":"A compelling movie--dark, grim, and intense","Date":"13 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":" This is a film about the evil that is inherent in mankind and how it runs rampant in a world lacking any spiritual saving grace. For Abel Ferrara, apparently, that saving grace is submission to Christianity--or at least that seems to be the meaning of the final scenes. In any case it seems clear to me that all the talk about philosophy in the film is meant to be little more than mumbo-jumbo. Philosophy alone is powerless in the face of evil.Vampirism is an ideal symbol of evil. It is portrayed as an addiction or a disease--something inescapable and inherent, like original sin. In a world of wholesale cruelty and slaughter (as in those recurrent images from the death camps), the appearance of vampires on our city streets seems like a logical next step. The startling feeding frenzy of the vampires toward the end of the movie easily represents evil that has run rampant in a spiritually barren world.Perhaps the director and screenwriter are taking on too much, but this is a compelling movie--dark, grim, and intense. As someone who generally dismisses vampire stories as silly superstition and is unable to take seriously the idea of wielding a crucifix as a weapon, I found this vampire movie downright scary. The wonderful black-and-white cinematography certainly added to the effect, as did the excellent performance by Lili Taylor. "},{"Title":"Arty vampire allegory","Date":"21 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":" Abel Ferrara excels and misfires in equal measure in this low-budget yet subversive take on the vampire genre. Using haunting black and white photography and a moody, foreboding score, Ferrara paints a nihilistic picture of downtown NYC in the 1990s, juxtaposing the ethical dilemmas of its philosophy student protagonist with the urban, Darwinistic wasteland of night-time NYC. The first twenty minutes are stunningly realized, especially the first Vampire bite; thereafter, the film becomes rather too self-conscious for its own good, eschewing its eerie sense of fragmented space for oblique philosophical references. Philosophy and film do not often make good bedfellows because the former is a visual medium that denies rational assessment. Ferrara allows the actors to rise above the material by virtue of his detached yet edgy direction. All in all, A triumph of sorts. "},{"Title":"Lili Taylor is Amazing!!!","Date":"12 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":"  Lili Taylor is amazing in this dark, real and violent film aboutexistiental vampires in NYC. Lili carries the whole film on her back anddoes it with a tremendous amount of grace and intensity. She is anincredibly sincere actress who is always believeble and never boring.She even gives Chistopher Walken a run for his money in a scene wherehis character is suppossed to be the dominant one. There is also a scenein the film where Ms. Taylor goes ballistic in her attempt to fight thedemons that are inside of her. It is the most intense improvisation ofanger and dread that has ever been committed to film. Edie Falco,Kathryn Erbe and Annabella Sciorra also give performances and the subtlyof the sexuality between the women is also makes this film a sight t "},{"Title":"An interesting movie, beautifully filmed - if somewhat vague.","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":"  Is this a movie about vampires? Well - in a sense it is, but actually it has very little to do with standard vampire tales. If you like a horror movie, The Addiction will not fulfill your needs. The 'horror' there is is quite surreal and grotesque, such as the disturbing 'party-scene', and neither frightening nor humorous.So what is the movie about? A lot of things. About being addicted, obviously, but many other themes - such as guilt, redemption, free will, the problem of evil, and others - are present too. There is no closely reasoned message here - at least, I couldn't find it - but more a kaleidoscope of problems and questions. If nothing else, it makes you think.The acting is pretty good, and the black-and-white photography is superb. If the plot is somewhat vague, the atmosphere is always great.The only real weak point of the movie - in my opinion - is the rather clear Christian message at the end. I had expected something more original, after a movie littered with Nietzsche, Kierkegaard and many other philosophers - and some disturbing other comments too.We are not evil because we do evil - we do evil because we are evil.I've given this movie 8 out of 10. Don't watch it if you dislike movies with a vague plot and a cryptic message. "},{"Title":"A different vampire flick.","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":"  The Addiction is the story of a philosophy student who becomes a vampire and succums to her addiction for blood.  Abel Ferrara (Bad Lieutenant) brings us a vampire flick like no other, the film is really a metaphor for drug addiction.  The victims could simply tell the vampire to go away and they would, but they don't. I.E Just Say No.  Eventually Kathleen (Taylor) overdoses(?) on blood and ends up in the hospital.  The Addiction is deep, Ferrara once again brings religion into the picture and offers us a view of the world in beautiful black and white.  Is it pretentious, yes.  But its symbolism makes the viewer think and for that I commend the film. 7/10. "},{"Title":"Dark, inteligent, desent vampire flick","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":"  **SPOILERS**A certainly, different, dark, inteligent horror flick from Abel Ferrara, the director of various violent New York urban pictures. Here he portrays the secret underbelly of New York's subculture of vampires. The vampirism portrayed here is like a form a drug addiction for junkies feed off of illegal drugs like heroin, amoung others, vampires have the feed for blood. The lead character is Lili Taylor who plays Kathleen, a NYU med student studying for her Ph.D and living a lonely existence in a small apartment in Greenwich Village. One evening while walking home from night classes studying about war and the devastation, a chicly dressed woman, known only as Casanova, grabs Kathleen off the street, drags her into an alley and bites her on the neck. The bite slowly transforms Kathleen into a vampire, one of the undead to walk the earth feasting on blood. Kathleen then spends the rest of the movie trying to come to terms with her new existence. Her first impressions of not being able to eat, sleep, tolarate sunlight, unable cast a reflection in a mirror, or to enter a person's residence without an invitation is a hard one for her. Kathleen's new life is shown as she is a type of junkie with the insasible appetite for human blood and is to be dependent on it.  While fighting her blood lust, Kathleen has discussions with her history professor as well as her best friend, Jean, about things like war, death, and other intelectual issues such as poety, and books like Naked Lunch, etc. But eventually Kathleen gives into her addition and her first victim is a street bum huddled in a doorway who puts up an even less struggle than she did with Casanova.  Not wanting to bite her dirty, first victim with her new stubby fangs, Kathleen takes some of his blood with a hyperdermic needle which she injects into her arm, like a heroin junkie. With that her transformation to full vampire is complete and she then goes around vitimizing fellow students, professors, strangers and friends.Shot in black and white on a very low budget, The Addiction is a must-see for all those who crave sub-culture art house films. Though the film looks very art-house as an almost student made picture. Like some of other works by Abel Ferrara, it has strong Catholic messages symbolizing that the only way for one to survive is to seek redemption before God. Lili Taylor is very good as the student turned vampire whom we share her point of view almost throughout the film. Her transformation to vampire in the early scenes is compelling for her transformation physically changes her too into a dark, pasty complextion of a young version of Patti Smith. Kathleen belives that since she is a vampire, and cannot die, she is one better than everyone around her. But midway through the movie, Kathleen's belief that she's superior over the teeming masses of New York is shatered when, during one of her nighttime prowls for victims, she has a run-in with another vampire, a gauntly handsome bloodsucker named Penia who is played by the great Christopher Walken, who's so convincing in his minor role that one really must wonder if he really is a vampire in real life. Inviting Kathleen back to his loft for some nighttime talk, Penia makes no attempt to hide his contempt for Kathleen and her parasitic existence and saying that just because that they're vampires there's no reason to repent their sins and make a life for themselves that's (almost) human as he has. Penia's talk makes Kathleen wonder if this life is really for her, which sets the stage for the climatic massacre which she masterminds with her sire Casanova. The vampire carnage at a party Kathleen throws is both horrifying and funny as a sort of Night of the Living Dead meets Kicking and Screaming.The Catholic messages that repentence is the only way to find salvation and end one's lifestyle is a little confusing as well as some of the poetic rethoric thrown by all of the characters in the film that one may find hard to follow. But the (sort of) happy ending makes little sense since a lot of things are never fully explained in detail. Gore fans by be slightly dissapointed over the lack of blood and guts over the more favored characterization and poetic dialogue. But overwall a very good, not your average vampire drama one would expect to see. "},{"Title":"Must see vampire art...","Date":"31 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":"  Not just a vampire tale, The Addiction works on many layers. Using a vampiric story, The Addiction comments on illegal drug use, philosophy and student dissastification with academic programs. Add to that a stellar performance by Lili Taylor and beautiful black and white cinematography, and you've got an amazing film. "},{"Title":"notion of immortality and youth as a curse","Date":"2 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":"  I saw the film yesterday very late nite...as I am residing in Finland, disturbing films must be showcased during times no-one is watching telly. Well, after reading user comments and having watched the film without understanding it too much last night.However, the perspectives of other users gave me new insight...The film, thus, is a story in which an aspiring Ph.D student of philosophy is attacked by a vampire don't be afraid, You'll see what happens...The story continues as her lust for blood develops.  The superficial story of her developing into a blood-sucking draculaesque vampire is not interesting.New York is shown as a cold place where everyone is only interested in getting high, as Cypress Hill is heard on the background on various occasions and only the ones who have the courage to utilize other people or (abuse?) of leading them or simply, not telling the truth, to their avail is studied...The world is a cold place where immortality (christopher walken) is a curse, even though he is as similar to normal humans as possible (he even defecates, however, he cannot die)The notion of youth is interesting, as western world is striving for the eternal youth by means of sucking other peoples blood... capitalism can be seen as a zero-sum game, and the tendency to ask for more creates addiction to strive for more...Therefore, the movie's bloodfeast can be seen as a grim forecast on modern life's rubbishness... "},{"Title":"Best interpretation of Vampirism yet!!","Date":"6 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":"  One night, unable to sleep, watching the clock turn 400am -- HBO presents The Addiction starring Lily Taylor.  Who? What?I sat through this movie with extreme anticipation.  I've seen vampire movies.  I know vampire movies.  But, never have I seen such a modern interpretation of vampirism.  Disease. Drug. Addiction.  It is movies like these that make you wonder if you're normal.  You get so involved and so interested in the phenomenon or myth or faerie tale, whichever you believe -- that you begin to question reality.  By far, the best scene is the party blood feast. Yummy. "},{"Title":"This is what a good chiller type movie should be like","Date":"3 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":"  As original as it gets. It's too bad this low budget indy won't get the attention it deserves. For the minority of the movie going public who appreciate something different and well done, this is your movie. Don't be put off by the concept of a vampire movie. Amazingly, the word vampire is never used in the entire film. Taylor's acting is intense. Under different circumstances, she would be up for an Oscar. Pass the word on this one for people to give it a chance. The true concept, not vampires need for blood, but instead man kinds constant search and desire for constant artificial stimulation and satisfaction is well examined through the intelligent dialogue. If anyone has seen this thriller feel free to write me and talk about it. "}{"Title":"If you hate Twilight, you gonna love this!","Date":"19 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":" This is how a vampire movie should be. It is very dark and grim and what makes it frightening is that it's realistic. Christopher Walken is great in this and the role is perfect for him. Lili Taylor is great too. But what really makes it stand out is the story as well as the cinematography. It's not really a vampire movie. It reminded me more of movies like Requiem for a Dream. But it's not just a movie about drug abuse either, nor is it simply a philosophical movie.I must have watched this movie like 20 times (since it came out back in the day). And each time I watch it, it's interesting because I discover something new and interpret it in a new way.Nowhere in the movie does it mention that they are vampires. We just ASSUME they are vampires cause that is what we are expecting and that is how they look and behave. But then again they also look and behave like drug addicts and/or rapists. The movie starts with the question of why and how people are capable of war crimes, rape and other atrocities... and in the course of the movie you learn how and why.The ending is very interesting and had me thinking quite a bit before I figured it out. Of course I won't tell you... go watch it yourself. If you like horror movies that make you think about them and that don't need special effects to scare you, than this is well worth your time. "},{"Title":"art house","Date":"3 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":" Abel Ferrara, the director of this art-house flick is best known for his banned movie The Driller Killer. Just before he made that he even directed a porn flick, so he surely knows what to do with a movie, another much talked about flick directed by him is Ms 45. And of course this arty flick is also much talked about. The story is so simple. Bitten unsuspectingly by a vampire and living with being a vampire. It's in black and white which of course gave it's art feeling but it is also a slow movie with some blood running now and then but it surely works due the perfect performances. The use of rap music (cypress hill) and real news footage (My Lai)also did it's work. Especially the news footage is not for the sqeaumish. It surely is worth watching, no special effects just a story being brought to you in a typical Abel way. A must see. "},{"Title":"Vampires with a twist","Date":"18 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":" Abel Ferrara's visually impressive take on the vampire mythos. There's no black cloaks with red velvet lining here, no fangs, and definitely no transforming into bats, instead this is comparing and contrasting vampirism with drug addiction. Indeed, it is never entirely clear whether the individuals in question are in fact vampires, or, as the title implies, addicts of some kind. Beautifully shot in black and white, this is stylish and intelligent, but certainly not for gore hounds or quick thrill seekers. Unlike Ferrara's Driller Killer, this is more cerebral than horrific and is certainly the kind of movie that even horror haters may be able to sink their fangs into. Sit back and switch your frontal lobe on. "},{"Title":"I am unsure on how to comment this movie","Date":"11 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":" You know when some academic talks about a subject you are unfamiliar with and you are wondering if what he says is terribly intelligent or just terribly pretentious? This is how The Addiction felt like.As another movie I have just seen, Near Dark, it deals with vampires but makes me think of drug addiction. Christopher Walken has a small, but powerful role where he explains that as long as you follow your addiction you are nothing. One expresses oneself by resisting, not embracing their addictions. But where does simple need end and addiction start?In the end, I can only say that the film, shot in black and white and featuring lovely Lilly Allen as the main character, was dark and felt interesting, but nothing of what the characters said or did meant anything to me. Does that make sense? "},{"Title":"What have the Romans ever done for us?","Date":"9 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":" Again, a strong film from Ferrara, with incredible performances from Christopher Walken and Lili Taylor.A bit 'holier-than-thou,' ...Ferrara seems to want all grad students and their advisers to pay for the sins of Western civilization...Auschwitz, South America turned into a 'mud puddle,' etc.For me that's not so important. I think Western civilization more than makes up for its sins....ala Monty Python in _Life of Brian_ 'What have the Romans ever done for us?' Well, the roads, the aqueducts, medicine, etc.However, despite his overly moralistic tone, I think Ferrara scores big with this film. The final scene where the vampires dine on the grad school committee is satisfying for anyone who has a grudge against authority (i.e. almost everyone), and ranks along with the bar massacre from _Near Dark_ for awesome vampire massacre scenes...If you're a fan of Ferrara, vampires, Lili Taylor, or just a grad student, you ought to really appreciate this film. "},{"Title":"Is this a horror movie or a philosophy lesson?","Date":"31 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":" This is a strange one--on one hand I love this movie for its beautiful imagery and dark and somber feel but on the other hand the ENDLESS philosophy talk drove me crazy.An anthropology student (Lili Taylor) is bitten by a vampire (Annabella Sciorra). She doesn't die--she lives but has a need for blood. When she doesn't get it she gets extremely weak. But she can't overcome her horror at ripping open people's throats for their blood.Sounds a LOT more interesting than it plays. The story is interesting and the acting is superb but the story turns into one long and dull philosophy lesson. Characters walk around endlessly expounding on various philosophical theories or sayings. This might be interesting if I cared about philosophy--but I saw this expecting a horror film. That's NOT what I got. It's endless droning on and on about philosophy and life...on and on... More than once I wanted to turn off the sound. It really got to me and--just when you think it can't get worse-- Christopher Walken pops up giving another one of his zombie-like performances.There are some good things about the movie. The whole cast is great but Taylor is superb in a VERY difficult role. The film is shot in moody black and white which totally fits the story. There's also a climatic party sequence which is easily one of the most disturbing things I've ever seen. It gets a 7 for all those things. But if you're looking for a horror movie be prepared for TONS of philosophy. Maybe next time they can leave the endless lessons off and concentrate more on the story. "},{"Title":"A most memorable vampire flick...","Date":"16 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":" Okay, I have seen this movie once, when it first came out, at the theatre; it has remained with me ever since. Chris Walken's character, though showing only once in the movie, ties ittogether and makes the whole movie great.I have looked for this movie on DVD and found that it is not available in this format, and as far as I can tell, it never was available in this format...in the states; it is presently available in England, coupled with Abel Ferrera's The Funeral, but it cannot be played in region 1 (North American) DVD players. Will, can, someone PLEASE get the message through to the appropriate party/sthat this movie should be released uncut, unrated and in DVD format here in the U.S. Money will be made so please release it! "},{"Title":"The mystery of iniquity","Date":"16 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":"  Like Nadja of the same year, The Addiction is a B&W, low-budget flick about latter-day vampires in NYC.  Little resemblance between the two movies beyond that.  Lili Taylor, at home in these off-center roles, heads up the most grueling story of psychological disintegration since the vaguely similar Vampire's Kiss.  Christopher Walken, straight from a turn as a renegade angel in The Prophecy, here has a role as another vampire.Vampirism as a metaphor for drug addiction meets grad-school sophistry, as an afflicted doctoral candidate (Taylor )struggles to place vampirism into a philosophical context of human suffering, evil, and nihilism.  Blood-spattered scenes of vampirism are set against a backdrop of images from the Holocaust and Vietnam.  It makes for some interestingly incomprehensible, pretentious dialogue--like thoughts that come to mind when you're running a 104-degree fever.  Spoilers follow.At least three times in the movie, a vampire attacking someone tells his/her victim  Look me in the face and tell me to go away like you mean it!  If this brings to mind the Biblical injunction, Resist the Devil and he will flee from you, it's appropriate before it's all over, the film identifies mankind's bloodthirsty addiction/illness with a once-familiar name sin.  Our heroine, laid up in the hospital, gladly takes communion following her simple request God forgive me.  Spoilers continue.The final scene, in which she lays a rose on her own grave and walks away from it, is puzzling if taken literally.  Symbolically, it appears to represent the Christian belief in the death of the old man and putting on the new man, the beginning of a new life born again. (For further Biblical parallels to aspects of this film's story, see also Isaiah 118; Acts 1721; and I Corinthians 119-20.) Significantly, if a tad heavy-handedly, her gravestone indicates she was born on October 31st, with all the sinister associations thereof, and died on November 1st... All Saints' Day.All told, a strange movie, middlebrow in its philosophical aspirations, yet capable of scenes of bloody frenzy.  Not for everybody... in fact, it's not at all clear who its intended audience was supposed to be... so if you're looking for a fun vampire flick, keep looking, since this one is pretty rough sledding at times.  On the other hand, if you're up for something a bit more challenging, here it is. "},{"Title":"New York Vampires who major in philosophy?","Date":"18 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":"  Anything is possible in a Nicholas St. John script. But what director Ferrara and writer St. John have created is a film about the struggle against dependency on substances that dictate your life and that is a thesis in itself. Another interesting piece from the bad boys of New York who allow you to dig deeper in their exploitative works. "},{"Title":"excellent- that is a film that has excelled","Date":"2 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":"  this is another animation by lili taylor, goddess of independant film. though the plot is slightly ambiguous in its (simultaneous) boldness and subtlety, it is truly an achievement.christopher walken was a great touch, though i only wish that his character might have been developed a tad more- can't have much of anything, forget everything.. give it a name...ferrara has taken something that at first seems clich, and has transformed it into a forum of philosphy. what's more, in its ramblings, what is said is relevant... any die-hard 'ghost in the shell' fan, (right here), will find similar ravings from just about every character (especially lili's). unlike 'ghost', what is said, though seemingly tangential and pointless, does in fact serve purpose in the film. this is a novelty in the face of all the ahem-crap that is being mass-produced from hollywood.-a very impressed and (himself) raving adam "}{"Title":"WOW!","Date":"30 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":"  That's I call great movie!!Good acting (what you think about Christopher Walken?and Annabelle Sciorra?she looks like really stoned!);nice photography that reminds to crime and metropolitan noir of the 40's-50's.And I like very much the story, maybe(and I saw a lot of bloodsucker-movies!)the best way to speak again about vampire nowadays. But the most fascinating thing of this movie is that's not only a horror movie, but much more..a big pot of the pessimistic thoughts of the last two century mixed with the predestination to evil.Another gem by Ferrara and his writer Nicholas St.John. Masterpiece! "},{"Title":"Interesting.","Date":"15 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":"  Abel Ferrara's The Addiction is a really strange film.It's not your everyday vampire gore-fest,it has philosophical depth into it.The black and white photography is a nice touch and creates fascinating mood throughout the film.The acting is pretty good and believable,the direction by Abel Ferrara is well-handled and the film-typically for Ferrara(Driller Killer,Ms 45,Fear City)is full of religious overtones.There's also a nice amount of blood spilled-especially the party scene is pretty amazing.Absolutely recommended. "},{"Title":"Intellectual vampires trash the New York educational elite","Date":"25 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":"  Lili Taylor, kathryn Erbe and Christopher Walken star in a horror movie of an intellectual nature. Perhaps one of the most provocative films I have ever seen, this film describes vampire blood addiction in a drug/demonic possession metaphor, much the way a soldier kills a person or a group of people more efficiently when he gets a combat high. The film is a cautionary tale in layers...layers of vampirism..intellectual, sexual, emotional, educational overlording,...this film was shot in black and white and has one off the most REALISTIC vampire attack scenes on film. So realistic I almost had to leave the theatre. THE ADDICTION dispenses with slasher gore and delves into the psyche and gives us the WHAT IF LOOK into a person taken over by vampirism...the film is also a social commentary as well, with out the AW SHUCKS cheap one liners and gore of teenage vampire films. The film in scenes equates vampires similar to the men at MAI LI, pol pot and Hitler. It also goes for a quasi reliigous /nitzsche approach to explain the vampire bloodlust as a metaphor for power rape and emotional control. Done on a shoe string budget...we have the VAMPIRE in the big city story without the kitsch. Give this one a try...your brain cells will thank you. "},{"Title":"One of Ferrara's best","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":"  Though it tries to do more in it's 82 minutes than it should, The Addiction is a worthy addition to the pantheon of vampire flicks. It stands up reasonably well to repeat viewings, inviting further and deeper analysis. Christopher Walken is excellent as usual as an ennui-stricken bloodsucker, and Lili Taylor delivers a chillingly credible performance as the doctor of philosophy who acquires a taste for the red stuff.  "},{"Title":"God, this film was hard to watch!","Date":"24 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":"  I've seen Bad Lieutenant and Driller Killer but no other Abel Ferrara movie till The Addiction. Now from his two previous films that I have seen I have guessed that this man makes some quite disturbing movies that really have no point and it all happens over again with The Addiction which really is a film trying to be something else.Lilly Taylor plays Kathleen, a philosophy student who is quite an outcast to the world. She has friends and likes to mind her own business till one night she is walking home from the University and she is suddenly grabbed by an unknown woman played by Annabella Scirroa and she takes a liking to her neck and before any introducing she starts to get stuck in. Whether or not she is a vampire I can't answer as in this entire film of many neck biting moments you do not see one fang throughout so this questions the film whether the film is about Vampires with fangs or vampires without and just like to taste blood. Afterwards changes begin to occur in Kathleen's life and of course her zest for the taste of blood becomes more apart of her life. At first it just starts by her injecting other people's blood into her veins but then the she begins to invite people around to her apartment and really get stuck in. Here her life is turned around by all this and she is taken into a journey of madness. On the way she meets more victims then she finally meets Christopher Walken who is just like her but knows how to control his addiction for blood better than others. More of the so called story unfolds and it just seems this film goes nowhere whatsoever. I don't understand why studio's would give funding to a film like this. All the way through it just talks about redemption and stuff and I don't feel convinced by any of this. I've spoken to some people and they say it's probably his best work but I still think King of New York is his best work to date and if he keeps making films like The addiction it will be his best film for a long time to come. The performances from Lili Taylor was very good but I just got this feeling that she was trying to hard to be her character and just goes on in scenes and doesn't make any sense of it. I suppose if I had been bitten by somebody on the neck then I wouldn't be in the right frame of mind but that's not the point, the point is that Abel Ferrara has thrown out a film that is to short and at 79 minutes running time, you can't be expected to throw out a good enough film with this long a film. Christopher Walken was the best thing about it as his character isn't to much to take in and he actually sounds interesting without be annoying unlike Lili Taylor who just drove me mad throughout cause I don't like her acting at all. The Addiction is the reason why Abel Ferrara won't be remembered in 50 years and if he is then it will be to just remember that he made that crap film The Addiction and was trying to hard. Hopefully King of New York will stand its time, but if you watch Driller Killer which is beyond awful, Bad Lieutenant which is just a shock film without the shocks , King of New York will restore your faith in Ferrara and The Funeral which isn't half bad, but the Addiction is just not what I wanted and neither will you. The question is, is this a vampire film cause I think it wasn't.  "},{"Title":"Vampire preaches philosophy.","Date":"22 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":" From the director of 'Body Snatchers' and 'Bad Lieutenant' Abel Ferrara, comes a movie which is in the horror vein. Horror is not a theme which Ferrara is highly regarded for, however 'The addiction' rather tends to pursue giving a dictation on philosophical theories than intending to frighten the viewer. I first watched this when I was a student myself. This is one movie that can be appreciated for what exists underneath than watching people being bitten. Initially many will perceive this to be a vampire movie. But ones perception will be dependant on how he/she understands the concept. Shot in black and white, this has intended to give the movie a Gothic atmosphere. I personally felt that the black and white presentation eradicates a small proportion of the level of enjoyment that could have been experienced.SPOILERS The basic plot revolves around Lily Taylor who plays a philosophy student. On one night she is bitten by Annabelle Sciorra. From that night on the course of her life changes forever as she slowly begins to live life differently and acts in inhuman manners. She sucks blood from a few individuals and in between we hear quotes of philosophy that she narrates. In the end she attains her degree and indulges in a blood orgy at a get together party with a few of a revamped friends. I found it difficult to understand the final scene. My interpretation was quite confusing. I could not understand if Taylor was alive or dead. The movie ends on a strange piece of thought. But plot wise one should not expect much on it. END OF SpoilerThis is one of Abel Ferrara's more intelligent and less appreciated movies. He had moved far away from the tacky material that he used to make in the 70s and 80s. Many may experience a unsettling feeling with the images of a graphic nature but this is part of what Taylor is studying. Lily Taylor gives a fine performance and her constant body movements expressing the pain she feels is very realistic. She does more than act. The movie has a fast pace and with a short running time of 82 minutes there is never a dull moment. This will not be suited to the taste of many but if one has a interest in philosophy, one can't go wrong. "},{"Title":"Worst Vampire Movie Ever/Most Pretentious Movie Ever","Date":"28 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":"  Yes, there are plenty of Z-Vampire gore fests that are just terrible, but at least they're not pretending to be intellectual.  The characters in The Addiction do nothing but name drop philosophers.  It's like Kierkagard said  It's like Nietzche said.  It's like Sartre said.  I am familiar with the works of Friedrich Nietzche, and I am in no way impressed with people who constantly refer to his work.Christopher Walken, usually so cool, shows up for less than 2 minutes, and he has absolutely no impact on events, making me wonder why he gets such high billing for something so forgettable.I suppose philosophy majors enjoy this, in between working where ever it is that philosophy majors get jobs.  The Addiction is nothing but a self-righteous bore, and that's putting it mildly.  I even liked Interview with the Vampire, and I still can't take how absolutely heavy-handed this waste of film is. "},{"Title":"What a great vampire film","Date":"18 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":"  This is the best vampire picture I have yet to see. It came off as close to what being a vampire really would be as could be done. At least to my way of thinking. Lili Taylor was perfect as the philosophy spouting, newly made vampiress, Kathleen. Her victims were plentiful, and their feeding time near the show's end was a neck biting good time. I put this one up there with Count Yorga, Vampire and House of Dark Shadows for a chilling look at the undead.  "},{"Title":"THE ADDICTION (Abel Ferrara, 1995) **","Date":"27 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":" Pretentious mix of vampire lore (given a modern spin by treating it as an affliction on the level of drug abuse and AIDS), philosophy and religion; I kind of liked the idea that, when a vampire is about to attack its victim, it asks the latter to order the undead to leave - but, invariably, the frightened and confused prey pleads for its life, thus sealing its fate! This was Ferrara's third horror film after THE DRILLER KILLER (1979), which I haven't watched, and the more straightforward and much more enjoyable BODY SNATCHERS (1993) ugly-looking with an annoying hip-hop soundtrack to match, the film is generally muddled and - pardon the pun - lifeless. Still, the bloody vampire attacks are quite effective (especially when the undead are brought together and let loose at a party - a similar idea was adopted for the disco scenes in AN American WEREWOLF IN Paris 1997) and the main actors give undeniably committed performances Lili Taylor (striking a good balance between vulnerability and the inevitable ferocity when aroused), Christopher Walken (mesmerizing in his one scene) and Annabella Sciorra (who makes for a fetching vampire lady). "},{"Title":"The kind of horror film we were waiting for!","Date":"16 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":"  Abel Ferrara's cooperation with Nicholas St. John is a smack in the face for everyone who keeps on claiming that horror is a lamebrain and inferior cinema-genre! The Addiction is Ferrara's most stylish achievement to date and he also came a long way - when it comes to subtleness - since &#145;The Driller Killer'. The Addiction is a brilliant piece of philosophical horror&#133;one of the most intelligent screenplays I ever beheld, and it easily mixes both historical topics (the Holocaust) and modern concerns (AIDS, drugs&#133;). Ferrara's direct and raw approach raises the feeling you're watching a traditional B-movie. The stunning black and white cinematography even increases this feeling as you're being catapulted straight into an unknown setting where different cultures and social classes get involved with each other. Key figure in all this is Kathleen Conklin (magnificently portrayed by Lili Taylor) &#133;Once a devoted college student, now a confused `undead' with an uncontrollable need for blood. She was bitten down a dark alley and quickly turned into a vampire herself. Note that the word `vampire' isn't used in this film once, by the way. After recovering from the trauma a bit, Kathleen goes through a complete metamorphosis and &#145;contaminates' quite a lot persons herself and she even bumps into some sort of mentor who clarifies her she's facing eternity. This character is given image by the almighty Christopher Walken, who's ruling the screen with his powerful charisma. Everything in The Addiction is pretty much perfect according to me! The majority of Abel Ferrara's films are pretty personal, and even then, this very well might be his least accessible film&#133; Atmosphere, tension, satire, acting, directing&#133;all perfect! Under normal circumstances, I totally loathe rap-soundtracks but it didn't bother me here and I even thought it was appropriate and essential in order to create the right image. This whole production is intriguingly weird and uniquely eccentric, a must for fans of non-mainstream cinema. I'll do my best and recommend this to as many people as possible since it's one of the greatest B-movies I ever saw and easily one of the few cult treasures of the nineties!     "}{"Title":"It wasn't addictive","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":"  If there is ever a crappy film ever made in this world, it is The Addiction. WHOOPIE - it was in black and white and involved Christian symbolism about redemption. Note to everyone out there who thinks that that is what makes a film deep and meaningful that's what's known as coffee house philosophy. You might as well spank this film's ass and call it Charlie, because it was nothing special at all. I only watched it for Christopher Walken and he was wasted in it, though good with the self-involved, deep script he was given. I found myself constantly yelling at the screen, God! Won't she shut up?! and What the hell is going on, anyway?! You have to have a seriously high tolerance level for bad films to like this one. "},{"Title":"Abel, Please Stop Making Movies! They All Suck!","Date":"18 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":"  WARING POSSIBLE SPOILERS CONTAINED HEREIN. Taylor is totally miscast and not at all believable with her stupid shades and acting like a goth drama queen spouting philosophy. The rap music is out of place, but I guess Abel fancies himself a white boy gangstah. Hence, it's dope to put rap music in his movies. He's is obviously a drug addict (and thinks that's so cutting edge) and it shows in his sloppy film making. How he has a cult following is beyond me. I guess, drug addict film makers are trendy. If the people in this movie actually existed I'd smack them silly. You want reality? Philosophy? Don't watch pompous movies like this. Go out into the world. I'm embarrassed for everyone involved in this movie and everyone who liked it. Please get some brain cells. "},{"Title":"The Addiction","Date":"6 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Drama","Review":" Quite possibly the VERY WORST movie in the history of film-making... This movie itself is a vampire as it quite literally sucks the intelligence straight from your brain. Christopher Walken should gather up every copy of this movie and destroy it with his godlike might. Renting this movie should be a form of public humiliation, renting it by choice should be punishable by law.Horrible...If I were Christopher Walken I would have my name removed from the credits in this film! Words cannot express how horrible this movie was. I do not by any stretch of the imagination recommend this movie to anyone -- not even your worst enemy! "}]