[{"Title":"This movie was great, and I cannot see how someone could not like it.","Date":"17 February 2005","Score":"51 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" It is only my opinion, but this was probably one of the best animated movies I have ever viewed. I cannot understand why someone could disagree against this movie. Character voicing was superb, full of life and very well constructed. Aniamtion was beautiful, with smooth backgrounds and even up to the little details such as footprints left behind in the snow. The music was probably the best part of all, with the excellent orchestral background, full of dramatic phrases during an intense part of the movie. It especially sounds great when you're supporting surround sound.This movie was a great movie and people think it was one of the greatest letdowns in the 1990's. In my opinion, it was the greatest animated movie and I would recommend that you should watch it with your family or with a friend. It is a fantastic movie... "},{"Title":"A great movie! One that will live in your memory forever!","Date":"3 May 2002","Score":"33 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is a great children's movie. But, being a kid's movie doesn't mean that it isn't good for others. This film entertains audiences of all ages. I first saw this movie when I was seven. And to this day, I still love it. Kevin Bacon supplies the voice of Balto, a half-bred wolf who risks his life to travel in the cold of Alaska to retrieve a sled of dogs that were lost while bringing antibiodics back to the town of Nome to stop an epidemic. BALTO is a film to see on a cold, Sunday when you have nothing better to do. You will enjoy this film greatly. After viewing it once, you will want to see it again. I lost track of how many times I have seen this film. But it has been more than thirty times. See this movie. It's well worth seeing. This one is one that I am proud to have in my video collection.....5/5. "},{"Title":"Great Animation, Greatly Produced","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"31 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Where can I start? This movie is greatly animated, directed and written. There's no cheesy songs to slow it up or a boring storyline. Every angle that is shown is perfect, every background and colour scheme is great. The music by James Horner is well done and fits the moods of the film. Whether you're a kid or an adult, you will find yourself cheering Balto on.  "},{"Title":"A dramatic and well made film","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"24 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This film has a seriousness and drama to it that will surprise you. There are no songs, and it has an adult feel to it, with mature themes and exciting action. The voice characters are its main failing, with Kevin Bacon giving rather flat performance to Balto, and there is an overall lack of conviction in most of the other voices as well.  But this movie has good story and excellent pacing- there are several gripping action sequences, and very few childish moments. Balto is an excellent family film, and will keep adults and older kids enthralled and entertained.  I think it's a little too serious for very young kids to enjoy, though.  It has realism and is not light hearted. There are ideas about sickness, death and prejudice which are used very well to move this story along and help resolve it in the end. This is a hero story with a feel-good ending, and plenty of adventure along the way.  The art and appearance is interesting and unique, mostly classic animation with a few computer assisted scenes-- the overall look is tidy and quality, with some charm and humor that will get you smiling.  It has a live action entry and closure (including a view of the Balto statue in Central Park) which acts as a tie-together, and the true story behind this movie gives it additional appeal. This film, like the WB's 'Iron Giant', has been breezed over by the public and not gotten the recognition it deserves. I would recommend Balto for anyone who likes dogs, realism, or just a smooth, enjoyable film.   "},{"Title":"Awesome review for an awesome movie","Date":"25 August 2005","Score":"22 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Balto has been a favorite movie of mine ever since it came out. This is the touching story of an out casted half dog half wolf named Balto voiced by the talented Kevin Bacon who's voice added a slight charm to the Balto character. The story takes place in Nome Alaska in the year 1925. A sickness as stricken the town's children and with out the antitoxin which is located hundreds of miles away in town of Nanana, the children will surly die. The dog team sent to retrieve the medicine which is led by Balto's almost arch nemesis Steel, is lost in a horrible snow storm. Now it is up to Balto to find the missing sled dog team and bring the medicine back to Nome before it is too late.This movie is so gripping, I can never sit through the whole thing without balling my eyes out. This movie has a great plot which is based of a true story, a wonderful cast of voice actors, and a vary flowing animation style. This movie is so gripping and compelling that it as inspired me to become an cartoonist. I loved this movie so much that some how I found out I have three copies of it in my movie library. Surly this movie is worth seeing or owning if it makes a 17 year old shows tears for it, or sets the course for his career. Call me a geek but this movie is perfect for any one who likes talking animals, old school basic animation, and happy endings. "},{"Title":"Excellent, overlooked animated film.","Date":"29 June 2000","Score":"20 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  It's not hard to see why this movie wasn't particularly popular (check out the scene where the carpenter is shown sadly preparing small coffins), but that doesn't mean it isn't worth a look.  It's actually one of the best underrated animated films of the 90's.  The drama is real, the visuals are beautiful, and the story ends happily.  The live action prologue and epilogue are a little distracting, but they're made up for by a random (and hilarious) visual shout-out to E.T. "},{"Title":"A warm hearted adventure","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"21 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Balto & his friends, Boris, Muk, Luk & Jenna are characters to capture the heart. Romance, humour & determination lead us on an epic adventure through the snow. The voicing is excellent and the soundtrack is too. Steele is a good villain. There are some impressive animated sequences especially with the wolves & the bear. An overlooked masterpiece. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Wonderful family movie","Date":"25 October 2007","Score":"15 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This movie evokes so much emotion in me, just thinking about it. This movie came out 1 day before my daughter was born. She still loves it to this day,and now my 6 year old son enjoys it. He has watched it three times since i got it on DVD! This movie teaches a wonderful lesson. And is just a wonderful true movie!If you can get this movie for your children. They will enjoy it for years to come, as will you!And i really don't need 10 lines to explain to you how good this movie is. When you get the chance to watch it, that will be enough. "},{"Title":"Very sweet movie","Date":"30 June 2005","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" A excellent movie, it is up there with The Secret of NIMH. The animation also is amazing, and the characters really really nice. Also the voices are the best I heard in the animations movie I seen and they really characterize the personage. I couldn't not notice the sweet voice of Jenna and the looks. Very complex and very cute. Also the voice of Boris, one of a kind. The single voice that I remember being so sweet was of Ms. Brisby from the movie, The Secret of NIMH, again a movie with excellent animation and voices. I enjoyed it very much and most surely will watch it again. It just marvelous.-Its amazing, fantastic, uber, extraordinary, magnificent, marvelous -IT ROCKS! *BAM* ) "},{"Title":"A Movie Worth Seeing","Date":"25 September 1998","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Not many animated films from other major movie companies not of Disney are very good. Balto is one of these rare films. Very good voice acting from names like Kevin Bacon, Bridget Fonda, and Bob Hoskins. I enjoyed every minute of it. In fact, I liked James Horner's score so much I bought the soundtrack. There may be sometimes when the film doesn't follow the plot, but still it entertains. Roger Ebert gave it three stars. I must agree plenty. "}{"Title":"Beautiful and very overlooked animated film","Date":"7 January 2010","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I can completely understand why people love this movie, because while for me it isn't the greatest animated movie ever(Beauty and the Beast gets that honour I'm afraid), it is a pretty darn good movie. It is certainly quite powerful and ambitious, and there are parts that tug at the heartstrings. The film isn't laden with humour as much as something like The Lion King or Castle of Cagliostro, but with the characters Boris, Muk and Luk it is evident.The animation is surprisingly detailed. Critics complained of the animation quality being dull and tacky, and when I saw that I thought did we see the same movie. The colours were fine, maybe not the most vibrant colouring in the world like FernGully for instance, but the character animation and the backgrounds are immaculate. The music by James Horner, one of my favourite film composers, is outstanding. Maybe not his finest, as he has done some amazing scores, the one he did for Land Before Time really packs an emotional punch even on repeated viewing, but it is very powerful, poignant and haunting all at the same time and even enhances the drama.Then there are the characters. Balto is a lovable and handsome dog, and Jenna is so beautiful and headstrong. In contrast, we have Boris who is hilarious and Steele a villain detestable in quite a substantial way. The voice acting is very good, Kevin Bacon while an unlikely choice initially does an above decent job, not monotonic or bland like some other celebrities who have voiced in animated films. Bob Hoskins gives great comic relief as Boris, and Phil Collins is amusing as Muk and Luk. Bridget Fonda does well as Jenna, but I have to say Jim Cummings is absolutely BRILLIANT as Steele; Cummings is a very underrated veteran voice actor, and his malevolent voice over proves what talent as a voice actor he has.The film does have an engaging, sometimes tense sometimes heartwarming story, and while perhaps in need of a little more humour, the script wasn't actually that bad. All in all, very overlooked as an animated film. 10/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"A very underrated movie...","Date":"19 January 2010","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Well, this movie was released when Toy Story was released in 1995. It was very overlooked. I really remember the time in 2000 when I discovered this movie. 5 years had past without notice of the release date of '95. I fell in love with this movie. The acting is good, and plot is okay. Really recommended for a family night. So grab some popcorn, and coke, and get ready for some doggy action, romance, and style. I really can't believe this movie was a hit and miss. A 6.5 rating? Why? That really sucks.Balto will always be my favorite animated movie ever!10/10 "},{"Title":"This is an awesome movie.","Date":"7 March 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I love this movie so much! I've watched it about 24 million times over and when I was a child, I used to act out my favorite scenes and howl along with Balto! I know every quote of this movie and my computer desktop background is a collage of scenes from Balto. Boris made me laugh and I still cry when I watch this movie. Balto is my hero. I recommend this movie to everyone, no matter what age. There are so many valuable lessons that are taught throughout this movie and who doesn't love an underdog? I visit the statute of Balto in Central Park all the time. He is the perfect wolf-dog. I wish I could have met him. Oh, and I love the name Steele (which is Toby Keith's son's name as well). This is such a beautiful tale that has all the highlights of an amazing story such as forbidden love, heroes in disguise, adventure, humor, suspense, and tears. This is my favorite movie and I am going to go watch it right now. "},{"Title":"A beautifully crafted heartwarming film","Date":"30 March 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I have to say when it comes to these based on these sort of 2D animations, I don't usually rate them that high, I've been more of a fan of 3D animation, until Balto.The film is based on a true story in Alaska, of a cross-breed wolf/husky named Balto (Kevin Bacon), though the town of Nome see him as a threat, because of his wolf characteristics, and lives his life as a stray. He and his good friend Boris get through life day by day, but Balto feels out of place in his life. He's part wolf, but at the same time, he'd love to be part of a sled dog team, always watching with excitement as the sled dog husky teams would shoot by to and from the town, but he knows the town would never accept him.It is one day when Balto stumbles across a female husky, Jenna (Bridget Fonda), who he really takes a shine to, when his life begins to change. He is confronted by the lead member of the sled dog pack, they very dangerous and aggressive Steele, who doesn't like seeing Balto getting on so well with Jenna (who he secretly fancies himself), and threatens Balto, and getting his pack to do them same (though they have their own views, but would never question Steele, because he is such a brutal looking character). Of course, Jenna hates Steele's ego and finds him too direct and aggressive, and would much rather be with Balto, despite her owners trying to keep her away, as they think Balto might attack her because of his wolf qualities.The town of Nome becomes victim to a spread of a terrible disease, Diptheria, which takes its toll on many children, including Jenna's best human friend, Rosie. With the medicine beyond reach by most transport modes because of the harsh Alakan climate, the only way to retrieve it is the use of a sled dog team. Upon selecting the team, no doubt about it, Steele is chosen as the pack leader, the town expecting him to make mincemeat of the challenge! However, his ego gets the better of him, and he leads the pack into trouble, with no sight of retuning with the medicine, and lives hanging in the balance. Bato knows how much Rosie means to Jenna, losing her would be devastating, and he knows someone has to do something. Whilst no dog could go after the pack and retrieve the medicine, a dog/wolf just might. It is up to Balto to find the lost sled dog team, and retrieve the medicine that could potentially save a generation.The animation was fantastic, I loved the way they gave each character a personality, one of my favourites was the smaller dog in the sled pack with the high pitched voice, where another dog kept hitting him on the head whenever he said something he didn't like. That dog was really cute, and turns out to be a real hero in the pack team, despite how the others treat him. They captured Steele's personality brilliantly, that, so so evil look. And the beautiful Jenna, Bridget Fonda and Kevin Bacon do great voiceovers for Balto and Jenna, really bring out the best in them, showing both of these characters as quiet and rather shy, but inside them, they are really powerful spirits.For me, alongside the fantastic animation and voicerovers, there is one thing as well that makes this such a great film. There is a really strong message that comes through that we can all learn from. You don't have to be the best of your kind to achieve something spectacular in life. Steele was a very strong and muscly dog, with huge teeth and this evil, yet sexy look (that some of the female dogs really liked). The town expected him to complete the task with ease. They were wrong, and it was the underdog that has to achieve what the original 'town's hero' couldn't. Balto is not a pedigree dog, but he proves that you don't have to be one to be the leader of a sled dog team. Just because you don't have the 'full packadge', or you are not as gifted with certain characteristics compared to others, it doesn't mean you can never hope to achieve anything in life. Just because you might be different to everyone else, doesn't mean you have less capabilities than them. Balto shows that it is his difference that makes him so gifted, and something that he should be proud of, not ashamed of like how the town's people made him feel, and of course, Steele.This truly is a classic film and definitely the best animated film from the 20th century. It truly does do the best at telling this true story, and making us believe in ourselves. I absolutely loved this film. "},{"Title":"A beautifully-crafted animated tale for the whole family","Date":"23 December 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" 2D Animation has fallen on some very tough times in recent years, with the advent of 3D computer-generated movies. It's not that one is really better than the other is; they're simply two different mediums. It's that one should not suffocate the other one in the market, as they both have their own specialties and peculiarities.One of the last fully 2D hand-drawn movies made was 'Balto', out of Steven Spielberg's Amblimation Animation Studios (which then closed down forever following 'Balto''s lukewarm reception). It was a cruel twist of fate that 'Balto' was released at the same time as Pixar's groundbreaking 'Toy Story', for the latter definitely attracted all the glances and sucked Balto's steam dry. Considering all that 'Balto' is about, that's somewhat of a crime against animation in itself.But enough of the melodrama. 'Balto' is based, of course, on the true story of the real-life 1925 Serum Run to bring back antitoxin to stricken Nome, Alaska, which was overtaken by a vicious bout of diphtheria. Although the real story wasn't quite as stylized as depicted in this movie, the film certainly holds a proud candle to the real men and their dogs that risked their lives against insane odds and became heroes (even though in the end, only one dog was remembered).In the cold winter of 1925, the town of Nome is cheering their dogsled teams as they fiercely compete to win the annual race. One of the onlookers is Balto (Kevin Bacon), a wolfdog with a gentle spirit and a brave heart. However, his half-wolf status results in him being feared by the townspeople and disdained by the other pedigreed dogs (led by the cunningly malicious Steele), and he finds himself depressed and lonely most of the time. His only friends consist of an unlikely trio a flightless Russian goose named Boris (voiced by Bob Hoskins, and with an accent and mannerisms that can't help but crack you up), and two polar bear siblings, Muk and Luk (Phil Collins), who can't swim.Balto soon falls smitten with Jenna, a beautiful husky who belongs to a little girl named Rosy, who is the only human so far to be friendly to Balto. However, as the infection hits, all the children &#150; Rosy included &#150; fall dangerously ill, and the town is out of medicine. I'll let you look up the conditions on getting new antitoxin for yourself (this is a review, not a historical paper), and now Nome must send their best and fastest dogs on a dangerous race against time to retrieve the waiting serum at the town of Nenana &#150; some 700 miles away or so. The team faces deadly blizzards, treacherous ice and unpredictable climates, and soon, as can be predicted, they end up hopelessly lost. It's now up to Balto and his ragtag team of mismatched friends to battle their way through the Alaskan winter wilderness to try and bring the medicine back home, and save both the team, and the stricken children back in Nome.Being a music aficionado, the first thing that I fell in love with about this movie was James Horner's beautiful score. I would even be bold enough to state it can rival his work on 'Titanic' (1997), though I suspect many wouldn't perhaps agree. The pieces are always moving and magical, and truly bring the scenes to life in ways that couldn't have been accomplished without it.The hand-drawn animation in this movie is excellent, one of the best in many years. The winter scenery is beautiful, and the characters are all well-drawn and animated. The voice acting is largely solid (especially for Boris, for whom I've already expressed my amusement), yet some of them seem to fall a bit short. Kevin Bacon seems slightly flat as Balto, and Bridget Fonda (Jenna) seems slightly dispassionate at times.There are many things to be enjoyed concerning this film. For me, it's that while it does follow a traditional formula seen in animated family movies, it seems to leave out all the annoying bits (such as those irritating sing-along songs, for starters). There are the standard bumbling sidekicks, but they're more akin to comic relief than to actually accompanying the hero through his entire journey, and that's not to mention the humor in this film is genuinely funny and pleasant, not forced or contrived like in most animated movies.Some would be a little surprised to find some of the themes in this film are rather more grim and dark than in most other family-oriented animation films; there's a very real sense of impending mortality, especially towards the children of Nome, as demonstrated in one scene where we see several small coffins being made. In contrast, there are also some truly beautiful scenes, such as a little trick Balto teaches Jenna that leads to a mountainside being illuminated by artificial Northern Lights.If you haven't seen 'Balto' yet, do yourself (and the movie) a favor and grab it while it's still available in some areas (took me weeks to find my own DVD). Sure, it's applicable largely to younger audiences, but any adult capable of connecting with an emotion now and then will likely enjoy the movie to some extent. I for one love it and heartily recommend it to anyone who craves some good and decent 2D animation, those markets being so barren these days.* * * * * For reminding us what traditional animation was like with its magic and beauty, I award 'Balto' 8.5 bottle of antitoxin out of 10.PS &#150; Was I the only one who was surprised to learn it was Phil Collins who voiced Muk & Luk? Was I also the only one who totally failed to recognize this legendary singer's voice? So shamed &#133; "},{"Title":"A Wonderful movie... released at the wrong time.","Date":"16 July 2007","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" To cut to the chase as it where, the movie is touching, heart warming and looks beautiful on screen. But what makes me sad is that it just came at a bad time, Disney had just done the Lion King and I feel that Balto was just over shadowed by the monster that is Walt Disney studios. If it came several years before of much later it would have faired a lot better. The voice acting cast is (although unusual) perfect.Take Kevin Bacon, to be honest considering all that he has done this role stands out as the most odd of his career, he plays the character so down to earth that it makes you wonder if it's him thats voicing it. Trust me I had to check the credits to be sure. He's a god of an actor don't get me wrong but usually tends to play the more risky and challenging roles, I wonder why he picked this one.Watch it, you'll see what I mean. "},{"Title":"One of the best animated movies ever!","Date":"13 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I have just absolutely positively loved this movie ever since I can remember. Balto is a social outcast 'cause he's a cross between husky and wolf and the other huskies (especially the ring leader Steele- excellently voiced by Jim Cummings) love to taunt him. Balto's only friends are Boris the Russain goose (voiced by the ever excellent Bob Hoskins), Muk & Luk the polar bears and Jenna, a gorgeous female husky voiced by Bridget Fonda. A diphtheria epidemic breaks out (the story is based on the Alaskin diphtheria epidemic) and all of the children are infected with it, including Jenna's owner, Rosie. Steele & the other husky's are assigned to bring back vaccine to the town but they get lost, and so Balto sets out to find them and bring back the vaccine.All in all, beautiful animation, a breathtaking music score and an absolute stellar cast make this underrated gem a perfect family flick that even adults will get hooked into. "},{"Title":"Third time's the charm","Date":"9 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Balto was the third and final film by Steven Spielberg's short-lived Amblimation studio, which he founded after the success of Who Framed Roger Rabbit. The studio suffered from mediocre box-office and was put out of its misery when Spielberg founded Dreamworks and moved its key personnel to that studio's animation division. Before leaving this world, however, the Amblimation team left this beautifully crafted film, which, although not great, is diverting and admirable nonetheless. Balto marked a point of maturity for the Amblimation studio. Their previous efforts --An American Tail Fievel Goes West and We're Back A Dinosaur's Story-- were lighthearted kiddie fluff, lively and occasionally clever, but inconsequential on the whole. Balto, on the other hand, has at its core a far more substantial story with a more adult tone, and addresses, however gingerly, serious issues like prejudice and acknowledgement of one's heritage. The story is told simply and effectively, concentrating on its strong themes of heroism and acceptance. The less-is-more attitude that shaped the story is also evident in the animation. The previous Amblimation films were busy and frantic, with dizzying camera moves, constantly shifting perspectives, and characters mugging the camera whenever they could. One got the sensation that the animators were too busy showing off to bother with emotionally involving the audience. With Balto the animators toned things down and went for subtle emotion and simple yet strong visuals. Even the comic relief characters are considerably more restrained than in other films. This is not to say that the movie is free of excitement; the pace is brisk and the action scenes are well staged. It just means that, unlike most modern movies (animated or otherwise), it doesn't overwhelm the viewer with relentless activity. As I mentioned, Balto is not a perfect film, but it is a simple, well-crafted tale with surprising maturity and an understated beauty. Give this film a chance. "},{"Title":"A well made and dramatic animated event.","Date":"26 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Released in 1995, Balto was Amblinations attempt to the animated empire that was then occupied by Disney (although their domination was starting to decline). While it didn't set the box office on fire, Balto was still a cult hit and has gained it's audience after wards, which is quite deserved.Balto may not be a milestone in animation, but still delivers a quite likable experience, as the matter of fact quite likable. Watching the film again after many years, I was surprised to see how much there was to like about the film, as a solid story, engaging characters and a fine score by James Horner. Although Balto is obviously aimed towards a younger audience, it has enough pathos, drama and suspense to engage an older viewer. While the animation may not be at Disney's standards, its's still not entirely flawed either. The character designs are good and the character animation is quite effective.Whether it was intentional or not, Balto does bring back some thoughts to Disney's features. Balto comes across as a canine version of Aladdin, while Steele is obviously a canine version of Gaston. The three dogs that worship Steele are reminiscent of the hyenas in The Lion King, while the female dogs hearkens back the thoughts to the female dogs in Oliver and Company. The bear attack is reminiscent to the one in The Fox and the Hound. In true Disney fashion, Balto has the sidekicks in Boris, Muk and Luk and a love interest. But interestingly enough, Balto is no musical and is absent for songs, which is an interesting choice.The characters are another strong component to make Balto work. Balto may be your average hero, but he still is quite likable. Rosie is an endearing little girl. Steele is a effective semi-villain and his three worshipers are enjoyable. Boris and Muk/Luk might be grating at times, but they do have their moments. The least successful is Balto's love interest, Jenna, who's horribly bland.If there's any flaw in Balto, then there's the screenplay and the pacing. The pacing is somewhat clunky and muddled at times. The obligatory kiddie-humor can also be grating at times.Despite this, Balto is a good film that deserves to be seen by every animation fan. "},{"Title":"awesome","Date":"9 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" i love this movie to death, its an amazing story with a great plot and good characters. i would recommend this movie to anyone who loves dogs and/or wolves. overall, 10 out of 10. while the original movie was great the two other movies, Balto wolf quest and Balto Wings Of Change where no where near as good as the original. i won't say that there bad, there just a let down compared to the original. the story is heart warming and nice, in fact, ever since i saw the movie i couldn't get enough. i first saw it last summer and was instantly hooked, mostly because i love talking dogs. while the movies are meant for young children, if you love cute stories and cute characters, this is the movie for you. "}{"Title":"A funny entertaining and thrilling animated piece","Date":"7 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" It's rare that one finds an animated movie that has so much heart that isn't connected to Disney. Off the top of my head, I can't think of any others that stand out than this movie. Balto (1995), was loosely based off the real life events of an actual husky dog of the same name. The only difference is that the story was changed slightly to give the character of Balto a little more background. That is why it's loosely based off the actual events. Kudos to the four writers because it made this movie very enjoyable.Here, Balto lives on the edge of a town because he's not a husky. Yet somehow, everyone in the town, including the humans know his name? How is this possible (this is really the only thing I didn't understand)? His ancestry comes from dog/wolf, which leaves him in a bad spot because no one wants to trust him and the snooty pure bread husky dogs don't want a mutt joining their dog team. What Balto dreams most of, is running with the husky dogs and pulling the sleds they pull. And little does he know, but his chance will come sooner than he thinks, when a virus breakout comes on the town and he decides to fetch the medicine for the sick.The cast in this film is horrendously good too. Kevin Bacon voices our hero, Balto. Bacon is able to make his role really sound courageous and emotional when it needs to be and that's good. Voicing his love interest is Bridget Fonda as a little girl's husky named Jenna. Even if this is Fonda's first time doing voice acting, she did a great job. She knows how to give Jenna the right tone of voice and emotion at the same time. And I got to admit, Jenna and Balto make an adorable dog couple. Thank you animation department! Let's also not forget our antagonist named Steele voiced by famous voice actor, Jim Cummings. Cummings, who can do this work in his sleep, also gives a convincing performance as the thickheaded, husky with way too much hubris.And along with Steele are always the knuckle head followers of the antagonist. All of which have their own quirkiness about them, which make them funny. But that's not all. Accompanying Balto on his travels are three other friends. Two are a duo of polar bears named Muk and Luk, which are both voiced by musician Phil Collins. Surprisingly, even Collins gives a memorable performance. But the character I found the most entertaining when it came to comic relief was Boris the goose (the other friend) played by Bob Hoskins. Boris is such a great character because of how well he knows Balto and the problems that he faces. It is because of that, that he does his best to make sure his closest friend is in good hands. If you don't fall for Boris, I don't know what will.The art department did a nice job at keeping the view big and broad. Since the setting was in Alaska, it is only respective that the picture be epic looking. Mainly because, Alaska is epic period. Also I like the sounds a lot. Cracking ice to crunching snow. The one sound that I got chills from was hearing the wolves howl. I couldn't stop from getting goosebumps. I have no clue why but it gave me the shivers and that made me like it more. Adding to that was the soundtrack provided by composer James Horner and boy did it work. Excluding a few previous works that Horner has made that were mishaps, Horner really knows how to evoke the right emotions at the right time. It made watching Balto fun and invigorating.The characters alone is what makes the cake in this movie. The icing to the cake is James Horner's music, the grand backgrounds and involving sound effects. "},{"Title":"Balto, an amazing animated gem","Date":"20 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I was only one year old when Balto got released in theaters, but I didn't even hear about its existence until recently. I love animation, I love dogs and I felt sorry to hear that this film wasn't very popular when it was released, so I decided to watch it on DVD. What I got was an amazing, inspiring and heart warming animated film which turned out to be one of the best I've ever seen.I was surprised about how much I was connected to the main character Balto. Because he is portrayed as a husky-wolf hybrid, the people of Nome fear of him for being part-wolf, the wolf packs reject him for being part-husky and the other dogs make fun of him for it. As a result, he is an outcast who doesn't know where he belongs, and only relying on Boris, a goose who is afraid of heights to take care of him. I showed a lot of sympathy towards Balto because I've been in similar situations and seeing him being left out was very emotive.The story is loosely based on the true 1925 serum run in Alaska. A disease spreads onto the children of Nome and a snow storm cuts all transport from delivering medicine, so a team sled dogs are sent to pick it up. But poor Balto isn't allowed to help out because of his wolf heritage. When the team is reported missing, Balto sets off on a daring quest to rescue them and get them home safely. This shows how courageous and determined he is to get the medicine to the sick children. That said, he is a very caring character and thats another reason why I really liked him.There's a bit of peril and emotional moments in this film, but plenty of comic relief is present to ease them, mostly involving Boris and Muk and Luk (the two polar bears). I personally liked the recurring gag when Kaltag hits Star in the head for saying something random. It gave me a smile each time. And the romantic moments of Balto and his girlfriend Jenna are extremely sweet indeed. Again, I found it sympathetic when Steele (the films ruthless antagonist) tries to spoil things for Balto by bullying him and trying to take Jenna from him.I found the animation to be very well done. With nice character designs and detailed Alaskan backdrops, all of which are well-drawn and gently animated, it allows to show how much work and effort Amblimation put into this traditionally animated masterpiece. James Horner's music is very atmospheric and dramatic and I liked how there were no random musical numbers to interrupt its flow.The voice acting is just as great. Bob Hoskins (as Boris) and Bridget Fonda (as Jenna) do a good job while Phil Collins voices Muk and Luk adorably and Jim Cummings is great as evil Steele. However, I would have to commend Kevin Bacon's performance for Balto. He voiced Balto sensibly. Not overacting, bland or hip, but he gave the character a more of a calm, humble, shy and likable personality similar to mine. Its another similarity me and Balto have.In conclusion, I would have to say that I absolutely adored Balto, and thats because of its great animation, story, casting and a protagonist who I could really relate to. I'm glad that I found out about this underrated classic and its a good thing others have too. If you like animation or dogs and you haven't seen it already, then I believe that Balto well deserves your attention. You will fall in love with it just like I did.Grade A "},{"Title":"The best non-Disney animation ever.","Date":"24 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  As I say above, this is definitely the best non-Disney attempt at animation to date.  This movie just has something others don't.The basic plot is engrossing, as we watch Balto and the sled team attempt to get the medicine back in time, with the subplot of Balto trying to find acceptance within himself. The moment he truly discovers who he is is a powerful scene for an animated movie. The characters are great, with a very good cast representing them.  Kevin Bacon of six degrees fame plays the hero wolf-dog Balto convincingly, as Bridget Fonda does with the heroine, a collie named Jenna.  Jim Cummings (the true voice man of Hollywood) is delightfully malicious as Steele. The comedy relief comes in a hilarious Russian goose played by Bob Hoskins, and two polar bears (the funniest characters in the film) played by Phil Collins.As a whole, I hate dogs, and any movies about them...but this movie is just different, and I think that I would be lost without it. "},{"Title":"A Beautiful Animated Film","Date":"20 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is definitely one of my favourite films. I seriously can't understand why it didn't get the credit it deserved when it first came out. The animation is well done and the cast is perfect in every way as their characters. This film may be aimed at kids but believe me when I say that adults will love watching it with their children(or maybe without!). It may have not been successful when it was first released but I always hear people talk about it today saying it's brilliant and they could watch it over and over and not get tired of it. So if you are looking for an animated adventure with lovable characters which aren't annoying and can make your kids smile then this is definitely for you! "},{"Title":"Two strong movies in one","Date":"6 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Balto was a movie I stumbled upon by accident as I surfed through the channels one Sunday afternoon. With little else on, I thought I may as well watch the animated movie.It was a nice, normal animated feature. However, there was another side to the movie that kept clawing its way forward from my sub-conscious.The movie seemed to project another, more emotional side. This is perhaps the result of the animation style.I found that the artistic side of the film was fantastic. Sure, it did not live up to the technical achievements of some animated classics, but the techniques used helped it.Balto was not just separated from other dogs and people, he was a character rejected by the world who had made a life for himself on the verge of civilization.On one occasion, he encounters some wolves, but is unable to follow them. He returns to his make-shift home with his pride shattered once again. Here we see the dejected Balto, head down, climb into his home in front of a marvelous sunset. Many of the movie stills could be mistaken for art in their own right.These larger themes create a balance for the more trivial, child-oriented side of the movie.I found the movie to be extremely enjoyable when I blocked out the childish moments and focussed on the artistic depictions of Balto's emotions, and the numerous possible tandoms that could be drawn to his role as an outcast.Also, it's worth noting this movie has strong morals. Balto avoids conflict whenever possible, and tries to resolve conflicts without resorting to violence. These are the sort of lessons of the day now rejected by most animation studios.One can only imagine this movies potential if it were to be aimed at an adult or teen audience.For its fantastic visuals and strong characters, I rate this movie 9/10 "},{"Title":"Surprising Success!","Date":"6 December 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I am surprised that I like this at all. I first saw this when I was in fifth grade watching this film for the Iditarod unit. This film is actually based on a true event that happened in 1925. The main character is a half dog, half wolf that wants happiness and companionship, but he is neglected. Then one day, children fall sick because of severe sickness. Medicine can be reached only by dogsled. A team is sent out, but they get lost. Then, Balto comes to the rescue. This movie has some funny points and some serious points. The voice acting was good and the script worked well. The score was also pretty good. The only negative thing is why animation! It would've been better without animation. But, overall this surprising film gets a 8/10. "},{"Title":"Passionate, the best I've ever seen","Date":"11 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Balto is a character that never came out of my heart, the film is based on real history and even have altered the original story and the character still looks perfect, shows that even with difficulties Balto has a good heart and cares about people, the feeling is amazing to know that my hero actually existed, the animation is beautiful the songs are amazing and it's a good movie for kids, but I still love him, many characters in this movie are fun and some beautiful estates, like Jenna, she's a beautiful Husky, the love between the two is very great, this movie shows many life lessons, Balto is worthy of being my character and everyone's favorite movie "},{"Title":"Another Balto","Date":"11 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I love Balto as shows.I give balto all 3 shows a 9 or 10 we watch balto a lot in my house. My husband and I think it would be great if something happened to balto not dead missing and Boris is telling his kids how he met balto how he got separated from his mom who his dad is and his kids have to go find him that would be great. Have balto hurt and can't get home have his kids come together where ever they are even aloo, Kodiak, and what ever the others name is have it where they have to find their father and get him home, maybe they have to go through some things to get there. But first have all the children there and Boris telling them how balto came to be with him and learn all about their father and what they learned will help them find balto. The show could show aloo out in the wild with the wolf pack and all of a sudden have a vision of something happening to her father. Then she goes home and gathers up her brothers and sisters to help her in finding her father and bringing him back home safely. It may be something that happened to him while he was out in the plane with Duke or some other way he gets injured and cannot make it back home. I am not submitting this to have it posted I am submitting it to be able to have another balto cartoon or movie to watch. The first three are great and one that explains how balto ended up in Nome Alaska would just tie everything together. "},{"Title":"An amazing experience, though it was missing stuff.","Date":"28 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This film is a real heart-warmer when I first watched it to this day. I was lured to it because I'm a dog lover, and I needed to see what this is all about. After I finished it, I felt like a hundred bucks! The film drove my body to the world of awesomeness!So first of all, I recommend this film because it has characters to have fun with, I usually like the canine characters the best, the voice acting is okay, though sometimes the voice actors sound like they have saliva in their mouths, the music is not bad, and so is the animation work. I also like seeing this because we see the frustrations our protagonist, Balto, has to go through for only being half-wolf, and this reminds all of us how much our lives can be much worse D. The few problems in this film is the lack of content. The film is only 1 hour and ten minutes, but it feels shorter, The plot is explained, but a little bit too early and during the film you can easily guess the ending.But overall, If you do want to watch this, grab all your family, eat your potato chips, then when the movie is over, mute the TV, and play on speakers The Killers - Spaceman then you will feel how I feel. ) "},{"Title":"Balto","Date":"2 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Title Balto Directed by Simon Wells Storyline At first we have an old lady telling her granddaughter the story about the cold winter of 1925, this is where the live action segment finally stops and the animation begins. We're firstly introduced to the antagonist Steele, he is shown to be less than good by cheating in the sled race to get first place. Around the same time we are introduced to Balto. We're also introduced to the only 3 bitches in the whole of Nome that you'll get to see minus the cameo of 3 others. You also hear the photographer saying to musher Look's like any dog can outrun Steele this is wrong on many levels, dog races can go on for hundreds to a thousand miles, Balto just jumped in at the last 100 meters or so and didn't even cross the line. So I cant see how he is even remotely as good as Steele. You can see the tension between Steele and Jenna when he says Well, maybe your taste runs more towards wolf? this is after she turns him down for going to dig up bones (Not sure if innuendo or not) you can see the possible jealousy and resentment Steele would now hold as he's been turned down by Jenna and made to look bad by Balto. So depending on the perspective you look at it through is if you think Steele is justified in his aggression and loathing against Balto. You will see him dealing with discrimination up until the point where he has to rescue the other sled dogs, but it does give good insight into his predicament about not fitting in with the dogs and not fitting in with the wolves either. But then all of the children are sick with diphtheria so the sled dogs how to go and collect the shipment of anti-toxin because all other methods of transport are grounded due to weather. But the sled dogs get lost and Balto has to go into the wildlands and find them before it is too late. He finds them and tries to lead them back, but Steele isn't having any of it and starts a fight with him, needless to say Balto wins and starts to lead the sled team back. But Steele goes ahead and sabotages his only way of getting back to Nome, risking the lives of the sled team along with all of the dying children all to keep his own pride in place. Steele arrives back at Nome to try and make everyone believe that Balto tried to take the medicine from the team and got them all killed in the process with only Steele's tale to tell. But needless to say Balto finds his way back and shows that Steele has been lying to them, so needless to say Steele goes from hero to zero, whereas Balto does the exact opposite and wins the girl and the town soon loves him for it. Acting Kevin Bacon who is known for Apollo 13 and Footloose does the voice of Balto, he adds character to him. But I have to say I did not recognize his voice until I looked up who the voice actor was. Jim Cummings the voice of Shocker from Spiderman TAS and other background character from other movies plays Steele, and boy does he do a good job of it. You can really feel the vanity at some parts along with the ego. Bridget Fonda from the Godfather 3 places Jenna, the husky which falls for the wolfdog and is primarily the only reason Balto goes to find the sled dog team. I'm sure she is a good actor, but you could replace her with any other female and I wouldn't really miss anything. Characters Balto is the main character who discriminated against because he is half wolf, although this fact doesn't get him down all the time so it is good he isn't constantly moping. Even if for the main part he is only saving the children to get Jenna to like him. Jenna feels like a female character who is just there to get Balto to do good things for people, impressive to see her try and take on the bear though so that earns her more credibility. Steele is the top dog who does not take lightly to not getting his own way. He's vain, arrogant and is willing to sacrifice all to get what he wants. He isn't really a bad guy until he sabotages Balto's chance of getting the medicine back and spreads lies about him.Animation The animation is quite enjoyable, not Disney standard. But the best next thing you can get to it. No noticeable flaws in it, the lip syncing isn't a masterpiece, but you can't really expect them to perfectly sync it up when the main characters have muzzles not lips. Length 80 minutes, long enough to establish the main protagonist, antagonist, secondary characters and story. But apart from that not long enough to make me care about the children. But in saying that, focus too much on the children and I would be wishing them dead sooner. Overall Feel Extremely loosely based on a true story, chances are if it was based on a true story it would only be 10/15 minutes long compared to 80 minutes long. But regardless of that fact it is a very nice movie, it also comes from the same people who brought you 'An American Tail' and 'The Land Before Time'. Perfect film to get a child or even an adult who likes wolves/dogs but doesn't want them to die in the movie. But sadly the cast of this movie is going to get changed after the 1st movie, you may or may not notice. Doesn't really add or subtract anything from the viewing, it is just the fact that is bothers some. "}{"Title":"Best wolf movie","Date":"16 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" A half-wolf, named Balto gets a chance to become a hero when an outbreak of diphtheria threatens the children of Nome, Alaska in the winter of 1925. He leads a dog team on a 600-mile trip across the Alaskan wilderness to get medical supplies. The film is based on a true story which inspired the Iditarod dog sled race.I looked this film when I was little, but now I discovered that I like this movie very much. This movie is the best wolf movie, greatly animated, directed and written. Is a very underrated movie, but in my opinion, is better than many Disney movies.Is a good movie, it's still better than the two sequels. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"One of my favorite classics that I will never forget","Date":"18 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The story of Balto is a tale that is old as ever. It is a legend up in Alaska. He was a Siberian Husky who led a sled dog team transporting medicine from Anchorage to Nome, Alaska. He was a hero, saving many of people who would have died without that medicine and saved his team, staying on a trail through near whiteout conditions. Although he was only one of the many dogs that took place in the serum run, he is by far one of the most famous. Because of this, a statue was placed in Central Park, New York City in dedication to him. Now the story about Balto never once talked about him being part wolf or being a outcast among the people until the run but the movie has a heart all its own. I feel that the version they have in the movie is a bit more fantastic then the original story but isn't that just it with a legend? They will keep saying it over and over again until the fact is twisted and turned around, making it much more amazing then what really happened. I fell in love with the whimsy of Balto when I was young, the year when it first came out and as with some of the shows I fell in love with, I would watch it constantly, watching till the tape was well beyond playable. The legend of Balto was one of the first real legends that I learned and though at the time I thought that all that I saw in the movie was true, it got me into wanting to know more about legends.The story opens in Nome, well the cartoon part. It is basically played as though a grandmother is telling this tale to her granddaughter in the middle of Central Park as they look for the true statue made in honor of Balto. We have Balto, his love interest Jenna, and Steele (the antagonist). We also have a Russian goose who is Balto's adoptive father and two polar bears that are like his siblings&#x85; and this is where I must remind you that when I was thinking this was real, I was about 7 years old or so. Anyway, the personalities are as followed; The outcast longing to be one of the others, the lovely and popular love interest, the macho jock who wants love interest and hates outcast, the overprotective father, and the comedy relief. It's at this point that you may point out that almost every show has this when it is based for children and I would say yes and that it why I liked it and still like it. As much as the new age shows make me want them to change tactics, I fell in love with the older shows because that was it. It was simple to pick out who the villain was and who the person we had to cast our votes for to get the girl. It's nostalgia I guess.The animation is very nice for the time. I would think it was probably even better then the time in some aspects as I would probably put it up in the same lines as Disney with its beautiful bright colors and clean look. One of the only problems that I had was that Boris, a goose mind you, has teeth. Seriously, even in a child's movie, why would you give a goose teeth? Oh well, its only one thing out of the show I don't really get. The rest is so well done that I fell in love with it.The voices are simple for the most part and yet I fell in love with them. Years after first watching the show, I looked up who voiced Balto and to my surprise, it was Kevin Bacon. I would never of guessed it would be him who voiced my favorite character from the show as must of the movies I see him in are a bit over rated. I love how we have a rather English speaking Polar bear with a 'mute' one. It makes me laugh a bit more which is what they are supposed to do. "},{"Title":"Beyond Underrated -- Possible spoilers for those who haven't seen it --","Date":"29 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This movie's rating on IMDb is far too low. I didn't know this movie was so underrated.When it comes to animated movies, Disney is at the top of the food chain and Pixar comes in at a close second. So it's amazing that this non-Disney, animated film surpasses even some Disney movies -- I don't count the movies like High School Musical. Current Disney is trash aside from some good work like Tangled and Princess And The Frog. - -.-- This is the section where there are possible spoilers. Read at your own risk --The story is told by Rosy, all grown up and with a granddaughter. From there the animation takes over. Balto, whose mother was a wolf and father a dog, was an outcast among not only dogs but also humans. Due to his half wolf heritage he was thought to be wild with the humans, and most of the dogs thought he was beneath them for being only half dog and a stray. Enter Jenna. Kind and caring to all, even to Steele even though he didn't deserve it. She gave him hope that acceptance wasn't as scarce and limited to two polar bears and a goose.However, his luck changes for the better-- giving him a chance to prove himself to not only the dogs but to the humans as well. The town is hit by an epidemic of diphtheria. And, due to the snow, the medicine is delayed on all modern forms of transportation. The town has little option left and decides to send in the best sledding team to retrieve it from the last layover. Balto was not picked, obviously, but after the team leaves he sets off to find them because a huge snow storm is approaching.-- End of possible spoilers --I won't go any further, or I'd risk truly spoiling it for anyone who hasn't seen it yet but is looking it up on IMDb to see if it's worth watching.This movie will always have a special place in my heart. The story has all the elements it needs. Drama, conflict, romance, etc.The cast selected to VA was amazingly picked. Kevin Bacon did a wonderful job, as did Bridget Fonda, Bob Hoskins, Jim Cummings an Phil Collins. And the score was excellent. James Horner is a master composer, his work with Titanic is one of his most popular works, it's a shame that this one isn't for it is on equal ground... at least in my opinion.There you have it. Great animation, a interesting and eye catching plot, an amazing cast and musical score. Few films, real live action or animated/CGI, can pull off all of them. Balto did. So if you've never seen it, I recommend you do so and don't judge it until you've watched everything start to finish. I'll always have a fondness for it, I hope after seeing it you will too.My rating 10 Stars out of 10 Stars. "},{"Title":"Good underrated film","Date":"9 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I recently found Balto and watched it as it was a film I never watched the whole way through when I was younger and when I found out about it recently and then bought the DVD I have fallen in love with it. The animation and storyline is good and I love the majority of the characters, bar Dixie, Muk and Luk. If those three weren't in it, it would be a lot greater film in my opinion but it is still a good watch. Due to being overshadowed by Toy Story this film never really took off and is not so well known but it really should be because it is a great kids film with great characters and animation and a storyline that, as well as being true, is exciting and makes this film very watchable. 8/10 ) "},{"Title":"amazing film","Date":"6 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Well I have watched Balto and its sequels when I was young. I think that the first one is best Balto movie. its just an amazing movie based on a true story about a wolf that saved some very sick child. its no where near as good as Coraline or Babe but its amazing movie to watch. The story is about Balto a wolf and haft dog who is a stray dog to people and gets bullied a lot by a dog called Steele but when Steele and the gang got lost in the snow Balto came to help them But Steele did not needed help but Balto took the gang threw the snow and made it back in one piece and he became a hero to people. the movie is just great who has not seen this movie before should watch because its amazing movie so if love dog films like Marley and me or All dogs go to heaven then this is a movie you should watch because its amazing I give this movie 8.3 out of 10 very good. "},{"Title":"Under-rated animated movie","Date":"21 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I think it's obvious to see why Balto was ignored during it's theater release, coming out not to long after Toy Story (which is a better film). But I'm glad to see that it's popularity has grown in the 16 years since it's release.Balto is a half wolf, half dog that is basically an outcast in his town of Nome Alaska. When the children of the town develop a fatal disease, a sled team must go and receive medacine. Unfortunattly the team get's lost and now Balto must go find them and help them get the medicine back to Nome.I'm not going to lie and say the movie is flawless, the story is nothing new, the characters are kinda bland and the comedy reliefs are a little more annoying than funny, thankfully they don't follow Balto throughout his journey.With nice animation, a good cast, and a solid story, Balto is worth picking up. "},{"Title":"An Epic, but still completely touching movie","Date":"2 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The way Balto is wrote, the way its animations were made, the way the story and it's main character plays and roles, makes Balto one heck of a touching movie. I know we are in 2011, but i only got to see this fantastic movie today (it wasn't released in my country, but i got the VHS from a friend). And it was 1 hour well spent! Kinda makes us think what an animal can do for us, even if we can't really talk to them! Even if a lot of people thinks that this kind of story is old, or too used, this movie is still awesome. I can put it side by side with Disney's greatest creations! I even thought the movie was made by Disney! Just like a bunch of people said back there, you MUST see it, only a person with no heart will not like this movie! "},{"Title":"One of the best animated films ever","Date":"10 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" How anyone could give this film anything but a 10 is beyond me. The animation is awesome. The plot, story and characters are fantastic and to top it off, this film is based on a true story. Balto actually existed. He was a hero and has his very own statue. I think the majority of kids, especially those who love animals will absolutely love this movie as well. The underlying message of this movie highlights the effects of racism/bigotry. Because Balto is a half-breed, he is treated as if he's less than or not good enough to hang out with the dogs who are full-blooded pedigrees. However, he's the one who comes to the towns rescue, although some of the townsfolk treated him bad as well. He's a true hero in every sense of the word. Awesome freaking' movie. "},{"Title":"A great animated classic based on a true story","Date":"30 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" In 1925, an epidemic of diphtheria infected a town called Nome. It is a town located in Alaska and a sled dog team had to go retrieve the medicine and bring it back to Nome. The lead dog was a Siberian Husky named, Balto.In 1995, Universal released an animated film based on the true story. The film was called, Balto.This is a great animated film with some nice animation, likable characters, good voice acting, and a great story. The only problem I have is that some scene's didn't follow the true story and felt like there was no reason to put them in.But overall, Balto, is a great animated film to watch. "},{"Title":"The best, MY FAVE OF ALL TIME!","Date":"30 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This movie could have been a classic. It would have been a classic, but it was overshadowed at the time by other great movies. Then, It was downed by it's two poorly made sequels, and no one gave it another look.This movie was uplifting and heartwarming, great for all ages, beautiful but simple. I have recommended it to many of my friends, and adults as well. Give it a chance! it shows the world how being different is OK, but there are always those who put you down. It's inevitable, but you can rise above all that. Simply the best movie EVER. Period.No doubt. So watch it, show it to your friends, bring it BACK like it deserves! "}{"Title":"The best animated movie ever.","Date":"22 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I'm usually not that big for animated movies but Balto is worth seeing. I think it's the best animated movie ever. It has a great story, great voices, and great music. The animation is also very good. I enjoyed it so much! I'd definitely give this movie three stars. "},{"Title":"One of the best animated movies, Disney included.","Date":"6 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Yes, i know that this movie was not made by Disney, but it is still my favorite movie.  The animation is great, as is the musical score by James Horner(not as good as the score from Braveheart, but still good).  The characters are interesting, and easy to care about.  Even though it doesn't follow the true story it's based on very closely, I didn't care.  I can honestly say that you will enjoy this movie whether young or old(this review coming from a 16 year-old).  Go rent it, especially if you liked The Lion King. "},{"Title":"best animated movie ever","Date":"5 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" this is probably the most interesting animal movie. its the only movie to make me cry and thats kind of hard to do. May i comment of the great voices of Bob Hoskins, Kevin Bacon, and Phil Collins, just amazing. Amazing story and a great storyline and tells a perfect true story. Its the story about a wolfdog who wants to be for the dog sled team, but he can't because he's part wolf. when the sled team goes on a quest to retreive medicine for a virus thats invading Nome,Alaska. the sled team gets lost and Balto sets out on a quest to help them find their way back. the bad dog has some problems with home so he trys to do it alone but Balto has a way. Full of action but like a happy ending that makes you cry. its a must see movie. "},{"Title":"This movie deserved better","Date":"22 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is possibly one of the most underrated films in movie history. Balto has a great storyline, colorful characters, decent animation, and a powerful soundtrack. The only thing this movie lacked was big stars, which is what seems to decide how good a movie is these days. It's such a shame that people will dismiss any movie just because the actors or staff is not well known. Balto is one of these examples (for the exception of Kevin Bacon, but even he is no Johnny Depp in the popularity contest).What I like most about the film are the characters. The characters are dynamic and show much expression. It gives the animation a very 3D feel if the characters speak to you.Good animation is hard to find these days. People are slowly forgetting the joys of hand drawn animation. Computer animation is what runs family flicks. Balto is guilty of some computer animation but they blend it in nicely.The storyline was well played out. Many people remark on the pace of the film. I agree that the pace was perfect. It didn't go too fast or too slow. It kept moving and kept you engaged.The soundtrack was excellent. One thing that I noticed about Balto was the soundtrack. It adds so much mood and life to the film. It also blends in. I don't remember any annoying repetitive theme, the music flows with the film. Tranquil during the calm parts and hard hitting during action. One thing I was worried about was that this movie would have some sort of song in there by a pop artist. These song sequences (most common in family flicks) can interrupt movies. To my pleasant surprise, there weren't any! Pure orchestra; the way it was intended.Family flicks have a challenge that many fail appeal to ALL ages. PIXAR is an example of a company that masters this. Ages from 6 to 60 loved PIXAR films. This is because they didn't make it too silly, but made it silly enough for the kiddies. On an A to F scale on how Balto performed, I would give it a B-. I could survive on the film, it brought me back to my childhood days. I just think that the Sled Dog Trio/Steele's Gang and Muk & Luk brought a little immaturity, but only slightly. It wasn't too much for me, it just reminded me that this was family flickBut as a critic, I must make a few points. I didn't like on how there were really pudgy looking sled dogs and really tiny ones. Maybe it was to help young eyes tell the difference between them, I don't know. It just bothered me for some reason. Another point is the voice acting wasn't the most superb thing. The voices sounded pretty bland. Although, Borris was a good performance. But the howling seemed so... fake. It seemed like the actors themselves were doing their own howls.***************possible spoiler**************** When I saw the White Wolf scene, Balto raised his head. I was anticipating something epic, Yes he's going to howl! He's going to do it! then it all came crashing down with a falsetto-human sounding, Arrrroooooooooo. Such a mood killer. **************spoiler end********************** But the rest of the movie makes up for it.Overall, this movie is worth a watch. It's a great flick for everyone, kids through adults. Suggestion for the guys out there. If you have a girlfriend that has a soft spot for dogs and kid films (which many of them do) this is a good flick. "},{"Title":"A Wonderful Movie For Everyone (SPOILERS)","Date":"25 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" SPOILERS This is a terrific movie, for all ages, young and old. I am a huge dog-lover so this is a great movie. This is not historically accurate, though. I mean, in real life, Balto was a Siberian Husky, in this he is one half dog and one half wolf. There was also no such thing as Boris or Jenna. In the movie, they are a dog and a goose, or I at least think it was a goose. I am not sure what it was, but I think it was a goose.Here is the plot. It is loosely based on a real story. This movie is about Balto. Balto is a dog. Not only is he a dog, he is also a wolf. He is half and half. Some people do not really like him because he is part wolf. Then the children become ill with diphtheria. A dog sled team go to get the medicine in Nenana, Alaska. The sled team do not come back. Balto goes to find them. He finds them. He helps the sled dogs bring the medicine back to Nome, Alaska. They encounter perils on the way, such as icicles, cliffs, and more.Overall, this is a great movie for all ages. There are also a lot of suspenseful scenes. For example, there is a scene in which Balto is attacked by a bear. Also, in one scene, Balto encounters a white wolf. There was music in that scene. The first measure of that music is a lot like the theme to Schindler's List. Luckily Schindler's List had a great score. Anyway, this is a fantastic and heartwarming movie for anyone that enjoys a good story and dogs. Well, they do not need to like dogs, but it would be much easier to watch if you like dogs.8/10Recommended Films 8 Below. "},{"Title":"Wonderful little tidbit","Date":"29 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is quite the film. Good backgrounds, wonderful style of the dogs, beautiful lighting, it's just a grand thing to watch. To those who haven't seen the film, you may want to go away from here, for the following sentences are spoilers. This film chronicles the true story of a dog that was part wolf, and who had to risk his life to get medicine for a bunch of ailing children, especially for little Rosy, the young owner of his sweetheart, Jenna. But a villainous husky, Steele, wants Jenna as well, and the rest, well, find out yourselves. A wonderful, underrated film with drama, romance, comedy, and all that stuff. This film gets it's well-deserved two thumbs up. "},{"Title":"Very touching and sweet","Date":"26 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" My friend lent my Balto and told me how it was one of her favorite childhood movies and was surprised that I never saw it, so I figured to give the movie a shot and see what she was bragging about. It turned out to be a very touching and lovely movie about the power of never giving up. I really did enjoy it, I loved the old school animation, I really miss it with all the computer animation all the time now a days.Balto is a half dog half wolf, he is not excepted by either animal and human. But when the children get sick and need medicine that is six hundred miles from town, the dogs are sent to get it, but when the don't return. Balto and his friends go out and try to help them and Balto ends up saving the day with his brave courage and will to survive and help the town that so badly casted him out.I thought that this is a very good movie for both kids and a family movie, I could see why this movie is so important to my friend and many others, it was a sweet film that can really touch your heart. Balto is such a cool dog as well and a true inspiration, even if you are human! D Please watch this movie, it's a cute one.7/10 "},{"Title":"Balto","Date":"22 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The movie Balto is an awesome animated movie. I saw it when I was 8 years old and ever since then I loved watching it. I was surprised when I found out that Balto was a real dog. The voice acting was good.SPOILER The movie is about a half dog half wolf named Balto who is picked on by the other dogs because he is half wolf and the people don't trust him. His only friends are Boris, a Russian Snowgoose, Muk and Luk, two polar bear cubs and Jenna, a beautiful husky. Then one day a serious case of diphtheria spreads fast among the children of Nome, the only way to get the medicine to Nome is to send a dog sled team to retriever the medicine. But the team gets lost and now only Balto can get the medicine and save the children.Some of the voice actors are Kevin Bacon who does the voice of Balto, Bridget Fonda who is the voice of Jenna, Bob Hoskins who is the voice of Boris and Phil Collins is the voice of Muk and Luk.Here's some advice GO AND WATCH THE MOVIE(you'll love it!) "},{"Title":"Balto A dog to be remembered!","Date":"1 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" On an abandoned wooden ship near the town of Nome, Alaska lives Balto a wolf, who is also half husky. He lived with his long time friend Boris, who is a Russian Snowgoose. One day he meets the beautiful Husky Jenna and her kind hearted owner, Rosie and a deadly disease hits the town and there is no more serum for the disease. Sadly, Rosie catches the disease. Balto then embarks on a journey to help find the serum and save the kids, as well the town of Nome. There he must battle the dangerous animals of the wild and a mean and cold hearted sled dog named Steele who plans to destroy him! I think that this movie is one of the best movies for children that I have seen in a while. It's so adventurous and you'll go sliding to the edge of your seat. It will leave you speechless. It's a story about courage, love, and stupidity. After the success of this film they made two sequels which are just as good as the original, and there are even rumors of a fourth film to be made. "},{"Title":"His story became a legend..","Date":"24 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Once again a very over-looked film. It deserved more praise than it received. The true legend of Balto is the story of a series of sled dog teams that relayed anti-toxin from Nenana to Nome in the coldest winter of 1925. By doing this, they saved the children of Nome from the deadly disease of Diptheria. More information about the true story can be found on the special features of this DVD. The film does stay very close to the true story. In the movie, Balto is a wolf/dog hybrid who is treated poorly in the town. Mocked by the purebred dogs such as Steele. His only friend is a Russian snow goose called Boris and a beautiful husky named Jenna. When Jenna's owner, Rosie falls sick along with many other children, a race is set out to find the fastest dogs in Nome. That team will then relay anti-toxin from Nenana to Nome - as in the true story - Balto is determined to help save Rosie and will risk life and limb to do so. An amazing film that I love very much. Perfect for the whole family and those dog/wolf lovers out there. "}{"Title":"Danko","Date":"14 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Truly my favorite family animation movie. Its an epoch tale about a half wolf sled dog that against all odds succeeds, a true underdog story oh seemed to make a play on words there. Bacon does fantastically in feeding Balto's inner spirit. The top of my to do list currently involves seeing Balto II and Balto III, I'm not sure what there about but I have heard there about forest fires. Balto rescues Jedis while these wildfires spread like..wildfire. If what I just said had nothing to do with the second and third installments, there's the pitch for the Balto Four. So John Hughes....the guy makes some of my dank 80's movies and then resorts to directing films for everyones favorite classical dog...drop off. If truth beauty, and beauty truth, then I am beautiful. "},{"Title":"10/10","Date":"7 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This was a great movie! This goes in my favorite movies category. Great art work and 10/10 just for the music! All around excellent movie for kids and even fun parents! The best part in my opinion is the White Wolf part. Balto 2 sucked and I will never watch it again, mostly because the animation was poor and my favorite character was animated and given the wrong part. The white wolf is said to be Balto's mother in #2 but the animators in the first were different in the second so the white wolf there is clearly not the same. I have proof! GET THE SOUND TRACK IF YOU LOVE THIS MOVIE! I have it and its totally beautiful! Of course Haratige of the wolf is my ultimate favorite! "},{"Title":"Nice wolf cartoon, with almost no stupid music","Date":"9 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The story of this cartoon is almost identical to Snow Dogs, only with dogs. The main character is a racially challenged dog, meaning that he is part wolf, so neither dogs nor wolfs really consider him their own. In the end, he prevails against adversity.The animation was nice, although clearly not worked very much. It was a low budget film and it showed. However, with that came some interesting story twists and animation techniques as well as almost no music, as we are used with American cartoons.In the end, I guess it is the best of the series (why movies devolve in time is still a mystery to me) though I barely started watching Balto III. Balto II sucks and this last part is starting with a song. Not a good sign. "},{"Title":"A wonderful animated film!","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Alright, the animation isn't Miyazaki. It isn't even close to a Disney film, but if you look past that, it's a truly amazing film. It's not too childish, so adults won't be rolling their eyes. And unlike those sappy and annoying Disney films, the characters don't burst into song every five minutes. Anyways, If you love wolves, like me ), you'll love Balto espeically. But even if you don't the story is great, with great acting (voices) and like the one user said- many touching (but not cheesey or sappy) moments. Sometimes the jokes are a little dumb, but they get by. And the bears steal every scene! (Almost!) Overall, if this flick is truly epic, and you'll laugh cry, and be amazed by some of the scenes. Of the most memorable, when Balto falls from the cliff and lands at the bottom, he sees the white wolf, and... well... just watch the movie! The animation could be better, but the characters are more lovable than most Disney ones anyways. Universal I'm glad you got ahold of this one! 9/10 "},{"Title":"Greatest non-Disney animation.","Date":"1 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  As stated before, this is the best non-Disney animation to date.The plot is engrossing, the animation is done well, the characters are well-developed, and the story is as a whole entertaining.Possibly the most well-done thing about this movie are the voice talents Kevin Bacon (of six degrees fame) does a good hero as Balto himself. Bridget Fonda is a good heroine as Jenna.  Jim Cummings (the true voice man of Hollywood) is delightfully vile as Steele, the antagonist.  For comic relief, we are shown Bob Hoskins as a Russian goose, and pop musician Phil Collins as the two hilarious and neurotic polar bears, Muk and Luk.As a whole, I hate movies involving dogs.  The fact that I enjoy it still is a fine testament to the great moviemaking done with this film.As for this movie, I think it would be safe to say that we would be lost without it... "},{"Title":"A Great Animated Tale Based on a True Story","Date":"13 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I thought Balto was an excellent animated film made by Amblin Animation! The story was great about a grandmother telling her granddaughter in NEW YORK CITY a cartoon tale about her growing up in Alaska in 1925 and how she fell into a deep illness and how a wonderful wolf dog named Balto voiced by Kevin Bacon went on a rescue mission to get the medicine and saved her life! The animation was just wonderful! It just blows you away! The characters were wonderful and so was the voice cast! Bob Hoskins from Who Framed Roger Rabbit and HOOK I thought did a great job voicing Boris Balto's best friend and singer Phil Collins I thought did a good job as polar bears Mok and Lok! And terrific actress Bridget Fonda daughter of Peter Fonda I thought did a beautiful job voicing Balto's love interest Jenna! Filled with wonderful animation, great characters, and a great story based on a true story Balto is a great family film the only family can enjoy! 10 out of 10! "},{"Title":"Balto must be the smartest dog in the universe...","Date":"28 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" 'Balto' is a dramatisation of the Nome serum run of 1925. Though it ought to be said that some artistic license has been used.Or maybe a lot.OK, let's say that anything that was interesting in 'Balto' is completely made up.The problem is that, once it was decided that that they'd make the serum run by dogsled, it actually went without any real problems. And while that was all well and good for the people in Nome who needed medicine, and while Balto isn't any less of a hero for it, it doesn't exactly make for an exciting film.Also, the real Balto was a normal husky dog, not half-wolf. Which means that the real Blato wouldn't have been an outcast trying to rid himself of the nasty, vicious wolf stigma (which is odd in itself, since dogs are pretty much just diluted wolves so I'd have thought that he'd be trying to rid himself of the sissy dog stigma if any). Additionally, the character of Steele is completely made up, which means that the real Balto didn't even have an antagonist to deal with.But that doesn't matter when the film's entertaining, right? Well... I can't say that I was exactly gripped by 'Balto'. But I did laugh.Let me put it this way subtlety is clearly not in the vocabulary of the folks at Amblimation. Balto, the faultless hero, pitted against Steele, the cocky, no, make that egomaniacal antagonist.This in itself doesn't have to be a problem Unfortunately, Steele didn't strike me as a particularly strong villain. He came across as more of a pain in the neck than an actual threat (which is strange since he spends an entire scene beating Balto in to a pulp). I'm aware that perhaps he wasn't the real enemy, and that the real enemy might have been the treacherous terrain and weather on the journey to Nome. But that wasn't very menacing either.These problems, I think, stem from the fact that Balto is way too smart. I know that this sounds really dumb since I'm more than happy to accept that he can talk, but somewhere along the way Balto's ingenuity and propensity to have an immediate solution to every problem crossed my line of credulity and left me thinking whatever... And it's very hard to feel the drama and tension when you're thinking whatever... But aside from this one central, glaring flaw, 'Balto' has a lot going for it. It doesn't fall in to the traps that so many other films of this type fall in to. Namely, it doesn't take itself too seriously (something that I was really expecting it to do), but at the same time the characters aren't playing it for laughs. And on top of that, the comedy is actually funny and surprisingly sophisticated at times.Basically, 'Balto' doesn't try too hard. Which once again seems odd, given that I've just been nattering on about the spotless hero vs. the raging sociopahthic narcissist. This truly is a film of contradictions.Suffice to say that if I'd seen this as a lad I'm sure it would have been my all-time favorite film for at least a week, and while I would have been far too much of a little grot to admit it, I'd have been glad at the end when Rosy didn't die.Because I really do think that 'Balto' is a great kid's film. And I don't mean that in the patronising It's crap but those little darlings won't notice way. I mean it in that, as a general rule at least, kids will notice that Balto is implausibly smart but are more willing (i.e. less jaded and fickle) than most adults to consciously overlook this fact and enjoy the film on the basis of its merits, and merits are something that 'Balto' actually has quite a few of.So I reckon it would have been one of those films that I don't really like anymore, but that I don't regret having liked. "},{"Title":"Wonderful Movie","Date":"10 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Personally I thought this movie was wonderful. It captured the essence of what really happened. Although many parts we're exaggerated, I still found the story heart warming. If you are into history like me, this story closely follows the introduction of the Diptheria epidemic that hit Nome, Alaska. It also shows that neither plane, nor boat could get through. The train was only able to get from Anchorage to Nanana, Alaska and needed sled dogs to go across six hundred miles. It was able to follow history most of the time, but I am glad they were able to get the feeling of of the story across even though they had to make up a few parts. I recommend this movie for Kids, and for animal lovers and for any one who loves a good tale. "},{"Title":"Just give this movie a chance","Date":"10 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The main reason for which I like this movie, is for the design of prominent figures and the design of backgrounds, though the history is slightly more directed for the young ones, is excellent for any age if one enjoys a decent animation. As already said, the animation is superb, one example, the scenes of blizzards and snowfall. The movie have as well enough humor to keep some moments of laugh, as well some decent voice acting. The people who sees this movie must admire the perfect animation and design of prominent figures as well the backgrounds, if you appreciate animation, and a simple interesting story, this is up to you. "},{"Title":"I happen to like Balto, thank you very much...","Date":"16 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" i've had Balto for a long time, and it has always been a favorite of mine. i'm one of those that started my wolf-stage rather early, and i've held this movie close to my heart ever since. even if the artwork DOESN'T match up to today's standards, i will still give it my recommendation. i love the humor of Uncle Boris and Balto's clever comebacks to his guardian and that dopey dog that can never really find the words to say what he means... Jenna was always one of my favorite characters, and i loved the way she stood up to the others by giving Balto a chance.and also, i must say for one of my favorite movies, it is depressingly devoid of comments. *cries a tear for Balto*Kat "}{"Title":"One of the best cartoons i've ever watched","Date":"10 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I have no idea why Balto didn't become as famous as it should have. This cartoon has it all. This movie is a true story about a dog named Balto who is part husky and part wolf (I don't want to give too much detail). Two scenes in the movie made me cry, I have never watched a cartoon more emotional than this. The music is another thing to pay attention to, it adds up to the sadness. If your looking for a good cartoon, then see Balto, you might want to buy it after you do. This cartoon isn't only emotional, it's funny too. Great voice acting and a fun adventure movie for the whole family. Adults will even love it. I loved Kevin Bacon who played the voice of Balto, and Bob Hoskins who did the voice of Balto's friend Boris (he's a goose). I give it 10/10. "},{"Title":"Balto is an excellent movie about a dog who wants to find out who he is.","Date":"16 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Balto was a movie I watched when it came out and I surprisingly wasn't impressed, but now I decided to see it again to remember what it was like and I was completely STUNNED!!! The music is captivating and it truly made the movie excellent. I personally love this movie. For those of you who liked the movies Spirit, Two Brothers, Brother Bear, and other Disney movies, be prepared to be amazed. This movie is wonderful with the music, colors and fascinating story. Even though some of the characters aren't real, Balto WAS real and when I discovered this, I was even more impressed. Balto is a story about a wolf-dog who needs to fit in. He is shunned by Steele and the dogs of the town because he is part wolf and he cannot join a wolf pack because he is part dog. His misery at being alone are slightly pushed away by the hope of the little girl, Rosie. She is the only human who believes him. With his friends, Jenna (the red husky), Boris (the Russian snow goose), and Muk and Luk (two polar bear cubs) Balto sets out to rescue the children of Nome, Alaska from the epidemic of diphtheria that plagues them. "},{"Title":"A great classic, which deserve to be more known","Date":"27 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I'm 20, and yet I've never heard of Balto before this year. But now I'm an absolute fan of this movie, and I've must seen it a few dozens of time now... Why? Outside of its classical aspects, this is simply a well done animated movie. To me, there's everything you need to make a great movie  great animation, attractive characters, a beautiful story, a good production... There's no dead time, no songs (except for the excellent credits one), and it's a really good thing. But above all, I love the soundtrack, composed by James Horner (= Titanic, Braveheart...) There are probably the most awesome and varied themes I've ever heard in this kind of movies. And I'm sure everybody would have put it up among Disney's greatest movies, if it had been one! So if you've never seen it, give it a try!  "},{"Title":"A wonderful film, completely underrated","Date":"16 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Balto is a movie that I chanced upon by accident. I remember seeing it at the cinema in 1996 instead of the film I'd originally intended to see, because of some technical error. I wasn't really looking forward to this, however the movie completely surprised me. It's a wonderful story, based on actual historical events. James Horner's spirited soundtrack adds depth to the film. The animation isn't on a par with the Lion King or other Disney, but it has its charm. *SPOILER*Balto is an outcast in Nome, Alaska. Half-wolf, half-dog, he doesn't know where he belongs. Ridiculed by other dogs and viewed with suspicion by humans, his only friends are a goose and two polar bear cubs. But he befriends a husky named Jenna who can see Balto for what he really is a true hero, selfless and brave. The defining moment in this movie has to be the part where Balto comes face to face with the white wolf, and finally faces up to his lupine heritage. A wonderful film for the whole family. A++++  "},{"Title":"A great surprise of a film","Date":"3 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Balto strikes me as something of a sleeper movie, especially since sequel-happy Universal didn't even make a sequel to it for six years. I barely noticed it when it was first released, and regarded it generally as a cheap Disney knock-off that wouldn't really be worth my time. Recently, though, I had some free time and picked it up at the local video store. I was very pleasantly surprised.The story, based on actual events, revolves around a half-wolf name Balto, a huskie named Jenna, and a small cluster of supporting characters. It is very tight and flows very naturally and easily through the length of the film. The pacing is good; it's slow enough so that nothing goes over your head, but it's fast enough to not drag at any point.The animation is top-notch; the backgrounds and character shots often surpass anything Disney was putting out at around the same time, and the character animation is liquid smooth and virtually flawless. The still shots of the movie don't really do it justice; for example, Jenna's upper body seems very exaggerated in stills, but in the movie, she looks natural.The voice cast, chock-full of big names, does a great job with the characters and greatly helps to immerse the viewer in the film. All of the characters sound exactly like they should, and the voices are matched to the animation seamlessly.As for the issue of historical accuracy... well, one needs to remember that is isn't a documentary. Balto uses the true story as a very firm historical base, but then builds off of it with a new set of personalities and plots to create something entirely unique. It's true that Balto was not the only hero of the famous journey, though he did lead for the last 60-some miles, through 50-mph winds, and even prevented the sled team from falling through thin ice on a river; there were really 20 different sled dog teams involved in the operation.The point of Balto, though, is not to provide a history lesson; it's to provide entertainment, and this it does with flying colors.10/10 "},{"Title":"Balto is the greatest movie of all time","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  So, the question of, what is the greatest movie of all time? came up recently.My friend says Dead Poet's Society. I say Balto. You can see where we diverge?The movie (Balto, not Dead Poet's Society) is really good. Better-than-good. Superb and outstanding, and maybe better than those, too. It's a shame that it's so poorly-known, because it's very easily superior to the Disney fare it competes with. The animation is spectacular, and it's backed with Horner's astounding score. The voice talents are good, which means that the acting is good also. And their ears are drawn so very nicely...It's also got a great story. You've got your Beautiful Female archetype, and your Evil Nemesis archetype, and your Trusty Sidekick archetype, and the beautiful female is quite beautiful, and the evil nemesis is quite evil, and the sidekick is quite trusty. It works out well.Now of course we know that the movie will have a happy ending; this goes without saying, given the historical context. Please don't deprive yourself of viewing the film simply because of that. No, no. It's well worth watching, because the characters are well-developed and well-portrayed, because the animation is gorgeous, and because the story is true if not to the history books, than at least to the heart.Which brings me to this if you've researched the actual facts behind Balto's story as much as I have, or even quite a bit less, you will know that the movie doesn't do much in the way of being historically accurate. This is really very irrelevant.In adapting a story like this, you have to take liberties with reality. For example, Balto talks. Also, it seems he is more handy with his paws than I am with opposable thumbs. My dogs are not like this; this is an example of reality being traded in favor of story-telling. The end effect is marvelous. It's well worth that tradeoff. And, it's why I say that Balto is the greatest movie of all time.In reality, Balto didn't sound like Kevin Bacon, the Serum Run wasn't done by a single team, and Nome wouldn't have seen the sun in January. So what? It strikes me that reality would not have come through with a film as wonderful as Balto. So if you hear nothing else I say, let me leave you with this thought Balto is the greatest movie of all time. Believe me. I spend a lot of time with younger folks; I think I've probably seen every animated film ever made, and it's better than all of those. I spend some time with an older crowd too, and I've seen a fair bit of the cinema geared towards the more mature. But Balto has every movie that I've ever seen beat. Hands down, period, no contest.On the surface, it's a well-animated children's movie, which is sure to captivate those children as much as it has me, for all forty or fifty times I've seen it. When one sees it with the benefit, perhaps, of a little bit more maturity, one becomes aware of a very, very good movie, one that asks you to reflect on everything from love, to courage, to the way we see the world.So it's not simply a movie for children, it's a movie for all ages. There are parts that you can best appreciate if you're five, and parts you can best appreciate if you're five or ten times that age. But you can't appreciate them at all if you don't watch the movie, which is really what you ought to be doing now. It's what I'm going to go do now.So go! I beseech you, find this movie and watch it!I don't think you'll be disappointed.--Alex "},{"Title":"Great movie worth seeing!","Date":"19 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie is about a wolf-dog named Balto who is an outcast that befriends a husky named Jenna.But there is this dog named Steele who wants Jenna for himself but hates Balto.then some children of Nome Alaska get sick and Balto's their only hope.I won't give away the ending but if anyone wants to chat with me about anything at all feel free to send me some e-mail. "},{"Title":"Pretty Good","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Before I even saw this video, I had no idea there was a flu epidermic in Nome, Alaska in 1925.  According to this movie, it's based on a true story and they really had to send a sled team out in the bitter cold to rescue the inhabitants of Nome from the disease.Whether or not the writers actually followed the story as it really happened is anybody's guess really but its still a great movie nonetheless.  The characters (Balto, Steele, Jenna, Rosie, Boris, Muk and Luk) are well-developed and anyone can but themselves in their shoes and know what's going on.  Kevin Bacon does a great job as Balto and Phil Collins plays the innocent Muk and Luk (polar bear cubs that hate to swim).The soundtrack fits the scenes well and the action on the screen and I've noticed no goof ups that can sometimes happen to the best film studios.  Watch it tonight!  Eight stars out of ten on my ratings scale. "},{"Title":"Capturing all that is good about animation","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie is incredible! I've watched through it so many times that I lost track years ago... the story of a halfbreed trying to fit in with the other canines (all while racing the clock in order to save his town) provides a positive message about self for viewers of all ages. This movie has a darker tone to it than most animated features as well. There are *no* random outbreaks of song nor bad music groups providing theme songs. Though I've heard complaints about the sidekick characters, I guess nobody's perfect. ;-) Balto's score is beautifully done by James Horner, full of emotion that combines with smooth animation to result in some powerful scenes. The famous White Wolf encounter will leave you on the edge of your seat...that single minute of the film is what hooked me in the first place. Balto's story is one you'll never forget! Four paws up. "},{"Title":"Pleasant Surprise","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Saw this one today on the French Cable Network ( Balto, chien-loup, Hros des Neiges ) and was pleasently surprised. The only problem was that the dialogue was in French, which sounded completely stupid on a film supposedly taking place in the snowswept scapes of Alaska . This aside, the film was very pleasant to watch especially as concerns the script and the humour. The quality of the drawings was less good than those of the Disney films, this is understandable, Disney is a past master at this. Nevertheless, the story is quite suspenseful and gripping and had me on the edge of my seat especially in he precipice scenes. A highly recommendable film and I just loved the little polar bears !! Hopefully they will issue it on DVD someday so that I might get to listen to the original English Language Soundtrack. "}{"Title":"A Good Unknown Movie","Date":"24 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie is highly underrated (mostly because nobody knows about it.)It is probably the best children's animated movie that hasn't been made by either Disney, Don Bluth or the other big companies.It is well-made and it has good morals for children (which is getting very rare in recent Disney movies.)All around, 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A must see film","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Not many Animated films are of this caliber.  I enjoyed this movie greatly. Every minute was entertaining and the scenes were breathtaking.  The characters are un-forgettable.  I am also a Disney fan but this ranks above most of them. "},{"Title":"This film will make you stand up and cheer.","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  *Possible spoilers*This one is a favorite of mine.  I'm not really sure where to begin.  This movie has some of everything  a few laughs, a few tears, and a LOT of adventure.  Kevin Bacon is great as Balto, mixing the right amount of unsuredness (?) and determination.  Jim Cummings dives so deeply into the role of the villainous Steele that he makes you HATE the character.  Cummings makes you want to see Steele get what he deserves at the end VERY badly, and when he does, you will stand up and cheer.  James Horner's score (one of his very best, IMHO) perfectly underlines the film and, in several sequences, drives it.  There are two scenes that get me every time I watch this movie.  In the scene where Balto confronts Steele over the medicine, the tension builds up so thick you can cut it with a knife, and the scene where Balto encounters the white wolf and finds new determination is one of the most emotionally rousing scenes I've seen in a while. "},{"Title":"The Best Animated Film of all time!","Date":"2 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I would just like to say that Balto is my all-time favorite animated film. When I first went to see it (on Christmas Eve 1995 at Tri-Boro Cinema in North Attleboro), I was sure that I would love it, but I was unprepared for my reaction that day! From the opening scenes to the closing credits my eyes never left the screen once! I was amazed at what I saw. I loved every character in this movie, but my definite favorite was Jenna. When I first saw her on screen, I was mesmerized by her beauty. I never thought that any animated character could be that beautiful before until I saw her. As for the rest of the movie, the animation was well done, the music was excellent (Especially the song Reach For The Light by Steve Winwood- I can't believe that this song and the  musical score were not nominated for academy awards, they most certainly deserved them!), the character voices were excellent (especially Bridget Fonda as the voice of Jenna!), the story was excellent (It was more histroically accurate than Pocahontas which was also a good movie) and it was well made overall. I would recommend this movie to anyone who wants to see a great animated film that is not made by Disney, and to any family who wants to see a great family film that everybody can enjoy (nobody dies in this one and there is very little violence, unlike most Disney animated features). I think that everybody should see this movie at least once (I saw it 5 times in the theater and countless times at home)and I hope that it will come out on DVD soon so that I can enjoy it on this new format. "},{"Title":"Old dog with old tricks, but pleasant enough.","Date":"28 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" My Take Good family entertainment with pleasant animation yet familiar plot elements.Universal may have released THE LAND BEFORE TIME which was a terrific family animated adventure and, in my opinion, a worthy Disney contender in the 80's (not exactly the best time for Disney until THE LITTLE MERMAID came along), but they're still not Disney. With reaping one mighty triumph after another, classic after classic, Disney has proved to be at the top of their game (a game which they themselves started by the way). Universal, with former Disney animator Don Bluth working alongside them, is one of Disney's first business rival, a studio challenging Disney with their own animated efforts. Besides THE LAND BEFORE TIME (certainly the best of the bunch), there's AN American TAIL and its sequel, both of which doesn't match Disney's regal highness.By 1995, Universal released another contender to the Disney throne. It's BALTO, an animated adventure supposedly based on true events of a courageous sled dog mellowed down to kids movie material (talking animals, wild antics, mild fictional perils). For an animated film, BALTO fulfills all the requirements a pristine animated environment filled with interactive characters, a stylish voice cast, fast pacing and all the essential trappings to drag both adults and kids to purchase. But while it fulfills being an animated adventure, it rarely succeeds on being a brilliant one. It's appealing for kids, with maybe a few tidbits to attract adult attention, but it's still miles away from Disney territory.The film is less a true story as mere fairy tale, as Balto (voiced by Kevin Bacon), an Ugly Duckling of a half-wolf (half-husky, half-wolf) usually tormented and embarrassed by the other sled dogs, including the cream-of-the-crop town hero Steel (voiced by Jim Cummings). His only real friends in the world is a talkative goose named Boris (voiced by Bob Hoskins) and a pair of twin polar bear cubs (voiced by Phil Collins). Pretty soon, a dangerous epidemic plagues the small Nome town, and after the sled team sent to pick up the antitoxins have failed, Balto seeks a chance to play hero as he sets of on his own to find the team, bring the medicine back to the ill-stricken town and have a monument inscribed before him (Okay, that last one wasn't exactly part of his plans!). Along the way, the film manages to provide a few good moments, including a battle against a giant Grizzly bear (why it isn't hibernating at this time of the year I don't know) which might scare the kids a little, but is no doubt some of the film's more exciting moments. There's also an avalanche (two actually, one on a cave).The voice cast is adequate, as is the animation, but BALTO can't help but fall short. The characters, story and everything else, while good, are not Disney caliber and definitely feel more like a forced imitation. But as pure family entertainment, I didn't mind taking BALTO out for a spin. Therefore, I suggest a worthy rental would do just fine.Rating *** out of 5. "},{"Title":"Disappointing on so many levels...","Date":"27 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I used to adore this movie as a kid, and had some huge nostalgic goggles on the thing for years. But after recently watching it again, it's lost most of it's charm. First off, the animation has a non-Disney style, which means it can be interesting. However the animators don't try to play with this advantage in the least and leave the audience with plain, lazy, and boring sequences. The only times I remember even bothering to watch closely were scenes with Balto's mother, which were nice if not completely unrealistic. Which leads me to my biggest gripe, the many multitude of insults against the viewers' intelligence. Definitely a movie for kids 8 and younger. First off, Balto was not a wolfdog, he was a purebred husky and a trained sled dog. I'm not sure why he needed the underdog edge, considering he was already an outcast for his poor sledding capabilities. And the studio didn't bother incorporating ANY common sense into the move. Like how wolves are smaller than huskies, dogs howl, and bears are not bigger than houses. And thirdly, if you know ANYTHING about what really happened during and after that relay, this movie kind of leaves a bad taste in your mouth. Steele, the antagonist actually represents the only other existing character, which is Togo. The sled dog that was a natural born leader, extremely successful and beloved, and quite worthy of his own movie. He carried the medicine over the largest and most dangerous stretch before being switched out with Balto, to give him a break at the very end. Togo would receive all other awards and medals, but Balto and his statue were publicity darlings. This all ends after Balto's owner finally finishes milking his fame for all its worth on tours and drops them off at a circus, where they were discovered years later covered in their own filth and starving. Balto and his team were later rescued and lived their lives out at a zoo, while Togo would remain with his owner before finally retiring. Beside the historic flops, the characters are uninteresting, clichd, and unsympathetic. The action is fair if ridiculous, the music is forgettable, and the acting and animation is lazy. The reason I'm so harsh on this movie is because I really did love it as a kid, and find myself completely frustrated over its failures. It could have been so much more, and animated retelling of the relay was not unwelcome. But the delivery was stale, clichd, and completely uninterested in actually telling the story itself. "},{"Title":"best to enjoy during a depression","Date":"23 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I was 12 when the movie first came out on video and I was greatly disappointed. Only someone like myself who has Asperger's Syndrome would flip over the film's 99% historical inaccuracy. If one were to do a report on Balto using this film as a source, they would no doubt give an F.I've gave brief notes on why it what was inaccurate before so here I go again, just to let to let ya know.1. I don't think Balto was ever part wolf. There are only very few sources that indicate he was but on the other hand most of the big and juicy sources on the real Balto never mention his wolf side. Plus it is also confusing as to what breed he was (husky or malamute?) But I guess Universal needed a way to get the plot going, why not make Balto a part wolf outsider they say. I'm sure people didn't totally trash on part wolfs in Alaska but they weren't fully trusted either. The film along with it's inferior sequel does a good job of digging into Balto's wolf side.2. The idea of one team going from Nome and Nenana and back is ridiculous. No one sled team would survive such a feat in early 20th century winter. The whole ordeal was actually a sled relay where the medicine was transferred over to different teams at certain stops. it's much more convenient if I say so myself and thus more dogs and people were involved in the great antitoxin run than you think. The real Balto's greatest contribution was being the leader of the team to arrive in Nome with the medicine. He didn't do much else that could be story telling worthy.3. No team got lost in the way the movie puts it.4. I highly doubt that the musher was Gunnar Kasson, who should've had a big role in the movie, mind you.I'm concerned that the movie may have been just a marketing ploy. ALL the animals in the film play out as no more than a high school underdog tale. Come on, it's obvious from knowing the characters! Another thing that bothered me was that Balto was being treated more of an outcast than you could buy. He's a handsome dog, not surprising that at least Jenna (a very feminine character) would take interest in him. Oh who am I kidding, all the characters, except Balto were cardboard characters placed there to kill time.It didn't surprise me that the film got dark with the whole race to Nome but I think it became darker than it should've been. I say a lot more crueler. Balto doesn't lay a hand on Steele when he beats the crap out of him for trying to get the medicine. Yet Steele never tries to get the team moving again. And despite saying that Steele was going a bit overboard with beating up Balto, none of the other sled dogs tries to stand up to him.In the high school underdog realm Nikki, Kaltag, and Star would be the bullies 2D sidekicks. Who just happen to be as fast as Balto, go figure.The reason for the review title takes place in high school. Man, was I depress 24/7, I think the Balto phase began to kick in with the upcoming video sequel. Now instead of a disappointing marketing ploy Balto seemed to be more of an inspirational tale. Depending on your POV Balto could be considered a little bit selfish. *SPOILER* He's so obsessed with the idea that his speed could make him a hero and allow him to become as popular of a sled dog as Steele. Even Boris thought Balto was losing it. And then you got what happens after winning the fight with Steele. Balto ends up becoming no better than him and the team is once again in the same situation it was before. The moment of redemption comes in the film's most memorable scene (which kinda reminds me of The Lion King's Mufasa's Ghost scene) when the white wolf appears. For the love of God, get the soundtrack! The Heritage of the Wolf is the best instrumental number that could come from a nonDisney film.Balto had to learn to embrace his wolf side despite the fact that it makes him an outsider. It's a bit preachy for a kid but it really brought back his self esteem and he becomes less selfish and less of a show off.Okay I gotta stop before this gets way too long. All in all, Balto can only be enjoyed depending on your portrayal of things. I have a better appreciation for Balto now than compared to being a child, despite its plain, even stereotypical, characters and too depressing and self centered moments.To twistysnacks My guess is that the movie folks didn't go to Alaska and do their research. They just depended on books and altered what didn't work.  "},{"Title":"Not as good as Disney, but still very enjoyable **spoilers**","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"     If you're expecting Disney-level entertainment, then this might not be your cup of tea.  There are plently of Disney and non-Disney animated flicks I'd rather watch than this.   The plot is based on the true story of Balto, a half-wolf dog who saved the town of Nome, Alaska, from a diphiteria outbreak.  Told from the dog's point of view, it appears to be an attempt at Disney-esque glory.  Well, it's not.   The humor aspect is where the film falls.  Its humor is geared at six year olds.  While this is not necessarily a problem, EVERY joke seems to be a kiddie one.  Disney and Dreamworks have a great combination of child and adult humor (need I name the titles?).  The characters are no great shakes, either while the main characters are okay, the goose (Bob Hopkins) and polar bears (none other than Phil Collins) are annoying, and the film could be better off without them (as if knowing this, there is a thirty-five minute section where they do not appear).      Still, this film is quite good.  The animation isn't anything we haven't see before, but it's nonetheless very good.  James Horner's musical score (lacking the standard Disney singing animals AND lyrical songs, period) is superb.  And the voice acting!  Kevin Bacon (Tremors, Hollow Man) brings his all-American charm into the role of Balto; he may not be the best actor out there, but here, he just fits.  Hoskins and Collins are okay, just given bad characters.  Bridget Fonda is good as Balto's love interest.  British actress Miriam Margoyles (whom I fondly remember as Edmund Blackadder's Puritain aunt in Blackadder II) appears in a cameo as the little girl who is Fonda's master when all grown up.  And of course, Jim Cummings, aka the world's greatest voice actor, as Steele, steals every scene as only he can.   Overall, flawed, but a very good film nonetheless.   Seven stars. "},{"Title":"What a disappointment!","Date":"10 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" My husband and I rented this recently to watch with our grandchildren, ages 6 and 2. We were really looking forward to it since we ran a team of sled dogs for many years. All I can say is Shame on you, Hollywood!. The serum run to Nome was an event which captured the imagination and hearts of the entire nation when it occurred. Obviously this was not exciting enough for the studio. Instead they ruined the story by including numerous (and violent) events which never happened---frightening scenes with dogs fighting viciously, a scene of Balto being attacked by a bear, and scenes where a musher was severely injured. We were truly appalled at the liberties that were taken withthis story. Does Hollywood really believe that our children cannot enjoy an animated feature unless it includes scenes of gratuitous violence?Wake up, movie makers---lots of parents and grandparents agree with me. Tone it down or you'll lose our respect (and our bucks). "},{"Title":"Ridiculous.","Date":"4 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I come from Alaska, and I really hated this movie. It was much too difficult for me to get past all the inaccuracies and wild plot holes in the movie to enjoy it in any sense of the word.The story is based on the true story of the beginnings of the Iditarod, a dog sled race to and from Nome, Alaska. The original story is that Nome had an outbreak of diphtheria, so a dog sled was sent out to get medicine from Anchorage. It's a great story and an amazing race to watch.Here are the problems; and there are quite a few that I will miss. To begin with, using a dog sled to get around was *not* unusual. It wasn't a pasttime in Nome. It was a way of life. It was the only way to efficiently get anywhere in that day and age. Using a dog sled to get to Anchorage wasn't some kind of last resort.Wolf/husky mixes were not only *not* outcast back then, but they were desirable. Domesticated dogs were bred with wolves specifically for their strength and endurance. Even now people are proud to say they have a wolf mix, even though I believe they are illegal in Anchorage.Then we have all the little inconsistencies. A sunset in Nome, Alaska? In winter? You don't even get sunsets in Anchorage, let alone in Nome. There was the portrayal of polar bears as cute, cuddly, hamster-looking things; this especially irritated me because a polar bear in the Alaska Zoo, Binky, mauled several people who were under the impression that polar bears are just that - cute and cuddly. Then they show people, even little kids, traipsing about outside wearing simple coats. This in a town that averages 0 degrees Fahrenheit from December to March. Then they show fat, hairless, sharpei-looking mutts pulling sleds, and not the gorgeous huskies and malamutes and wolf breeds that are really used. It's not only insulting to reality, but it's absolutely ridiculous to believe that a short-haired fat dog would even survive up there, let alone pull a sled.Etc, etc, etc.A cartoon is a cartoon and is meant to be enjoyed, and not be true to reality. After all, the dogs do talk, and kiss, and fall in love, and ave social humanesque cliques and so on. But for crying out loud, couldn't the director have even made an *effort* at showing Nome for what it really was? "}{"Title":"Sappy story of a do-gooder wolf-dog...","Date":"24 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" 1st watched 5/24/2007- 4 out of 10(Dir-Simon Wells) Sappy story of a do-gooder wolf-dog is so one-sided that you can easily guess what's going to happen from one scene to the next and you're just waiting for the grand finale that you know is going to happen. This doesn't make for a very satisfying movie-going experience even though it is based on a true story. The movie is introduced and closes in live-action as a grandmother is looking for something with her granddaughter in Central Park in New York City and tells her the story of Balto. The rest of the movie is animated and follows the story of an outcast wolf-dog in Alaska who wants to be a sled-dog but isn't allowed to be because he's half wolf. He's attracted to a girl dog and finds out that her owner and many of the children in the town are dying of diptheria and are running out of the anti-toxen to heal them. Because of the weather, the only option is to send a sled-dog team to bring it back to the town. Balto wants to help but is not allowed to and the original team gets lost, so he comes to the rescue with his friend duck & two polar bears. To animate such a serious dilemma and showcase it as a G-rated kids film, trying to add humor, is torture enough for an adult -- I can just imagine what the experience would be for a child. There are actual kids dying unless this dog gets thru and we have to live thru many action sequences and ridiculous plot twists waiting for the resolve. Not to mention an un-wholly enemy dog named Steele that wouldn't do anything good for anyone unless it made him look better. This extreme discrepancy in good vs. bad is to me what makes this movie not work. And for kids, this movie can't be a happy experience. Avoid this one. "},{"Title":"S'okay","Date":"23 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Balto is nothing special. It's an enjoyable movie, and families will like it. The story is adequate. However, it's not very inspired or innovative. It doesn't have the charm of even Disney's average films. The characters are by the numbers, especially the sidekicks, who look like they came from Disney's direct to video sequels. At least it tries for heart. Just know that it doesn't pull it off as powerfully as Disney can. The fact that this came out during the same year as Toy Story is a mistake in itself. "},{"Title":"nothing special","Date":"21 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  It was a cute, forgettable film. The animation is not even close to par with Disney, the script delivers a few notable one liners and nothing else, and the voice talents adequate. Still it has its touching moments and the audience it was intended for(small children) will adore it.  "},{"Title":"Just plain bad","Date":"3 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I'll be perfectly honest, when I saw this movie back in '95 (at the ripe old age of 8) I loved it, thought it was wonderful and since then I've remembered it as such. To this day I'm still the person who goes and sees family or kids movies opening weekend, they tend to be my favourites. When I re-watched this movie today however, I thought it was just sad. For several reasons. The first was that overall the movie was cheesy and fairly predictable. (I'm not talking so much about the story line because clearly I've seen it before) both the person I watched this with, who had never seen this film, and I cringed throughout the movie at some of the more cheesy lines, actions or phrases. That is what I thought of this movie today, after not seeing it for 15 years. Then there is the whole based on a true story load of crap. This is so far removed from the real story that it shouldn't even be considered based on it whatsoever. In the real story Balto was part of a sled team (and a Siberian Husky, I won't say pure-breed because I really don't know, they have him stuffed in the Cleveland museum and he looks fairly different from todays pure huskies, but I know the breed has changed a lot over time) There were several teams making that run and one other dog (a lead dog on another team) was much more heroic and more impressive overall in my opinion and his name was Togo, he's in the Wasilla museum. That's a whole other story though, I suppose. Bottom line, Balto was one of the dogs who ran, as part of a team, and he was a brave and heroic dog. He was one of many, several dogs died trying to get the medication to Nome and he happened to be the lead dog on the team that had the part of the run where they pulled into town. Luck of the draw. This story is so amazing and dramatic on it's own without creating a whole new story it saddens me to see how far from the truth this one is. I know that when I saw the movie when I was 8 I thought it was accurate (aside from the animated aspect, that the story itself was real) so it bothers me to see yet another amazing story distorted because, well, I'm not sure why. Because someone didn't feel like trying to tell the real one. Even with just keeping to the part with Balto, forgetting all the other men and dogs, it would have been a much different -though no less heartwarming or amazing- story. "}]