[{"Title":"Stop looking at me, Swan!","Date":"22 May 2001","Score":"54 out of 82 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  What can I possibly say?  This is no Citizen Kane, but this is one of the movies that sticks out in my mind the most.  It's a twisted, crude, tasteless comedy but never ceases to bring out extreme laughter, even after I've seen it approximately 200 times--give or take.  I just cannot get tired of this movie!  There are things in this movie that cannot be understood, like every Sandler flick.  What the hell was the deal with the penguin?  However, it's a memorable moment.  There are so many memorable quotes from the film.  It's one of those movies I can quote line per line off the top of my head.  Here's a share of my favorite quotes(singing) Suntan lotion is good for me.  You protect me.  Tee-hee-hee.O'Doyle rules!It's too damn hot for a penguin to be just walkin' around.  I gotta send him back to the South Pole.You're giving the company to Eric?  He is a bad, bad man.Adam Sandler has that brand of comic genius in which you don't know what you're laughing at, but it's damn funny!  You can't help it!  I can't rant and rave about anything artistically brilliant about Billy Madison.  Yet it's one of my favorite movies of all time.  It's funny, it's original, it's Sandler!  Nuff said.My score  8 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"I'm one of the GOOD guys, Penguin!","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"43 out of 70 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of those lucky cases where the opening sequence of a movie gives you an excellent idea of what you are in for.If you do not enjoy Billy's sunblock song, or the bit with the penguin, then you must turn off the movie and stop being such a nag about it.But for those of us who happen to enjoy movies that are silly and stupid, this is one of the best ones out there. "},{"Title":"I Laughed my balls off!!","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"46 out of 77 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Billy Madison in a landslide is Adam Sandler's best film.  I never laughed so hard.  Maybe the humor is a little stupid, but that is because before seeing this movie, you have to make sure your brain is not in Fellini mode and in Sandler mode.Story revolves around Billy Madison, who must go back to school (he is 27) and graduate High School so he can take over his father's hotel ring.  His whole odyssey is utterly hilarious from start to finish.  Especially because he has cameos and stars like Norm MacDonald, Steve Buscemi, and Chris Farley as a Penguin lover (that penguin hadn't made me laugh that hard since the pee scene in Naked Gun).  Great fun (one of the best of 1995). A++ "},{"Title":"Such a funny movie, it never gets old","Date":"30 January 2005","Score":"41 out of 70 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" If you want to see a movie that is fun, puts you in a good mood, and never gets old, then see Billy Madison. All of you Sandler haters will think this is stupid, but everyone who likes Adam Sandler, or doesn't mind humor that is kind of stupid will love Billy Madison.This is one of Adam Sandler's first movies, and it's one of his best also. This is a movie that I've seen so many times, but I still enjoy it every time. This is good to watch when you're in a bad mood, or if you're stressed out, because it will perk you up quicker than any coffee you can name. Other movies that put you in a good mood are Happy Gilmore, Beavis and Butthead Do America, South Park Bigger, Longer, and Uncut, and Tommy Boy.Overall, Billy Madison has a somewhat stupid sense of humor, but it does make you laugh, and it's such an entertaining movie. If you haven't seen this yet, see it now and see what all the laughing is about. "},{"Title":"For Moron Eyes Only","Date":"21 July 2007","Score":"28 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Billy Madison is the type of mungo movie that leaves one speechless on how it could have ever been made. The answer, of course, is because that champion of dullards was involved - Adam Sandler, playing the eponymous Billy Madison with every ounce of talent the Christian god forgot to give him. A fine businessman he is; a writer and comedian he's not.In order to inherit his father's hotel empire, twenty-something idiot-boy, Billy Madison must promise his father (Darren McGavin) that he'll repeat grades 1 through 12 in six months and graduate, or the empire will fall to a business acquaintance (Bradley Whitford).We discover Billy can't even spell rock. How then are we expected to believe this imbecile who fills his days with daiquiris, stroke mags and Nintendo can accomplish his task in six months? About now the speechlessness starts. This is not an underprivileged person deprived of getting the breaks and so therefore failing at life - Billy is an enabled douchebag whose father paid off teachers to pass him and who refused to educate himself, until his inheritance was at stake, at which point he suddenly wants to turn over a new leaf only to inherit the riches.This is not a nice man. He is neither hero nor anti-hero. He is a waste of space. And the directionless movie can't even make up its mind on how to portray him, because even though it disparages higher learning at every turn, the disparagement is in direct opposition to the plot of the movie itself, where Billy needs to graduate, i.e. display that he has learned, in order to claim his inheritance.And the smokin' blond first grade teacher (Bridgette Wilson) &#150; instead of considering him the illiterate moron he is for trying to pass first grade &#150; falls for him. Well, we all know she's attracted to a multi-billionaire's son for his personality, right? Directed nominally by Tamra Davis, from an unfunny script by Tim Herlihy and Sandler (Herlihy would go on to write all Sandler's comedies until 2002), Billy moves up through the grades via a montage, not actually doing tests or learning anything, but through attending camp, playing basketball, writing derogatory notes about the ugliness of his fourth grade teacher and having lice exams.Is it even worthwhile wasting my server space on this review, or you frying your braincells reading it, or Adam Sandler pretending to act in it? The answer is no.(Movie Maniacs, visit poffysmoviemania.com) "},{"Title":"So stupid, but so damned funny!","Date":"7 October 2007","Score":"13 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The great thing about Billy Madison is you're not suppose to take it nor judge it too seriously. They knew while making it that it wouldn't be an Oscar winner, nor would it be the next Citizen Kane, nor is it suppose to be some intriguing and involved plot, but it in return has rightfully earned itself a major cult classic status among youth and film lovers since it's release. It has also become one of the most quoted and memorable films over the past 12 years.It's about a 27-year-old man who makes a bet with his dad that if he repeats and passes grades 1-12 (Where is K?), he will take over for his dad's hotel company, instead of his dad's obnoxious and sociopathic friend Erik (played to perfection by Bradley Whitford; despite Billy not having any experience in the field at all...). The film from there follows him in each grade.Does that sound like much of a plot? No. It is inept, idiotic, unrealistic and bizarre, but it is one of the funniest movies ever made. It has endless amounts of memorable gags that will make you laugh over and over again, it has the type of sense of humor that makes you laugh because it is so damned strange and nonsensical. Most of its gags rely on a hybrid of black humor and slapstick that produces hysterical results.I feel like I'm 10 years old quoting the movie to all of my friends, but it's the type of movie that will make you do that. If you are in the mood for a very good and thought provoking movie, this isn't your movie, but if you are in the mood to laugh your ass off and not pay attention to how good it actually is... here is your movie.But that aside, Billy Madison isn't just awful like many other goofball comedies of the 90's and 00's, it is very entertaining and memorable... because it just manages to really make you laugh. And it's not dumb characters making stupid mistakes (like Black Sheep for example), just very weird characters making What the hell was that?! situations. "},{"Title":"One Of Adam Sandler's Best","Date":"1 October 2007","Score":"15 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" As a comedian, Adam Sandler does great on all of his comedy films but this one will always stand as one of his best most funniest films. The plot is very ridiculous, but in a way that makes it truly hilarious. Billy Madison must go back to school in order to prove that he is responsible and mature enough to take over his fathers hotel business. The fact that Billy is totally incapable of running a hotel, and can be a total idiot at times makes the whole idea of it so funny. All of the other characters are funny in their own unique ways. This movie will always have a special shine as one of the funniest movies of the 90's and one of Sandler's best in his career. "},{"Title":"what?","Date":"10 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  why does everyone like this film, I thought that this was one of adams worst movies I gave it a 5. did I miss something? all he had was a horrible script and a childish voice. what was so great about it.(except the part when he chases the pinguin.he he.) I'm even a huge fan of adam.  "},{"Title":"Not ashamed to say this was really funny","Date":"29 September 2004","Score":"16 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Looking at some of the reviews here reinforces the fact that there are certain people that like different types of humor. If stupid humor makes you laugh, this is your comedy. If you like stale British cerebral humor, maybe you should stay far away from this. I'm sure we all have our favorite and unfavorite comedians. I happen to like Sandler because he is immaturely funny. I think Dave Chapelle's show is pretty damn funny too. I never thought Sam Kinison was funny (the screaming is annoying) nor do I care for Chris Tucker.I saw Billy Madison at the theater, a friend and myself and the 8 other guys randomly scattered around the seating area found this to be pretty damn hilarious. I laughed at about 8 different scenes and that is a lot for me for any one movie. I still laugh at a few of the scenes when I see repeats and yes I have it on video.Those of you who dislike this movie are more than likely too old and stuck on your Bob Hope type era comedians and refuse to admit any others. Sandler isn't the greatest comedian who ever lived but his shtick was fresh and original when this movie came out. I have a video of him back when he did stand up and the guy is brilliant. Again, people who get easily annoyed and upset with the stupid type humor steer clear of this movie and save yourself the aggravation that these sad negative reviewers subjected themselves to. "},{"Title":"Billy, Don't Be a Zero","Date":"26 July 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Boy, talk about a set audience. If one does not like the incomprehensive, blundering, annoying and unimaginative drivel of Adam Sandler's inhuman man-child shtick, you would not like this movie. I never have, so it's safe to say, this was one excruciatingly painful movie to bear.That all said, I can see in a world that people flocked to see Twilight, follow Kardashians or actually would vote for Trump, there's something for everyone. Though, it would not be easy to block out the obnoxious and high-pitched annoying voice of Sandler, the movie itself is so formulaic, clichéd, obvious and felt long for even 89 minutes. Of course, that falls in the easy for people to like category since people tend to like sequels, remakes and films done hundreds of times before.I guess one can't really take anything serious here. Hell, Sandler didn't even look like he did since he was completely inconsistent with his own character&#x85;and I'm not talking about his predictable growth. Granted he was playing a spoiled young adult going on -2 who did anything he wanted at any second of the day, but he would jump out of character at odd times to play someone completely different throughout the film. Throw in a bunch of other dumb and uncreative characters, and you have a movie that solely relies on its audience liking the blabber of the nitwit on screen. Like that, and you'll probably forgive everything else. Don't and I just saved you 89 precious minutes you had no idea you'd want to spend doing something constructive. "}{"Title":"Great Comedy, Awful Structure","Date":"17 March 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This film is highly entertaining due to hilarious bits, but the bits are central to how the film is structured - other than the main plot the film is just thrown together with random jokes or situations that create their own jokes.It opens on Billy as a spoiled brat who for some reason sees a giant penguin when drinking a lot, while alcohol is not a hallucinogen. The point is he is bat-s*** crazy, and the filmmakers need to illustrate Billy as such while making it funny somehow, hence the penguin.While Billy tries to prove himself to his father so he can run the family company, he progresses from grades 1 to 12, and his teachers determine if he passes or not in a matter of weeks. So it is predictable that a lot of the jokes surround Billy being an idiot.Bits that have literally no significance to the film are added to make it funny. While the banana peel bit is a great set-up, it is resolved by happening to kill a family of a kid who bullies Billy ONCE in the high school sequence. Because why not. Then in third grade they decide to add a gay, tubby principal because homosexuality is funny and awkward.Though they are randomly thrown together, there are many bits that are quite hilarious. Steve Buscemi is great in a cameo as a once- angry-now-turned-homicidal guy that Billy used to pick on. Chris Farley is great as an awkward bus driver who objectifies the third grade teacher. One bit that seems hilarious but I found over-the- top is an overly long way of telling Billy he didn't connect literature to industry well at all. It would have been funnier if it was only a few sentences.It is a comedy worth watching for the entertainment of silly humor, but this is in no way a good film. "},{"Title":"Makes me feel dumb","Date":"11 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Okay first off, I cant stand Adam Sandler, he's an annoying Actor. But to give him credit he has done good movies and bad movies. Good movies such as Happy Gilmore, Click, The Wedding Singer, I now Pronounce you Chuck and Larry etc. Because he can do serious roles and also have the comedy. But this film...makes me feel so dumb while watching it and at the end I felt like i had to go back to school to be taught what GOOD films to watch. The jokes are terrible, some scenes are completely pointless. But there have been times when Sandler makes so much noise I really want to punch him in his face. I give this film 2 stars because it's bad but not the worst. "},{"Title":"Sandler at his best in the 90's","Date":"26 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" even though this film is still rubbish and Adam Sandler was pretty bad in it too its still probably the best Sandler movie of the ninetiesthe film is basically about Adam Sandler being stupid as usual and his dad is a multi millionaire that really wants to give the company to him. but before his dad is willing to give him the company Sandler has to go through each year of school in the space of a month to prove that he can run said companyits not a good film but i managed to watch all of it and i didn't hate it, hence why i'm rating it three stars. i don't understand why Adam Sandler has to be so stupid in nearly all his films. he pulls the same faces and shouts the same bull s**t in every film hes inthis film is OK i guess if your under 13 years old but for anyone else out there this film isn't good......... 3/10.........j.d Seaton "},{"Title":"Oh God. Oh God no. Please stop. No really, this is worse than 'Coneheads'.","Date":"19 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  *** MAY CONTAIN A SPOILER OR TWO. HERE'S A TIP, DON'T BOTHER WATCHING THIS TRASHY FLICK AND YOU WON'T HAVE TO WORRY ***I cannot believe how bad this film was. I use the past tense since I dropped it in a bottomless pit and even that wouldn't touch it. In the end I threw the video in a furnace and washed my brain out with industrial bleach. It is SO amazingly inept ; the characters are SO repellent ; the plot contrivances are SO nonsensical ; and the scripting is SO bad. It made me cringe. I lied to friends about watching it. I lost hope for humanity. Really, it's horrific.Going into this movie I quite liked Adam Sandler. 'Airheads' was fun and 'Happy Gilmore' was hilarious. Post viewing I realised there are basically two types he could play  repressed romantic with a short fuse ('The Wedding Singer', 'Happy Gilmore') which is funny ; and irritating dimwit with a stupid voice ('Billy Madison', The Waterboy'). The latter can be tolerable with a decent script but this abomination doesn't even make any sense.Sandler is annoying, you just want his performance to end, the main supporting characters are badly constructed and the situations rarely raise a laugh. Norm Macdonald, who sometimes raises a smile, is lost amid a sea of crap scripting. A musical number totally misses the mark and most everything else is bafflingly bad.On the plus side, the ever average Chris Farley and Sandler's mate Steve Buscemi put in quirky cameos in an attempt to save the film, and the early scenes before high school are amusing, but to no avail. This is really bad and even the funny parts can't stop the calvacade of detritus from pouring down.1.8 out of 5. Perhaps I'm being unfair but Adam can do so much better. "},{"Title":" a unfunny comedy","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film is very very UNfunny. I like Adam Sadler but this is a poor movie with just one joke (not a funny joke at that). Give this a miss! The joke/plot wears thin after a few minutes and there are no real plot twists or anything to move the story along.The movie just goes on repeating the same joke over and over for 90 minutes. "},{"Title":"A great movie for eight-year-olds.","Date":"14 May 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Recently, I have had the misfortune of catching Billy Madison on TV. I've got to say that I think Adam Sandler is an abomination! This movie was just an opportunity to take something funny from Saturday Night Live and stretch it out to fill an entire hour and a half. If I were eight years old, I would have loved this movie. However, I am old enough to know what a good movie is and this is not one. I found Adam Sandler's brand of humor annoying and pathetic.Sadly, movies like Billy Madison are inevitable. As long as there are little kids and stupid teenagers to entertain, Adam Sandler and his movies will always be there. "},{"Title":"This should be a children's movie","Date":"4 April 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Horrible and super-simple plot. This should be advertised as a movie for small children. Boring and ridiculous. Adam Sandlers keeps  repeating him self lacking of any originality. He is probably no actor at all but like that. He keeps making the same thing with his mouth and his voice is the same thing as in several other movies. "},{"Title":"You have been warned","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  For several years I scrupulously avoided all Sandler's work, based on pure bias from a few trailers and reviews; I simply couldn't see him being funny. However, remembering how a similar prejudice against Jim Carrey was proved flawed, I thought I really should give the feller a chance. I fear I shall never know if I was lucky or unlucky in chancing upon this film as my first exposure to Sandler (except for Airheads, which came before his elevation to star status and in which I recall him giving a perfectly acceptable performance in a minor role); perhaps this is his greatest work and I have saved myself from far worse, perhaps this is some terrible travesty hacked to death by blinkered execs and stripped of all its comic genius. I hope I never find out, as having seen this I have renewed my vow to steer well clear of Sandler for the rest of time. Possibly his writers and director should shoulder some of the blame, as most of the film seems to have been made up on the fly, with near-constant changes of direction as if they were bored with the way the story was going and started afresh without bothering to change the previous sections. Some scenes seem quite superfluous while others are clearly rushed, paking in as much story and character development as possible without simply holding up a card saying 'this guy just did something bad and will now pay for it'. Most of the film however consists of Sandler 'performing', creating a truly repugnant character with no redeeming qualities even after smearing himself with a thick layer of schmaltz in the epiphany required of this genre (the 'really awful comedy' style). He has little or no acting ability (he plays drunk by tilting his head forward slightly while slurring his words in an even more unfeasible and irritating style than his normal delivery), none of Carrey's physical comedy skills, no charisma, charm or interest. Only the awesome Steve Buscemi's association with the project, and few brief appearances, prevent this from becoming my first ever 1/10 film. Someone please put a stop to this awful man. "},{"Title":"Flat out stupid...","Date":"1 August 1999","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is Adam Sandler's first major movie and I have to say this is the worst of his movies I've seen.  Plenty of jokes fall flat, some things suddenly happen you can't understand (like the examples one imdb user noted Miss Lippy and glue, sloppy joe, dead clown).  I can't even understand Sandler's character.  It's hard to connect with Billy Madison.The academic decathlon challenge also fell flat.  It's as if it's some lame plot device the writers thought up just to finish the movie.1.5 of 5 stars "},{"Title":"Despite a totally stupid plot idea, it's watchable...","Date":"1 March 2009","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I have heard of many stupid premises before, but this must rank somewhere towards the top in ridiculousness. Think about it....a guy is a rich schmuck and school dropout, so to teach him some lesson(?) he's sent back to grade school to complete his education even though he's now pushing 30!! Now having him go to high school might have worked, but anyone believing that a guy is now enrolling in kindergarten and moving through school is really, really gullible. This idea makes no sense and it's rather stupid.Well, despite a totally lame story idea, Adam Sandler manages to occasionally do something with the slender material he's been given (of course, since he co-wrote this, he has no one to blame but himself for the premise). A few times, there are a few small laughs or poignant moments where it's apparent that the shallow Billy is now learning to finally care about others more than himself, such as with the pants scene. Now even though all this is very contrived and formulaic, there's enough to like to make this a time-passer. So if you are stuck and your kids get to pick a movie for family night, you could do a lot worse than this silly flick (they COULD suggest you watch LITTLE NICKY!!!). "}{"Title":"Total rubbish. Just excruciating. You actually LIKE this??","Date":"10 April 2004","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This was on TV last night, and I watched it on the strength of the reviews here at imdb.com. I am AMAZED that so many people liked this pustulent, fetid, rancid discharge of a film. Its lack of comedy is only equalled by its immaturity and pointlessness. There is no acting, no humour, and a plot so thin I can only wonder how it survives holding the weight of its own rancid patheticness. I was literally slack jawed with shock at how bad this film is. I was frustrated with sorrow for the people who actually liked this - one reviewer says that he / she was laughing out loud. At what? How films like this ever get released? How Adam Sandler still has a career after this moronic turd of a film? Just awful. Dont say I did not warn you. By the way, this is only the 2nd review I have written on imdb.com. Generally I feel little need to, as previous posters sum up (generally) the pros and cons of a film very well, but I feel in this case, the public should be warned. I cannot BELIEVE there are so many good reviews for this film, and the truth needs to be told. I am actually offended that this rubbish got greenlighted, made and released, where actual (would be) decent films never see production.Shocking.  "},{"Title":"Puerile and base in the Sandler tradition, but without the redeeming humour...","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Expecting too much sophistication from your bogstandard Adam Sandler comedy is kinda missing the point, right? In fact, the whole basis for characters and movies like Happy Gilmore is that the titular person is hopelessly unsuited to the civilised world.So you turn that idea around, and create a character whose immaturity is suited perfectly to his everyday environment(s). It's only a slight alteration, so one would think it shouldn't make too much difference to how amusing the movie is. Wrong. As Happy, Adam Sandler had a few reasonably 'straight men' to play off. Here, virtually ALL the characters are just as stupid as Billy himself is. Plus, Mr. Gilmore had the ability to be winsome, Billy Madison is a one-dimensional oaf.So, everybody is witless, which explains the quality of the humour that is produced. It's all an obsession with bodily functions and making a mess. OK, that's what grade school IS, but recalling it like that won't make the movie any funnier. Intellectually, you still need to BELONG there to appreciate the boorishness that's on offer here.This was Sandler's first star vehicle, and he DID get better. It's a testament to the charm he possesses that I was able to keep watching inside two minutes. After my viewing of Billy Madison, I can understand better the level of vilification that Adam Sandler attracts from some quarters... "},{"Title":"Not That Funny","Date":"14 November 1998","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There were amusing scenes in this movie, and I did laugh sometimes, but not that much.  The plot had some promise, but after the initial setup I found it disappointing.  A comedy doesn't have to have a good story to be okay, but this one doesn't have a good story, and isn't all that funny without it. If you like Adam Sandler, see something else. "},{"Title":"Are we supposed to like stupid because it was intended to be so?","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A few laughs, but for the most part this film is for those with a vacuum where their brains should reside. Which, I suppose, includes me, because I sat through the whole thing. This stupid, boring mess reminded me of Jerry Lewis without the intelligence. Sandler has talent but for some reason didn't display any of it in this production. "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"23 October 2004","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I'm quite surprised at the number of people who found this movie funny, but I suppose we all have different tastes.Sandler's whiney voice and stupid faces are annoying, unoriginal, and done better by many others (e.g JL Lewis). His character is unlikeable, the plot is boring, and I just cant believe that this script was ever written.I can identify the jokes but fail to understand why they are funny (like the clown with blood out of his mouth). I enjoy most comedies but not this one. I would like to note that I am a teenager (not old like someone said most people who dislike this movie would be) and I found Happy Gilmore to be an OK film. "},{"Title":"Darren McGavin may have left us, but this movie never will.","Date":"28 February 2006","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The 10/10 rating of course only applies if you like goof-ball lowly humor; if you don't, then avoid this movie like you would the Ebola virus. As the title character, Adam Sandler does what you might expect. Also starring are Darren McGavin (RIP), Bridgette Wilson, Bradley Whitford, Josh Mostel, Steve Buscemi, and Chris Farley. All in all, Billy Madison is stupid and funny at the same time, just like A Night at the Roxbury and Dude, Where's My Car?.And one more thing. Darren McGavin, wherever you are, I'll not only remember you for The Night Stalker, A Christmas Story, and your X Files appearances, but also for this one "},{"Title":"It's hard to imagine a worse movie","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"12 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Let me say before anything else that I like Adam Sandler and I like goofy comedies. There is however a difference between a goofy comedy and 90 minutes of letting the kids run loose. This movie is so bad on every level, the script, the lame humour, the bad acting and horrible cinematography that it is hard to fathom how anyone over the age of 10 walked away from the final cut thinking they had accomplished something. Clearly based on some of the other reviews this movie more than found an audience, so anything I might say will only appeal to certain movie goers.Lesson 1 in any movie is that the viewer has to identify with at least some of the characters, most importantly the lead character. Unfortunately, there is nothing interesting, redeeming or funny about the character of Billy Madison so there was no desire to watch him succeed. Unlike the Happy Gilmore character, Billy Madison is nothing more than a driveling idiot from the start of the movie to the end.I had avoided watching this movie for years because I figured it would be rather bad, but I figured that my kids, after watching and liking Happy Gilmore, would get a kick out of it. After 30 minutes, my 6 year old leaned over and said I think this must be his first movie. 'Nuff said. "},{"Title":"worthless","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"15 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is the first time I've posted a review for a movie that I didn't watch all the way through. But the first half of it was so bad, I couldn't bring myself to go any further. The jokes are not funny. The plot is stupid, and not in a funny way. Adam Sandler is not funny. His stupid voice inflections are not funny. Bad, bad, bad. "},{"Title":"Very annoying but with a couple sort funny bits","Date":"30 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Adam Sandler acted way too stupid, annoying, and immature in this one. The nonsensical screaming and pulling faces. The horrible annoying back to school song he sang with that awful voice on his first morning of his school deal. And worse of all, the penguin! At a crucial part of the movie where explaining diologue was needed between Adam and Veronica (the third grade teacher he was fixated with), the penguin suddenly shows up in Adam's mind again and he starts the nonsensical yelling again. Adam is an idiot man child who is twenty something and acts like he's a cross between a five year old and a perverted teenager. He never passed any of his grades before because of his rich dad bribing every teacher he ever had. One of the only funny lines Adam's dadremember the second grade spelling bee? Spell rock? AdmR O K? Adam's dadR O C K!!! Adam's dad's rival wants to take the business from him instead of Adam. The only way Adam will be able to take it, every grade passed in two weeks each. Then comes the endless barage of stupid, stupid jokes of Adam going to school. Adam thinking its OK to yell the F work in first grade class when discussing the puppy that lost its way children's book. The note passing scene in third grade. The teacher rubbing glue on her face. The pee in pants joke on the field trip. The clown falling. The Josh Mostel principal. The hyena laughing rival of Adams dad. The song. The montage. Steve Buccemis character. Adam himself. It all was terrible. Now for the only funny bits. The whole O'doyal rules! joke from different aged brothers of the same family in different grades being a jerk then yelling O'doyal rules! Then the scene with the entire O'doyal family in the car, one of the only other funny jokes in the movie. And the banana peel thrown by bus driver Chris Farley, the only other funny joke. And the banana peel leading up to the O'doyal joke. Everything else in the film was completely stupid. Adam was completely stupid. "},{"Title":"Like the protagonist, the film never reaches its full potential, but provides some laughs along the way","Date":"3 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Billy Madison delivers a reasonable number of laughs despite massive and potentially crippling problems with the script, characters and plot. About 80% of the jokes and gags either fell flat or were cringe-worthy from my perspective; however, there were many jokes that worked for me and others may find mirth in some of the jokes I failed to appreciate. It was sufficiently frustrating that I had to pause the movie several times; however, it had enough goofy comedy that I resumed play. Among the many faults with the movie It fails to deliver what Blake Snyder calls the promise of the premise. Billy doesn't actually complete twelve grades. He simply survives two weeks of classes at each grade level. Very little of his classroom experiences could be described as academic. It's very repetitive, so much so that many of the grades are simply skipped in the narrative. His blow-out graduation parties at his father's mansion also become repetitive. It might have been a stronger film if he had simply returned to complete twelfth grade or first grade. In line with this, we meet many characters who are involved briefly then disappear and there's little logic to why some characters who return at later stages. The antagonist, the self-serving CEO, never really increases the stakes. He's largely passive and reactive, except for hatching one plot that is quickly subverted. The romantic subplot is not believable, although this could be said for many comedies in the category Snyder labels fool triumphant. It's not really a fool triumphant movie, as Billy rarely offers a perspective of the world from the eyes of an innocent. Billy doesn't have a credible or meaningful character arc. Initially, his character is a totally unsympathetic self-indulgent incompetent sybarite. He has some insights into human character, but isn't the typical idiot savant, like Gump, Clouseau or English. He doesn't learn much of anything beyond rote memorization of historical dates. He never develops any reasoning or problem-solving skills. At the conclusion, Billy makes a surprise announcement that isn't much of a surprise. Many of the issues and subplots are resolved not through the actions of the protagonist, but through either the failings of other characters (such as the Jeopardy game) or a deus ex machina outcome (the come-uppance of a bully). The relationship between Billy and his father needs more work. Billy doesn't really need to complete twelve grades. His need is to win back his father's respect. His father is indulgent to a fault. But he has not been able to build a huge empire with sixty thousand employees without understanding people. His inability to understand either Billy or the CEO seems implausible. As McKee wrote. Comedy is king. The plots of the Marx Brothers' movies were simply threadbare excuses for a lot of their shtick. But people don't watch a Marx Brothers movie to see an intricate plot unfold. They want the goofball comedy. BM could have been a much better film and it's frustrating that, like Billy, it never rose to its full potential. But it managed to provide sporadic laughs. Technical aspects were more than adequate. The film also benefits from the participation of talented actors and comedians in supporting roles. "}{"Title":"One of Sandler's Best","Date":"28 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" In order to inherit his fed up father's hotel empire, an immature and lazy man (Adam Sandler) must repeat grades 1 through 12 all over again.This can be dismissed as a stupid comedy or a juvenile one, and that would not be completely wrong. But it also happens to be one of the more enjoyable films from Adam Sandler. Along with Happy Gilmore, it is one of the two classics. (Now, I happen to like Wedding Singer more, but I think we can all agree that Click was a disappointment.) The script is actually more clever than it first appears, because some of the jokes that are the strongest have their setup in the first half and the punchline in the second. This was very smart, very well-crafted. "},{"Title":"It's alright but not Adam Sandler's best.","Date":"10 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" OK hand's down I think Happy Gilmore and Anger Management were his two best. This whoever is an alright film but almost all of the jokes don't have any kind of impact after the first watch. There's only one that got to me and that's this funny scene when Chris Farley gets mad and utters the words, Little S..T! How red his face gets is just awesome and Chris Farley was the biggest highlight of the film for me. He really knew how to make you laugh I give Chris credit for this film. It wasn't all that memorable of a film anyway. The plot is a bit stupid and a waste of time due to the ending, Adam Sandler is acting like a mediocre-played idiot, Bridget Wilson playing Adam's tough-hearted love interest. I must say this film is just OK once in a while so give it a 5 because nothing really stands out except for Chris Farley's bit. "},{"Title":"Not Sandler's Finest Moment","Date":"3 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Normally I wrote a movies plot in a paragraph, this movies could take up a line. Billy Madison must go back to school, if he is to inherit his father's empire. Adam Sandler's act got annoying before the credits had finished rolling. Bradley Whitfield is the slimy villain of the piece who wants him to fail. Bridgette Wilson is attractive as the third grade teacher Sandler has a crush on, but is not given a great deal to do other than look attractive. Larry Hankin is good in a supporting role, Theresa Merritt (Who I'd not seen in a movie since 'The Best little Whorehouse In Texas' with Burt Reynolds and Dolly Parton) is fun as the flirty maid, and Steve Buscemi raises a smile in his small role. But the child actors are of the worst variety.Sandler would go on to make some really good movies, whilst it's a passable 90 mins, this is not one of them. "},{"Title":"No milk will ever be our milk......","Date":"29 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Billy Madison is a slacker who lives off his dad, and spends his days drinking beer, and hanging out by the pool. When his father realises that Billy is unfit to run the family business, they both agree that he must go back to school and earn a real education. He figures it will be no problem going back to high school and learning over again, until he learns that his father bought Billy's passing grades all the way back in elementary school.Billy must return to elementary school and pass each grade one at a time, or else he loses his place as heir to his fathers legacy......Aside from Happy Gilmore, Sandler's movies before The Wedding Singer were a bit hit and miss, and a few people I know had never heard of. This is one of the more familiar movies, and even though its a 'proper' Sandler movie, it's not one of his better films.The swagger he has one isn't evident in this, and it really hinders the film, even though people hate on the man now, his confidence really excels his movies.But it's still funny,mans has the really bizarre elements that make Sandler's movies so unique.If your a fan like me, there is lots to find amusing, if not, well your not even reading this.. "},{"Title":"Negative review on Billy Madison - Sandlers' character is unfunny and annoying, and he infuriates me at times.","Date":"15 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I'm not a big fan of Adam Sandler - I find him to be unfunny, somewhat derivative, depending in which way you look at it....and him, and irritating. Maybe it's his facial expressions that he consistently pulls, or his lack of humour, or originality. I do, however, like three of his films very much, and they are The Wedding Singer; Happy Gilmore and The Longest Yard. Typically, all his films nowadays are garbage, god-awful, unfunny and cheap. Anger Management was great too; but I mainly loved the performance of Nicholson in that one. Billy Madison focuses on, well, Billy Madison- a (not so literally) grown up man whose lack of sense and self-awareness rather coincides with his stupidity and mental health. He has problems, and because of his stupidity, he has to go through each grade again in School - this is in order to take over his fathers' business hotels when he retires; but if he doesn't finish, and pass all his classes, the company goes to Eric- who's typically the antagonist of the film. Billy sees and imagines a giant penguin in two scenes, drinks frequently, and acts like a complete idiot (though he actually is) for the majority of the film. Although the film has some fine, and mild humour, some occasional good moments, and has a few likable characters, it's still not enough for me to come out with Yes. This film's great., or Yes. I love it....Overall, Billy Madison gets a 4.5 out of 10 from me. Sandler infuiates me at times, and that's what makes me less of a fan. He was great, but his time's in the past, and i can't see many films of his that are still to come to be funny. "},{"Title":"Below expectation,but good","Date":"16 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" almost bald,ugly,gay,unqualified and a principal.. Qualified and super hot but still a 3rd grade teacher.. Billy Maddison is a movie that deals with a harsh reality,that movies with no real plot lines are superhits... Really good movie with some quotable dialogs and Adam Sandler is funny as always... A joke or two about his weirdly shapped head and the hillariousness is a guaranteed in Adam Sandler movies.. But still after its good moments begins to be just dragging through to takeup some footage.. Despite the flaws and stuff..It was commercially successful and part of the name of Sandler's company Happy Madison Named after 2 hits Happy Gilmore and Billy Madison.. "},{"Title":"Adam Sandlers best!!!","Date":"15 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" first i had to write after reading the haters review before and one phrase from the movie best sums up what u guys are saying!!w''hat you've just said is one of the most insanely idiotic things I have ever heard. At no point in your rambling, incoherent response were you even close to anything that could be considered a rational thought. Everyone in this room is now dumber for having listened to it. I award you no points, and may God have mercy on your soul''and thats what makes it a great film when your waiting for the school bus you sang the song billy sings.. or laughing at classmates that couldn't read with the ttt oday junior.. stop looking at me swan i watched this movie when i was 5-6 and 16 years on it still unbelievably funny "},{"Title":"Total Time-Pass!","Date":"8 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" 'Billy Madison' is Total Time-Pass. From start to end, this 1995 box-office hit, delivers funny moments, along-with a terrific performance by the lovable Adam Sandler.'Billy Madison' Synopsis In order to inherit his fed up father's hotel empire, an immature and lazy man must repeat grades 1-12 all over again.'Billy Madison' is funny & relaxing. The humor is loud at times, but overall, I enjoyed myself thoroughly. The jokes truly worked for me! The Screenplay Written by Tim Herlihy & Sandler himself, is entertaining & funny. Tamra Davis's Direction is decent.Performance-Wise As mentioned, Sandler delivers a terrific performance. He's the soul of the film. Bridgette Wilson is bewitching. Bradley Whitford plays the antagonist with sincerity. Darren McGavin is credible. Josh Mostel is remarkable. The Late Chris Farley & Steve Buscemi appear in small cameos.On the whole, 'Billy Madison' is a winner. "},{"Title":"Classic Comedy","Date":"29 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" One of the first of Adam Sandler's many great comedy films, Billy Madison is uniquely dumb yet hilarious. It chronicles the path for Billy to branch out from his everyday life of daiquiris and drunken debauchery with his fellow loser friends jack and frank, and go back to school to repeat all grades k-12 in a weeks time each. Doing so will be the only way he can convince his father to leave Billy his hotel empire. Watching Billy go through each grade again is full of so many random moments of laughter not to mention the love interest of miss Veronica Vaughn. All in all it is a classic as far as comedies go and I would recommend it for anyone. "},{"Title":"Bears No Illusions About Its Importance","Date":"11 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Born right in the heart of the golden era of SNL goofball idiot comedy, this lands somewhere near the middle of the pack in terms of overall watchability. It's a completely moronic premise that serves as nothing more than a thin vehicle to move from one throwaway sight gag to the next, but never has any illusions about evolving into something bigger. The film sticks with its bread and butter, a series of skits that would've been right at home on a particularly brainless episode of SNL, while dedicating as little time as possible to furthering the plot. Fortunately, many of the jokes and puns are still genuinely funny, although the ratio between those that kill and those that go down in flames is pretty weak when compared to some of its contemporaries. A few great one-liners from this one still pop up in my vocabulary today, but not with anywhere near the frequency of the best moments from Wayne's World or Tommy Boy. Like the original Ace Ventura, it hasn't aged spectacularly but there are worse ways to kill ninety minutes. "}{"Title":"Crude, Unfunny, With a few Memorable things","Date":"23 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Let me say this, I'm an Adam Sandler fan, OK? But out of all the Sandler movies I've seen, this is the worst by far. That's not to say it's an awful movie, but it got there a few times (horny principal, anyone?). While most of the movie is not funny, most of the jokes that are funny are insults to Billy Madison, making fun of how dumb he is. There are also a number of pointless scenes, like the times where Billy is singing, or when the O'Doyles are killed in the explosion. Most of the jokes in the movie are ridiculously unfunny (borophyll, anyone?). Half the time I kept thinking I was meant to be laughing at these jokes, but just couldn't bring myself to do so. Also, the villain was way too obvious, way too early. Overall, I found this movie to be worse than Big Daddy, but I didn't find it terrible. If you like this movie, that's fine, I just didn't. "},{"Title":"Adam Sandler at his finest","Date":"16 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Billy Madison review Sandler,Sandler Sandler, whats to say about that rapscallion? Well this of course being one of his beloved and best movies he's been in even to this day in this outrageous comedy who believe it or not was directed by a woman.Billy Madison a grown man with a ridiculously low I.Q repeats his school career to help take his fathers place in the company instead of a greedy corporate jerk. buuut unfortunately he has too start ALLLLLLL the way at the very beginning..... First gradeSeeing a grown man in a class of 6 year olds is normally awkward in movies but Sandler pulled it off flawlessly. He basically is a young kid in a grown mans bodyFavorite part you might ask ? The bathtub scene where be pretends the conditioner and shampoo brawl and he's all STOP LOOKING ON ME SWAN >That said if your a fan of Sandlers work or not this is a must see8/10 "},{"Title":"I used to hate it, but I saw it just recently and laughed my ass off.","Date":"9 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I used to absolutely hate Billy Madison because of it's stupidity. I just saw it recently, and laughed my ass off. I am not doubting that this film is stupid. Because it really is. But one thing I am doubting, is that it is a bad film. The film is very silly at times but is also very funny. This was when Adam Sandler was younger, of course. I think this film is kind of a classic. I don't quite think this is Sandler's best work but it's still pretty funny. I think that the best performance in the film goes to Bradley Whitford, who plays the villain. He is kind of evil but wouldn't murder someone. Billy Madison is a funny film, and I give it a thumbs up. "},{"Title":"A Hysterically Funny Movie","Date":"27 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" If you think you would enjoy Billy Madison, just watch the first five minutes. If you find it stupid or not funny in the least, then change the channel. The sunscreen/penguin scenes are a clue to what the rest of the movie is like, and it just gets crazier and crazier as the movie goes on. Basically, this movie is about a 27 year old man whose father paid for him to get through school. In order for Billy to get his father's company, he must complete grades 1-12, each grade in two weeks. As Billy Madison moves through the grades, he encounters crazy teachers, hot teachers, weird kids, psycho bus drivers, and the O'Doyle family...along with Eric, his father's unstable assistant. "},{"Title":"A combination of laughs and minor embarrassments makes this sort of a mixed blessing","Date":"24 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I saw parts of this movie over the years, but didn't see the entire film until 2003. From what I remember, when I finally saw the whole thing for the first time, I thought it was pretty lame overall, not that I had ever been too impressed with the bits I had seen beforehand. I had never seen any other Adam Sandler film from start to finish at the time, but over the years since then, I have seen a handful of them, and some of them I've found pretty funny. So, after a few years, I've finally given Billy Madison another try, and I was more impressed than I was before, laughing quite a few times (though usually not that hard), but I still found some parts perhaps a little embarrassing, just like I did before, so it certainly didn't completely change for me.Billy Madison is a 27 year old unemployed buffoon whose daily activities include hanging around the pool, drinking, reading porn magazines, and not much else. He lives off the wealth of his father, Brian Madison, the owner of Madison Hotels. Brian is about to retire, and unfortunately, his son is not quite fit to take over the business. For this reason, he plans to give it to associate Eric Gordon instead. Billy then learns that throughout his years in school, his rich father paid for his passing grades, but this gives him an idea. He will go all the way back through grades 1 to 12, two weeks in each grade, and if he passes, he will inherit the business. His father agrees with this deal, and Billy is soon back in elementary school. As the weeks go by, despite his continuous immaturity, he seems to be doing well, but Eric Gordon is still determined to take over Madison Hotels himself, and is willing to sabotage the plan! This movie obviously relies mostly on Adam Sandler's antics for the humour, which can sometimes be funny. During my most recent viewing, the gag near the beginning with the main character chasing after a large, hallucinatory penguin didn't fail to make me laugh, and neither did other scenes where this penguin appears. However, there are definitely quite a few other gags that I did not care much for at all, such as Billy and his friends leaving a burning bag of feces on a guy's porch (and what Billy says as they watch), what Billy says when asked to spell couch, and the character convincing the class on a trip that its cool to wet your pants. Still, the hallucinatory penguin gags weren't the only ones that made me laugh. I also found Billy's comments on the book he is read to in Grade 1 funny, same with the main character showing up drunk at the door of Veronica Vaughn (his Grade 3 teacher, whom he has a crush on), with what he says to her when she answers, and what Billy's friends say as Veronica Vaughn is beating him up in the pool. Chris Farley in the small role of the bus driver is also good for laughs, if you're a fan of his.If you're in the mood for a perfectly clean, mature, sophisticated comedy, Billy Madison is basically the opposite kind of comedy, so you'd better steer clear! As I'm sure anyone who has seen this movie (as well as many who haven't) knows, it's a vulgar, juvenile, lowdown comedy, the type which many people hate. For me, comedies like this can be turn out to be really funny, but can also turn out to be really lame. I would say this particular comedy of that type comes somewhere in between. It's obviously not for those who hate Adam Sandler (he certainly has received his share of criticism during his career), but basically, it's a typical Sandler film, where he plays a goofy, immature lead (though that isn't the only kind of role he has played to date), for those who like that. It's certainly not his best film, and the puerile humour in it is sometimes overdone, but at least I can give it a passing grade, which is more than I can say about Sandler's 2002 animated flop, Eight Crazy Nights. "},{"Title":"Sandler with a help","Date":"9 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" this is a vulgar project with two redeeming moments.Adam Sandler has accustomed us with projects in which everything is driven around his character, every element exists to enhance his qualities as a comedy performer. He is one of those humorists who built his career around a character. In his case, someone who is a weirdo, apparently a clueless guy who, nevertheless, is able to fulfill something purely honest and hard. So is the case here. Even the title gives us what we'll see billy, and not much else.There is a matter of personal choices here, if you like Sandler, you'll be able to stand this, i suppose it has good moments according to his 'character'. But it is, otherwise, a vulgar experience with not much to give.There are, however, two quite well done episodes. The first is the participation of Steve Buscemi. He shows here also referencing and making fun of his own character, the strange psycho, the old Sandler's classmate who became a psychopat with sexual deviation. That was really funny, because of the association we make to the previous characters of Buscemi. The other moment is the musical piece. I suppose it works because it's fully unexpected. At least i didn't expect it, and it emulates with a good comedy level the classical musicals it references. Of course except for these moments, there is not much here.My opinion 2/5http//www.7eyes.wordpress.com "},{"Title":"Billy Madison is one of the best comedy's ever.","Date":"13 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Billy Madison is the wild comedy hit made in 1995 starring Adam Sandler. The movie is about Billy Madison the not so bright 30 year old who is told to complete all 12 grade of school in the short time of just 12 weeks. The movie is an extremely funny one prom-ting Adam Sandler as the funniest man in Hollywood and led to next success of Happy Gilmore. This is a must watch for fans of Ben Stiller as he launches a comedic web in this movie which I am happy I bought for $15.00. Overall this movie is not clever it is just an excuse for Adam Sandler to introduce his comedicness on the public and he does it well. GO ADAM SANDLER. I rate this funny movie 83%. "},{"Title":"Movie Schitzo's Review of Billy Madison","Date":"30 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Adam Sandler. A very funny guy. He can take any material he is given and make it work. Take Little Nicky for example, there he played the son of the devil who had to go up to earth to bring back his 2 brothers. Here, he plays hotel heir Billy Madison, a lazy drunk who spends most of the day sitting in a pool, reading nude magazines and lighting dog crap on people's doorsteps. His father Brian Madison (Darren McGaven), the actual owner of the hotels, is frustrated. He decides to give the company over to the sleazy Eric Gordon (Bradley Whitford). So Billy decides to make a bet with his father First grade through twelfth grade all through 20 weeks and he gets the company. He finds a love interest in his third grade teacher Miss Veronica Vaughn (Bridgette Wilson), so out he goes into the real world. I have to say that this is one of the dumbest movies you could come in contact with, but i love stupid and dumb films, so I bought this movie! The cast does well with what they are given, but this is really Sandler's film. All in all a very dumb for your dumb pleasure. Enjoy! 2 1/2 out of 4 stars "},{"Title":"Sandler is back... in school.","Date":"13 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" What do you get when you put Adam Sandler back in school? You get a funny Jackass who knows nothing but how to make you laugh. The funny thing is he plays a great idiot who everybody can relate to. Just like the real life Homer Simpson, he knows not what he does. Fortunately for all those Adam Sandler fans out there, and in here, we can now watch the DVD of Billy Madison.Billy Madison (Adam Sandler) lived his whole life thinking he was totally normal. Until one day he found out that his father had bribed his way through school. One man could stop Billy from taking over the company and that man would be Eric, an evil man who Billy wasn't very fond of. Eric had Billy's father convinced that he would do a better job at running the company. Billy didn't want to look like an idiot so he made a deal with his dad that if he did each grade of school in two weeks, he would get the company. Now it's up to Billy to make things right and get the company. Can he pass each grade at school and take what's rightfully his? Just like Happy Gilmore, this soundtrack is another hit. But that's not the only good thing about this movie, sure there's not the most solid story line, but the ending makes sense unlike some movies I've seen. Let's not get into that now.Many things were probably made more popular by this movie. For example the snack pack would have had to have been made more popular because you see more and more snack packs around, don't you? Unless of course you sit on one before you see it.I liked this movie because it had lots of humour and I like funny movies. Adam Sandler is a comic genius, some people like him, some hate him. I like his humour because it's actually funny. Some might call it immature funny but at least it's funny. I urge you to see it. If you've seen it, see it again. Go the snack pack. "},{"Title":"Buscemi's character","Date":"13 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I thought that Buscemi, the erstwhile abused schoolkid in 'Billy Madison' had a fascinating cameo. If the characterization is deliberate, then Sandler and Herlihy make a brilliant team. If it's accidental, then it's of the happy sort.Buscemi receives a phone call from Sandler to the effect that Sandler apologizes for past behavior and asks for forgiveness. Buscemi acquiesces, and everything is in order before the camera pulls out to reveal 'The List' of targeted persons, to be punished for past transgressions. Buscemi thoughtfully crosses out Sandler's name, and then reclines on his sofa, applying lipstick with a sigh.It's funny, and sort of postmodern in its discontinuity from what Buscemi was previously doing. But what's really interesting is that Buscemi shows that female behaviours are at the root of his anti-sociality. The lipstick conveys not so much an accessory effect of some unseen mental disorder, but the disorder itself. An effeminate man who can no more connect with women than two positive magnets can.As for the rest of the movie see it for Wilson. 5/10 "}{"Title":"Sandler in his early years!","Date":"30 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This being the first Adam Sandler movie i've seen, i didn't really expect much at first. But when I first watched it, I was hysterical! This movie was one of the most memorable. Why? Read on.The story A man by the name of Billy Madison is heir to a fortune! But Billy's dad won't give it to him, due to his lack of intelligence and discipline, so his dad will give it to his tyrant employee, Eric Gordan. But Billy won't let that happen, so he'll go through grades 1-12, to prove to his dad he's not an idiot!Sandler is loads of laughs in this movie, along with Bradley Whitford, Josh Mostel, Norm MacDonald, Chris Farley, and many more! If you have the time, I recommend seeing this movie.Score *****/***** "},{"Title":"F.U.N.N.Y","Date":"3 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is probably the funniest movie I have ever seen, Sandler is funny and excellent in this role and it is just a gem! I can not put this down, the most stupid things are made funny in this movie, like the Penguin scenes. It's a must see for sandler fans and is a great comedy for all slapstick comedy fans. See it! "},{"Title":"If you want to laugh, see this!","Date":"3 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm a film buff and I'm into mostly big budget movies but I really liked this one. I'm not even that big of a fan of Adam Sandler but i like him here.Billy Madison is a comedy. It's about a twenty something kid called Billy Madison (Adam Sandler) who goes back through school to impress his dad (Darren McGavin). Billy has a nemisis, who will do anything to make sure he gets the company instead, called Eric Gordon (Bradley Whitford). Billy sails through 1st and 2nd grade but his 3rd grade teacher, Ms Vaughn (Bridgette Wilson) has an effect on him. He's got a crush. Billy finished elementary school easily and moves onto high school. There's some trouble here. It all ends up with a head to head academic decathlon between Eric and Billy. A happy ending is minutes away.There isn't much of a plot here but who cares because it's hilarious. Steve Buscemi has a great cameo role as Billy's old school friend who helps save the day. Sandler, Whitford, McGavin, Wilson and the others of the cast are wonderful. A laugh out loud movie.8/10! "},{"Title":"COULD HOLLYWOOD GET ANY WORSE???","Date":"1 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I honestly don't know what the reviews are on about.  Billy Madison is CINEMA AT ITS WORST!!!  Everything in this feature is unbelievably daft and stupid the acting, the plot, the narrative, the set, the jokes, the editing, the everything.  After reading the reviews on this page I thought, maybe I missed something out &#150; so I watched it again what a waste of time.  Just as you get to the point when you wonder can things become any more stupid than this, surprise-surprise they do!!!  Toward the conclusion you realise that the whole of society is just as stupid as Billy Madison, as the producers who stashed $25,000,000 on this movie and as the auditorium who paid to see it.  Billy's odyssey finishes with a jolly HAPPY ENDING, everybody lived happily and depoliticised ever after and the film got very good reviews. "},{"Title":"amusing","Date":"20 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  *** possible spoilers***I had a laugh when watching this, but it is not Sandler's best. My only real objection was the penguin, and Sandlers irritating 'drunken' voice at the beginning. Apart from that, I think this movie is well worth watching, and is guaranteed to give even the most grumpy watchers a chuckle here and there. "},{"Title":"One of Sandler's best","Date":"21 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm a fan of adam Sandler and think most of his movies are good. This one I thought was better that most of them (besides Happy Gilmore.) Worth Renting "},{"Title":"Love it","Date":"29 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I laughed my butt off. My sister laughed too and she is only 4. One Part he started to sing and he said thank you for beating the **** out of me !!!!! "},{"Title":"Immature Fun","Date":"22 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film is exactly what you should expect to see when a Saturday Night Live star ventures into the big world of feature films! Billy Madison was no exception except for one factor... It's actually pretty good to watch!The script is pretty run of the mill, guy given task to prove everyone wrong and to beat evil person before certain deadline.If you are a fan of Adam Sandler I think you would agree with me that you get the impression that Sandler is trying too hard! Watch it with that in mind!But I'm writing like I dislike the film but I was satisfied with the movie and laughed many times!If you just want a brainless comedy! Watch Billy Madison!6.9/10 "},{"Title":"Laugh and a Half...","Date":"26 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The plot of Billy Madison and Adam Sandler's antics throughout are immature, silly, and at times, just plain stupid.  But it's just those traits that make this movie one of the funniest modern films.  Sandler plays the 12-year-old-trapped-in-a-26-year-old-body title character and heir to Madison Hotels and the fortune his mansion and large pool imply.  However, his father intends to turn the hotels over to the weasly Eric Gordon(Whitford) unless Billy can prove himself.  The test he must repeat every grade in two-week intervals and then pass the appropriate exams.  Of course, putting Sandler into grade school classrooms and the like will bring forth the exact humor that one can predict.  Adding in a wacky principal, a good-looking teacher, a giant penguin, and kids doing exactly what kids do, all add to the character that Sandler was born to play.This movie never promises Oscars or mental stimulation.  What it promises, and successfully delivers, are crude jokes, typical Adam-Sandler gibberish and willingness to humiliate himself for a successful laugh, and memorable quotes that will keep you chuckling every time you think of them.  "},{"Title":"This Was A Great Movie! But It Was Not Realistic!","Date":"24 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Spoilers Ahead!!!Billy Madison is a stupid person who has to go through 12 years of school all over again. No one would let someone go through 12 years of school all over again in a short period of time! Billy Madison took a nap when he was in first grade. What school lets first graders take naps? His third grade teacher is so cruel to him. The boy in Billy's third grade class reads horribly. No one can read that terrible and be in a third grade class! The teacher humiliates Billy in front of the entire class.  No teacher can humiliate a student like that and get away with it. When the boy wets his pants at school,  Billy wets his pants with a hose. No third grader really thinks that having an accident is cool! There is so much I could say about this movie. But I am going to fast forward to near the end of the movie. When Billy was having participating in an athletic decathalon with the guy that tricked him,  the guy way not really playing the viola (I know it wasn't a violin. Violins are higher pitched instruments.) But this was definitely still the funniest movie Adam Sandler ever done! "}{"Title":"A 'Perfect' Comedy","Date":"23 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  As far as a comedy goes, I give this movie a perfect score...10 out of 10. I have to admit, I am a bit prejudiced, since I am an Adam Sandler fan. I normally don't like dumb comedy, but I like that he can be funny without being dirty and sinful and cussing as much as some other comics do. (I am a Christian, and I find those sorts of things offensive.) This movie is childish, but you fall in love with Billy's ability to speak to children; to get through to them and help them. This movie has a Big Daddy feel to it. (I also enjoyed that movie.) Bridgette Wilson is a wonderful actress, and she's as beautiful as ever in this movie. She and Sandler are wonderfully coupled in Billy Madison. This movie is a must-see for anyone who needs a laugh ... or two. "},{"Title":"Its Quacktastic!","Date":"6 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  *Possible Spoiler*This movie is pure comic genius. It is Sandlers greatest comedy to date. It cracked me up the first time I saw it, and it still does every time I watch it. It may seem a bit too crude for some, but this is far out weighed by Sandlers genius songs and his mad humour.  The scene where Billy draws a blue duck and explains to his teacher the reason he drew it is fantastic. He just wanted to see a blue duck. Its Quacktastic! I think it is one of the cleverest and purposley stupid comedies I have seen, and it  is a pity that some people think they are too inteligent to watch this film and would most probably frown upon it. Screw them, it is they  who are missing out. But hey its Sandler, and he's comic gold.  "},{"Title":"It's not a 'super' movie, but...I actually kinda like the funny quotes","Date":"1 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  First of all, this is not a movie that you would rent if you really want to 'LAUGH', cuz with this movie you can't, although I kinda like the hilarious quotes, well if you wanna have a CRAZY movie, and if you like these kinda movies, rent this one, but I WARN you....Not Funny, No Originality, No Good Acting, Sorry this one FAILED for sure, Mr.Sandler** out of *****  "},{"Title":"Absolutely stupendous!!!","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is the greatest work of absurdist/comedy art put to film with, of course, the exception of Caddyshack. As far as the element of comedy Sandler is a genius.  I enjoyed him on SNL and expected as much.  Imagine my joy after seeing how Sandler has developed as a comedic force.  I felt the same feelings after watching Jerry Lewis with Dean Martin.  Add Norm MacDonald, Steve Buscemi and Chris Farley to the mix and you've got an atomic bomb of hilarity. From slapstick to wit to song and dance, Billy Madison will leave you feeling full of fun. My only question is 'Do you have anymore gum?'  "},{"Title":"Not the best Sandler ever made, but still decent.","Date":"24 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is indeed not Sandler's best work, but let's just say that it's better than LITTLE NICKY and that crap MR. DEEDS. The main thing about this movie that makes it not as good as some of the others is the fact that the humor is all very, very crude (which is good) but some of it is unbelievable. (POSSIBLE SPOILER) Like in one scene, we see a guy on fire, burning up and then a couple minutes later he is fine with no burns or any indication that it happened. Now, yeah this is funny, just not very believable. This movie would be best compared to HAPPY GILMORE. They both came out around the same time and they are both quite similar.The cast is pretty good for this movie, stars like Bridgette Wilson, Darren McGavin, Bradley Whitford, Josh Mostel, and Norm MacDonald and Chris Farley (who plays a bus driver in an uncredited role) star along-side Sandler in this meticulously funny comedy.BILLY MADISON 3/5. "},{"Title":"Billy Goes Back to School","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Billy Madison, a 1995 comedy, was directed by Tamra Davis and co-written by Adam Sandler and Tim Herlihy.  The plot is a little forced, but the movie's humor makes it worthwhile.  It begins with Billy (Adam Sandler) stumbling around in a drunken state chasing an imaginary giant penguin.  Billy is the twenty-seven year old lazy, unemployed son of a millionaire.  Brian Madison (Darren McGaven), Billy's father, is retiring and wants to hand over his prosperous hotel business to his son, after discussing it with his vice president, Eric Gordan (Bradley Whitford).   Brian feels his son is incapable and he should let Eric take it over.  Billy discovers this plan and makes a deal with his dad.  The only way for Billy to inherit the business is to go back to school and re-do all twelve years with only two weeks to complete each grade.  It appears that the only reason Billy graduated was due to his father's `paying off' teachers and administrators.During his two weeks in third grade, he has Veronica Vaughn (Bridgette Wilson), his childhood sweetheart, for his teacher and the attraction between them is mutual.  Max Anderson (Josh Mostel), the gay principal, also has his eye on Billy.  When Billy finally gets close to finishing school, Max is threatened by Eric to tell all about Max's past profession as a wrestler and killing a fellow wrestler accidentally.  Unwilling to lose his job, Max goes on television and claims Billy bribed him to pass him on to high school.  This ruins Billy's chance to graduate, but Billy's third grade friends stick up for him and confront Max.  Max can't lie to the children, so he retracts his previous lies.  To prove who should run the company, Billy and Eric decide to compete in an academic decathlon - winner takes all. Billy Madison has at least five memorable passages that I can recall, but the one that stands out most in my mind is the one when Billy is sitting in science class and he is bored.  `No I will not make out with you! Did ya hear that? this girl wants to make out with me in the middle of class! You got Chlorophyll Man up there talking about God knows what and all she can talk about is making out with me. I'm here to learn, everybody, not to make out with you! Go on with the chlorophyll!'  This comment adds humor to the movie and describes Billy's personality. The humor is often childish, almost slapstick.  It's much like the humor of movies like Mel Brook's Blazing Saddles or even The Three Stooges - we either love it or hate it.  Adam Sandler is open and free in this role and his off beat humor shines.  I like humorous movies and this was one of the funniest movies I have seen in a long time.  I would highly recommend this movie to anyone who needs a little humor in their lives. "},{"Title":"nonsensical hilarity","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  this is the funniest film I have ever seen.  At no point in the film is there a solid storyline or structure.  The musical interlude comes out of nowhere and is completely random.  I laugh thinking about this film. stop looking at me swan! "},{"Title":"Sandler is SWEET!","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS          Saturday Night Live's Adam Sandler stars as Billy Madison, your average 27-year-old goofball. His father is Brian Madison,millionaire owner and operator of Madison hotels nation wide. He plans to retire and leave it all to Eric Gordon, one of his executives. But Billy knows that Eric is no good. Billy then strikes a deal with Dad. He'll go back to school. Every grade. 1-12, graduate, andthen he'll get the company. Brian agrees. So Monday morning, Billy grabs his lunchbox that unfortunately doesn't have a Snack Pack and goes to wait for the bus. It passes so Brian drives him.         First and second grade go along okay. In third grade, Billy has a crush on his teacher, Veronica Vaughan. She isn't too interested in him. One day they all go on a field trip. Fellow Saturday Night Live comedian Chris Farley is the bus driver.Billy helps out a friend at their destination by telling the kids that peeing your pants is cool. Well, after that, Billy continues on through grade school and finally makes it to high school. Eric Gordon is determined to stop Billy before he get's the company, so he blackmails the elementary school principal, Max Anderson, who used to be the Revolting Blob, a wrestler that accidentally killed his opponent 11 years ago. So Max goes on the air and tells lies about Billy. Brian declares the deal off. Billy feels forlorn. But it takes Veronica to knock some sense into him. Max admits what happened. Billy challenges Eric to an academic decathalon. In the final competition, Eric goes crazy and nearly kills Billy, but it's Max (Revolting Blob) to the rescue. Our story has a happy ending.          Adam Sandler is funny. Everyone in the movie was good.Chris Farley is funny as the bus driver. (I'll turn this damn bus around. That'll end your PRECIOUS little field trip pretty damn quick, huh?) Norm Macdonald (another Saturday Night Live performer) plays Billy's friend. I recommend this movie!! See it ASAP!! PRINCIPAL If there is any attempt to cheat. Especially with my wife, who is a dirty, dirty tramp. I am just going to snap.- "},{"Title":"So Sue Me #1","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Yeah I like Adam Sandler, why? I don't know! But I'm a sucker for his movies, Billy Madison is first up.It's a basic story ,guy with love interest vs. bad guy!!!And let's ok in places, by far not his best but not his worst!Best character is probably Chris Farley's Bus Driver.6/10  "},{"Title":"Very funny movie with a truly unique insanity to it","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Adam Sandler's Billy Madison is perhaps one of the most uniquely funny movies I have ever seen.  It's not very high-brow humor, and it's certainly not subtle, but there is so much in this movie to love.  Sandler's goofball antics in the dinner scene, inparticular.  His completely insane musical number and the very strange cast of supporting characters (like his maid, the old man with the boots, the O'Doyle's, Ms. Lippy, the creepy lunch lady with only one scene and so on) make this film incredibly unique.  This movie plays to Sandler's-- and the cast's-- strangest comedic instincts and leanings.  And it works.This is not you're average, run-of-the mill stupid movie.  It's still a stupid movie, but it's definitely unique in it's approach, which is what makes it stand out so much. "}{"Title":"This is my all-time favorite movie","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Billy Madison is the best movie I think ever created!  My friends and I can always sit down and watch this movie and laugh for hours! I can honestly say that I am the biggest Billy Madison buff ever! I know every single line to this movie and it is indeed a marvelous movie! I could not recommend a greater movie than this one! Adam Sandler is a wonderful actor and a very funny man! I highly recommend Billy Madison! If anyone thinks that this movie is bad must either be mentaly retarded or on drugs because it is truely wonderful! If you want to sit down and laugh your ass off then Billy Madison is definitly a winer! "},{"Title":"Best ever","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  OK, in my opinion, this is not only the best Adam Sandler movie but also the best comedy of all time.  Here's why There is almost no real dialogue whatsoever.  The movie is an hour and a half of nonstop hilarious quotes easily grafted into everyday speech with knee-slapping results.  This, if well done, can instantly make you friends with any other Billy Madison fan. This movie NEVER gets old.  The more you watch it the more you learn about and come to love it. "},{"Title":"Funny Stuff.","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you don't enjoy this type of film or this type of humour there are still 2 reasons why you should watch this movie. 1)As usual in an Adam Sandler flick there's a great cameo by Steve Buscemi. Buscemi is my favourite actor - he should have a cameo in every film. He's only in this for a few minutes but its a great scene. 2)Bridgette Wilson-Sampras is georgeous!It'll give you a laugh if you've nothing better to do. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Hilarious!!!!","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I loved Billy Madison, I thought it was funny. I think this is Adam Sandlers best movie. Point blank Period. Nothing of his work can top it. I just thought it was origanal and just.. well funny. Basically, Billy Madison cheated his way through school as a kid, then is offered to take over his fathers company way after high school is over. I gave it an 8. "},{"Title":"Definately worth watching","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Billy Madison is definately worth watching. Adam Sandler plays Billy Madison, the goofball slacker son of a hotel chain owner. When Billy's dad decides to retire, he decides to hand over the buisness to Vice president weasel, Eric Gordon. Trying to convince his dad that handing the company to Billy is much better than with Eric, Billy makes a deal with his dad Billy is going back to school 1st grade-12th grade in 2 weeks! It's absolutey hilarious watching Adam Sandler going back to school. I give it a 10/10-Sweeeeet!! "},{"Title":"A Madison Frame Of Mind","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Well, you know you've done something right when the multitude either really loves or really loathes your work. Reading the other IMDB users comments, that certainly looks like the case with Billy Madison.I'll say this you really have to have a particular sense of humour to appreciate this film. And, unlike some people would have you believe, it's not the lowest-common-denominator kind of sense. Billy Madison is not Tomcats, nor is it one of those bad Chevy Chase movies. It is not purile, it is absurd. When Billy looks at the nudie magazines, it's not funny because boobies are funny. It's funny because it is so absurd, because it's so stupid. Who drives around in a golf cart singing Nudie magazine day over and over? No one, it's ridiculous, and that's the fun. Other films that get lumped along with the Sandler oeuvre think that it's funny when a girl has her clothes torn off, when some fat kid eats a poop sandwich, or whatever lame piece of crap the writers think the audience will swallow ('scuse the pun). Madison makes no such mistakes, it's laughter with, not laughter at. Context is all, Sandler creates magnificent context in which his jokes have life and laughter. No one makes me laugh like him, and I'm not the lowest common denominator.The world is divided into two kinds of people - those who can find someone chasing an imaginary penguin funny, and those who can't. I'm happy to say I can. "},{"Title":"I love this film ssssoooo much!","Date":"7 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I love this film ssssoooo much! I am currently watching this film almost every day. If u have not seen this film and you like anything by mike myers then u will love this film. Go see it now!! Billy Madison is real respectable!11/10 "},{"Title":"Not Sandler's best, but still pretty funny.","Date":"12 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie isn't as funny as Sandler's other flicks like Happy Gilmore, Bulletproof, Airheads or The Waterboy but it's funnier than The Wedding Singer or Big Daddy.Billy Madison is a rich kid who mooches off of his father's success. But after seeing that Billy is not mature enough to run his business after he retires, Billy's father decides to hand the company over Eric(the bad guy of the story). So Billy makes a deal with his father to go back to school(1st through 12th grade)and if he wins he gets the company instead of Eric, who tries to stop him.This movie is really funny, even though some of the jokes are rather weak. Check out cameos from funny guys like Norm MacDonald, Chris Farley and Steve Buscemi. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Greatest Sandler movie next to Happy Gilmore","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  what do the words pure Sandler mean to you? I'll tell you what they mean to me  Happy Billy Gilmore Madison...that's what! You saw Overboard first? That probably biased you against this poor Jewish kid from Montana... What you needed to do was employ some common sense and recognize that Overboard was an  abortion of a movie BEFORE you saw it...leaving you pure to enjoy Sandler in one of his purist performances. This film was a laugh a minute which equates to about 180 laughs at about 5 cents a pop! you can't beat that with a Dom Delouise/ Burt Reynolds movie! (believe me, I've tried!). Here we have Sandler CLOCKING 1st graders with a dodge ball,  threatening to beat one up for a snack pack, and a cameo by Steve Buscemi! This movie, among Sandler flicks, was topped only by Happy Gilmore then, unfortunately, all the other films slowly degraded to the lowest depths of Dante's Inferno... I got 4 words for you Little Nicky enough said....anyway....if you like jibberish and sarcastic laughing followed by a horrendous SHADDUP! then fork out the 3 bucks for a rental and enjoy, or just come over and watch it at my house. I have it on a constant loop day and night. Thank you and amen. Andrew "},{"Title":"Good God man, WHY?","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Mind bendingly awful 'comedy' which could be the benchmark for self indulgence on the part of this centuries' least talented comedian (and yes, that includes Roy 'Chubby' Brown). The fact that Sandler receives a pay check in the millions for pandering to the braindead with this stuff is about as uplifting as the Holocaust.  Now don't get me wrong, not everything that is funny needs to involve sparkling wit or immaculately timed routines (although it helps), but there does need to be some evidence that someone, somewhere put in a bit of an effort. And while Sandler managed to pull off watchable movies with 'The Wedding Singer' and 'Little Nicky', here the whole enterprise is insultingly sloppy. The Man-Child act can be endearing when the personality is likeable, like Pee-Wee Herman and Mr Bean, but Sandler is merely crude and aggressive except when he appears to be imitating the mentally retarded. Then it just seems offensive.Avoid as you would a brain aneurysm.  "}{"Title":"Find out what a magazine film critic thinks of The movie, the acting and that rating!","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Billy Madison is STUPID and SILLY, of course but what do you expect from an Adam Sandler movie. I LOVE this movie! It's one of my favorite movies of all time actually but if you're not a fan of Sandler's other work then you definetly won't like this. If you've never seen Adam Sandler's work I think you should try this film out. You'll either love it or hate it, no middle ground! The acting is wonderful on the part of Adam Sandler whom I just love! He is funny, lovable and believable as  a dumb yet sweet rich boy. Bridgette Wilson (now Bridgette Wilson-Sampras) is absolutely GORGEOUS and shows much talent and promise. The kids in this movie are great and you'll find some good early work from Norm McDonald! All in All Billy Madison is something you'll ADORE or HATE! There's no inbetween.Other Rating I'd personally give this movie a PG-13, MAYBE an R. There is a lot of swearing and sexually orienteted content but I'd recommend it for 15/16 year olds. I just don't see a bunch of thirty year old people standing in line for this one! "},{"Title":"Totally hilarious!","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  BILLY MADISON, in my opinion, is totally hilarious! I laughed really hard when Old Man Clemens (Jack Mather) yelled, D*** kids! You're all gonna die! as well as when Billy (Adam Sandler), Jack (Mark Beltzman), and Frank (Norm Macdonald) goofed off. In my opinion, Miss Vaughn (Bridgette Wilson) looked VERY pretty in the white dress she wore the first time she came to Billy's house. I didn't like Eric (Bradley Whitford) one bit. This was because he was a diabolical a****** who wanted to take over Madison Hotels. In conclusion, I HIGHLY recommend this totally hilarious comedy to all of you who like gut-busting laughs or are fans of Adam Sandler.  "},{"Title":"An Inherently Comic Romp Through the Netherworlds of Obscurity","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Billy Madison plays out like a Dostoyevskian skewering of an undeniably garish and lunatically inspired flop through the madhouse of an enmity entirely related to that of a protagonist's tangled dreams of desire.  The film intertwines moments that seem to represent a metaphorical Blitzkrieg Bop in certain regards, and thus adds to a overwhelming desire to eliminate the central comic theme of one character interwoven amongst a moving nightmare of abysmal, nightmarish haunts.  A truly deceptive and enlightening view of a future that subsequently has no start or end, to leave the viewer in a constant state of perplexity about the unavoidable conclusion that Sandler is using his acting chops to intertwine childhood memories with crude chauvinistic fashions that epitomize Sade's ritualized approach towards masculine dominion over women.  An unescapably hilarious broth that combines elements better reserved for a sweat-laden, disgustingly disturbing nightmare, that culminates in a mocking hatred of one's mother, coupled with the disturbing premonition that the world is becoming a blatant Xerox of the kind of dilapidated male fantasy world so accurately depicted in pornography.  A story that deals with a world that will take it's time in slowly annihilating any woman's chance of successfully interacting with her male counterparts without a tinge of doubt as to the validity of her sex. Rating 9/10 (Repugnant yet visually awe-inspiring plight that deals a crippling blow to the male psyche.) "},{"Title":"The feel of a grown man's joy and agony...through school.","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Man, this movie was one of the funniest I've seen yet up to this date.  Although, it was a little off the charts, I loved it.  Adam Sandler makes one hell of a comedic performance in this classic flick.  I love the penguin thing also, that keeps me going everytime I see it.  A few bloopers I've seen though, but still the coolest movie to watch with friends. "},{"Title":"I loved it!","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This has definitely gotta be the best Adam Sandler movie ever!  I loved all his other films (Little Nicky, Big Daddy, etc.), but this was the best one from Adam Sandler.  There were funny lines from the movie (Ultraviolet Rays bad, Lotion good!, It's nudie magazine day!, So hot, want to touch the heiney!, just to name a few).  I recommend this movie who wants to have a good laugh or are fans of Sandler's work.Note to Adam Sandler Keep up the good work!A+ ****** stars (out of ******) 100/100 "},{"Title":"Stop bashing this movie","Date":"29 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Why are so many people bashing this movie? Why does the movie industry and critics think that only heart-breaking and solemn movies or mafia movies or war movies are the best ones? Adam Sandler is funny. For you people who say this movie is horrible, go and rent Going Overboard. (Sandler's first movie.) That'll show you how horrible he WAS and how much he's improved. I have never watched all of that movie. Every time I try about 15 minutes into it I can't take anymore and shut it off. I'm convinced that it really is in the top 100 WORST movies of all time. This movie is a work of art compared to that. This movie is hilarious. I think Adam Sandler plays a better 'buffoon' than a serious struggling musician. In other words I don't think he can play the serious rolls for crap. And for you people who say he's not funny, have you ever even seen SNL with him in it? He's great! Go buy one of his cd's..preferably 'The're all gonna laugh at you'. Great stuff. BACK TO THE MOVIE everybody who's saying the movie sucks are saying that Steve Buchimi's (spelling?) cameo saves the movie..he's in the movie for about 3 seconds come on. And whoever said that Adam Sandler is a 'bill murray wanna-be' in this movie, What are you talking about?? I like bill murray he's great, and in this movie Adam Sandler has no resemblence to bill murray. It's just like when people say Chris Tucker is a Chris Rock wanna-be..they both have completely different senses of humor and Chris tucker is a LOT better actor than Rock..and funnier. Anyways Bottom line, this is a great movie. May not be oscar material for 'best picture', but it's great for a lot of laughs. "},{"Title":"Unfunny and offensive","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Bad, worthless, waste of time movie. The only thing that makes it barely tolerable is that his girlfriend is pretty, and the only thing that makes it barely excusable is that I really DON'T think Adam Sandler is capable of better. It's a perfect blend of bad acting, bad writing, bad directing and bad producing. If you liked this movie, you would probably also like Blind Date, Death Becomes Her, and Skin Deep.  "},{"Title":"A Funny Film That The Whole Family Will Enjoy!","Date":"13 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie will have you rolling on the floor laughing.  Of coarse, I think that MOST every movie with Adam Sandler in it is going to be funny. Watching Billy trying to work his back through grades 1-12 is extremely funny.  Also, it is a movie that your kids will probably like also! "},{"Title":"i can't see people can hate this movie!! iT R0CkS!","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of Adam Sandler's best movies. I am a HUGE fan of him, and I own all of the movies he's ever done, so I would know. The first time I saw this my sides were aching by the end of it, cuz it made me laugh that hard! How could anybody have the nerve to call this movie corny? I don't laugh at corny jokes, this movie was far from corny!! Adam is so cute, and his love interest, Bridgette Wilson was really pretty and a great actress. I have no complaints for this movie whatsoever. Norm MacDonald, Chris Farley, and Steve Buscemi are also in this movie, and have quite enjoyable and funny roles. I would recommend this to everyone whose not an uptight person that only likes boring or sappy movies, you will L0VE this!! "},{"Title":"outstanding","Date":"23 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I thought BILLY MADISON was one of the best comedy films ever. Adam Sandler is a good actor, he is different than some of the other comedians.  The film is about a man who drinks all day, he has to prove himself to his father who is going to give the family business someone else who is evil. It is so funny when he starts to prove himself.  "}{"Title":"Best Movie of the Century!","Date":"21 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Billy Madison is without a doubt the BEST movie I have ever seen.  Adam Sandler gives us nonstop laughter.  Tamra Davis could not have picked a better star, no one could do this as well as Adam Sandler, he's hilarious! If you are looking for something you can sit back and relax and just laugh forever about, this is the movie to see!  Bradley Whitford (who plays the part of Eric) is the perfect nemesis for Adam Sandler.  These two throw things off of each other perfectly, its great.  If you missed this movie in the theaters and haven't seen it in the past 6 years, GO RENT IT!!  In fact, if you don't own this movie, rent it now and if you know it, go watch it. Support this film, it is the best I've ever seen. "},{"Title":"All-Time Classic","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you find the idea of a man chasing an imaginary penguin to be funny then this movie is for you. Billy Madison is the kind of movie you can watch 20 times and still be crying by the end. Of course, the crying will be out of laughter, unless if you're one of the few people who can't stand this movie, in which case you'll probably have to spend the rest of your days arguing with people like myself about how an imaginary penguin can be funny in the first place. "},{"Title":"superb!","Date":"21 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  this movie is hilarious. i loved it the moment i watched it and it stands up to repeat viewings time and again. it's not just funny, there are the very small touches like when billy starts dancing on the stairs that just make me laugh. watch it if you haven't, and if you have, well watch it again! one of the funniest movies ever! "},{"Title":"It's The Best Movie Ever","Date":"9 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Billy Madison is 1 of the best movies ever. people who say this movie is stupid and idiotic are the  one's who are stupid and idiotic.the movie is funny and hilarious. it also teaches you something don't do stupid things in school because it will get you nowhere "},{"Title":"An idiotic masterpiece","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I love artsy films.  The ones that most people accuse of being 'too slow,' 'too talky,' 'without any action,' et cetera, et cetera, et cetera.  But when it comes to comedy, you can't analyze it.  It either makes you laugh or it doesn't.  And this film makes me laugh like no other.  Be warned, because this film is stupid.  And I mean INCREDIBLY STUPID.  But if you watch this for the first time and don't find a smile on your face when Billy plays dodgeball (or at most of the other random moments in the movie), then you shouldn't be at this web page anyway.  IT'S QUACKTASTIC!!10/10 "},{"Title":"It took a week for my toes to uncurl","Date":"5 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I was forced to watch this astonishingly bad movie on video in the hospitality of a very friendly American family, and rarely have I been so embarrassed by a piece of entertainment. It took a week for my toes to uncurl. The family's 10-year-old boy was responsible for picking Billy Madison off the shelf, and I have repaid him by never speaking to him again.My theory is that Adam Sandler just doesn't play to British audiences. We are, for our sins, sensitive to the portrayal of mentally disabled people, and I felt that if this film had received a wider release in the UK, Sandler would have received negative comment for using the traits of subnormality for laughs.One reviewer describes the movie as bizarre, but for the wrong reasons. As I watched with an expression that was half pain and half disbelief, I found it bizarre that someone put the money up for this, and that whilst they were making the movie, no-one had the courage or wherewithal to say Hang on - this is appalling.I'm advising people to watch this movie if they get the chance, but only to use it as a benchmark by which to judge seriously bad films. "},{"Title":"I choked myself laughing...","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is hysterical. In this role, Adam Sandler is the one man who pulls it off really well. He stars as Billy Madison, (duh!) a man who has a tendency to get drunk and set dog poop on fire for others to clean up. He also has a penchant for seeing invisible penguins. One day, when his father Brian, who owns a huge hotel, tells Billy he'll give the hotel to one of his clients, Billy tries to convince him he is capable of running a hotel on his own, and that he's not stupid, by going through Grades 1-12 in 24 weeks. Along the way, hilarious happenings occur, and he falls for Veronica Vaughan (Bridgette Wilson), a teacher.   There are many great lines of dialogue, and lots of screwball antics, so kids and adults will be pleased. "},{"Title":"Quite surreal","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  BILLY MADISON is, along with Being John Malkovich, the most bizarre movie I've ever seen.  It is at times hilarious though the plot is quite lame. Sandler is as usual, hysterical and Larry Hankin does a great weasel laugh. There are so many quotable moments in this film yet I found myself laughing at times because of the movie's complete and utter stupidity.  I'm puzzled at how this film was rated PG especially after the game of dodgeball and Billy's cupboard that came with the tent.  And the most strange moment was not knowing whether to laugh or puke during the peeing of the pants. This film is one that cannot be missed purely to remind ourselves that we're not completely mad.......Adam Sandler is. Great soundtrack and possibly the funniest/bizarre cameo ever from Steve Buscemi. "},{"Title":"You'll never look at penguins the same again!","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Billy Madison is Adam Sandler's best movie ever! While noone over the age of 40 will understand this and call it satanic, it is a VEEEEEEEEERY good movie to watch if you have an IQ of 15 or lower. The movie's best scenes are the penguin! The penguin should get his own movie!!!!!!!!! I'm not going to spoil the penguin part for you but it is a riot! PLUS! Norm MacDonald is in it and so is the KING of Idiot Humor, Chris Farley! PLUS! There's a MUSICAL NUMBER, yes musical number, that makes Singin' in the Rain look like a 9 year old singing Old MacDonald. Sure the movie is low-brow, insipid, low-brow, gross, low-brow, sick, low-brow, disgusting, and low-brow, but it'll entertain you for about 90 minutes, but only if you're under 40. **** out of **** "},{"Title":"Don't even try to pretend you're above this","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It is impossible to fight the humor of Billy Madison, as childish and stupid as it may be. From bathtub fights between bottles of shampoo and conditioner to imaginary penguins, Billy Madison is a strange and hilarious movie. In my opinion, still the best Adam Sandler movie to date. If you're a fan, simply a must see, and if you're not, probably worth the try nonetheless. While his recent stuff is good, let's face it, Sandler is much better without the sentiment, and Billy Madison delivers that up perfectly.  "}{"Title":"Least-commercialized and funniest Sandler","Date":"17 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  As Adam Sandler's movies were made, they became more and more commercial - and less humorous with every one. You can watch the progression from Billy Madison to Happy Gilmore to The Wedding Singer to Big Daddy (I'm purposely leaving out The Waterboy, which was kind of a sidestep); the humor is less bizarre and more heartwarming with each movie, but you get the definite feeling he's having less fun each time.This is his first solo movie, and arguably the best of the bunch (Happy Gilmore is a close 2nd). He looks likes he's having a blast filming it, barely able to avoid bursting out laughing in every scene, not particularly caring if the audience gets the joke or not. Although watching him pull up to the high school in his REO Speedwagon shirt as Stroke Me plays on the radio had me dying laughing, the elementary school stuff was the funniest overall. You can't help but reminisce when you watch him - remembering having the teacher read stories to the class one minute, and getting to play dodge ball the next. God those times were great...It also drags at times (whenever it's trying to advance the story - such as it is - rather than goofing off), but all in all it's very funny. The first time I saw it was late-night on the cable movie channel, and I swore I'd wake up the house I was laughing so hard.If you're looking for intelligent entertainment, rent something else - but if you want to laugh your butt off while you watch Adam Sandler back when he was having fun making movies, this is one that's hard to beat. "},{"Title":"A Hilarious Comedy!","Date":"21 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Billy Madison is one of the best comedy's of the 90's. It has been one of Adam Sandler's best movies. Everything about it is funny. The characters, the quotes, the scenes. Bridgette Wilson was very sexy in it too. They ought to make a sequel someday. I give it two thumbs up!!! "},{"Title":"One Great Movie.","Date":"11 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Most movies start off boring but not Billy Madison. It is hilarious and you are never bored with it.A movie that you could watch 100 times and still not be sick of it.Great story line and I give it a definite 10 / 10 WELL DONE!WHAT A GREAT MOVIE! "},{"Title":"Oh, c'mon, can't you people just relax?","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I have to admit that I absolutely hated the first 20 minutes or so of this movie.  I was about to turn it off, but decided to give it another chance. I'm very glad I did!  It seems everytime that I watch it, it gets funnier and funnier.  The true humor of this film lies in the weird parts like Sloppy Joe's, The Clown, The Penguin, etc....parts so stupid that you can't help but laugh at their stupidity.  It would be a shame if you looked down on this movie because it was too stupid.  That's the point!!!  It's supposed to be stupid! "},{"Title":"An Adam Sandler highlight reel","Date":"1 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If there was a reel of highlights from Sandler's career, I assure you, most of the film clips would be from Billy Maddison This movie starts off hilarious, and ends up just the same. A great ride from start to finish, the comedic stylings of Adam Sandler will make you roll on the floor with laughter. All the hilarious bits of drunken stupidity, to sober stupidity are hilarious, Billy Maddison should be seen by anyone who likes to laugh, and has enough energy to keep up with this fast-paced comedy. I enjoyed this film immensely. "},{"Title":"I Am The Smartest Man Alive!","Date":"4 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Adam Sandler, Darren McGavin, Bridgette Wilson, Bradley Whitford, Josh Mostel and Chris Farley star in this 1995 comedy. Sandler (Happy Gilmore) plays the title character who is a goofy, young man. The late, McGavin (A Christmas Story) plays his father, Brian who is a wealthy businessman. Brian thinks about retiring and leaving his hotel company to Eric Gordon (Whitford), an obnoxious executive who works for him. Billy decides to compete with Eric to get the company by going back to school and graduate within 2 weeks. Wilson (Mortal Kombat) plays Veronica Vaughn, a teacher Billy finds romance with, Mostel (City Slickers) plays horny principal, Max Anderson and the late, Farley (Tommy Boy) plays a school bus driver. Sandler is great in this and it's one of his best films I recommend. "},{"Title":"Sandler's Funniest Film","Date":"12 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is Adam Sandler's first starring role and definitely his funniest film. It is totally off the wall, loose and full of little, odd jokes. It also contains an amazing cast including Norm MacDonald and the late, great Chris Farley. I remember the first time I saw this movie I was 15 years old and I laughed extremely hard. And, the humor doesn't get old. This movie is as funny today as the day it came out. Sandler went on to make a lot of sentimental, mediocre films, but this is his masterwork. It is full of little, quick qoutes and scenes that don't make a whole lot of sense, and its damn funny. It is also sick, bizarre and stupid. Definitely one of the funniest movies I've seen and definitely Sandler's greatest. "},{"Title":"liked it","Date":"6 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Adam Sandler,...early role... Adam Sandler has done some really funny movies that I enjoy watching over and over. This one is not my favorite by any means. It definitely is not a kid's movie. A guy who wasted his chances at a good education is being disinherited. Can Billy Madison get back in his dad's good graces? Yep. One condition. Complete every grade through high school graduation. Billy partied through school before. Can he make it through now that it is so vital to his future? I enjoyed the Kindergarten teacher. Great casting there. The love interest is beautiful, but in an approachable way. Quite believable to my way of thinking. I loved the casting overall. I had trouble with some parts that were experienced by the drunken Billy, but I have trouble with drunken roles, period. It wasn't totally glamorized like some, but getting drunk and wasting your life isn't humorous to me at all. I loved the time warp effect Billy experiences at high school. (Remember what was cool when you were in school? Well, it ain't cool no more!) It has a feel-good ending, and that is what I like most about it. Sometimes you just want to see a movie that makes you feel the human condition sometimes isn't quite as bad as it seems. Maybe very dysfunctional, but not a total loss. "},{"Title":"The Best of Sandler","Date":"12 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I grew up in the 90's and Billy Madison was a standard classic comedy for me. The idea is that a spoiled son(Sandler) of a rich hotel owner, is wasting his life away with comical dimwit buddies like Norm MacDonald. When a cynical jerk, Eric wants to take over Madison Hotels, Billy decides he should put aside his drunken behaviors and go back to school and earn his grades(His father paid off the teachers the fist time). The plot is unfathomable, however put that aside and this is Sandlers most hilarious film in my opinion.(I would say this and Happy Gilmore were the only true classics) Chris Farley is great in this and an appearance of Steve Buscemi is unexpectedly comical also. "},{"Title":"Adam Sandler At His Best!","Date":"26 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Billy Madison is the first Adam Sandler movie. Since Saturday Night Live Adam has become a true comic. Billy Madison will remind every adults of how school used to be for them. This movie would go good with any funny actor playing Billy Madison, David Spade could have played Bill Madison, Chris Farley could have, Ben Stiller could have, even Mike Myers could have. This movie could have so many different actors playing Billy Madison. Happy Gilmore was another Adam Sandler movie that I liked a lot. Adam Sandler is really a funny guy. I like the way he acts in his movies. Serious then funny. Just like Robert De Niro in his movies. Come to think of it if Robert De Niro cut some of his hair push it flat he could look like Adam Sandler. I've always wonder if they would be in a movie together one day. Starring Adam Sandler and Robert De Niro in Serious Then Funny. "}{"Title":"AAAAAHHHHHH!!!!!!!!","Date":"29 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is quite possibly one of the worst movies ever committed to celluloid. When I rented it, the screen was fuzzy for the first five minutes. For a minute, I was afraid the tape was broken. It turns out it wasn't, but now I wish it had been. Billy Madison, an adult with the mind of a five-year-old child, will lose his father's company if he doesn't complete grades 1-12 again in two weeks. The plot is predictable, the script is juvenile, and acting is, for the most part, terrible. The only good performance came from Steve Buscemi, who played a student Madison tortured in high school. Ironically, he wasn't even given a credit. In short, this film makes Harold and Kumar go to White Castle look like Casablanca. I wouldn't recommend watching this at gunpoint. "},{"Title":"This movie got a bad rap it is hilarious!","Date":"9 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I completely disagree with this movies score. If you are with friends or just in the mood for laughter then this is for you, also its pretty old so it should be cheap to buy.As others have stated this is a movie about choice, you either have a certain kind of sense of humour or you don't, what i mean by that is some people find it funny others will say its stupid. People comment about acting and not a strong plot, but does that really matter its a comedy not a drama.This movie has certain jokes that will get a chuckle out of you then it has jokes that will make you burst out laughing. Such as chris farley as the bus driver getting a sandwich thrown at him and going into a rage,or the clown falling and everybody laughs and thinks its part of the act but then you see blood coming from his mouth.I don't want to ruin anymore parts, but this is a great comedy that is worth watching at least once.FINAL SCORE 7/10  "},{"Title":"Another 1990's comedy classic!","Date":"9 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Billy MadisonStarring Adam Sandler, Bridgette Wilson, Chris Farley (brief appearance in this movie) and Norm McDonald and Bradley WhitfordRated PG-13Genre ComedyThis one of my favorite Adam Sandler movies that is also one of my favorite 1990's comedy classic movies! In this one, Adam Sandler plays this weird-oh who is pretty nuts and his father is ruminating on whether or not he should take over his company or not. So then Billy Madison (Adam Sandler) decides to try to take over his father's business but in order to do that he must first re-do every single school grade, from kindergarden to 12th Grade (aka Senior year). So then one of his father's workers is getting every angry because he wants to take over the company and he is wanting Billy to fail. So then he tries setting Billy up by telling the school that he is cheating so then he and some of his friends then tell his father that it was Eric (Whitford) takes Billy on in a competition. This is one of the most classical Adam Sandler movies ever and filled with lots of funny memorable quotes! Classic. "},{"Title":"come here lill pingquin..yu belong in the zuo","Date":"8 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  and thus starts one of the greatest entrances of any movie...we become instantly aware of place, character, situation, etc. flung headlong into the drunken stupidity and unabashed comic rages of Adam Sandler...the scrunched up expression of outrage when Billy fails to understand the class lessons, his sticking up for the little guy... overt sexual explosions...this is a very funny movie... "},{"Title":"EXCELLENT","Date":"15 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  After watching a few Adam Sandler movies such as The Waterboy, Happy Gilmore and Little Nicky, I stumbled across this gem of a movie. To say this movie is a pure comedy legend would be an understatement. Adam Sandler is great as the dumb, moronic and often incoherent Billy who falls in love with the equally well played Veronica Vaughan. Another great character in this movie is the bus driver who makes me laugh everytime he appears on screen. Overall, this movie is the best Adam Sandler movie and surely must be in the Top Ten Greatest Comedy Movies Ever! "},{"Title":"I think this is brilliant!","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When I looked at the cover in the video store it looked pretty funny. Billy is in the pool of his father Brian's hotel. He sees a penguin and says he has to send him back to the South Pole. Then Brian wants the staff to attend a banquet to discuss a retirement. But Brian wonders where Billy is he's in the bathtub fighting with the shampoos. He does show up and they all have soup for dinner Eric keeps making fun of the way Billy eats. Billy and his friends take crap and put it on somebody's porch and the guy steps in it. Brian confesses that Billy's behavior is all Brian's fault. So when he finds out Brian plans to give the hotel to Eric he makes it into a competition he goes to school grades 1st through 12th 2 weeks per grade, then he graduates, and gets the company. The first two grades go along well but 3rd grade is a little more difficult. His ex-girlfriend is his teacher. Then once Billy passes 3rd grade Eric is upset but his teacher Ms. Vaughn gets him a thing of snack packs. "},{"Title":"Terrible Starring Debut For Adam Sandler","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Before he made his starring debut with this 1994 Universal release, Adam Sandler could be glimpsed briefly with some amusing cameos in films like Shakes The Clown, Coneheads and Mixed Nuts. Sandler's comic delivery could certainly liven up a slow scene with a brief role but not an entire film. Sandler is to the irresponsible slacker character what Richard Pryor was to the con man character and he proves it here with his role as a wealthy and illiterate young man who wants to prove to his father that he can be a suitable heir for running the family business. However, his lack of a decent education makes him an immediate failure in his father's eyes so he decides to reenact his entire first through twelfth grade schooling and get it right....in only six months. Not nearly as funny as it might initially sound and several star cameos that try to be amusing aren't.  "},{"Title":"stupid","Date":"15 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is really really stupid however it's pretty funny most of the time, some parts I can't even stand though. I believe this is the movie that pretty much made Sandler a big star. In this movie he goes back to school to complete each grade in 2 weeks to try and take over his dad's company so that another employee who is a jerk can't take it. Bridgette Wilson plays his gf in the movie and she's very hot! Norm McDonald and Chris Farley also have bits in it. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Sandler is a genius!","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Complete dumbass Billy, (played by the hilarious Adam Sandler) goes back to repeat the first 12 grades of school he failed growing up, in oder to inherit his rich dad's successful motel business.Sandler is at his comic best - whether it's the never-ending classroom gags, the lighting &%#$ on fire or the chasing of imaginary penguins, he'll no doubt have you rolling round on the floor.His second-best comic role to date, only just trailing 'Happy Gilmore'. Grab some of your friends around get some beer, some chips, sit back and start laughing. "},{"Title":"a laughout","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This has to be one of the funniest movies ever.  Who cares if the plot's stupid?  There are lots of scenes that you can't help but crack up at.  Rent this if you need a lift from a hectic day.  I warn you though  Do not eat or drink while watching this.  Stains and cleanup will result if you don't heed my word. "}{"Title":"It stars Adam Sandler, of course it's brilliant.","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Adam Sandler stars as Billy Madison, a lazy bum who just looks at porn and hangs out at his pool with his friends all day, until one day his father tells him he wants to hand over the family business to him but can't really trust him. Seeing as Billy didn't pass high-school he agrees to go back to high-school and pass all his grades to get the family business. If he doesn't his father will hand over the business to his *horrible* worker Eric. In the film, we see Billy going through high-school and catching up with the hilarious things that happen. Billy Madison is a brilliant film and a must- see for Adam Sandler lovers, comedy lovers, movie loves, basically it's a film for everyone and I give it a 10/10. "},{"Title":"Sandler May be Talented but This Film Stinks","Date":"30 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  For some unknown reason, Billy Madison(1995) and most of Adam Sandler's movies are popular with audiences.  Indication that people are getting less and less intellegent these days.  One thing that I hate about the film is the attempt to make Adam Sandler into the next Bill Murray.  This attempt fails because Adam Sandler does not have the same comic charm or grace as Bill Murray.  Adam Sandler is talented but his talents are wasted in junk like this.  I would love to see Adam Sandler play a ruthless and vicious mob boss or hitman because its a role he would be perfect for.  Billy Madison(1995) has some cameos from well known actors like Steve Buscelmi.  Bridgette Wilson is good in the role of Billy's girlfriend, Veronica Vaughn. "},{"Title":"FROM NOW ON I AM GONNA GIVE ALL STUPID ADAM SANDLER FILMS A 4! EXCEPT FRO THE WEDDING SINGER AND BULLET PROOF!","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  WASTEFUL COMEDY! Very Very Stupid Plot. Who would want to marry a maniac like this stupid freak. Somebody shoot him! Oh Yeah, this film is funny on occasions but NO! 1/2/*** "},{"Title":"Billy Moronson","Date":"28 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Imagine Pauly Shore with the attitude of Andrew Dice Clay on prozac and ridelen and you have Adam Sandler. That doesn't necessarily make him funny.Sandler's shtick of humor (which is talking like a toddler or making fun of people when they say or do strange things) has never been funny, and it stuns me as to how some buck toothed doofus sitting nearby just laughs and laughs and laughs.It's like finding something Mtv did funny. You know when someone is not funny when you literally want to jump into the movie screen and slap them upside the head.What Steve Buscemi is doing in this movie is beyond me; if he were in it any longer he would be risking his currently respectable career.Sandler shouldn't be acting; he should be working in a Gas-Station/Quickie Mart and act out his brand of humor to trouble-making junior high school kids during after-school hours. Not only would he be doing the community a favor, he would also be the employee of the month and save room on expensive 35mm motion picture film. "},{"Title":"Sandler needs to stay in 3rd grade!","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  BILLY MADISON might have helped launch Adam Sandler's career as a top-billed performer, making mad movie watchers like myself puke until his era's finished. As a grown-up, his childlike behavior in front of the little dahhh-lings fits perfectly in this film, explaining why we love him very, very much. Sandler fans know the style of humor they're gonna get, and I will never give them the blame. He wasn't the main problem I had, though. The plot of having Billy Boy to repeat twelve grades of school just to run Daddy's corporation is the most ridiculous idea I've ever heard! He should've stayed in the third grade where he belonged, not by his romantic affairs, but his flatulence. In general, the gags and jokes were a bit more funny than HAPPY GILMORE's, and the singing number was decent. The die-hard fan base will gladly accept my sincere recommendation for this movie. If you love stupid comedy, you'll most certainly love Adam Sandler! At least he's no worse than Pauly Shore. Count me out if you wish, but I have no interest with the guy.  "},{"Title":"can movie making getting any worse?","Date":"1 February 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Adam Sandler does a great Jerry Lewis..but in a 2 hr framework, not a 5 minute Saturday night live sketch, we sit befuddled by the bizarre, unprincipled shenanigans Jerry himself could get draggy and self indulgent but he had the heart and you knew something hilarious and brilliant was just around the corner. Sandler shows nothing here but schizoid silliness. He gets in people's faces, says something stupid, and we are supposed to be enchanted.the story, though, is okay...we know where it's going but the idea of a ridiculously rich kid on the brink of increasing his wealth as inheritor of a huge hotel chain, first going back to school, not college, but kindergarten, is pretty funny. But his childlike behavior amongst the toddlers is hard to deal with > is he really an overgrown child or is there something wrong someplace.seems the suits just wanted another FRi. night flick slob story...they had a chance to make a pretty dam good movie....why not have the guy confidently go back to grammar school but find that the world has changed...man, school is *hard*! these kids are pretty sharp! this was made just before PCs took over for the teacher but a lot more could have been done with a generation gap developed over 7 years, or so? another very disturbing aspect is that so many child actors are used in this hyper-sexual enterprise. "},{"Title":"The worst movie ever made!!!","Date":"15 March 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" DO NOT WATCH THIS! EVER! There was only one funny line in this movie, although not remotely fresh or innovative, and it perfectly describes the whole experience Mr. Madison, what you've just said is one of the most insanely idiotic things I have ever heard. At no point in your rambling, incoherent response were you even close to anything that could be considered a rational thought. Everyone in this room is now dumber for having listened to it. I award you no points, and may God have mercy on your soul. Please save yourself this hour and a half and don't watch it. It's just plain bad, and not because it's just another Adam Sandler movie. His other movies are Oscar worthy compared to this thing. "},{"Title":"Low brow comedy of the highest order","Date":"14 November 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Billy Madison (Adam Sandler) is a goofball slacker who drinks all day and do nothing. His father is not happy and is looking to hand control of his hotel empire over to sleazy executive Eric Gordon (Bradley Whitford). It turns out his father had pay to pass Billy through his entire academic life. As a last ditch effort, he dares his father to give him control if he could pass each grade every two weeks and graduate high school.This is low brow comedy of the highest order. Adam Sandler is the master goofball and he is hilarious. I laugh at his idiocy and I love it. How can you not laugh at the little kids being pounded by a dodge ball? So you're a nice well adjusted person. That's your problem, not mine. And I want to touch the hiney too. "},{"Title":"There's an audience...and it ain't me","Date":"5 October 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The nineties were kind to Adam Sandler, what with his Saturday Night Live career taking off to new heights and movie deals coming left and right. Many say it was the best time of his career for comedies. If I didn't know any better, I'd think it would've been his worst.And here I am, where I usually wind up after rewatching an Adam Sandler movie; appalled and dismayed. Billy Madison is a wretched, unpleasant comedy exercise from the beginning, with Sandler playing yet another rendition of the hopelessly unlikable schlub. Call them stupid movies, call them turn your brain off films, I call these kinds of films, anti-character studies, when we're given a character who doesn't even try to be remotely likable and one simply not worth studying.Sandler plays the title character and we open on the desperately unfunny note of Sandler lounging in his pool, spraying sunblock on his stomach, and eagerly anticipating the arrival of his nudie magazines in the mail. Upon driving his go-kart to the mailbox, we see Billy is quite drunk and hallucinates a large penguin that he begins to chase through his yard. As you can infer, Sandler's character is a lame-brained, overgrown child also equipped with one of the most annoying, insufferable accents of his career (second to only The Waterboy).Billy's life is made; he doesn't need to work because his father is filthy rich and he is permitted to act like a senseless buffoon as long as he doesn't interfere with his father's line of work. But when he does, his dad reveals to Billy that he will not be handing over the company to his son but to a fellow employee because he views his son as unfit and incompetent. He too reveals that he paid all of Billy's teachers, from first to twelfth grade, to pass him no questions asked. Billy proposes that if he were to go back and repeat every grade for two weeks each, and pass with a test, that he could be given ownership of the company. His father accepts and so unfolds a comedy of dead ends.Some people will be in tears watching Sandler's character yell, scream, and fight as he repeats every grade and some will even list it as one of their favorite films. Not me. I chuckled once and fell into a dreary, never-ending silence for the remainder of the picture. It takes more than stale sight gags, a childish character, and a ridiculous accent for me to laugh.Immaturity seems to be running ramped in comedies today, and when handled delicately, with heart and wit, it can be quite funny and sometimes quite entertaining. Here, it's so dumbed-down, cloyingly idiotic, and jaw-droppingly childish that any expectations are crushed upon arrival.All likability for the Billy Madison character is destroyed after the first few minutes as well. What's his reason for acting so goofy and simple? How did he become so ridiculously incompetent when he has an immensely successful father? And why does he so often commit random acts of senselessness like throwing dodgeballs at young kids and even making his shampoo and conditioner argue in the bathtub. Those questions can all be answered with, for a laugh. Billy Madison's formula is contrived and hopelessly unremarkable. Its humor stems directly from laughing down at the character when we wonder if he can actually help it or not. Sandler's screen presence grows stale and unbelievably intolerable after only a few short minutes and we are left with an implausible story, a monotonous line of events, and a character we feel nothing for. I'm astonished when people call this the best Adam Sandler movie. Have these same people seen Reign Over Me? Probably not; they would not give an Adam Sandler drama the time of day.Starring Adam Sandler, Bradley Whitford, Bridgette Wilson, Norm Macdonald, and Darren McGavin. Directed by Tamra Davis. "},{"Title":"Hilarious.","Date":"20 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Adam Sandler. You hate the guy or you love him. Despite all the criticism he gets for his movies that aren't trying to be serious...he is a funny guy. This is some of his best work. It has so many things to laugh about and quote...it's HILARIOUS.Adam Sandler is Billy Madison...your typical slacker spends his days getting drunk with friends. His Whenever Billy finds out that Eric (Bradley Whitford) is taking over his father's company, and not him, he asks to go through grades 1-12 all over again to prove he's not an idiot and get the company.Adam Sandler gives a hilarious performance, and he also falls for a teacher (Bridgette Wilson) and everyone else (especially Chris Farley)me...I give it 10 out of 10 because i like comedies, and especially like Sandler's work. "}{"Title":"if you've seen one, you've seen 'em all","Date":"5 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Oh boy, an Adam Sandler movie. If I could turn the clock back to being 13 years old, this might be funny. I can't, and it's not. Sandler is a louder and somewhat more caustic version of Jerry Lewis in the movies he made after the split with Dean Martin. Those movies weren't very good either, but they had a big following and helped make Lewis a ton of cash. Sandler has ripped off the Lewis comedic style; if he has similar investment smarts, he should be set for life and primed to take over the Labor Day Telethon when Lewis finally hangs it up. The only thing I found remotely funny in this film was when Sandler and bus driver John Candy were discussing Veronica Vaughn outside the bus when they were loading up after the field trip. The thing that made the scene funny is that, suddenly, Billy becomes a mature and thoughtful adult who rejects outright the claims of the bus driver concerning Ms. Vaughn's sex life. The scene is laughably clumsy. Like every other Sandler movie, this is mindless nonsense, and if you consider that entertaining, go for it. "},{"Title":"Two Thumbs Down","Date":"19 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Now I find it very rare to find a good Adam Sandler movie. I found that his earlier work, like in the nineties and also in the year 2000, was when he was at his best. I saw Happy Gilmore though and it was just didn't make much sense and it wasn't that funny. I didn't really like his character and I didn't get the point of Norm MacDonald's character, not that I don't like Norm MacDonald. It wasn't very organized. The story just went all over the place. I wouldn't call Billy Madison one of Sandler's best as so many other people say it is. The one that I would say go on his best list would be Happy Gilmore and Little Nicky which are very entertaining and very funny. Not this. "},{"Title":"Stupid/Stupid versus Stupid/Funny","Date":"11 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Maybe it's because I'm too old, not that I'm too smart, but I don't get Adam Sandler movies. There are moments of humor in Billy Madison, Happy Gilmore, and The Waterboy, but none of them are funny movies. They're just stupid. I watch these things and I think, Why don't I get it? The answer is simple, for me--I don't care about the main characters. I don't care if Billy gets to inherit the business, Happy and his gramma can go away and never return, and Bobby can hang out in the swamp for the rest of his unnatural life. I just don't care about them. With this in mind, why should I laugh when each movie is a cookie-cutter exercise in the adventures of a moron being moronic with two-dimensional bad guys, utterly predictable good guys, and perky, eye-candy love interests to tickle the lizard at the bottom of my brain pan? I recently watched all three of these pieces of dreck, and that's 270 minutes I don't get back in my life span. Yech. "},{"Title":"Totally Awesome!!!","Date":"24 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was so cool. why the rating on it is not so good I do not know? Adam Sandler does things in his movies that I have never seen done in others. Particularly the way he acts in this movie which I will not tell could not be done to perfection by other Actors. The singing routine was funny as all get out. I would say this is his second best movie next to Happy Gilmore. But as we all know you can't give the person with the main role all the credit without his co-stars he would be a funny man running into a wall, which was what he was like in Punch-Drunk Love. I always like the bad guy in his movies as well. They make Adam Sandler a driving force in which to break through that wall.I give this film a 10!  "},{"Title":"Good Premise, Bad Movie...","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"   Adam Sandler plays Billy Madison, the son of a wealthy businessman, who is about to hand over the reigns of his company to a greedy businessman. So, in a last effort to have the company handed to himself, Billy enters a bet, that if he can make it all the way through school over again, the company is his. But he cannot flunk school this time around. We can expect what ensues.Basically, the film has a decent premise. It may be thrown together a bit sloppy at times, but overall it is good. The thing that is bad about this movie, is the characters, the dialogue, and the film's progress. There are some laughs in the beginning, but I didn't find the addition of Norm MacDonald very funny, nor did I think it great how the teacher who hates Billy is suddenly, for no reason whatsoever, willing to take off her clothes for him. There are some great cameos in this movie, especially the always-enjoyable Steve Buscemi. Unfortunately, his short appearance cannot make up for the bad flow, dialogue and character progression in Billy Madison.Sure, the film has its laugh-out-loud moments, but not enough, and when it all comes down to it, the film has a half-baked, sentimental ending thrown in to enthuse the easily-pleased, and never really focuses on all the laughs it could have achieved throughout its scenes. It seems to take the lowest amount of jokes considering, and look at them as look how many jokes we have, instead of look how many more jokes we could have had. In the end, what could have been an interesting and lively comedy resorts to typical Sandler fare, and nothing more. My summary worth seeing, but not great.2.5/5 stars -John Ulmer "},{"Title":" Very funny! Adam Sandler is hilarious!","Date":"11 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"     Billy Madison is hilarious! Adam Sandler had a very funny role (he always does in his movies), and this movie was hilarious! Adam Sandler and Bridgette Wilson did a funny and terrific job. This movie is one of the best comedys. I also like the other movies Adam Sandler plays in (The Waterboy, Happy Gilmore, Big Daddy, Little Nicky). Adam Sandler brings great hilarity to the film, and the rest of the cast were very funny. I also thought Billy's teacher (Bridgette Wilson) was funny. The movie is pretty funny, and very enjoyable. If you are an Adam Sandler fan (which I am) you should like this movie. Adam Sandler is very funny in this movie. I give it a 7 out of 10, which means, you should see it.  "},{"Title":"ARRGH!!!!","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Without a doubt, an utter disapointment to anyone who still maintains an illusion of Hollywood's ability to produce entertaining, INTELLIGENT films. Adam Sandler is Madison, sent back to school in order to gain his father's company. Everyone I know seems to regard this movie as the cinematic Holy Grail, is it Adam Sandler that makes this movie so appealing? Even the stupid parts that are meant to be funny are too stupid (I didn't think such a thing possible until this experience), it seems the film is assembled from dozens of other funnier spoofs and sewn together clumsily. You'll owe your brain an apology after this little turd.  "},{"Title":"Kids love it, but. . .","Date":"25 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  My daughter (14) thinks this is something like the funniest movie ever made. But when she tells me which bits are funny, they're always the parts that drew a complete blank from me. I thought this was easily the stooooooopidest movie I've ever seen, and I've seen some really lame-o's over the years. I maybe laughed twice, and I did laugh at Happy Gilmore, so I'm not a complete Anti-Sandler. If you do rent it, be sure to get a back-up if this movie makes you gag. "},{"Title":"Sandler's funniest movie!","Date":"30 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is very funny. The first half is kind of normal comedy, but the second half is gross-out comedy. It's the funniest Adam Sandler movie yet! I give Billy Madison *** out of ****  "},{"Title":"I rules it rules o did I mention it rules","Date":"3 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a great movie It shows Adam Sandlers greaT talent as a writer and the plot about a guy who has to climb his way through school is brilliant I love this movie and could watch it over and over "}{"Title":"Aaarrrggghhh!!!!!!!","Date":"12 May 2010","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is so bad that everyone connected with it should be criminally prosecuted, or simply shot...after they have been drawn and quartered, tarred and feathered. I used to think that Nothing But Trouble was the worst movie ever made, but compared to this stinker, that is a masterpiece. Mind you, I don't dislike low-brow humor, per se - I loved Kingpin and liked Dumb and Dumber. But there isn't an iota of humor or creativity in this abomination.Maybe it was intended as a movie for kids. If that is the case, there might be some justification for it. I'm sure most five-to-ten-year-olds would find it amusing.Billy Madison should have a reverse MPAA rating No one OVER the age of 10 (or with an IQ over 80) should be allowed to watch it. The only reason I gave it one star is that no stars isn't an option. "},{"Title":"Interesting Premise for a Comedy has some very funny moments but a sharper script might have helped.","Date":"30 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" An rich nitwit by the name of Billy Madison (Adam Sandler) bets with his father (Darren McGavin) with a smile ball worker (Bradley Whitford), who could win Billy's father hotel business company but Billy has to go back to school starts from the bottom to high school.Directed by Tamra Davis (Crossroads, Half Baked) made a watchable dumb comedy, which it was a Box Office Hit in the winter of 1995. This crude comedy has some funny moments but Sandler got better and funnier in his other movies. The movie really did needed a sharp writing but you can't always have it all. The late Chris Farley and Steve Buscemi appears unbilled. This film is mostly for fans of Sandler's only. (*** ½/*****). "},{"Title":"COULD HOLLYWOOD GET ANY WORSE???","Date":"1 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I honestly don't know what the reviews are on about.  Billy Madison is CINEMA AT ITS WORST!!!  Everything in this feature is unbelievably daft and stupid the acting, the plot, the narrative, the set, the jokes, the editing, the everything.  After reading the reviews on this page I thought, maybe I missed something out &#150; so I watched it again what a waste of time.  Just as you get to the point when you wonder can things become any more stupid than this, surprise-surprise they do!!!  Toward the conclusion you realise that the whole of society is just as stupid as Billy Madison, as the producers who stashed $25,000,000 on this movie and as the auditorium who paid to see it.  Billy's odyssey finishes with a jolly HAPPY ENDING, everybody lived happily and depoliticised ever after and the film got very good reviews. "},{"Title":"I feel shell-shocked.","Date":"14 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I hadn't seen an Adam Sandler movie before.  In fact, I didn't quite manage to see all of this one since it was on tv, I sometimes succumbed to the temptation to turn the sound down, and when I left the room to make coffee I took longer, perhaps, than was strictly necessary.  But I more or less made it to the end.  Then I come here and discover that the consensus (almost) is that this is his BEST!Just tell me this where was Adam Sandler's charisma?  His charm?  Where was ANY facet of his personality, character, acting, voice or manner, I don't care how ineffable, that might endear him even the least little bit to an audience?  A movie I can't help comparing this one to - although I haven't thought about it for years - is Rodney Dangerfield's `Back to School' (1986), which, now that I DO think about it, had an almost identical plot.  It, too, was goofy and lowbrow.  It, too, wasn't and didn't pretend to be a masterpiece it offered neither satire nor depth.  But it was fun.  The crucial difference was that Dangerfield, unlike Sandler, was easy to like, so that the film would have succeeded to some degree even if Dangerfield HADN'T also had much better jokes.  It's ESSENTIAL that we like the main comic at least a little.  He needn't earn our sympathy - he can steal it or extort it, for all I care, so long as he gets it by some means or other.  But Sandler pulled out every stop on the `just plain irritating' organ to prevent this coming to pass.I suppose there's no talking people out of a laugh, but the jokes weren't funny, either. "},{"Title":"Maybe I needed to shut off my brain to get this movie","Date":"8 September 2007","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Billy Madison, this is the film that supposedly gave Adam Sandler his huge break in Hollywood along with Happy Gilmore. Now I loved Happy Gilmore and my sister asked me if I ever saw Billy Madison and I said no, and she just looked at me with shock and said that if I liked Happy Gilmore that I would love Billy Madison. So I rented it yesterday and watched it this morning, I admit this was a fun story and had some funny moments, but for the most part I think that this is a pretty over rated comedy. There were just some jokes that either went too far or were to immature for my taste, but then again, it's Adam Sandler, so I'm not making that big of a deal. The story though was actually a clever one, who hasn't thought of what it would be like to go through school again at a grown up age? Billy Madison is the son of hotel tycoon millionaire, Brian Madison, and Billy is someone who you wouldn't call the smartest tool in the box. He sees imaginary penguins, leaves dog feces out on his neighbor's porch, and still talks gibberish. Now he's supposed to be a grown man, but Brian knows his life isn't going to last very long, and that he needs a grown up like his associate, Eric, to take over the hotels. But Billy convinces his dad that if he can go through all the grades, 1-12, one more time and pass, that he can take over the hotels. Brian agrees, and Billy is back to school and meets the hot 3rd grade teacher that is going to help him out. Just hopefully he can do this in time so he can actually say that he passed with flying colors.My problem with Billy Madison is that I didn't know if he was supposed to be retarded or someone who acted retarded at times? Just this wasn't the most well thought out comedy. I just don't get into the grown man acting like a total idiot, you know? I prefer other Adam Sandler comedies like Happy Gilmore, The Wedding Singer, Big Daddy, Anger Management, and Click where he actually acts like a grown up, those actually work comedically. But I admit that I did have a few laughs here and there and it was a fun story to watch, but this is one of those movies that I'm satisfied with seeing only once.6/10 "},{"Title":"Really Speaks To Our Immaturity","Date":"20 July 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" There's a scene in BILLY MADISON where our doltish hero is faking making out with a photo of his hot teacher. Not only does the unabashedly sophomoric Adam Sandler french the glass of the frame, he also unbuttons her imaginary blouse and cops an imaginary feel. It's the sort of thing you'd expect to see in a junior high classroom after the teacher leaves the room. It's also quite hilarious because, you see, BILLY MADISON is the kind of movie you'd roll your eyes at if that immature side of you wasn't still kicking.BILLY MADISON launched the big screen career of Sandler, who was winding down his memorable stint at the floundering Saturday NIGHT LIVE at the time. He's perfectly cast as a young man (man-child, really) forced to go back to grade school in order to inherit the family fortune. Why? Because Billy is such a dipstick that his daddy had to pay off his teachers to pass him the first time around. Now the jig is up, and Billy must prove he's got what it takes to get through each grade on his own. Come on, be honest... how can you resist that premise?Along the way, Billy makes nonsensical inspirational speeches, accepts a dare to touch his teacher's boob (yes, the same teacher... and yes, Sandler was just as keen on boob jokes a decade ago), and somehow makes it cool to pee your pants. No wonder, then that just about every mainstream critic condemned BILLY MADISON to the turkey table. Their biggest beef? That the film is little more than a childish mishmash of bathroom (and boob) jokes.Is that a fair assessment? Objectively speaking, you'd have to think so. But that doesn't make it a bad movie. Sandler wasn't trying to create something that would make the Turner Classic Movies lineup fifty years from now. He was trying to make a certain (and surprisingly broad) audience laugh, and in that he succeeded. It ain't perfect, and there are a lot of misses for every funnybone hit, but BILLY MADISON is worth the 90 minuets -- as long as your immature side is still kicking. "},{"Title":"The life cycle of the wastefully rich and famous !","Date":"27 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Billy MadisonStory of a 27 years old spoilt brat of a billionaire &#150; an owner of Madison Group of hotels , who , being fed up of his son's childish tactics, decides to give away the power of attorney to one of his cunning subordinates. This comes to his son as a rude shock and he asks his father to give him a chance to prove himself. To this his father tells him of his brainlessness & dullness and the fact that he had somehow managed to pass each grade in his school with the help of his father's influence and money !Billy challenges his father that he will go through each grade for 2 weeks and pass it on his own or else the cunning subordinate will be made the hotel in-charge .So begins Billy's silly journey 'back to school'. He disturbed the class, made asinine remarks and basically tried to prove to the world that acquiring knowledge is basically futile for a rich boy , as he is assured of his future because of his rich father. Each grade he passed, he threw a lavish party for his friends from all age groups &#150; showed the utter wastage that the rich people make. Some shocking revelations were as follows  1. the principal of the school gives him a valentine's card &#150; and gave him hints of his homo-sexulism ! shows what kind of principals the schools abroad have !!Other girls in the age group of 9-11 gave him Valentine's card and looked at him rather flirtatiously &#150; which is unexpected from that age group &#150; shows that in the US &#150; children mature (sexually) a bit too fast 2. He was pursuing a girl who was his 3rd grade teacher. The girl &#150;teacher wore tiny skirts to school. He made utterly vulgar masturbation gestures holding on to her picture &#150; shows the reason why models all over the world are ruling &#150; this is what all men are busy doing I suppose. 3. This movie clearly makes the common man realize that the rich and the established will be the ones who will actually and eventually rule &#150; a rich Business man will obviously give away all his property to his own blood & flesh &#150; however dumb he might be , and the rest of the common mass people will just be working under them and implement their donkish dreams & fantasies &#150; and in old age - die of utter frustration &#150; when they realize that they have led a futile life. Some slimy, cunning but ultimately foolish creatures &#150; like the one in this movie &#150; start day-dreaming that they will get hold of the Company and make life hell for many other workers. 4. In the end &#150; it is shown that Billy is not all that kiddish as he is seen by outsiders &#150; He is in fact a good judge of character and quiet mature &#150; he ousted the cunning fellow from his organization and made a more eligible , elderly person the incharge of his Hotels &#150; and himself went ahead &#150; drinking, boozing, smooching & dreaming. "},{"Title":"Historical Feat","Date":"5 June 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This film is just short of being to film making what Jackson Pollock is to painting. Like Pollock's paintings, everything is on the surface. There are no deeper issues. It is just funny. Unbelievably funny.Purely funny films have been made before, but no movie has such well-timed idiotic exchanges like when Karl and Eric spat about Triscuits. Who would have known moments like these would be so brilliant? Some classic lines includeI kind of feel like an idiot sometimes but then I am an idiot so it kind of works out. Ta-ta-Today Junior! The C is silent! I am the smartest man alive!I thought this was one of the dumbest films I have ever seen the first time I saw it. It wasn't until I watched it about 10 more times that I realized that I must have been searching for a deeper meaning. There is no deeper meaning. That's the funniest thing about it. The main character deserves absolutely no consideration as our hero, and his plight is not the slightest bit virtuous. Then just when you think there should be more to it, there isn't. Unparalleled and impossible to duplicate, Billy Madison is a name and a title that will live forever. It is unbelievable how many people love this movie. "},{"Title":"So bad it hurt","Date":"26 September 2007","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This was so insultingly dumb I switched off the DVD before the credits finished rolling. Sandler has made a fortune out of playing dummies. The problem is that his roles give people around the world the feeling that all Americans are this dumb. (You overseas policy does not help much either) This makes people shudder to think that guys like this have their fingers on the bomb trigger. Let's face it folks, you voted for Bush! OK Seriously... Hollywood does no favours to the people of the USA by releasing this sort of garbage. They seem to have three pet favs at the moment Sick violence. Sick horror and stupid. On the fringes there are movies playing up to females hate men stereotypes that give feminists wet dreams and gung ho crap about America winning every war since 1914 despite losing over 40 of them. Oh I nearly forgot, the American war on fathers seems to be plodding along in Hollywood too. (Seems you are winning that one so hip...hip!) Why you guys don't speak out loudly until they stop this crap really worries the rest of the world. I guess, if you can eat popcorn in it then it must be good ...right? This movie is screamingly, insultingly, crazily stupid. It is actually beyond stupid....it goes way past moron and down into 6 year old mentally backward by 5 years country. Now, I want you to know that this is someone who also sat through the Police Academy movies. I squirmed in those but this is gut wrenchingly bad. Do you want to know the worst of it? Every time you people pay your dollars over the counter to watch Sandler it encourages him to make more! Think about it...PLEASE!!! Don't pay to watch this stuff. It rots your mind faster than crack. Unless that is, you don't mind being thought of as America the dumb by everyone else on the planet. "},{"Title":"Some modest fun","Date":"25 December 2002","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"    Adam Sandler needs to complete his education from scratch (as in K thru 12) in timely manner in order to take over family fortune.  Rival seeks to sabotage educational plans, while Wilson attractively encourages Adam's success.  Whatever.  Watching Adam as the classmate of 8 year olds was really fun (at least for me), and the plot as it is holds up until the silly finale.  Great segment with Sandler regular Steve Buscemi as former classmate. "}{"Title":"So Bad I Am Still Contemplating Suicide, Five Years Later","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"14 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm not going to mince words.  This movie made me put a gun in my mouth.  (No bullets around, luckily.)  Adam Sandler is an utterly worthless human being...his body of films have done more damage to the collective level of human intelligence than all the books burned by every fascist regime of the twentieth century.  I hate him.  Hate hate hate him.I did not enjoy this movie.Could someone, somewhere, please explain why they think Sandler is funny?  Please?  I am totally mystified.  It isn't that I am some ivory tower snob, I actually found TOMMY BOY somewhat watchable and even chuckled once or twice at DIRTY WORK (well...maybe once...).  But Sandler is just atrociously unfunny in everything he does.  I laughed once during this whole movie.  _Once_.  The scene where he pulls up to school and Billy Squier is on his stereo.  That's it.  One three-second chuckle does not even begin to atone for the concentrated, merciless stupidity of the rest of this movie.If you said this movie was hilarious, I probably think you are an idiot. "},{"Title":"Hilarious!!!!! Truly a great Adam Sandler movie!!","Date":"27 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I enjoy Sandler's work for the most part. Whether it be Big Daddy, Little Nicky, The Waterboy, even the Grown Ups movies(don't judge me). Billy Madison is Sandler's best film, due to the amount of effort put into the visual gags and Adam Sandler's performance. Granted, some jokes are REALLY childish, such as the farting noises and even slapstick that is idiotic. But the majority of the comedy works here because it's so well timed and executed in an inspiring technique. Funniest moments Ahahahahaha, SHUT UP!!! He's gonna sh*t when he realizes its sh*t!! I'll get you damn kids for this!! YOU'RE ALL GONNA DIE!!! Today, junior!! GOO!!!! Billy Madison? *FART NOISE* Gibberish dinner scene WHEEEE!!! "},{"Title":"vintage sandler","Date":"16 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is a great film. If you like immature comedy. One of sandlers best. Now as Sandler is married and more mature he doesn't produce this type of comedy gold anymore. I loved this film when i first watched it on VHS and I have only decided now to review it. It follows Sandler as the son of the owner of a chain of hotels as he is set to take over the company, but his dad thinks he needs to sort his life out and doesn't trust him, so he threatens to give the company to Eric (the bad guy) who works in some high up position. Sandler tells his dad he'll go back to school and graduate from it all all in order to prove he's capable of running Madison hotels. It is vintage Sandler, with good cameos by Norm Macdonald and Steve Buscemi. He says silly stuff and hilarity ensues, classic! This is not some epic, deep thinking profound film that has morals and requires a lot of thought, but it's not selling itself as that anyway. "},{"Title":"Pretty standard Sandler with a weak story and loads of comedy.","Date":"17 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" There are few if any comedies that lack a story as much as Billy Madison does. The plot basis is slightly redemptive, but the actual story structure is flimsy at best. But, as we've seen happen before, the film is still appealing to a number of viewers and is pretty successful. I mean, let's face it, no matter how bad a movie is, it's guaranteed to make a lot of money if Adam Sandler is in it. Even if most of his movies are essentially the same thing with a different subject matter and he's not a stellar actor, people will go to see it or rent it.So, the basic plot is that man-child Billy Madison has to go back through first to twelfth grade to prove to his dad that he can run the family hotel business. What little story there is comes with the character of Veronica Vaughn, and the fact that her name sounds like it comes from an old Bond film pretty much shows how much depth her character has. The antagonist, Eric, tries to steal the company from Billy like how Rob Lowe's character does in Tommy Boy. Apart from those story engines, the movie is pretty much just propelled by the irony of a grown man going back to elementary school. The academic decathalon climax, while sort of funny, isn't at all impressive from a storytelling perspective.Billy Madison's character has a pretty distinct personality, and we see that even though he's the biggest goofball you can find, there is some kind of intelligence behind all of his superficial stupidity. He doesn't have any real arc, apart from maybe proving himself to have some kind of intellectual dignity by the end. Eric is a fairly standard-issue greedy villain that makes a fool of himself for the amusement of the audience. His gags can be funny, but they aren't very original or clever. Billy's dad, while important in a plot sense, is hardly present in terms of screen time. Veronica Vaughn has some kind of personality, but is really just put in as the improbably love-interest for Billy. I thought Miss Lippy, the first grade teacher, was probably the most accurately portrayed stereotype in the whole movie, and her line about the importance of dodgeball is pretty funny. Even though he wasn't a very prominent character, I want to briefly mention the bus driver since he was probably the best combination of acting (thanks to Chris Farley) and scripting. His part really stole the show for me, but that's not to say that he should have had more screen time. The other minor roles are Carl, the gay ex-wrestler principal (whose entire character probably should have been cut for the sake of the story and the sake of all gay people), Juanita the maid, Billy's two friends, and the few kids that Billy befriends during his time in school. Most of them contribute one or two good lines and maybe a more extended gag.The comedy has a consistent goofy tone to it and feels a lot like Happy Gilmore, although the Gilmore humor hit it's mark a little better than this did. I can't think of one scene throughout the entire movie that isn't included to generate some kind of comedy, and in some ways that might make amends for the poor story. Some of my favorite jokes were the running O'Doyle rules! thing, the Broadway spoof when Veronica comes to help get Billy back on his feet, every scene involving the bus driver, and the t-t-today junior! scene. I think they could have cut the drunk penguin hallucination scenes, everything involving the principal, and could have spent a little more time in middle school instead of third grade since that could have provided some prime comedic situations.The acting is probably the strongest executional point. It isn't Oscar worthy, and all of it is very overblown and excessively goofy. The script definitely could have used some work, but it's protected by the comedy genre and the decent acting.If you like some of the older Sandler movies, being anything pre-Mr. Deeds, then I would recommend renting this at the cheapest price you can find. If you have doubts about whether you'll like it, watch up to the end of first grade, then go with your gut on whether to continue. It's borderline as a family film. Most of it is PG level, but there's a couple of scenes that you might want to mute or skip with your ten-year old. If you don't have any actor preferences, I will only caution that you're not in for any mind-blowing cinema, but you might get a few laughs out of it if you can get past the low-intelligence atmosphere. Overall Rating 8/10. "},{"Title":"a challenge of 24weeks or loss a company","Date":"3 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" this is my first review of a Adam Sander film it as short film at 1hr 30mins billy Madison is a party animal living off daddy he a playboy who does a lot funny pranks who is a little dim-witted with no care in the world but his dad who wants to retire and give his give it over to his vice president but his son wants it instead of him cue funny scenes and a bet of his life go back to school from grade 1 up to 12 in 24weeks and if not he doesn't get the company so as his father wants his no 2 in the company to take over the job billy says he would love to do it but his father doesn't so as he goes back to school his fathers no 2 thinks up planes to mess with billy school life to get the business for himself the jobs but he pits a challenge to Adam Sandler is so funny he is unbelievable in his first proper role can he clean up his goof ball and get his dad job well jump in a watch because this one is fun 6.5/10 "},{"Title":"I really like this movie...","Date":"15 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I like this movie. I really do. I don't understand why it didn't get good reviews, for the most part. I think it's a great and funny movie.This movie is about Billy Madison, hence the title. A 27-year-old son of a very rich man, so Billy hasn't had to do anything. Billy wants to run his father's company one day, but discovers that he needs to go back to school. It turns out that his Dad paid for him to pass school ever since the first grade. Billy must go and repeat the twelve grades, but don't worry, it doesn't take twelve years. He spends two weeks in each grade and then moves to the next one. Billy gets along with the kids very well, since he is very childish. He actually makes some good friends. He eventually falls for one of his teachers, who is actually age appropriate. In the end, everything works out, just like it almost always does.Overall, I give this episode an 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Inventive comedy that you will want to watch over and over","Date":"18 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Adam Sandler's best role to date as Billy, the silly underachiever who goes back to school so that he may graduate and thus take over his Dad's company. Some of the best comedic dialogue ever, you and your friends will have a damn near laugh riot shooting quotes from this flick back and forth to eachother for years to come.  I highly recommend this movie to anyone interested in seeing the creation of 90's style comedy.  If you don't get all the jokes the first time you watch this movie, I beg you to drink a few beers and watch it again, only then will you open your mind enough to grasp the true genius of Billy Madison. "},{"Title":"His best. You know Who.","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"    Adam Sandler is a demi-god. The kind of humour and this is the best proof you could have. Mixed with Farley ( may he rest in Peace)  as the busdriver. Sandler plays a 20 something year old  who WOULD inherit his daddies industries but its seen that he hasn't  finished school. Well I am not going too spoil it but Its the best, the funniest movie . Watch it9.5/10 "},{"Title":"Brilliant!","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I don't understand what's not to like about this movie.  Admittedly its not the most intelligent movie ever made but its fun to watch when you're in the mood for a laugh.  I'd recommend it to anyone who is feeling down as it will have you laughing straight away and it just gets better from there on.Rating 10/10 "},{"Title":"Great a true classic!","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  How could you not love this movie? People don't understand that the stupid parts are what makes it great! Among them, the maid's sexual comments to Billy, Steve Buschemi as his psycho classmate, and the late great Chris Farley and the penguin getting freaky in the last scene, best comedy since pee-wee's big adventure, and planes trains and automobiles. "}{"Title":"Sandlers best","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It seems that nowadays everything Adam Sandler touches becomes gold. But he made this movie when that wasnt true. Even that this movie wasnt that of a big hit its the best movie Adam made to this date. It seems that Adam came quietly to Hollywood and he will leave with a roar. But that will not happen any time soon cause he is the funny man of hollywood. Go rent this movie cause its damn funny!!!!!1  "},{"Title":"Adam Sandler's Comedic Talent","Date":"2 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I give this movie about two and half stars, a average rating, out of four stars. Some of it is funny because this is  a neat story idea, and some of it isn't because the story becomes dull by the time he is in 9th grade. Then, the climax starts from there. Also, the title shouldn't be a person's name. I think it should have been named Back to School. Adam is perfect for the part.  "},{"Title":"hilarious!!!!!","Date":"27 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is hands-down the funniest I have ever seen!  It has perhaps the funniest bath scene in any movie Shampoo is better, I go on first and clean the hair!  Also me and my friends always find ourselves quoting from it Hey sideburns, you want some of this milk?  It's a movie you can watch over and over again!  9/10 "},{"Title":"Excellent Comedy","Date":"26 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Easily the funniest work that Adam Sandler has ever done.  The most consistently funny movie all the way from beginning to end that I've ever seen.  Tons of memorable lines.   "},{"Title":"my favorite comedy of all time","Date":"17 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I am the biggest Adam sandler fan since he was in Saturday night live, since then i have followed his career every step of the way till he reached the status of superstar!!!.I really enjoyed this movie i thought that the idea was really original and adam is really good for roles like that this was by far his best movie the only one that can compete with this movie is happy gilmore "},{"Title":"Goofy, goofy, goofy, goofy...","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is easily one of the most enjoyable movies ever made.  Adam Sandler is definitely the highlight.  He wrote the role for him, and only him.  I mean, I've watched this movie a dozen times and it's still as funny as the first time.  Something for the whole family to enjoy, and almost every scene has a hilarious gag in it.  Crap, I think I hear that Atari game callin' my name... "},{"Title":"Love him or hate him, this movie is typical Adam Sandler","Date":"25 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It does not get much funnier than this movie.  Adam Sandler is one of the funniest movie stars currently.  Billy (sandler) is trying to prove to his father that he is capable of taking over his 5 star Hotel chain.  To prove this, Billy needs to complete grades 1-12 all over again.  Billy is a complete idiot.  He loves nothing more than getting drunk, and well getting drunk I guess.  Norm Macdonald and Chris Farley have small roles, but they make the best of it.  Farley is great as the crazy bus driver.  If you have seen this movie How did he get his face that red?  I find myself wanting to quote the movie from beginning to end but I don't want ruin it if you have not seen it.  Bottom line Rent Billy Madison tonight if you want a laugh. If you like Billy Madison, then you might want to check out The Waterboy, Happy Gilmore, The Wedding Singer, or any thing that Sandler is in.  Rock on. "},{"Title":"Rolling on the floor laughing!","Date":"27 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Adam Sandler. Most see him as a loser, i.e. Bill Murray and others. But some see him as an idol, someone that will make anyone down in the dumps laugh. If you are a kid, you will enjoy this movie. Billy Madison, that's what I am blabbering on about. Sandler a 20 some year old loser that gets drunk by the pool with his friends, one Norm Mcdonald, and some other guy. Billy's (Adam) dad, played by Darren Mcgavin owns a fortune 500 hotel company, that he is going to pass down to Billy, but Erik, as Billy would refer to as Dueschbag has other plans. Erik convinces Billy's father to give the company to responsible weazel Erik. Erik says Billy is irresponsible. Billy's dad bought his son through life, school, spelling bees, etc. When Billy hears that he isn't getting the company he goes ballistic. So Billy thinks of a plan, repeat grades 1 - 12 by June 15th or 16th and he gets the company. His dad accepts, and the war is on! The best line is It's too damn hot for a penguin just to be walking around! You'll understand once you see it. I give this movie 8 out of 10 stars. A must for a Sandler fan like me. "},{"Title":"Sandler's 2nd funniest movie, very good.","Date":"4 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I must say, this movie was pretty downright funny, using a sort of humor that isn't exactly sophisticated...but it works just wonderfully.  I won't go over the plot because well, you probably already know it.  The finer points of this film, so I think anyways, mainly have to do with him interacting with his hot grade school teacher.  I laughed so hard at that T-T-T-Today Junior!! at that kid with the stuttering problem, or when he was beating those kids in athletics at the playground.  But that thing about the penguin...now that's just plain out weird BUT it is funny when it comes up and it works...good ending too...if you ask me, most movies in the moron humor category (Tommy Boy, Happy Gilmore, etc) kinda have a crappy ending...I actually liked this ending...I'd give it an 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"An extremely funny movie!","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Billy Madison is a very funny film. If you are in need of a good comedy, this is the one for you. It is full of laughs and is also a little serious at times..I suggest that if you have not already seen it, that you go out and hire it on video. "}{"Title":"Dull nonsense from intermittently humorous Sandler","Date":"4 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Billy Madison lacks any sense of logic, which obviously did not hinder its reception by Adam Sandler's legions of fans.  Once again creating a character who veers sharply between bland likability and total contemptibility, Sandler occasionally amuses -- but the jokes were far and few between.  Norm McDonald is totally undernourished with terrible lines, and Chris Farley thankfully manages to earn some laughs in an unbilled cameo as a spluttering bus driver.  Don't get me wrong; I wanted to enjoy the film.  And the thought of Sandler repeating grammar school seemed full of possibility.  But the only time I genuinely felt compelled to laugh out loud was when the aged tour guide proclaimed If peeing in your pants is cool, then I'm Miles Davis.  "},{"Title":"Billy Madison is one of Sandler's best movies.","Date":"26 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It was hilarious. He goes back to 1-12 grade and... u just gotta watch the movie... It's that funny. "},{"Title":"very positive - 10/10","Date":"9 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I absolutely loved this movie. It is hilarious. I've seen it a million times and it still cracks me up. The penguin is the best thing ever in a movie. The way that he sees it over at Veronica's house is hilarious. Everything he does when drunk is brilliant. The flaming bags on doorsteps is a classic. Adam Sandler is great. No-one else could have played the part of Billy Madison as well as he did. Chris Farley as the bus driver is also really great. In fact the whole cast is wonderful. When he calls up the loser and gets crossed off  the people to kill list was brilliant. This is the funniest movie I've ever seen.  "},{"Title":"The Funniest Movie Ever","Date":"8 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Billy Madison is one movie that every time you watch it, you laugh a little more.  Sandler shows he is the funniest man on the planet. Chris Farley steals every scene he is in as the mutton chopped bus driver. Norm MacDonald is unbelievable as a complete burnout.Watching Sandler pelt five year olds with a dodgeball never ceases to amaze as well does the scene with the flaming bag.  Anyone over the age of thirty will think that this is the worst movie ever, though. But I think it is great! "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies ever made","Date":"6 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Billy Madison is without a doubt one of the funniest movies ever made. It has been a favorite of mine since it was first released. In my opinion you must be a SNL fan or a Adam Sandler fan to truly enjoy the greatness of this movie.  Adam did a great job in this movie playing the rich kid goof off slacking his way through life till faced with the adversity of true responsibilities. Not living up to his full potential until the very last moment. The movie if full of great dialog and one liners that will stick with you for the rest of your life. Don't miss out on this one it is truly too good to pass up. "},{"Title":"Absolutely on the floor hilarious","Date":"8 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of the funniest movies of all time.  Sun tan lotion good!  Ultra -violet rays bad!  So hot!  Want to touch the heiny!  This movie should definitely be in your collection.  Nothing is funnier than watching Billy try to work his way back through school in order to stop Eric from taking over the company and his pursuit of his 3rd grade teacher, Veronica Vaughn  (I dare you to touch her boob Billy!) is great also.  Don't miss the cameo by Chris Farley as the bus driver and his romantic resolution with The Penguin (The people at the zoo will treat you real respectable like!)  "},{"Title":"amazing comedy with Adam sandler as the main character","Date":"7 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is a gut buster. You will be laughing so hard your abs will hurt. I love movies with Adam sandler in them because he is such an amazing actor he can play any character and succeed. The whole movie you'll be hoping for one thing but another thing will happen. This movie is such a good movie for movie night at the house with the bros or with your family. This is just an overall great comedy. The end of the movie is the best a real end to a great movie. This movie just happens to be my favorite movie. It brings back great memories and no matter what it can make me laugh. I hope you enjoy this movie as much as I do this is one movie that i believe should win an award for best movie ever. There is no movie like it no matter what anyone says nobody can beat billy Madison "},{"Title":"Sandler's break-out film.","Date":"21 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Billy Madison is Adam Sandler's break-out film. The film that gave him the attention he deserved. The story is that of a supposedly idiot 27- year-old who has a rich dad who owns a company. When Billy's father says that he will give the company to Eric, a business associate, Billy dislikes this idea and decides to go back to school and finish 1st grade to 12th grade so he can prove he's not an idiot. Right from the get-go it's silly. It's just plain stupid, childish humor but it's hilarious. I laughed so many times and it is completely re-watchable. And, out of nowhere, there is a Godfather reference thrown in their as well.I know I might get bashed for this, but to be honest, it was actually pretty smart. Well most of it anyway. I mean, it's the story of an idiot who has to complete 1st to 12th grade all over again. The storyline is called upon for juvenile humor. But, whatever. It's pretty hilarious. Although if you don't like Sandler you probably won't like this. "},{"Title":"One of Sandler's Best!","Date":"17 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is probably the best Adam Sandler movie I have ever seen and I enjoyed every single Sandler movie I have seen including I Pronounce You Chuck and Larry. For the first time with a lead role, Sandler did an amazing job.Sandler is a goofball with a bad drinking addiction. His father decided to retire and leave his company to him. But, Billy must complete all 12 grades of school in order to get the company. Along the way, he is thinking about the gorgeous Veronica Vaughn.The acting is not bad at all. Sandler did a great job as the goofball. Bridgette Wilson plays the beautiful Vaughn just as well. I also give heads up to Darren McGavin and Josh Mostel.I know that some people do not like this movie. Well, this is just a slapstick comedy. Sandler does mature somewhat over his next few movies.Overall, this is Sandler's best movie. It's full of fun and I guarantee laughs when you watch this. I rate this movie 10/10. "},{"Title":"Adam Sandler at his Finest","Date":"30 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Adam Sandler has always made me crack-up and this film was no different. Billy Madison is a movie where if you don't laugh at at least one joke, you're not a human being. There are so many parts in this movie that I love. I can't mention all of them. The plots a little weird but it makes up for it with all the hilarious moments.Of course, this movie is really famous for many things, but one thing that definitely comes to mind  The quotes. I can't even begin to say how many lines there are that make me bust up. They range from T-t-today junior! to You get your ass out there and find the f***ing dog to If peeing your pants is cool, then you can call me Miles Davis''Oh my god thats the grossest thing I've ever heard in my life'. Again, there's too many to count. There are many great moments in this movie.If you want to watch a comedy, I'd recommend checking this one out. It's probably the best Sandler flick in my mind, and it shouldn't disappoint.I give it 10/10 "}{"Title":"One of My Favorite Comedies","Date":"1 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I've been watching and enjoying Sandler's Billy Madison since I was in middle school, like I did this evening and it's still just as funny as it was back then. I can't recommend this movie enough for a good laugh and a great time. I know it's not Citizen Kane or anything like that but it is something that I grew up on and therefore, I love it a lot.Adam Sandler is hilarious as Madison, the man who decides to go back to every grade of school so that he can get his dad's hotel company handed down to him. All the other actors are funny as well and the jokes are fantastic. You'll probably find yourself quoting this one long after you've seen it.Anyone who wants to laugh like a crazy person for a good 90 minutes should see this one. I kid you not. "},{"Title":"Call me crazy but, I LOVE this movie!!!!!","Date":"19 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I love this movie unlike a lot of other people because i enjoy seeing Adam Sandler act when he was younger.Well, this movie is about a goof-ball (Adam Sandler) going back to school after his dad wants to give his Hotel company to Erik (Bradly Whitford) so Billy goes back to school to prove to his dad that he can give the company to billy.If you want to know anymore watch the movie. Its' a very enjoyable movie with Adam Sandler when he was at his funniest!!!!! But, before you go rent it I must tell you that you should not use your brain while watching this movie. This movie is a movie you can turn off your brain and laugh your butt off while watching this hilarious Adam Sandler movie!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Very Funny I Like this.","Date":"10 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is still one of my favorite Adam Sandler movies. See Adam Sandler before he became so well known. His comedy genius was already showing . Want to know why i like this movie so much ? Because of it's lack of script. This movie doesn't even try to create characters or a plot! All it is, is Adam Sandler acting so childish that you can't help but crack a smile or laugh. A lot of people think this movie is lame and a lot of other people think that the main jokes in the movie are the only funny ones, but I do not think so. Yea it has it moments where it could be better but every movie has that so that is no problem. If you want a movie to make you laugh see Billy Madison, I recommend this movie to everyone. "},{"Title":"One Of Adam Sandlers Finest","Date":"4 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Hey Kids, It's Adam Sandler Week!Our first movie of the week is Billy Madison a movie about Billy played by Adam Sandler who is 30 years old and is what you would call a slacker. Billy has just found out that his rich dad just passed him on through high school and did not really graduate. So to prove that he can accomplish something he goes through all 12 grades again one grade per 2 weeks.This is a very funny movie with a very talented cast and really well thought out story. It seems that a lot of critics do not have a very good sense of humor because a lot of them either dismiss this movie or some really bash this movie for its un-originality.Rated PG-13 For Language And Crude Humor.1hr 30min/90min.****/**** "},{"Title":"What one would expect from an Adam Sandler movie","Date":"22 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is a strange movie because it stars Adam Sandler yet he behaves very much like Jim Carey. I guess one could place Jim Carey into Adam Sandler's spot and we would not notice much different. Sandler though seems to be able to go serious at times, yet so did Carey in the Truman Show, which I consider to be his crowning glory. Still, Billy Madison is not a Jim Carey movie so we cannot treat it as such.Billy Madison is a rich kid. His father owns the Madison hotel chain and is thinking of retiring. He wants to give the hotel chain to his son, but Billy is just really bizarre, more like insane. The movie opens we him chasing a non-existent penguin through the grounds while his father's business associates are arriving for dinner. Watching Billy's behaviour, his father decides to hand the business over to a greedy business man who hates Billy, but Billy, who got through school by paying the right people, makes a deal with his dad. He passes school, doing one grade every two weeks, he gets the company.It starts of with Billy wanting to get through school, but this experience seriously changes his life. He begins with the goal of becoming a corporate director, but really warms to the children. Not only that, but he begins a relationship with one of the teachers, Veronica. She starts off hating him but soon comes to realise that Billy really does have a heart of gold, and not only that but he really gets along with the children.Still there is the antagonist who desires to see Billy fail so that he can get the business, but Billy is the type of guy who picks up friend's very quickly. As such he allies himself not only with the kids at school, but Ralph, another of his father's business associates, who helps him through the school.Billy Madison is a quaint little movie. It is funny and enjoyable to watch, especially those who appreciate toilet humour. It does not and will not go down in time as a classic, but it is something that can be watched for a laugh. The question though is what was the other Adam Sandler movie that I saw other than Airheads, if I have seen one. "},{"Title":"Dumb but entertaining","Date":"15 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Adam Sandler is rather hit and miss for me, sometimes he's good but he can be irritating. Luckily for this film he is good in it and his character is one of the zanier and more likable ones he's played, and Billy Madison overall is one of his better films. It is not perfect, the premise is silly and the story is predictable with one too many aimless scenes. On the other hand, the film looks good and has a nice soundtrack. The film is funny, well directed and has some funny sequences such as the stop looking at me, swan one. Sandler is good, and there is a sterling support cast, Bradley Whitford faring best. In conclusion, a dumb but entertaining movie. 7/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Parts of It Are More Messed-Up Than Actually Funny","Date":"10 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Ah, Billy Madison. How can I even begin this review? Let's just say it was a bit of a classic movie at my high school, often quoted and always played at parties and events. Personally, while I like Adam Sandler, my review has always been this is one messed-up movie.The premise is basic in order to prove to his dad he's mature enough to take over the family corporation, an idiot slacker goes back to school...starting with first grade. This fits because Billy, and for that matter Sandler, are both overgrown first graders.There are certainly some laughs, my favorite being Wow, when I finally passed first grade, all my dad did was tell me to get a job. But when you've had to watch and rewatch this movie the number of times I have, you start to notice that the movie has a bizarre, almost disturbed sense of humor.In one scene, Billy gets a love letter from his 50 year old male principal that says I'm horny. Billy looks awkwardly at the principal, who nods guiltily. Later on, he rubs up against Billy. Now you have a sense of the random, sometimes weird for the sake of being weird, jokes that make up the movie.Other jokes include a woman who wipes her son's nose and then wipes herself with the same rag, the maid who raised Billy have sexual feelings for him, Billy seeing visions of a man in a penguin suit, Billy throwing balls really hard at 6 year olds who look like they're being hurt, a psychotic lunchlady who adores Sloppy Joe's, kids purposely peeing their pants so they can be cool, commentary on the appearance of testicles, a clown that dies then comes to life to sing a song, and probably the cruelest joke a boy that Billy used to bully has now grown up to become a lipstick wearing serial killer.Unlike Happy Gilmore, Big Daddy, and the rest, this isn't a comedy where Sandler is just a clown in the normal world; rather everyone seems to be disturbed in this universe. Watch the movie once, and you'll have a laugh. But once is enough, and beware of the penguins. "},{"Title":"Adam Sandler plays a lovable goof ball","Date":"11 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Rewatched this last night due to Adam Sandler Saturday Wasn't a huge fan of this when I first saw it, mostly because of the annoying voice of the character and the fact Sandler kept coming in and out of that voice.The premise of the movie is that Billy Madison (Sandler) is set to inherit his father's fortunes under one condition- he must go back and pass all his school classes within several months. Billy must do this as his father reveals he never really passed school as his father paid off the schools to enable Billy's graduation. Billy isn't the smartest of kids, and we are soon discover this will be a major challenge.The movie is pretty predictable from here and plays out as you'd expect. There are some brilliant moments, generally courtesy of the supporting cast in Norm McDonald and Steve Buscemi. Not Sandler's best work (not that's he's had many Oscar-worthy moments), but several key scenes make the movie re watchable, proved by the fact Channel 10 replays it every 4-6mths. "},{"Title":"Typical Sandler fun.","Date":"16 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It depends on whether you like Sandler or not. If you do, this film is outrageously funny, however nonsense and thick sense of humor it may contain. And if you despise him, then it's just another mindless time-wasting junk. But anyways, there are still quality scenes with good humor such as the one with the bus driver discussing Ms. Vaughn's sex life.The film's also got nice cameos by Norm McDonald and Steve Buscemi. Bridgette Wilson looks beautiful but otherwise totally clueless in acting. For Sandler, it's just another walk in the park for him. Though it may be close, but this film still cannot outshine Big Daddy which is in my opinion Sandler's best piece of work. "},{"Title":"Going Back to School?","Date":"18 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Have you ever thought what would it be like if I went back to school?.....all 12 years. That would be really cool some of the time, but reliving some memories can wait.For Billy Madison, it was a chore, it had to be done, so that his dad's associate, who is a jerk, wouldn't take over the family business. He did....he went....back to school.A guy that lives life never on the edge with his two weirdo friends, sitting around everyday drinking, reading porno, and lighting dog doo on fire. His life, until he got serious.....if serious is what you call peeing your pants and making fun of the teacher.If you like to laugh, and remember the good old days....when kids played these pranks, then this is the movie for you. If the answers yes....then, thats correct. "}{"Title":"Great comedy!","Date":"18 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Adam Sandler is the main attraction in this terrific comedy movie about a mentally challenged man who is ordered to repeat each grade of school for 2 weeks in order to inherit his father's franchise. This could be considered as the movie that gave Adam Sandler his big name in Hollywood. Not only is this film a comedy but it contains a touch of drama and romance. Starring along side Sandler include people such as Bridgette Wilson, Bradley Whitford, Steve Buscemi and Chris Farley. This film is very funny and just about every moment has a joke behind it. It contains very little Oscar material but is still a must see for all Sandler fans. If you haven't seen this yet, then go down to your local video store and rent it. "},{"Title":"Occasionally funny and occasionally stupid","Date":"5 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Billy Madison is one of the million Adam Sandler comedies.Adam plays Billy, a mentally challenged boy who failed school. Now, he has to repeat 1st through 12th grade to inherit his dad's company. On his adventures through school, he meets a teacher named Veronica, whom he falls in love with.It has Adam Sandler, and it's about a retarded person. Obviously, it's going to be a stupid comedy. Yet, with all the doubt, it manages to create some laughs. I laughed at the small musical bit included in there.Yet, it also manages to create some stupid puns. (Just like we expected.) For example, take thewrestling principal, fat guy stripping and comparing economy to a lost puppy.Adam Sandler fans will enjoy this, but I'm not sure if anybody else would.5/10 Good Some funny parts Bad Many bad and stupid parts Feel free to send me a Private Message regarding this comment. "},{"Title":"A comedy classic, and Sandler's finest.","Date":"22 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is hands down Adam's funniest movie. I saw this on Comedy Central a few days ago, and I couldn't believe I had forgotten how freaking hilarious this movie was. Yeah yeah, a 10/10 seems a bit too high, but I don't know about you, but I rate comedies on how much they make me laugh, and a perfect score should tell you something. I'm not saying it's perfect, but I was laughing too hard to really care. Is this worth renting? As far as I'm concerned, this is worth owning. In case you don't know the plot, Billy has to repeat first grade through senior year in High School to inherit his father's hotel company. If he doesn't pass a grade within 2 weeks, he can't inherit his father's company. His rival is Eric Gordon, who tries to get Billy to screw up so he can get the company for himself. WATCH THIS MOVIE. IT'S WORTH IT. "},{"Title":"Totally hilarious!","Date":"17 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" BILLY MADISON, in my opinion, is totally hilarious! I laughed really hard when Old Man Clemens (Jack Mather) yelled, D*** kids! You're all gonna die! as well as when Billy (Adam Sandler), Jack (Mark Beltzman), and Frank (Norm Macdonald) goofed off. In my opinion, Miss Vaughn (Bridgette Wilson) looked very pretty in the white dress she wore the first time she came to Billy's house. I didn't like Eric (Bradley Whitford) one bit. This was because he was a diabolical a****** who wanted to take over Madison Hotels. In conclusion, I highly recommend this totally hilarious comedy to all of you who like gut-busting laughs or are fans of Adam Sandler. "},{"Title":"Not the greatest Sandler film.","Date":"25 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A stupid grown up man named Billy Madison must go back through all the grades of school to get an education in order to be able to be president of his rich father's business. Adam Sandler, with his usual comedy act as the crazy stupid guy, does not quite make it in this movie. it has it's funny moments, but it comes off as more silly and stupid than funny. along the way, we meet even more bizarre people than Madison including his contender who is obsessed with being the president, a very fat teacher with a wrestling past, and a post highschool looser who is out to kill the people who made him miserable.if you really want to see Adam at his usual best, go see Happy Gilmore instead. **/**** "},{"Title":"retarded, but fun","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Hey what do you know Norm MacDonald is on this one.... who cares? This is classic Sandler, lots of fun stuff in this goofball comedy. Chris Farley as the bus driver is great, Bridgette Wilson speaks for herself and the character Carl is my favorite in this film, its funny not much else to say about it except watch it. "},{"Title":"Back to the futur...I mean...school.","Date":"28 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  ***Starring Adam Sandler, Brigitte Wilson, and Norm MacDonald.A lazy and stupid boy must go back to grades 1 through 12 for two weeks each in order to inherit his father's Hotel (?) Company.  While in the third grade, he falls for his teacher.  The movie can be pretty flat out dumb at times, but for the most part, it is a very funny movie. "},{"Title":"Brilliant Absurdity","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Where do you begin explaining why this film is so worth seeing? Adam Sandler falls into that Marmite category of Love Or Hate, which is truly a shame as this film is a radical departure from such slapdash efforts as Little Nicky and The Waterboy. The difference? Here Sandler isn't just the only weirdo-he's one of a whole world of 'em. Starting right out of the gate with a bizarrely funny scene involving visiting foreign dignitaries and a giant penguin hallucination, Billy Madison never lets up with the odd sight gags, quirky characters and recurring jokes. The concept is simple, yet it covers so much ground and gives so much room for humor. At times, the laughs are almost Pythonesque in their absurdity-watch out for the quietly psychotic high school principal and a What The F***? cameo from Steve Buscemi. Recommended movie-this is one that will have you chuckling for months as you relive the funnies in your head. "},{"Title":"Funny, But completely stupid","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I do not believe 'dumb is good'. I believe 'dumb-funny is good'. This movie was funny, because it was so outrageously stupid you could only laugh at the fact you're laughing at it. Steve Buscemi and Chris Farley were particularly hilarious.PLOT 7 ACTING 6 SCRIPT 3 DIRECTION 6 LAUGH-O-METER 8 "},{"Title":"Adam Sandler's Enthusiasm Carries This Fair Film","Date":"5 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Billy Madison is a small film about a young man (Adam Sandler) who is forced to repeat grades one through 12 so he can inherit his father's hotel empire.  Although the screenplay is sophomoric, the film somehow works as well as it can.  Adam Sandler's amazing enthusiasm carries the questionable material and it is he that literally puts the whole project on his shoulders.  2.5 out of 5 stars.   "}{"Title":"One of the funniest movies ever!","Date":"27 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is just hilarious. I think that it is Adam Sandler's best movie next to Happy Gilmore. It is full of non-stop laughs all the way to the end. It is just so funny. It has lots of one-liners which i just love. It is just so funny. It is full of memorable lines for me that are just so funny. This movie is so funny! I just love this movie. It has an incredibly funny script, a stupid, but funny story, and really good comedy acting. This movie is one of my all time favorite comedies of all time. I don't want to tell you too much about the movie because that might ruin it for you. But I will tell you this. The first 5 minutes sets out how hard you are going to be laughing for the rest of the movie. What I mean is that the beginning is just as funny as the rest of the movie. That is something that most comedies do not do. This is one of my all time favorite comedies and is one of my favorite movies over all of all time. This movie is so funny. 10/10. "},{"Title":"Don't judge by normal standards","Date":"23 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I started this film thinking it was going to be like all the other Adam Sandler movies. I was wrong. I figured out in the first five minutes that it is far worse than any Adam Sandler movie. I finished the film hating myself for sitting through it, but in retrospect, I think I judged it by normal standards. You can't compare it to any movie, except maybe Shakes The Clown. It's misguided, sure. But in a class of films such as Shakes The Clown, this film is amazing. It's a masterpiece. It's unlike anything I've ever seen, except maybe Shakes The Clown. The humor is gross and random, and anyone who says it is a bad film doesn't get it. "},{"Title":"Sandler shines in this silly but amusing comedy","Date":"21 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Adam Sandler works another variation of his angry man-child character to great effect in BILLY MADISON, a silly and improbable comedy that does provide laughs. Sandler, plays Billy, who is the spoiled son of a zillionaire (Darren McGavin), who sits around the pool all day drinking beer and looking at girlie magazines, save the occasional trip to a neighbor's house to leave a flaming bag of dog poop at his front door. Billy's dad wants to leave him the company but his ass-kissing assistant (Bradley Whitfield) insists that Billy is an idiot, at which time Mr. Madison must admit to Billy that he only graduated from high school because Madison paid all of his teachers to give him passing grades. Billy then proposes to his dad that he go back to school, starting in the 1st grade, and spend two weeks in each grade until he graduates in order to get control of the company. There is comic potential in this story and Sandler does his best to mine the gold that is there. Sandler has a good supporting cast behind him including McGavin, Whitfield, Chris Farley (very funny as a bus driver), Norm McDonald, Theresa Merritt, and Joshua Mostel. Bridgette Wilson makes an attractive romantic interest as Billy's third grade teacher and there is even a very clever musical number thrown in that provides laughs. A must for Sandler fans and watchable for everyone else. "},{"Title":"Billy Madison","Date":"26 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" In one of his first starring roles, before the terrific Big Daddy and Little Nicky was this quite interesting dumb comedy with Adam Sandler (also writing) as Billy Madison. Basically Billy is an absolute idiot who knows nothing about his Dad's business. Brian Madison (Darren McGavin) is not keen on retiring and handing the business to Eric Gordon (Bradley Whitford), so he decides the best way for his son to be in with a chance is to put him back in school and repeat all his grades. He starts off pretty well, but it is when he gets to the class of Veronica Vaughn (Bridgette Wilson) that he finds it tricky. Also starring Josh Mostel as Principal Max Anderson, Norm MacDonald as Frank and Mark Beltzman as Jack. Almost the same kind of stupidity as Airplane! or Dumb and Dumber, and almost with the same spark. Good! "},{"Title":"return to a time when Sandler was actually funny","Date":"4 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Adam Sandler is Billy Madison, a 27 year old son of a wealthy tycoon, he's a do nothing rich bum who drinks all day, sees imaginary penguins, and is a general nuisance. When his father announces his retirement and that he's going to hand over the reigns of his company to his vice-president. Billy is angry he doesn't get the company with the rationale that Billy is more-or-less mildly retarded and the only reason his son even passed grade school was because of his wealth. So Billy comes up with a plan to go through grades 1 through 12 again in 24 weeks, if he passes without help from dad he'll get control of the company. Fortunately he finds some help in his love interest Veronica Vaughn, a third grade teacher. This is either the best or second best Sandler comedy he ever made (I alternate in my thoughts of this being better than Happy Gilmore, or vice versa depending on the day). The hit to miss ratio of the jokes is undoubtedly on the hit side and I found myself constantly laughing with the movie. With Adam constantly disappointing me with such crappy movies of recent, it's nice to know I can always go back to the films back when he was actually funny.My Grade A- Special Ed-ition DVD Extras Commentary with Director Tamra Davis; 32 minutes of Deleted scenes (which are so VERY awful); 3 minutes and 44 seconds of Outtakes; production notes; Combo trailer for the Dazed and Confused & Fast times at Ridgemont High DVDs; and Trailers for Chronicals of Riddick, and the Bourne Supremacy "},{"Title":"As a film buff, I am embarrassed to say this, but I love this movie","Date":"2 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is by far the highest level of guilty pleasure in the long list of all the films I've ever seen. I have to admit it, though, I like this movie very much and I've seen it around 15 times, more than most of the films that I would call my very favorites. It's a perfect midnight Friday movie. You don't want to go to bed, but you don't want to do anything mentally stimulating. I watched this all the time with my younger brother at that time of night. This movie, Happy Gilmour, and King Pin are the triumvirate of late night comedies. I guess a good fourth one would be Dumb and Dumber.This movie is absolutely STOOPID with two big fat O's. But I cannot help myself from laughing at that big ol' penguin. There are dozens of great visual and spoken jokes in Billy Madison. The Drunk Chicks magazine that Billy reads has never not made me giggle. I have never not laughed at He called the sh*t 'poop'! or Don't tell me my business, Devil woman! or If peeing your pants is cool, consider me Miles Davis. I guess that's the main thing that appeals to me in this, Happy Gilmour, King Pin, and Dumb and Dumber. It's as if someone said something so horrendously wacky that it just has to intrigue you. Most people find that kind of thing awfully unfunny, but, I don't know, for some reason I just like it. My brother can make me laugh jut by repeating any line from these movies, and I can him. I give it an astounding 8/10. I tried to rate it a 7 at first, but I just can't lie to myself anymore. "},{"Title":"A few good laughs almost makes it a decent film, but it ain't","Date":"3 January 2004","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Billy is the son of a rich businessman who owns a chain of very successful hotels.  Billy lives a lazy live of goofing around and being drunk by the pool before midday.  When his father decides to hand the business over to associate Eric Gordon because Billy is too dumb to do it - having only passed his school exams by his father paying his teachers.  Billy doesn't want to be cut out so agrees to go through school all over again - doing one grade every two weeks.Adam Sadler films are very much a matter of taste - if you like him doing his usual `dumb guy who makes good' stuff then you'll be right at home with his early films.  I am in two minds about it, his humour is generally very lowbrow but he does have a few funny moments in any film.  That is the case here, overall the humour is very childish but it does have an occasional moment that is just so off the wall and out of the blue that they are hilarious.  Examples include the blue duck, an invisible penguin, the fight between shampoo & conditioner, the principal who's wife is a slut and a hilarious response to Billy where `wrong' would have sufficed!Do these few funny moments save the film? No, they make it bearable, else I would have been angry with no laughs - but one every ten minutes make it OK, if not really worth watching.  The plot is stupid and the characters are rubbish.  I know that these things are not what the film is about, but one has to wonder how stupid the writers think the audience are when they simply switch Veronica from hating Billy to being totally in love with him with no explanation or reason!  Of course this is a minor problem - the bigger problem is the fact that the film isn't consistently funny enough to work.Sadler is his usual self - if you like that you'll like that if not you won't.  He has a few good moments but generally his performance is childish and not funny.  He has an imagination on him for the weird that happily creates the funny moments but his performance is painful.  Worse still is Wilson; she cannot act in anything I've seen and here she must carry some blame for being totally unable to phase her growing affection for Billy - instead it's like she just flicked a switch.  The support cast is OK although it's sad to see Whitford slumming it when he is better than this.Overall this film has enough laugh-out-loud moments that appealed to my sense of humour and made me semi-glad I watched it.  However it is a major problem that the film has no plot, characters, logic or consistent laughs. A weak film, albeit a weak film that has a handful of hilarious moments and the odd very imaginative touch! "}]