[{"Title":"How do you spell &#145;intangible'?","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"60 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  How do you spell &#145;intangible'? Dora Carrington asks of Lytton Strachey midway through this film as she sits writing at her desk. How do you spell intangible, indeed. Carrington tells the story of people who tried, in their own way, and at a time when society did not encourage such experiments, to acknowledge openly what most of us are aware of but still reluctant to discuss that a great many differences exist between love and desire.Carrington is one of the great epic romances, but a romance where sexual congress between the two who are passionately in love with each other has nothing whatever to do with the deep wells of feeling they share with each ther. Like The Unbearable Lightness Of Being and Out of Africa, Carrington is a film that dares to examine the difference between desire and love, and looks at an adult subject in an adult way. As opposed to Hollywood's usual matter-of-fact insistence that love is a game with a win/lose dialectic simplistically painted in broad stokes, Carrington traces, rather, the fact that love is indeed a mystery which must be acknowledged and honored for the way that it can bring out the best in both people rather than a way of keeping emotional score.Emma Thompson is able to bring out the awkward, self-effacing aspects of Dora Carrington all the way down to the pigeon-toed stance the way the real life Carrington apparently stood. With all the impatience of a little girl who wishes that one day she'll wake up and finally find herself to be a sophisticated woman, she worships Lytton for his cold and wise attitude, his ability to see straight through the conventions of the time, and adopts him as her emotional mentor.She's an artist whom everyone in the Bloomsbury set knew, even though she never really considered herself a part of the circle, unlike Lytton, whom everyone swarmed around for his scorched earth policy of anti-Victorian insights and rapier wit. Carrington, it would appear, spent her whole life trying to figure herself out, like any true artist, and Thompson very ably transmits that lost quality throughout the film even as she gains her confidence socially, sexually and artistically, the motivations of her heart she would never let be pressured, no matter how much physical affection and attention she needed. Which I think is an important distinction to make.A virgin many years past the point of reason, it is as if Carrington bought in to the sexual revolution of the flapper era between the world wars and the way it tried to repeal the oppressiveness of Victorian morals, learning how to cultivate and appreciate the sensual needs of the body, but deep down realized that a healthy, vigorous sex life with a plethora of partners does not necessarily mean more love, but simply more sex. As Carrington points out in the film, with Lytton she was able to be herself in all her confusion and joy, and without the obligatory pressures of regular sexual performance was able to find in Lytton the only person she ever really felt emotionally comfortable with. Echoing that great line of TS Eliot's in Four Quartets, of a love beyond desire.Jonathan Pryce, as Lytton Strachey, has the honor of portraying one of the best screen roles of all-time. Like Rex Harrison's Henry Higgins, or Liza Minnelli's Sally Bowles, his performance as Lytton is so fully realized that his character becomes unprecedented. Incorporating the attitude of, say, a bearded Oscar Wilde, Pryce's Lytton takes no prisoners and is disgusted by what he sees around him the behaviour of the upper classes he finds himself eventually skirting is embarrassingly inexcusable to his ethically conscientious grounding. English boys are dying, he scowls, for their right to shamelessly frolic on the lawns of garden parties.When Lytton moves in with Carrington they both want commitment (with a small c), but also personal freedom. This ambiguity toward each other is parallel to their ambiguity toward the concept of fame, which they both courted in a very teasing way, but soon grew to realize that there is a lot more to be said for secure domesticity (no matter how loosely defined) than their behaviorally adventurous artistic peers. Because Carrington is intelligently written, directed, and acted, however, we do not see the behavior of each of them as simply willful and spoiled, but as part of the contradictions they need to stay individuals in a culture, and at a time, where the conventional notions of love and sex were strictly regimented.Jonathan Pryce plays Lytton with a sort of detachment that is supposed to come from the character's distaste for commitment.What's most surprising about this epic romance is that given the amount of territory it traverses (seventeen years) at an almost leisurely pace, it clocks in at only a hair over two hours, but when those two hours are over, you certainly feel as if you've been somewhere, seen something, been privy to so many more truths and realizations than you'll see in any other standard film about a romance. What we have here is a paradox an old-fashioned story about an avant-garde arrangement. An intelligent, thoughtful love story, told with enough care and attention that we really get involved in the passions between the characters, not the algebra surrounding them. "},{"Title":"Delicately portrayed amorous eccentricity as only the British can do","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"38 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  If you require the overdone loudness, violence and aggressivity of an American film (Training Day comes to mind), you'll need to take an extra dose of Ritalin to get through this film. (That advice could have been useful to a few of the previous reviewers, in fact.) For those who don't have to be hit over the head, though, this film is a riveting masterpiece about the varied forms human love can assume--and a reminder that subcultures, like the Bloomsbury Group, have always given social norms a wide berth. British society has long tolerated eccentricity, especially when discreetly indulged, of which the nuanced contours of relationships among the literate in early-20th-century Britain provide an excellent illustration. Combine this refreshing glimpse of consensual mores with outstanding interpretations by Thompson and Pryce, and with fidelity to historical fact, and you've got two delightful hours of first-rate cinema on your hands. And not an exploding car or a vengeance-driven, gadget-laden military operation against a demonized third-world country anywhere to be found. Amazing. And bravo. 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Brilliant Drama, about love and suffering","Date":"31 December 1999","Score":"24 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This is possibly the best character study made in their last ten years. Taken from a biography of Lytton. This tells an emotionally complete tale of Dora Carrington and her love for Lytton. There is great drama here right from the start. Lytton is a homosexual writer who fancys young men. Dora is a painter who does not want to sleep with her friend, because she believes its just for the physical (Which the film later shows to be true). Initially Dora is put off by Lytton (as is the viewer) but later as she says to him, She is burdened by one of the most self abasing loves for him. He also in turn loves her. But as he states they can do nothing about sleeping together. This is the contrast which is kept up throughout the whole film. All of Carringtons lovers physically love her body, and one of them even loves her (in a selfish way). But Lytton and Carrington love each other without sex, and their love is the strongest. As with the best Drama's, the character development never stops the whole way through. Each character is so well drawn and acted (Special credit must go to Emma Thompson and Jonathon Pryce, although the rest of the cast is also good) that you know how they are feeling even when it is not directly said or implemented. there is spoken and unspoken conflict in every scene. The two main characters are already in conflict while being in love. She loves him and he loves her but he is only attracted by men. Great drama manages to have conflict in every scene, and this one does. Great music from Micheal Nyman manages to capture the sentiments of this film especially well. So many more things could be said about the excellent narrative structure and lovely cinematography. But to be safe I will simply keep with my opening line. See Carrington. It does not pander to the audiences or ever become exploitational. It is a rare movie where the climax to the film is so fitting that you really can feel the emotion involved in these final frames. This is a film not to be missed. "},{"Title":"High class and high quality.","Date":"1 September 1999","Score":"27 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Emma Thompson in a period piece--I would bet that's a pretty good movie, and 'Carrington' did not disappoint me. It concerns the unusual relationship of writer Lytton Strachey (Jonathan Pryce) and painter Dora Carrington (Thompson) in their insular world of upper-class friends and other artists in England between the Great Wars. When we first meet Strachey he's a fastidious homosexual of thirty-six going on seventy-six. He mistakes Carrington, with her bobbed hair and masculine clothes, for a boy. Despite this inauspicious beginning, they soon find themselves fascinated with each other, then the fascination turns to love. Their non-sexual relationship endures in spite of her marriage, their other lovers and their lover's lovers. As the years go by, a flow chart might help out the viewer trying to remember who's who.As you might surmise, this film is not for everyone. There are some who will dismiss the whole group as immoral or as an effete corps of impudent snobs, but we won't be that narrow- minded and judgemental, will we? If you allow yourself into 'Carrington's' world I think you'll find it rewarding. It's full of good actors but I believe its success is largely due to director Christopher Hampton's screenplay. It's a full two hour movie without the benefit of car chases, explosions or kickboxing matches, so it's a big plus to have something nice to look at for all that time. We can thank cinematographer Denis Lenoir and production designer Caroline Ames for that.  "},{"Title":"Art for art's sake","Date":"1 May 2005","Score":"24 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" A movie that asks the question, how did it ever get made? Absolutely not a chance that it was made for profit. Once I stopped asking the question, I could enjoy the superior cinematic quality of all the elements that elevate a film to a work of art. I suppose it must have been exhibited in a theater, somewhere, though getting it booked must have been quite an accomplishment for its backers. I caught it on cable which allowed me to sip on a brandy while the film took its time unfolding in a style that I would describe as a splendidly animated coffee table book.I am moved to comment on Carrington to express my gratitude to its makers. "},{"Title":"Look to find the Bloomsbury Passion","Date":"14 June 2000","Score":"25 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Viewer, do not believe others when they say this is a Merchant and Ivory knockoff. It has many of the same elements, to be sure, but M-I serves up confections, and here is something more interesting.Imagine an intelligent screenwriter's first choice whose story is this and what form must the telling take as a result? This is Carrington's story. She was an introspective painter who never exhibited -- thus we have a meditative, rather longish development. But you'll note that this is not just to revel in any lushness. What's done here is that each scene is a sequence of many small shots, each exquisitely framed, but shown less long than one can absorb. This is how Carrington would see the narrative, and it is a rather clever approach to centering it in her eye, if you can center down and read the pictures.You also see her bias in many of the decisions related to the mechanics of the plot her appearance changes little in 17 years; her affairs are always seen, but those of Lytton are not; and we are denied fascinating details (her father's death, the famous gatherings of the intelligently eccentric Bloomsbury Group) that she would have considered unimportant.As the presentation is visual, Emma Thompson must dramatize physically, and so she does. Some of her character's most awkward moments have Emma in almost caricatured postures, much as one imagines one's self in retrospect as clumsy.The test of a film is whether it transports you to an unfamiliar place and embeds a strange experience that sticks. The emotional and sexual situation here is bizarre and unfamiliar, but if you just take it as a pretty, competent film with a story, it won't work. If you take is as a film about her world, from her world, there's an additional rewarding dimension.But go relaxed. The theme here is the existential angst between the fact you can passionately love someone and know that you will NEVER be able to provide some key factor they need, something basic in their life. An unsettling reminder. "},{"Title":"Love in its many forms","Date":"19 December 1999","Score":"17 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  When love comes, it doesn't always come in a form that allows its fullfillment, as Dora Carrington knows.  Her lifelong love of Lytton, a man for whom romantic love only knows a male face, is both a source of great anguish and great joy.  Emma Thompson portrays Dora with great sensitivity, depicting her other loves and lovers as genuine yet never enough to supplant her love of Lytton.  In our society the love of one and only can be an oppressive ideal that few can attain, and Hollywood is its loudest proponent.  This movie allows for a well thought out exploration on of the many other faces of true love.  Superb acting, direction, editing, costuming, the works.  I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"The bafflement of love","Date":"15 March 2006","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" One thing regarding Christopher Hampton's film Carrington that bears noting for potential viewers is that previous knowledge is helpful. If you don't have any sort of idea who Dora Carrington and Lytton Strachey are, or the avant-garde world in which they moved, then the movie will seem very obscure and disjointed.Regarding the movie, it is odd and melancholic, but richly intelligent and rewarding, particularly with repeated viewings.The cinematography is attractive without being showy. Michael Nyman's score is haunting and uniquely beautiful.And the casting is perfect, particularly Jonathan Pryce as the ironic Bloomsbury butterfly Strachey, and Emma Thompson as the strangely alluring Carrington, who's heart beats fiercely with love for him, despite the fact that neither of them will ever be able to do anything about it.My personal favorite scene is when they are sitting under the tree, and Carrington tells Lytton how she feels, and he understands.They are both so peaceful and content. "},{"Title":"What price, love?","Date":"18 June 2007","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I had no previous knowledge of Dora Carrington before I found this film. I had learned about the Bloomsbury artists so many years ago I had forgotten their place in history. To say that this story is odd is a gentle understatement. Carrington was someone you would more likely place in the hippie era of the 1960's rather than England of pre World War One. On the other hand, the bohemian artists in Europe had the luxury of acting out some pretty odd relationships; they had fine examples of large living in the previous century - think Lord Byron and a bit later Oscar Wilde and you'll understand.I ended up so smitten by this film that I bought a bio on Carrington and it was worth the effort because the film leaves out so much of what made up her psyche. I'd even argue that the film as good as it is can be confusing because we don't know why she is the woman she is. Carrington carried two distinct imbalanced relationships up to the moment she met Lytton Strachey. She loathed and hated her mother and adored and clung to her father. Electra complex, anyone? Leaving Freud aside (and there is a deep irony in this comment Lytton's brother became a well known Freudian analyst) Carrington was unprepared for the rush of emotions that Strachey caused in her heart. As an openly gay, brilliant intellectual and important writer, he would have been the last on her list of attractive men. But, love deals odd darts to the heart. After nearly clipping his beard off in his sleep as a planned retribution to his impulsive kiss, she paused, stared down at his placid face and fell madly and deeply in love. The rest of the movie completes their extremely odd relationship. The important fact is that she never lost any of the intense love for this gentle spirit. She accepted that Lyton was more interested in men, shared lovers with him, opened her heart to anything except separation from him. We can argue that she had transferred her father love to Strachey but of course it becomes a label that in the end will not satisfy the mystery of her heart. There is much to be said about this film. Emma Thompson completely embodied Carrington as totally as an actor can. Aside her was Jonathan Pryce who portrayed Strachey so perfectly that it left those who knew Strachey amazed. The ambiance and rapport between the main actors kept the passion of their evolving love always front and center. We get glimpses of Carrington's torment over Strachey but we never really know the ultimate motivations. What is so overwhelming about this film is that when Lyton finally succumbs the heart break to Carrington was too much for her to carry. It removed her will to live without him to love. I have rarely been so moved by a love affair like this. The music by Michael Nyman is so perfectly evocative of the waves of Carrington's love that the soundtrack seems completely meshed with the story. In the end, watching Carrington make her final choice we are as devastated as she was at her loss of Strachey. As a love story it is intense, very complicated and twisted, as a relationship between man and woman it is as odd as they come. In the end we decide that love at this level is a connection of heart and emotion and commitment that is blind to shape and form and opinions of others. It is a link that is mysterious but tangible. One can only weep in acknowledgment that if we had loved someone that deeply we too would have wanted the escape she chose. An astoundingly profound meditation on love. Phenomenal supporting actors. Superb but heart rending. "},{"Title":"art and fluid sexuality","Date":"4 September 2003","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Carrington has Christopher Hampton's great stamp on it and the fine performances of Emma Thompson (as the lead, artist Dora Carrington), and Jonathan Pryce (hilarious as Lytton Strachey).  Also in the cast are Sam West, Jeremy Northam, Steven Waddington and Rufus Sewell, all entangled in some way with Carrington and all the time the love of her life is the one man she can't fully have.Her story is a tragic one and extremely moving, with a lot of twists and turns along the way.  Lots of sections are explicit while others are brilliantly understated, particular concerning Carrington and Strachey together.  Light relief is provided with scenes including the conscientious objector hearing.  We also get an insight into what makes Carrington tick as an artist, what inspires her and makes her grow.My favourite scene of all though is Carrington, alone in a garden watching all the lovers in the house switching off the lights in their rooms until she sits in darkness. "}{"Title":"No, she accepted. It was ghastly.","Date":"25 September 2004","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I would like to go back for a moment and dig deeper into the idea of full circle. I caught this idea as I was watching this film, and I thought it was amazing the way the director showed this transition. The first person, outside of Lytton, that Carrington falls for is a man who is only interested in a physical relationship. Although she claims she is not interested in him sexually, it is at this time in Carrington's life, she is interested in a man's mind, not what is under his pants. She breaks off this relationship to live with Lytton, a man who can give her the intellect that she desires. As Carrington grows older, she finds comfort in physical relationships. In fact, the majority of this film is about physical relationships. Carrington is never hesitant to jump into the arms of another man. A part of me thinks that she is constantly trying to find another Lytton out there, but there is another part of me that says that she was just trying to get the physical from men, because she had the perfect man at home (Lytton of course). So after being with a man that only wants to have a physical relationship, she jumps into the arms of a soldier. One that is great with the physical, amazing towards Lytton, and perfect for Carrington. As this comes to a surprising end, we see her jump into a relationship that was purely sexual. There was no interaction between the two except for when they were on his boat having sex. Carrington experiences the best sex of her life with this man, but it again ... much like the others ... comes to a complete halt when he tells her that he is not really interested in her sexually. Odd, isn't how this films started with Carrington and her first boyfriend. We have come full circle. If we were to look at this film in a symmetrical angle, we would notice a circle outside with Lytton in the direct center of this circle. The circle would represent Carrington's life. All around the circle would be the men that she has been with, while Lytton would be her stability point. All throughout her encounters with other men she always is able to find comfort with her center figure ... Lytton. If you watch this film closely, you will notice that there is only one point in the movie where Carrington goes outside the circle. It is when she is having a party at her house. Carrington goes outside only to sit down on a stump that happens to be facing the house. She is able to see all the windows in the house, and all of her past lovers with their new ones. Even Lytton with his new boyfriend.This is the moment that we see Carrington thinking about her life. Seeing what she has been a part of, and watching it somewhat crumble down. This is her only moment outside of the circle that she has built. Lytton is the foundation to this circle, and it is obvious that without Lytton everything around Carrington must crumble as well. That my friends, is how you build a love story. Grade *** out of *****  "},{"Title":"A strange love affair among the famous.","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  It is difficult for the average person to appreciate what is going on in this film.  Nora Carrington, a painter, loved Lytton Stachey, the famous essayist, with complete devotion.  But, because of his homosexuality, he could return only a spiritual love.  Though he wanted to marry her, he never did, apparently to leave her free to find a normal life with another man.  And while she did marry, her love for Stachey overrided any affection she had for her husband or any of her other lovers. It must be very difficult for most people to understand the love relationship between these two people.  Only those who have encountered or experienced a similar love could understand it.I found this film very rewarding.  My main criticism is the choppy editing which abruptly flits from one scene or even one location to the next.  The acting of Emma Thomson and Jonathan Pryce is quite good.  Pryce's role particularly is a departure from his usual work.  I had trouble recognizing him because of the makeup.  The film has tweaked my interest in pursuing more of this real-life story. "},{"Title":"A Buried Treasure That Depicts a Refreshingly Unconventional Relationship","Date":"7 October 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" The same day I watched this, I watched Prick Up Your Ears right before it. Not only are they both period biopics set in England, but they have a profound chronicle of love in common. Having watched both movies consecutively, it brings me to meditate on the lives and perspectives of creative people. There is a refreshing, Rilke-esquire way of thinking that they follow in their lives. What if everyone followed their heart, and nothing but?Carrington is a buried treasure that depicts the relationship between painter Dora Carrington and author Lytton Strachey in WWI England, a beautiful existence of cottages and countryside. Even if platonic because of Strachey's homosexuality, the relationship was all the same a profound and complex one. When Carrington did form a more physically intimate relationship with a soldier, Strachey made do accepting him as a friend, while the soldier stayed rather edgy, not so much with Strachey's sexual orientation as with the reality that he was a conscientious objector. Yes, there is inescapable trouble linked to the bond between Carrington and Strachey. Yes, there is more pain and guilt than there are good times. But what if they had buckled to social expectations, convention, tradition? What if they didn't follow their hearts? By the end of the film, one realizes that the true heartbreak is caused by how much they wound up guarding their feelings in spite of following them, and in spite of the nature of their incompatible sexualities.You could never find a better fit to play Dora Carrington. Emma Thompson is perfectly cast, wise and set aside and completely natural. She is natural in the way she looks and natural in the way she carries herself. When we first see her, when Strachey is first introduced to her, we misinterpret the first impression of her, a quiet, reticent tomboy. Carrington, like Thompson, is beautiful but maintains selfhood over everything else. Thompson understands that that is why Carrington refuses her body to her lover early in the film. She never quite seems to grow comfortable with sex no matter her progression in that inevitable field of her life. She in some sense is like a child in spite of her intellectual prowess and her disregard for recognition of her work as a painter. Her impatience for complicated situations causes her to ride roughshod over the feelings of those to whom she finds herself to be closest, and when she finds that in her penchant for the immediate, she learns the harsh truth that she has not been embracing her greatest moments.Her primordial flaws come at the expense of Strachey, played by Jonathan Pryce, who seems to love the breezy theatricality of the role, a clear eccentric from his first moment, who gives the impression of being completely aloof and prissily high-maintenance. He seems not to take anything seriously, even his unwavering position as neutral in the issue of the war. He is one of those odd and nonchalantly insubordinate older men that make spectators laugh, but part of him quietly enjoys being a source of entertainment. Part of him is terribly troubled by his only minimal success as a writer. Somewhat like Carrington, he still seeks sometime companions more conducive to his most rudimentary needs, and in one instance, we see him laid bare, very unlike his cold and elitist temperament. In this moment, he and Carrington realize that no matter how often they fluctuate on each other's terms, they are each other's shoulders to cry on, and as they have felt as awkward as they've ever let themselves become around anyone else, they feel, whether consciously or not, that they can be completely themselves in each other's company.Their leisurely lifestyle becomes intensely infectious, as is the atmosphere, which is not only wonderful because of the English countryside but because there is an indescribable feel to the contrast of the cinematography, which is not grainy nor is it clear and bright. Maybe it pertains to the same disregard for orthodoxy as Carrington and Strachey. Maybe it is that it doesn't conform to the expectation that historical England be depicted with lushness, nor does it conform to the precondition that a story full of sorrow be depicted with gloom.Michael Nyman's moving and wonderful music score has a similar effect as Howard Shore's music in a David Cronenberg film, a suitably blending pulse of the hearts and lives of the story yet haunting and emotional. Had the film gone without Nyman's music, it might not have had the moving power behind its unaffectedly real and wise, not to mention true, story, and we might not have loved its two central characters. And maybe we love them for similar reasons why they love each other. "},{"Title":"extremely well-acted","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I dont know what it is about these Brits, they somehow (almost) always manage to pull these movies off, and it all seems so effortless. Remains of the day, Sense and sensibility, Howards end, they´re all so well made that I find myself drawn into the narrative right away and simply have to follow it to the end. While not being anything spectacular, this fine movie share these qualities. It´s extremely well-acted (especially Jonathan Pryce), absorbing, and moving. If you also have a soft spot for period drama and enjoy the movies I´ve mentioned, this is also one for you. The only thing I found slightly distracting was one actors similarity with Jim Carrey (!). I only wish we could make as good films in Sweden, with this level of writing and acting, because its virtually non-existent at the moment. 4 out of 5.  "},{"Title":"Pleas give this movie a chance.","Date":"27 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  If one approaches this movie from the position of a homophobe or from one who has intolerance of different ways that people choose to conduct their emotional lives, then it will not appeal.The film has faults - it is sometimes too episodic and the motivations of some characters are unclear. However, it is a different look at the love between a man and a woman -  a love that was denied sexual expression.Rather than objecting to the promiscuity of the main characters, I was touched by the emotional honesty that existed between them - whether they were having sex or not.The artistic era in England, after the First World War, was a fascinating time.  We might have something to learn about emotional honesty from those in this story.Dora Carrington was a very interesting woman and and Emma Thompson portrayed her unending love for the gay Strachey in the best work I have seen from her.So, do give this film a chance, and try to approach it with that elusive (for some) open mind. "},{"Title":"This is the best movie I ever saw.","Date":"19 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This movie is a wonderful story about an impossible love affair between a British Bloomsbury writer and Dora Carrington, a promising painter. It's the least conventional story I encountered in a movie. I don't recommend it to those who have very strong moral beliefs. The casting is exceptional. Emma Thompson and Jonathan Pryce (Best Actor Award, Cannes) are here at their highest performances. The movie was also awarded with Prix Special du Jury at Cannes, 1995. Those who love Schubert's music will also be pleased to see this film, because Hampton makes here large use of the Adagio from Schubert's Quintet in C Major.  "},{"Title":"thump-thump, thump-thump","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  you can feel life in the pulse of the seconds as they tick by unaccounted-for and forget them completely. this film is about lives as they cross-section, pull out the wires, and plug them in elsewhere. it's about concentric love triangles. the realism of it all, the down-right unshakable believability with which everything happens leaves you totally hooked. there would be nowhere else to go, and this would be a mike leigh film, except... that the premise is so surreal. (despite it's being based on - and largely sticking to - historical fact) and in the end, the tension between this believability and impossibility as they pull away from each other is so strong that, as the viewer, there's enough space to crawl inside it for 2 hours. i cried through the credits. the last time a movie put me in a place like this was boys don't cry, in a theater full of other people in precisely the same state. (we all sucked in our breath at the same moment at the end.) it's a film that, if you let it -- and it doesn't hurt to know a bit about lytton and carrington beforehand -- will take you somewhere magical. where virginia woolf no doubt went, on tip-toes at the edge of the precipice, before the end of a novel, just before the the rocks would crack, leading the way down the cliffside into breakdown. watch this one with care and love. -pir "},{"Title":"Loved it!","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I had never heard of Lytton Strackey or Dora Carrington for that matter.  This movie so captivated me that I want to read a book by Lytton and look into Dora's work.  I thought the movie captured the very difficult feelings thaty Lytton and Dora must have had.  To be a woman in love with a gay man?  A gay man in love with a woman? Plus the early 1900's version of swingers....in that era definetly all a big personal risk. Great movie, I would definetly recommend "},{"Title":"Outstanding","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Beautiful love story. This movie shows that life is a surprise, and we need to be happy and let people being happy, cause anything is possible and we need to keep our mind wide open to allow life going on. Nice texture, nice people, location,.. Emma, as always, great, and the others excellent.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful movie that doesn't sing it's own praises.","Date":"4 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Carrington is an amazing movie that doesn't try to reach beyond its grasp. It tells a story about how people can be drawn to one another in life-changing ways without having a sexual relationship.  At the same time it brings sex, and thoughts of sex, and thoughts about obligations of sex, into the story.  It doesn't make any decisions, but it puts the cards on the table.  Which is a wonderful and rare thing in film.  Ask the questions...don't supply the answers.  Jonathon Pyrce won the Cannes award and he is awesome.  But it's Emma Thompson who gives the film levels and heart and ideas.  The set direction is one of the most subtle, yet amazing designs.  It tells volumes about the characters, but doesn't overcome the other elements being presented. "}{"Title":"superb acting","Date":"28 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I love all of those english dramas.....and Carrington is a very good one . I first saw the movie when I was 16...and it really made an impression on me . Espesially the great acting...Pryce and Thompson are outstanding...and the tragic true story.made me realise that people really take their lives for love . Recommended...highly recomended "},{"Title":"Fine acting","Date":"26 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I really appreciated the performances in Carrington. I recognized Jonathan Pryce (Tomorrow Never Dies) and Emma Thompson (Much Ado About Nothing) of course but the rest of the cast was largely unknown to me. My conservative Christian outlook has instilled in me an instinctive apprehension for homosexuals though I sympathize with the fact that it must be difficult for such individuals to live in a world that is oriented towards straight people. But that aside the story was quite moving. The devotion of Ms. Thompson's character for Carrington is quite touching despite the fact that the relationship isn't all she can hope for. I don't know how much of the film is historical fact and how much is artistic license but it was overall quite worthwhile. Recommended for mature audiences. 7/10.  "},{"Title":"One of the best movies ever made!","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I love this movie!!! The first time I saw it, I was totally captivated and had to go and buy my own copy. I have lost count o the amount of times that I have sseen this particular film. The acting in this movie is remarkable and Emma Thompson gives an amazing and believable performance as Dora Carrington. Jonathan Pryce, whom I had never heard of before this movie, is wonderful as well as the gay Lynton Stratchy.The plot of the film is quirky and orignal, and the cast of supporting actors is good too. Jeremy Northam and Steven Waddington are extroadinary as Dora's lovers. I highly recommend this film  "},{"Title":"A Beautiful Film","Date":"30 March 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I was annoyed to see the only posting here was so negative and narrow-minded. I thought it was a beautiful and sad story -- and a true one -- about two artists who spent many years living together, and loving one another, despite his attraction only to men. She accepted his inability to make love to her because she cared for him so much, and their relationships with other partners caused her a lot of pain. If you're an intelligent person who can empathize with others who don't share your particular worldview, and if you appreciate fine acting,> you will enjoy this film.  "},{"Title":"A Supreme and Pleasurable Work of Art","Date":"20 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" This is an unusually honest film. It does not dwell on romantic idealisms, but instead depicts the ebb and flow to relationships and love. And the persistence of some. I never once found myself knowing what would happen next. The characters have great depth and come together to create an intellectually, as well as emotionally, stimulating film.I found the acting to be superb and, despite the distinct lack of action for much of the film, I never felt bored or like the movie was moving too slowly.The movie is perpetually visually stimulating without the kind of technological flare that most mainstream movies contain, nowadays. The landscapes, buildings, props; everything seemed to fit seamlessly and beautifully with such an organic livability that they give the movie a kind of realism so very precious and rare.The music, as can be expected from Michael Nyman, harmonizes with one's emotions, enhancing the entire movie beyond measure. Despite having listened to the soundtrack many times before seeing this movie and listening to the ending credit music several times in a row now, I never grow weary of the music. On the contrary, my love for it matures and I can think of nothing more beautiful as I listen.This is a must see movie for anyone with patience and an open mind. "},{"Title":"One of the most heartbreaking love stories ever filmed","Date":"19 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Carrington is directed by Christopher Hampton, is based on the book by Michael Holroyd and stars Emma Thompson, Jonathan Pryce, Jeremy Northam and Samuel West.This powerful and deeply moving true story has a superb cast,beautiful locations,beautiful music and shows that love can be painful at times.Young painter Dora Carrington(Emma Thompson)is introduced to famous Victorian bohemian Lytton Strachy(Jonathon Pryce), he is a homosexual who at first thinks Carrington is a man(she has really short hair and wears mens clothes and he first sees only her back).The two become friends and Dora later falls in love with him and is heartbroken because they could never become a couple. The acting in this is stunning especially from Jonathan who bears a striking resemblance to Strachy and is just excellent in the part. A beautiful story of human frailty,struggles and triumphs and an unforgettable love story. "},{"Title":"Indulgent & Beautiful","Date":"18 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" The words I write will not fully express how this movie made me feel. But I will do my best. This movie made me love Emma Thompson as an actress even more than before. Anyone with eyes cannot deny her talent but this just confirmed how awesome she is at her craft. I am surprised she was not recognized (BAFTA) for her efforts in this film. I don't want to write any spoilers but I would suggest one see this movie if they want the feeling of staring out the window on a rainy day wrapped up in a warm blanket thinking about the elation of finding love, confusion as it is revealed to be unrequited love and their demise from it! That sounds morbid but I would agree with the other review that the film is beautifully made. "},{"Title":"Depressing, but fantastic.","Date":"15 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Emma Thompson's performance in this film about Dora Carrington, a talented painter during the early 1900's, was absolutely incredible. However, I left the room feeling very sad. Carrington is a very sad character. Watching the film I was led to believe that she basically let all those men do whatever they wanted to her because she just didn't care. She only cared about Lytton, her homosexual friend and the subject of her real, passionate love.This film is fantastically acted and is absolutely enthralling. But the anal sex scene was a little too much for me to handle without crying.I do recommend it, however, because of the superbness of it. It's just amazing. However, not for the faint of heart.Maybe I just like Emma Thompson too much.  "},{"Title":"admirable   work","Date":"16 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" a love story. special, dramatic, delicate, fascinating, using the perfect cast, transforming each scene in gem, proposing the beauty of ambiguity for build, step by step, a touching story about emotion, escape and friendship as mask of profound love. a film for reflection and for discover the roots of a link who becomes more and more stronger. Emma Thompson in one of her most admirable roles. Jonathan Pryce as victim of a weakens who seems be , for long time, form of selfishness. and the music who, like a root, gives force to each detail. a film about a strange form of solitude who has, maybe, only British identity. bitter, cold, with a splendid end. a biographic film, of course. but, more than adaptation of a meeting between two lovers who becomes a single soul. "},{"Title":"By far the best character study of the last 30 years!","Date":"4 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" This movie is taken from the biography Lytton, the movie tells the story of the love of a lady called Dora Carrington and her love for Lytton. The movie has amazing drama from the outset. Lytton is a gay writer who's type is specifically young men, Dora has had many lovers, but they only love her body and not her personality. Its true that Lytton also loves her but he says as he is gay they cannot sleep together because nothing would happen. Their love for each other is not sexual is stronger and deeper than that. Emma Thompson and Jonathan Pryce deserve special mentions for outstanding acting. In fact the entire cast is just superb. But Thomspon and Pryce lead. The story allows you to gain an understanding of the casts feeling without needing to be said. There is an argument because whilst they love each other he is only sexually attracted to men and their is nothing he can do about it.This film is so good it holds your attention from start to finish. Wonderful lovely film. "}{"Title":"Carrington - brief","Date":"29 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Biopic of Edwardian painter Carrington and her platonic relationship with author Lytton Strachey. Set mostly in pastoral England, during the Great War and afterward. Strachey and Carrington entice and embrace various male companions, seemingly to vent their own frustrated passions. Unlike almost every creative artist film I have ever watched, the angst and toil not shown at all. Emma Thompson, as Dora Carrington, is quite good in this. Also, during the first half of the film, she manages the trick of resembling a twenty year old. Sense And Sensibility was released the same year; while she portrayed another twenty year old, there she looked like a matronly forty year old. Jonathan Pryce as Strachey is brilliant. "},{"Title":"More to her than that","Date":"21 October 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" No, this is not a biopic of Margaret Thatcher's Foreign Secretary who resigned over the Falklands War. Dora Carrington (1893&#x96;1932) was an English painter who was associated with the Bloomsbury Group, a group of British artists, writers and intellectuals who took their name from the district of North London in which many of them lived. Many of the Bloomsburies were believers in free love, and they were known for their complex sex lives which have provided fertile material for biographers ever since. Carrington (she preferred to be known simply by her surname) was no exception; in fact the real Carrington had an even more complicated sex life than the character portrayed in this film. Here she is shown as exclusively heterosexual, whereas in reality she was bisexual and had affairs with both men and women. The men in her life depicted here are her fellow-artist Mark Gertler, her husband Ralph Partridge, the writer Gerald Brenan and her great love, the author and critic Lytton Strachey.It seems odd to say that Strachey was the great love of Carrington's life because he was famously homosexual. She, however, became obsessed with him, and the two began an unusual relationship. It was never consummated in a physical sense, although they slept together in the same bed, but their friendship continued until the end of Strachey's life, throughout Carrington's marriage to Partridge and her affairs with other men. Not long after he died, the grief-stricken Carrington committed suicide. The relationship was further complicated by the fact that Strachey was himself sexually attracted to some of Carrington's other lovers, especially Partridge. (The question of whether Strachey and Partridge actually had a physical relationship is discreetly left unanswered in the film). The film's main strength is the quality of the acting, especially from Emma Thompson in the title role and Jonathan Pryce (hidden behind a beard like a quickset hedge) as Strachey. As played by Pryce, Strachey comes across as conceited and self-obsessed, yet also capable of dignity and sincerity, especially when, as a conscientious objector during the Great War, he has to defend his pacifist position before a conscription board. He fails to return Carrington's selfless devotion, but we are always aware that, because of his sexuality, this is not something for which he can be blamed. Despite her tangled love-life, Carrington comes across as surprisingly naive and innocent. She was only in her early twenties when she first met Strachey, whereas Thompson was in her mid- thirties at the time the film was made, yet we are never conscious of watching an older woman playing a younger one. Another good feature is the visual appearance of the film, with some attractive photography of the English countryside in the outdoor scenes. The indoor ones are rather lighter and airier than is normal in British heritage cinema, owing to the distinctive Bloomsbury ethic, based around pastel colours and simplicity at a time when interior design in Britain was generally marked by strong colours and elaborate decoration. The film, written and directed by Christopher Hampton, focuses mainly on Carrington's sexual and romantic relationships. The film is divided into six chapters, and it is significant that all but one of these feature a man's name in the title; none of these titles makes any reference to her art. Although the film helped to revive interest in Carrington, previously somewhat neglected, as an artist, little of her art is featured here. Perhaps the reason is that the Bloomsbury Group, generally progressive in other matters, were rather conservative when it came to the visual arts; like Vanessa Bell and Duncan Grant, Carrington was more influenced by the French Impressionists and Post-Impressionists of a previous generation than by her Modernist contemporaries. The one picture that does play an important role is Gertler's Merry-Go-Round, an allegory of the First World War and far more daringly radical than anything Carrington ever produced. Yet Carrington was clearly a talented artist, and I would have preferred it if the film had explored this aspect of her life in greater depth, particularly as I am one of those who believe that the study of lesser- known artists can be as rewarding as that of the officially recognised Big Names. This is especially true of the twentieth century, the artistic history of which has far too often been portrayed as a steady progression towards the inevitable triumph of abstract over figurative art. The contribution of those like Carrington who stood for a quite different set of artistic values has tended to be neglected. There was more to her than simply being the female participant in a rather unusual (even by Bloomsbury standards) love affair. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Watching this resembles reliving memories of people you knew well","Date":"27 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Biography and history are not well represented among great film productions, one can sense that most film makers prefer to allow their imaginations free rein and avoid any factual constraints. But I always enjoy good biographies, whether in the form of books or films, and for me Carrington is a delightful film to be both savoured and treasured.However London was home to the so-called Bloomsbury group so they became best known in the U.K., and this film would be more readily appreciated there than in North America. The group consisted mainly of the leisured and fairly well to do junior offspring of aristocratic families who were able to spend almost all their time actively participating in the worlds of literature, drama or the arts. Its members were unusual in being very contemptuous of the contemporary moral code, whilst still having strong moral scruples that essentially governed all their actions. World War 1 occurred during the period when they had their greatest influence on British society, and many members of the group became infamous for being conscientious objectors to participating in the war on ethical rather than religious grounds. Sexually they had very progressive attitudes, and generalizing to perhaps a dangerous extent, they viewed personal commitments which had to be preserved as all important, but believed these commitments were made between the individuals concerned and were no business of either the Church or the State.Featured in this film are Emily Carrington and Lytton Strachey. She was a very well regarded artist who seemed to have some repugnance about exhibiting or selling her works in the usual way. He was essentially an essayist who achieved both fame and success with the publication of Eminent Victorians - a book of condensed biographies, many only a few paragraphs long but all showing considerable ability to pick out the key character traits that ultimately contributed most to the public image of the individuals concerned. Both are played (by Emma Thompson and Jonathan Pryce) with remarkable depth and sincerity.These brief comments may help anyone who has read little of the characters involved to understand why the film is of real interest to so many older viewers; they can do nothing to convey the charm and yet knife sharp precision it shows in displaying the activities of its principal protagonists. I find it hard to assess how far their activities might become of interest to younger viewers who have no familiarity with the period, purely on the strength of this film. I can however assure those who do not share my background that I found the film not only truly fascinating but also an immensely satisfying viewing experience. Usually, if a film biography causes me to look out for the book on which it was based, this is an indication that the film did not really succeed,; but not so on this occasion when I just felt the urge to enjoy more of the fascinating story.I rate this film at eight stars on the IMDb scale - if I had felt it would have a more universal appeal this would have probably been nine. In what they attempted to do its makers have shown near genius, and both the cinematography and acting are almost above reproach. Today I suspect that some will find it boring, but I believe they will be far fewer than might be expected from the subject matter - this is a prime example of one of the very few outstanding film biographies where a viewer almost feels he or she has got to know the actual characters being portrayed.. "},{"Title":"Strachey","Date":"20 October 2012","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" This film is really about Lytton Strachey. His actions, thoughts and how he is the center of Carrington's life. The wrong target as biography is the least of this film's problems.It's a manipulative fraud in the depiction of Carrington as doting, caring, and, at the film's end, a tragic sort of lover. She was far from that as just two pages reveals in Leon Edel's book, Bloomsbury A House of Lions where he analyzes the Carrington/Strachey relationship using the same material that was the basis for this film.To say she was a confused and emotionally odd collection of forces is an understatement. There was a controlling and deceptive quality to Carrington's personality that made her very unpleasant. That is not the sort of character who is nice for a movie but the truth of it is that Carrington was not nice and this film continues to present her in a way that is not honest.Unfortunately mainstream movies cannot show the horrible faults of those that it elevates to biography status.The film as a production is very good and Jonathan Pryce as Strachey holds the work together. Carrington is an enigma because all the bad parts of her real self are removed. "},{"Title":"A drift","Date":"6 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" This one needed tightening and focus. It drifts aimlessly in imitation of the non-sexual affair between Carrington and Strachey, but the art form is an imitation of an action, not a replication of mere aimlessness. That the characters are inherited from history and from a book about the Bloomsbury circle does not absolve the film, a separate work, from establishing the characters and their motives. Yet here we have the Rufus Sewell character charging around madly for no established reason, other than that he can't get into Dora's knickers. And his brief reappearance almost at the end is inexplicable. Carrington's lovers come and go -- obviously surrogates for her inability to consummate anything with Strachey. But those lovers have no frame or context or reason for being taken on by Carrington other than that old ennui. Her own character, then -- in spite of wonderful Emma -- gets lost in the slow motion meaninglessness of her life. She does depict the layering of the Bohemian that took the place of the stiff corseting of the rest of the ladies of the time. The beautiful moorlands of Yorkshire are just that -- a travelogue. They are not integral as, say, the world of Tess or Eustacia in Hardy. In spite of what other posters say, direction here is a major flaw. "},{"Title":"Strachey","Date":"20 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" The true story (it says here) of painter Dora Carrington and writer Lytton Strachey (portrayed by Emma Thompson and Jonathan Pryce). They fall in love, but Mr. Strachey is a homosexual. Then, the originally frigid, tomboyish Ms. Carrington is bedded by a series of amorous hunks; but, she really loves Strachey. Christopher Hampton's Carrington is slow-moving, posed, and one-sided. The latter description refers specifically, to a discriminating focus on the distaff side of the sexuality; it's painfully obvious that the explicitness is gender-biased. The film's subject matter is welcome; it's execution is less so.Ms. Thompson is good, albeit unusually cast; distractingly, her appearance changes little during the story's decades. Thompson is voluptuous in her nude scenes. Perpetually bearded Mr. Pryce is more (intellectually) interesting, as her platonic co-habitué. Pryce matter-of-factly offers the better characterization. Of the strong supporting performers, Samuel West (as Gerald Brenan) is exemplary. Much of the film is visually beautiful; perhaps, its greatest strength is Denis Lenoir's photography.***** Carrington (1995) Christopher Hampton ~ Emma Thompson, Jonathan Pryce, Samuel West "},{"Title":"A solid but uneven drama.","Date":"21 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" The never-ending devotion of one woman to a special friend, that lasts over great many years and survives all of her life's lovers...Or how a frigid married virgin turns into a raving nymphomaniac and shags a number of guys with obvious lust and passion while living with an intellectual poofter.Either way, it's an interesting film with some unusual characters, but uneven. The first third or so is the best, then it gets bogged down in near-soap-opera clichés, only to get better again towards the end. The two leads, Thompson and Pryce, make it work. Thompson is often annoying, but that's usually the case with movies where she is supposed to be funny. "},{"Title":"Superior Chick Flick","Date":"9 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  The 1920s must have been an engaging time, a positively multinuclear time, with innovative intellectual circles dotting the map of the then-known civilized world -- Greenwich Village; Hemingway, Fitzgerald, Joyce, et al in Paris; the Bauhaus, Russian emigres and all that in Berlin; the Algonquin Circle in New York.  Bloomsbury in London too, with luminaries like Virginia Woolf and hubby, John Maynard Keynes (huh?), and Lytton Stratchey.  I forget the rest of the Bloomsbury crowd but they don't figure too prominently in this movie anyway.  I never heard of Dora Carrington (Emma Thompson, here) either, the painter around whom this particular story revolves.It's an elegant soap opera.  Carrington has multiple handsome young lovers, all devoted to her, and she responds to them with all of the passion a non-eminent distinctly non-Victorian woman can muster.  The love of her life, however, remains unattainable, entering it from time to time and rescuing her from boredom, loneliness, and other forms of emotional distress.  That's Stratchey (Jonathon Price), a homosexual who in his own way is deeply in love with her, although he would hardly admit it, even to himself.  He's the kind of comforting common-sense and yet romantic figure that chick flicks seem to require.  He turns up to rescue her the way Paul Newman rescues Anne Blythe or Susan Hayward, the way Sam Shepard rescues Jessica Lange in Frances.  He gives her her most satisfying non-sexual moments.Emma Thompson is always good, and she's good here.  The lovers, which the two of them sometimes share, have a tendency to blur into one another. One is a muscular blonde blockhead.  Another a small effete dark guy.  One has a mustache but no money.  They come and go and I honestly lost track of some of them.  But I never lost track of Jonathan Pryce as Stratchey.  What a performance!  He's never been a powerful actor.  His voice is thin, his features unimposing, and his previous roles haven't been such as to encourage him to do very much with them.  But he is superb here.  (He could pass for James Joyce in a false beard.)  He's taken those evident weaknesses and turned them into features that fit the character like an enzyme fits its substrate, hand in glove.  The only truly memorable lines in the movie come from his Wildeian witticisms.  It seems I am in danger of becoming a man of means.  A champagne bottle expells its cork with an overloud POP and he remarks, Dear me, imagine what the war must be like.  At one point he asks Carrington to move in with him and she says no.  Well, I am a bit impulsive at things like this.  I once proposed marriage to Virginia Woolf.  And she turned you down?  No, she accepted.  It was ghastly.  In his Paris deathbed, Oscar Wilde is reputed to have said, Either this wallpaper must go or I must.  Stratchey's last words, according to the script, are, If this is dying, I don't think much of it.The viewer will have to settle for that, and for the magnificent scenery and photography, because I couldn't get much out of the rest of it.  Hardly half a dozen lines refer to the book Stratchey is mainly known for, Eminent Victorians, and nothing more than a few glimpses of the paintings Carrington produces.  As far as we can tell, nobody else does anything. Virginia Woolf does not enter the picture.  The fact that this is a bonded community is established well enough but I lost track of who was where, and when.  It's like watching Mary, Queen of Scots without the political intrigues.I didn't intend to demean it by calling it a chick flick.  Just that most women seem to show more interest in the sorts of relationships depicted here than in achievements external to them.  A young girl once told me her class had been learning about Benjamin Franklin and I asked her to tell me what she'd learned.  She gave me a rather long and accurate story of his birth, his development, his friendships, and his marriage, and ended with, that's all I know about him except that he grew up to be president.  It's probably worth watching but not going out of your way for.   "},{"Title":"Blandly handsome drama with admittedly wonderful lead performances","Date":"16 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" A muted, rather depressing British-French co-production regarding the unconsummated love affair between painter Dora Carrington (Emma Thompson) and writer Lytton Strachey (Jonathan Pryce) in the early 1900's. Carrington's long-held virginity and Strachey's homosexuality kept the two from becoming physically intimate, but their friendship was so great they found it difficult to be apart. Slow-moving film looks nice but never comes to life, despite the perfectly-cast Thompson and Pryce. It tip-toes around its subject matter with an uneasiness that makes the set-up for the story an automatic downer. Adapted from Michael Holroyd's book by Christopher Hampton, who also directed, this might have been a moving, tragic document, but it proves too tricky a dance for Hampton, who compounds a blandly-rendered narrative with no directorial flourish. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Pretentious & Overwrought","Date":"2 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" What makes this tale pathetic and even horrifying is that it is true. If the characters central to this saga truly lived their lives in such wretched repression, compulsion, pretension, evasion, subterfuge, denial, longing, jealousy, confusion, suppression, depression, altruism, platonic hypocrisy and lack of courage - then God help them! If their entrapment was a reflection of the age they lived in, then they acquiesced to societal norms and were not the creative, artistic free spirits they pretended or aspired to be. If their ennui was a result of their own inability to live in truth, then their pose was a pretense. There is nothing to admire in this story. Carrington was a coward, Lytton a poseur, and their circle a bunch on namby pamby weaklings. To suicide for a love that never satisfied is the ultimate statement of low self-esteem.If you are a depressive, you may enjoy this movie. Those who live in joy may do better to skip it. Not just skip it, but run, screaming, very fast, in the opposite direction. "}{"Title":"Interesting and well acted but a little lack lustre","Date":"1 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  The story of a young painter Dora Carrington that goes through her various lovers and husbands but focuses on the constant, unusual friendship she shared with the camp writer Lytton Strachey.  The two remain friends despite their inherent differences and changing circumstances.I am not familiar with the work of with Dora Carrington or the author Strachey.  I'm not sure if this is because I am an uncultured slob, or if they are just less than well known characters from the world of the arts.  However this doesn't mean I wasn't interested in their story as, from the start of the film, the strange nature of their relationship is a constant hook &#150; even if the film also draws on Carrington's wider life of lovers and loves.  The story is just about interesting enough to hold me but it was delivered a little stilted and woodenly.  I suppose it is asking a bit much to deliver this film &#150; I'm not sure if it was a book as well, but it felt like a film that worked well as a detailed character book but sacrificed a lot to come to the screen.That said it is still a pretty polished product and is worth a look if you have more than a passing interest in either the artists or just a film about a pair of unusual lives.  The film is strongest when Pryce's Strachey is onscreen.  He is an amusing character but also one worthy of slight pity.  Pryce plays him well and has the lion's share of the good lines.  Thompson's Carrington is not as strong, which is a shame as she has to carry the weight of the film.  Her performance is good but her character is quite hard to get behind.  Support is good and contains quite a few well known faces, but the film is at it's strongest when the lovers etc are to one side and the focus is on Carrington and Strachey.I wasn't totally sure what it make of the film, but I feel confident that I would have enjoyed it more if I had a working knowledge of the work of both artists.  The film barely shows any of their work and doesn't give much clue as to what they were famous for, which is not vital to the film but would have eased the less familiar of us into the framework of the story.  As it stands it probably is best viewed by those who know the story already and want to see it told onscreen.  It is still OK for viewers like me who just come to it as they come to any other film, but I did find it lacking a little in energy and a little to ready to accept the characters without really expanding or explaining them to an uninitiated audience. "},{"Title":"intelligent and overlong","Date":"28 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  A half hour trimming would help this movie, which is generally interesting but tends to drag, especially towards the end when I began to actively wish it would just finally end already.  I liked most of it, the characters are interesting and their odd interconnected relationships are rather amusing, but I was really rather disappointed by the time it was all over. Probably worth watching, overall. "},{"Title":"A movie that never gets beyond its pitch","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  The superficial story is intriguing only if we are able know what the characters are thinking. Unfortunately, the basic plot line isn't expanded upon to create depth and interest. Some of the scenes are far too short - an intentional effect, I'm sure, but at the expense of the story. Things happen and we never understand why, and we are never made to care why either.I usually don't mind the kind of movie that this one tries to be - a character study with dubious and sometimes incomprehensible motivations. But this movie never made the story compelling enough to justify its own vagueness. "},{"Title":"bad but not inexplicably so","Date":"25 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Very few films send me here curious for reactions. This one did simply because I was wondering if anyone else had the feeling that the main male role was so noisome that how could anybody but a nut find him lovable. Well, that was not the case most if not all accepted her love for him as something totally understandable. The guy was a jerk. Period. And ugly both inside and out, as well as full of empty comments on the ongoing scene and human dilemma. I kept watching only because of the remarkable performance by Thomson in the, and I do mean THE greatest masochist of all time. And some nice pictorals. That crazy house they lived in was really something. All said, purely my reaction the guy was just too damned ugly, too not there for anybody with half a brain to want to hang around him long, much less half her life unless she was seriously stupid and sick. "},{"Title":"For Emma Thompson Fans","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  It could have been a very good movie, instead it's rather a drag. The actors aren't given enough to do, and the story wanders off course.A lot of questions are left unanswered; What on earth did Dora Carrington, played beautifully by Emma Thompson, see in that daft old twit Lytton Strachey? He must have had something special, but the movie doesn't delve into the whys and wherefores.But, I would watch it again, if only to catch ET putting heart and soul into her role.And the movie does whet the appetite for a real telling of what the Bloomsbury Bohemians  got up to in those beautiful houses when the lights went out. "},{"Title":"Them so sad, me sad too","Date":"26 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" This is a film for emos--middle-aged, malelike emos, with their brains stuffed full of cotton like a Quay brothers puppet. 'tis ever so dainty and genteel, to be sure; ever trembling at the verge; but the verge is one of farce, not tragedy. The subjects are a pair of silly-ass Edwardians--one of them Lytton Strachey--who couldn't...I mean to say, they couldn't possibly...could they?...but they do. At one point the woman sets about cutting off the man's big, bushy, Edward Lear beard, just to serve him right, but as the first snicker is about to be sneed, her hand is stayed by the onset of adoration. As they lounging in a meadow together, she confides that she would jolly well like him to kiss her, whereupon he, much struck by the novelty of the idea, exclaims, D'ye know, I think I should like to! The material cries out for an Alan Ayckbourn to exploit its absurdity, but here is instead is treated with the greatest doe-eyed tremulousness, eggshell-walking, and tea-party delicacy. It's like a trail left by an animal with the minutest frame of reference possible. That animal is probably a snail. Scene after scene inches its way along to a tiny little line of dialogue, of the d'ye-know-I-have-a-notion variety, which promises to set the drama going. Then the scene fades out and that's it, that little line was all it was building to nothing comes of nothing. Ms. Thompson whines and mopes her way through her part in her patented way, which has much in common with Monty Python's invisible man. Seldom does the film, in its great daintiness, allow her or Mr. Pryce or anyone else to suggest any genuine interaction that was ever had between any genuine people. Except for the actors, I can't imagine any reason why anyone would want to go to see this. My reason was that I was catching up on the film work of Penelope Wilton, who plays Strachey's mother. Allowed half a chance, she and the character could have given the film a good boot in the arse, which it deserved, and would have profited by; but all they had a chance for was a little pinch on the arm. More than that would have disturbed the doilies. "},{"Title":"Libertines of the past","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  A story about a collection of early 20th century sluts, perverts, deviants, and assorted libertines. And I thought such behavior (or at least the public airing of it) was a more modern phenomenon. I had never heard of Dora Carrington or Lytton Strachey, and actually, I thought the movie wasn't bad. Emma Thompson is always magnificent, and although this wasn't her best work, she is always worth watching. Jonathan Pryce was only marginally believable in the beard, but at least he wasn't hawking unseen cars. This film is worth seeing if it comes on cable, but I wouldn't recommend spending any money. Grade C "},{"Title":"If you cut out 50%, would anyone know the difference?","Date":"30 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  A good movie, well cast, brilliantly shot, well written.  So why does it seem to go on for hours?  The presence of Emma Thompson makes this movie attractive, but it could have been done in a manner that told the story without the tedium and gratuitous sex.  Yes, even in an art film there are reasons for those scenes other than to tell a story.If you're looking for slow-moving character studies set in the Victorian period with some sex thrown in, this is the one for you. "},{"Title":"Slow, sick dull and boring","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This movie about some members of the overstudied Bloomsbury Group, should not have been made.  What was avant guard and shocking in post WWI England is merely sick and perverse today, even though we have seen far more bizarre and permissive behaviour.  The only character with any spark was played by Rufus Sewell, and it was never explained why he was so explosive and violent.  Unrequited love perhaps? The film begins when Britain was involved in a truly terrible war, the likes of which it had never seen before.  The slaughter was appalling and senseless. After most of the able bodied men had been killed or maimed, boys of 17 and younger were sent off to the trenches in France to be killed. They were doing their duty dying for King and Country in a war that was hopelessly bound to the Victorian mentality.  An entire generation of men of marriageable age was wiped out, leaving a lot of women behind who would never marry.  These women had kept things running while the men were away at the war, and many continued to do so after the men did not come back, leading to an emancipation of women in the 20's.  The Bloomsbury Group attracted many intellectual thinkers of the day, including writers, artists, philosophers, pacifists, socialists, Fabians and others who defied and challenged the old order, determined to shake Britain out of its hypocritical Victorian smugness. They also seem to have led promiscuous sex lives which  seems to be the only part that fascinates writers and film makers.  Unfortunately this film  does not concentrate on the many artistic achievements but on the bizarre sex lives of Dora Carrington and Lytton Strachey.  I think that I would prefer not to have known.       "},{"Title":"Keeps scum out of arthouse cinemas","Date":"22 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I wonder whether this picture had been filmed to make 'low-life scum' shy away from arthouse cinemas.  I just cannot see another purpose.  The best word to describe this film is tedious.  Yes, it is technically well made, the acting is fine, the production values are great, but it is incredibly boring.Some commentators were offended by the sexual morals on display, but I found it rather more offending how the film makers managed to turn a promiscuous and bisexual life style, in a period that is notorious for its asexuality, into something utterly banal and uninteresting.  They certainly demonstrated that not all homosexuals deserve the adjective 'gay'. Lytten is portrayed as someone utterly miserable, and in most ways this misery was thoroughly self-inflicted; the same can be said about Emma Thompson's title character.There also was a complete lack of chemistry between the leads, chemistry of any kind. I just could not understand why (or accept that) there was a bond developing between them.  Had they been 'normal' people I would thought that they had been forced together by social pressure, and now were trying to make the best of it.  But these characters were ignoring social conventions, so what did they find in each other?It seemed, the viewers were supposed to be interested in these characters, because they had some historical significance in English literature.  We would have been better served with a documentary. "}{"Title":"Two hours of my life I'll never be getting back","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I saw it for free and still felt ripped off.I used it as a date flick, but wanted to walk out.It served its purpose by giving me and my date something to talk about afterwards; namely, how little we enjoyed it.Its sole strong point? Nice scenery.  The characters were of such overall low interest that when the final reel rolled, I was hard pressed to remember more than one of them.The score, however, was perfect, if you wanted a good sedative.Ich.   "},{"Title":"The movie where immorality reigns supreme!","Date":"5 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Stay away from this movie. It is immoral and makes me sick! Emma Thompson (Sense and Sensibility)  is a good actress and her name moved toward this movie. It is a story of an artist who loves this weirdo! Skip this one! There are certain stories that should remain untold that is one of them. I do not want to waste my time to write a longer comment! Just to say Viewers' Beware!  "}]