[{"Title":"Better than apple pie","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"60 out of 90 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This Reiner flick is a gem of the nineties. In its genre probably the best thing to hit the screens since Capra rounded  them up over half a century ago.The story itself is nothing extraordinary. Set in Washington it is a simple tale of love between lobbyist Sidney Wade and widow President Andrew Sheperd. Flung into love they both encounter obstacles as both opposition and political differences tear them apart. No need to worry though, all is well that ends well. And Reiner is not the one to slip one on us.What makes this film shine above most are not the development of characters or the underdeveloped political statements. Its the achievement of giving audiences 90 minutes of pure bliss. Douglas is lovable as president, Beattys spouse makes you jealous as always, J. Fox never misses an opportunity to display huge talent and Dreyfuss is just the kind of guy you love to hate. Add a dose of victorious political correctness and top it of with a final speech that raises the hair on any kinds of neck but rednecks, and you got your evening made.Enjoy !  "},{"Title":"My name is Andrew Shepherd and I AM the president of the United States!","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"45 out of 71 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Is there a genre that Rob Reiner can't work in and make successful?  He captured comedy beautifully with The Sure Thing.  Music was brilliant with This is Spinal Tap.  Horror?  How about Misery?  Courtroom drama was awesome with A Few Good Men.  And now we have a political drama/comedy.  There is nothing this man can't do.This movie works inspite of people's claims that it is too political.  Well you know what, it's about the president of the United States of America, there's going to be a bit of poiltics in it.  And guess what, guns do kill people, so to have an issue at hand here that deals with gun control is applaudable.Okay, that's out of the way, let's talk about the film itself.  Because it is wonderful.  It is funny, well acted, and it is written with a good ear.The cast in this film is one to be envied by almost everyone except Oliver Stone and Robert Altman who seem to get everyone to do their films.  But here we have Douglas as the president, Sheen as his aid, Michael J. Fox, Samantha Mathis, Annette Bening as Sydney Ellen Wade and in my favourite performance, Richard Dreyfuss as the sniveling weasle Senator Bob Rumsen.As the story goes, the president's character gets questioned when he ( a widow ) finds a girlfriend in Sydney Wade.  The issues are handled wonderfully here.  Nothing is really tip-toed around as the script writer ( Aaron Sorkin ) writes a brave script about what is right and wrong with being the president and having a girlfriend.I personally liked the politics in the film.  I enjoyed how Shepherd decides to ignore the critisism leveled at him until the very end when he gives one of the best written speeches I've ever seen in film.  And when he flexes his authoritative muscles, you feel his power, you feel that the president has spoken.  And I was moved.  This is a great film and one that should be checked out for sure.****  I also found it to be interesting that the character in the film that tries to get the issue of gun control brought to the forefront is Michael J. Fox.  He is Canadian and we don't have problems with guns here.  Is it a coincidence ( probably ) that he was chosen to play this role?  Or was it done deliberately?  Interesting. "},{"Title":"Romantic, amusing, inspiring portrait of President's fish bowl life","Date":"5 March 2006","Score":"26 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a great feel good movie about a charismatic, essentially very decent, fictional U.S. President, played by Michael Douglas in an extremely likable role. It's a political story as well as a love story. Douglas is both commanding & assured in his presidential role and charming & endearing in his romantic role. If anyone has not yet seen this movie, you'll discover you're in for an unexpected treat. There's something here for everyone...romance, comedy, politics, and drama. Andrew Shepherd is a youngish, popular President soon up for re election. Pressure is being put to bear on him to consolidate his administration's high poll ratings by pushing through a moderate crime bill which totally lacks Republican party support, yet is considered too weak by the Democrats. Meanwhile he finds himself attracted to Sydney Wade, an environmental lobbyist who is seeking legislation to reduce carbon monoxide emissions. Shepherd has been widowed for three years, and currently needs an escort for a State Dinner in honour of the President of France. He invites Sydney to this function and during this & subsequent encounters, the pair fall in love. Trouble ensues when Shepherd is torn between the politically expedient crime bill and the environmental legislation he has promised his new love interest. In terms of romance, there is the ongoing love story between the widowed President and the young lobbyist, Sydney, charmingly played by Annette Benning. This lovely and intelligent lady is quite smitten but at first obviously a bit overwhelmed by it all, feeling awkward and uncertain as the President's date. Sydney looks absolutely radiant at the state ball as she is swept off her feet by this handsome leader of the free world. Their chemistry proves to be electric, the dialogue clever, and the potential sexual situations quite tasteful by modern standards. Naturally the course of true love never does run smooth so it goes without saying that additionally, this unusual fishbowl courtship would have some unique problems as politics and public opinion intrude upon the couple's personal life.A certain built in comedy natural for a dating President makes this romance all the more enchanting. For instance, when Andrew attempts to buy his sweetheart some roses, can't you just imagine the national crisis that all but ensues? Despite his position as Head of State, Andrew likes to do his courting the old fashioned, personal way. During his initial phone call to Sydney, she believes he's one of her friends pulling a prank, which of course results in some hilarity.Naturally this tale is ripe with politics, and some reviewers even claim that the film is something of a precursor to TV's West Wing. Shepherd faces the dilemma of being forced to choose between the crime bill that his party is after him to push, versus Sydney's particular environmental cause. Not only party politics, but there is waning public support to consider. Needless to say, the President has no lack of advisers around who are more than eager to state their views, giving at times unsolicited advice. Martin Sheen plays his Chief of Staff and Michael J. Fox is cast as his Domestic Policy adviser. Shepherd must also contend with mud slinging by a nasty, unscrupulous rival Senator (portrayed by Richard Dreyfuss), who calls into question both Shepherd's family values and his girlfriend's activist past. By the way, any liberal political bias presented in this movie proved totally inoffensive to me. I definitely didn't sense that the producers had a nefarious grand agenda here.Drama wise, there's a touching, close relationship depicted between the President and his charming young teenage daughter, Lucy, and a definite sense of his loneliness following the death of his wife from cancer. Also, Shepherd is confronted with the choice of keeping his promise to Sydney versus salvaging his political career. His Oval Office moral dilemmas are not only relevant to the Presidency but can be extrapolated to any person in any career.This film delivers a powerful message about both personal and presidential integrity. At one point there's a moving speech that is inspiring for anyone, but may give American viewers in particular cause for reflection about the real significance of their country's Presidency and the qualities they might want to look for in the person elected to that office. Personally, I was practically ready to start flying the Stars and Stripes and I'm not even American! Whatever the nation involved, pity we don't have more Andrew Shepherds in political life today. "},{"Title":"Warm, fun film with a big heart","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"32 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  US President Andrew Shepherd is a widower who was sweep into power on the back of great public sympathy.  Three years into his presidency he meets and falls for Sydney Ellen Wade, an environmental lobbyist.  Eventually they begin to date against the counsel of his advisors, giving his rivals (most notably Senator Rumson) and the media the ammunition they need to begin to attack his presidency.This is not exactely a political thriller.  In fact it is as far removed from reality as you could imagine.  However that's the point, this film doesn't pretend to be anything other than a romantic comedy - it has some political wranglings but it is very far from the (still very tidy and clean) rule of Martin Sheen's President in TV's The West Wing.  However the story is nicely handled and Rob Reiner is natually very good at this type of thing.  Here it occasionally is far too sickly sweet and sentimental, but most of it works well.Douglas is good in the lead and looks quite acceptable as the President of the US - lets be honest, if it was him or oil baron Bush who would you pick?  Bening is also good as Sydney but neither have anything outside of the usual romantic leads to do.  The real strength here is the supporting cast - both in terms of class and sheer enterainment value.To name a few - Sheen, MJ Fox, Mathis, Dreyfuss - all big names, all funny performances.Overall this is a big sloppy romantic comedy, but it's done with so much class that it's hard not to like it.  Not brillant, but very enjoyable all the same. "},{"Title":"I love this film","Date":"19 October 1998","Score":"39 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film sees the best acting from Michael Douglas (my God, he isn't a villain), Annette Bening (power woman), Michael J Fox (finally not a teen) and Martin Sheen (oh so amusing).  This is such a warm film.  It is innocent yet powerful. And the humour is second to none.  Just fabulous. "},{"Title":"The thinking woman's Pretty Woman","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't mean that as a slam. I like Pretty Woman a lot, too. But this movie is my cure for all ills movie. The one I throw in the DVD player on rainy Sunday afternoons and crack out my best junk food. And the political setting seems to give it more meat.Michael Douglas is perfect. Annette Benning is perfect (and I would give anything to look as beautiful as she does in that blue dress at the State Dinner). Michael J. Fox, Martin Sheen, Anna Devoure Smith. People being passionate about each other and about important issues and about doing the right thing. Everything about this movie lifts me up when I'm feeling down.I'm not a liberal, and I'm not a conservative - I fall somewhere in the middle. My beliefs in gun control to not include (getting) the guns. But this movie is so good - that I can look past the occasional differences in political views. Those views are presented in a smart, thoughtful and constructive manner - and I appreciate them even though they are not my own.I enjoy this movie for what it is - a sweet, smart, funny movie set in one of the most romantic settings in the world - The White House. "},{"Title":"Okay, without a doubt this is one of my favorite romantic comedies.","Date":"7 June 2012","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Okay, without a doubt this is one of my favorite romantic comedies. Michael Douglas comes off as Presidential, Annette Benning is spectacular, Martin Sheen is exceptional, and the supporting cast is marvelous. And this is all directed by Rob Reiner, the 2nd generation actor writer director who understands every aspect of film making and is not afraid to let loose with all the knowledge, power and presence required to make a first class film. Of particular note are David Paymer, Michael J. Fox, and Anna Deavere Smith, all three exceptional character actors whose contributions add so much to the texture and tone of the film. Paymer is the perfect foil to Fox, and Anna balances them perfectly, giving a unity to the staff presence in the film. Perhaps the most intriguing part of the film is the incorporation of 'normal' events in the White House during the romance. We are not excluded or merely clued in, but we participate in all the activities of the President, which makes the film more realistic and visceral. The flow of the film is exceptional, since there are no explosions or other violence to distract us, and the cinematography is amazing. The sets are perfect. Rated PG-13 for a scene of sexual innuendo and a few uses of profanity, this film is far from offensive in its delivery, its demeanor, or its presentation. A classic which will enhance any collection. "},{"Title":"A First Rate Film","Date":"3 March 2009","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Director Rob Reiner and Aaron Sorkin, fresh off their success with the film A Few Good Men, came up with this gem more then thirteen years ago. With a top notch cast and production values The American President is the continuation of an old Hollywood tradition of films where nobility wins out in the game of politics. While that might seem like a bad thing the fact is the film is all the better for it.First off there's the cast. Michael Douglas gives one of his finest performances as President Andrew Shepherd. The same can be said of his love interest and co-star Annette Benning in her performance as lobbyist Sydney Ellen Wade. Together they have a strong chemistry whether it be the film's comedic, romantic or dramatic moments. Then there's the supporting cast. Martin Sheen, Anna Deavere Smith, Samantha Mathis, David Paymer and Michael J. Fox give fantastic performances as the White House staff with Sheen and Fox in particular getting moments to shine. Richard Dreyfuss gives a delicious performance as Presidential contender Bob Rumson. Even in the small roles the actors (like Joshua Malina and John Mahoney) give good performances.The film's production values are just as strong as its cast. The White House sets are excellent and give the feeling of being in the real place. The same can be said of virtually all the sets in the film. Also of special mention is the score by Marc Shaiman, especially in the opening credits of the film. Then there is the script by Arraon Sorkin. Sorkin's effortlessly blends together the elements of a good romantic comedy and a good political based film to create a hybrid of the two. Unlike other attempts at mixing comedy/satire with a political film that often end up failing to be successful as either (such as the more recent film Man of the Year for instance) here it works. In one scene you can have a speech about something political and have a romantic comedy scene the next. The result is that the styles don't clash but rather compliment each other nicely. It's easy to see where the genesis of Sorkin's later magnum opus The West Wing came from.The American President is a first rate film. With its top notch performances, excellent production values and a first rate script it's hard to beat that. The only shame of the film is the fact it didn't any major awards because it definitely deserved to. "},{"Title":"Politically correct, aesthetically suspect","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was the worst movie I saw during the year of its release.  Acting was OK, but the script was horrible, full of smarmy political correctness. Another of the non-challenging roles Annette Bening took after her great performance in The Grifters -- and happily discarded in her memorable role this year in Än American Beauty. Douglas is certainly viable casting. This movie tried so hard to capitalize on the popularity of the current Presidency, but romanticized the White House in an unrealistic, and not at all charming way.  "},{"Title":"good romance","Date":"20 December 2002","Score":"19 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film worked for the same reason the West Wing works... it humanizes the President.  Yes, the most powerful man in the world has feelings and falls in love.  I liked one reviewer's comment saying that this film is Capra-esque.  It certainly is because of its overall feel-good aspect and optimism.  I enjoyed this film, and Michael Douglas seldom disappoints me.  8/10. "}{"Title":"One of the best political films that has ever been done","Date":"13 May 2007","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" No offence to Michael Douglas but I'm not a fan of his movies but in The American President I thought he was brilliant and enjoyed watching him in the movie. He makes the character very charming, warm and compassionate.This film was really the first to show the audience an insight into The White House and what it is like for the President, all the problems and dilemmas he has to go through and the expectations ordinary people have for their elected officials. In this film, Michael Douglas plays the President who has a daughter and has had to juggle his job with raising his daughter after his wife died and the public have been sympathetic to him but a threat comes along in the guise of Sydney Ellen Wade played by Annette Bening who Andrew Shepherd takes an interest in and wants to have a relationship with but soon the relationship is under scrutiny and everything from his and her pasts are used to undermine them.What I find interesting about the film is that American schools teach their students about their government. I think the UK is lacking in this as there is no effort to teach kids about their government and as a result they don't care about politics and that is a shame.The film is intelligent and yet Rob Reiner does it in such a way that anyone can understand what is being said and you don't need to have an degree to gasp what lies beneath the words.Richard Dreyfuss plays a right pantomime villain in this, I found myself hissing at him every time he came on the screen and he really played him well as this smug, unscrupulous person who uses muck to discredit Shepherd's character but can't discredit the president's policies.Annette Bening is just great in this. She is funny and beautiful and has some of the most amusing scenes. Scenes such as her trying to walk out the wrong door in the oval office and not knowing the President was on the phone and her thinking it was a prank.I have to say I love Michael J. Fox in this, Personally, I think he had some of the best lines in the film. His character looks up to the President and you see him wanting his idol to speak up and tell the American people the way it is and not the way Rumson is telling it.Martin Sheen is the President's adviser in this and then went on to become the President in The West Wing.A fine cast, inspiring writing especially at the end and a talented director made this film so popular with the audience. "},{"Title":"Perhaps the Best Comedy in Three Decades; Moving, Human and Believable","Date":"20 March 2007","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The American President was the source of the later dramatic television series success The West Wing. Apparently, statist influencers in the U.S. have become so successful at warping the real by spin that many people could not understand this seminal film, especially those incompetent reviewers who masquerade as professional critics. It is by any standard of reason I suggest 1. authentic in its meticulously presented milieu, characters and dialogue, 2. an appealing classically romantic comedy and 3. a wonderfully satiric juxtaposition between the American--the self-responsible--qualities of even a president and his vulnerability to pseudo-religious moralizing attacks as he tries to access his individual rights in a nation gone constitutionally insane under the urging of Postmodernists. All this widower president wants at the beginning is a date with a feisty environmental lobbyist; later he wants her as a girl friend, and vice versa, with a a chance to explore their growing relationship. This simple human dignity is compromised as a right by the opposition party's leading candidate, who uses innuendo and false headlining to undermine the man's public popularity and threaten two vital bills both the president and the lobbyist are trying to get through a stone-walling Congress. Rob Reiner directs in a serious and lyrical way dialogue and character revelations that in lesser hands might have been slow or worse; in my judgment the pace never falters for an instant. Aaron Sorkin 's memorable script takes in issues, personalities, levels of relationship and supervision that I believe were both difficult and rewarding with uncommon precision and skill. As the American--individual, realist, pro- rights--president, Michael Douglas achieves award level simplicity and command at the same time, something which he had been growing toward for two decades. Only players with shorter roles--John Mahoney, and White House staffers--are really exactly right in their roles; but the clarity of the characters presented in the film's script is so strong, owing the the power of the central character and his categorical value of individualism, that sincere performances become exceptional. Annette Benning is attractive and passable as the lobbyist--first girl friend; Martin Sheen is acceptable as Douglas's aide; but no one is outstandingly good I claim nor unacceptable; their believability I suggest is produced by the ideas and values they are representing. Michael J. Fox's speech level is inadequate as the committed, immature aide; Samantha Mathis and Shawna Waldron and Leon Kodak, Anna Deavere Smith, Richard Dreyfuss, Gail Strickland, and many others get small telling moments; the film centers so well I claim on the president and his lady that all else become background, mosaic pieces in a larger picture, observing, relating to, or commenting on the main thrust of action--a president doing his job and asking his rights. This centrality leading to unforgettable scenes is a quality only the best films possess--The Guns of Navarone, The Fountainhead, Gone With the Wind and Bend of the River, for instance. In a comedy, this is a rare achievement therefore. Marc Shaiman's music is unobtrusive and occasionally moving; Gloria Gresham's costumes and the production design by Lilly Kilvert aid the film's hard-won credibility. Cinematography by John Seale and Art Direction by John Warnke are outstandingly believable. I suggest the producers Charles Newirth, Rob Reiner, Barbara Maltby and Jeffrey Stott have achieved something as rare here as was achieved in An Affait to Remember, The Bridal Path, You Came Along and Operation Petticoat and other service-based idea-level satires--something lasting, emotionally satisfying and unusually profound for any genre. "},{"Title":"Tries to do both, falls flat","Date":"26 October 2003","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Rob Reiner used to put out some darn funny satires.  Unfortunately for this film, he didn't even try.  On the one hand is the syrupy, fluff story of a widowed president falling in love with an activist.  In other words, a chick flick.  Then it switches gears by ramming left-wing rhetoric down your throat and attempting to make itself an important film.  Not only can the fluffier aspect not mesh well with the serious portion, but it also effectively alienates half the audience, as well as everyone else who went in expecting a light romance and got a nice helping of propaganda instead.  I'm amazed this later shaped into the West Wing, but at least that series is not hampered by trying to do too many things at once. While still left-wing in rhetoric, the weekly format allows it to switch gears more effectively and thus makes itself more palatable for entertainment.  Trying to cram that into a movie fails miserably.  If you're looking for a good, light presidential comedy, go rent Dave.  If you're looking for something more meaningful, skip this one. "},{"Title":"I memorized all the lines.","Date":"27 August 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I would credit the success of this movie to the great Aaron Sorkin. His smart jokes and witty ironies are the sugar lacing on this terribly beautiful theme Love and Politics. I would giggle and clap even if I play this film for the 20th time. The movie is so great that even the lines are deep and far above colloquial level, the adequate actors convince you that they are exactly how the conversations are like in Whitehouse full of elites. It enchants people by revealing the charming side of the traditional labeled liar politics and let the audience touch their fresh and blood and deepest emotions. I was extremely curious how did such extraordinary piece of art didn't win an Oscar or a Golden Globe award back.But it wouldn't be fun I'm just another intrigued audience clapping quietly and leaving and pretending it only influenced me for the two hours I took to watch it. So with that in mind, I went through the movie one more time. Except for Andrew Shepard didn't even bring a translator to the grand diplomacy party with the French president and his wife, and it was a bit awkward to watch only the president and Sydney dancing in a hall full of 200 essential political figures, because they were supposed to be the lead, it was supposed to be a dance ball if the president commanded a dance, but everyone was just watching quietly, like they were tolerating Andrew's inappropriately behavior with courtesy. I planned to watch the links and key scenes for flaws, but instead I came back with swelling excitement and red cheeks and hands sore from squeezing too hard. I guess I'm not a good critic.Here comes more accolade. Aaron Sorkin is an expert on exposing four year of Andrew's Whitehouse life with a few phases mentioning the customs, like the crew's been there all the time. And the opening scene is divine, I didn't thought much of this film, because I bumped into it when going over Netflix, but the opening scene told me outright that American President wasn't just any film. I was deeply absorbed by the grand music and words floating on a white sculpture, and other totems like eagle, the flag, presidents' portraits and so on. National pride oozed out with a sense of solemnity. Then we witness the charm of the president and Whitehouse's departments clicked like a engine made from Germany. I scratch my brain and still can't find the best phrases to compliment this masterpiece. But I definitely get something to say when I'm asked about my favorite film. "},{"Title":"A top 100 American classic romance film.","Date":"20 June 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Good The chemistry between Michael Douglas and Annette Bening was great. The fact that they could a romance movie about a president, much more an American president, work speaks volumes about how good the movie is. It's lighthearted without too much politics involved and its romantic without being too unrealistic. It's really about loving someone for who they are inside, and not what they might represent on the outside. Bad Nothing.Best Quote President Andrew Shepherd Do you think there will ever be a time when you can stand in a room with me and not think of me as the President?Sydney Ellen Wade This isn't a state of mind. You are the President. And when I'm in a room with you, oval or any other shape, I'm always gonna be a lobbyist, and you're always gonna be the President.President Andrew Shepherd I have news for you, Sydney. As a lobbyist, you'd never be alone in a room with the President. "},{"Title":"A warm, idealistic, romantic, and superb insider look at the American Presidency","Date":"16 January 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The American President (1995)What a smart, fast, feel-good movie about American politics and the power of the presidency. And how unlikely (these thing don't usually go together).What makes it work? Everything! I know deep down that this isn't a masterpiece, a Citizen Kane or Godfather kind of movie. But it is in its own way perfect. It's funny as can be--endlessly witty or sarcastic or actually cleverly funny. It's acted to a T, including of course the two leads, Michael Douglas in his alpha male with a personable side and Annette Bening in her utterly charming and disarmingly sharp warmth.It's almost impossible to appreciate the huge list of side characters who are first rate through and through, even in their very brief roles. Richard Dreyfuss might be the least of these since he plays an obvious stereotype. Michael J. Fox is funny and quick and Martin Sheen is quasi-presidential as he needs to be since of course (via West Wing) he later becomes the president.But not here. This is the story of Douglas and Bening. It presages the excellent British version , in its own way, Love Actually, with Hugh Grant and an equally big cast of excellent extras, but that was more purely feel-good (or feel-incredibly-good) and this one eight years earlier actually has a political axe to grind.In fact, I'm going to guess that one reason for the slightly deflated ratings is the conservative audience didn't really like what the president stands for here, and though it is just a movie, it's easier to root for the cast when they tend to agree with you. And agree in emphatic eloquent ways. There is a speech Douglas (as president) gives toward the end that comes out and boldly takes a simple stand for decent liberal values. He's confident, clear, and unwavering. And if you agree with that kind of thing (I do) you want to say hurrah.And you want our own darned president to say what he believes so simply and with such firmness.Of course, all of this is simplified and made too easy. Luckily it's not only about politics. In fact it's a comedy or manners, you might say, the protocol of who to behave with and near the president being fodder for great laughs just as much as the Victorian plays and movies had fun with the same twists of expectations. No wonder it morphed into a hit television series--though oddly enough the humor gets minimized. Maybe the same kinds of jokes wear themselves out.Rob Reiner is maybe our most astute politically astute director, at least when there is a sense of humor required. He cut his teeth in every way with the best, working with and under Norman Lear in years of shooting (and performing, as Meathead) in All in the Family. It shows here. He has a real knack for timing, for turning absurdity to wit, and for warmth. (He probably got some of that from the Smothers Brothers, too.) If you like this don't stop here--Reiner has many other good or possibly great movies, many getting better reviews than this one.But here we have The American President, deceptively simple in its title. This is above all a really cozy movie. You want to watch, and you want to be there. At least for a couple hours.I sound foolish liking this silly movie too much, but there you have it. "},{"Title":"A startlingly well made political love story, The American President succeeds hugely in the tremendously difficult task of being a good love story and a good political story at the same time.","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Michael Douglas, who is most well known for his enormous skill in playing stolid villains or regular men who become desperate because they manage to get themselves in way over their head, puts off these characteristics to play the part of the President of the United States, and he delivers a towering performance in this role. The story is based on the fact that President Andrew Shephard (Douglas) will soon be facing reelection, an election which may be compromised by the fact that he is developing a romantic interest in an envorinmental lobbyist named Sydney Ellen Wade (played beautifully by Annette Bening). Matters are complicated by the fact that Shephard's wife died just before he was elected in the first place, and his cabinet members (particularly Lewis Rothschild, played by Michael J. Fox) are urgently trying to persuade him not to date during the election.One of the strange things about this movie is that it's kind of ironic that no one has really made a political film like this that centers around a romance involving the President. Indeed, watching a man as powerful as the U.S. President using his powers to flirt with someone that he has a crush on (okay, that sounded pretty dumb. Maybe no one's done it before because it sounds ridiculous in writing!), trying at the same time to persuade her that he really is the President. While it doesn't exactly SOUND like it would make the greatest film, this premise has resulted in the exceedingly superior romantic comedy that we see in The American President.The performances in the film are spectacular throughout, but it's actually the script that deserves even more attention than the actors' performances, which is a rare distinction in a film. I think that the reason that The American President succeeds so well as a political film as well as a romantic comedy is that both elements are so realistically presented. I think it was Roger Ebert who praised The American President for approaching and handling real issues, such as gun control and the environment, instead of side-stepping this and trying to present a President who is not taking any certain stands on any certain issues that might cause the film's audience to like him or the movie less.  The love story, one of the easiest things in the cinematic medium to completely screw up, is done brilliantly here, largely because of the occupations of the two subjects that it centers on as well as the excellent script. The movie has a nearly endless amount of comments to make about the American Presidency, the way that the public sees the office, and the restrictions that it places on its occupants. There is a pleasant irony between such things as President Shephard's ability to get Wade on the phone when she doesn't even have a phone of her own (hey, I'm a poet and I didn't even realize it&#133;), but his complementary inability to even bring her to the house for a nice, innocent dinner. President Andrew Shephard is faced with the unfortunate task of trying to appease the American public, retain his position in the White House, convince Sydney Ellen Wade that he is who he says he is and that he is genuinely interested in her, and provide for his own romantic happiness, with the added conflict that if any one of them fails, all of the others are likely to fail as well. It's true that, this being a rather light-hearted romantic comedy, we already know how the film is going to end, but brilliant dialogue, a fascinating story, unusually interesting characters, and a tense political atmosphere prevent the material from getting boring just because we really already know how it's going to turn out in the end. Besides that, the romance in the film is so well done that that element alone makes it worth watching. There's a scene in the film when President Shephard and Wade are dancing in a crowded dinner hall, and she asks him what people are going to think about the whole situation, wondering who that woman is and why the President is dancing with her. In an example of the brilliance of the script as well as the reason that the romantic plot of the film succeeds so well, Shephard responds, `Sydney Ellen Wade, because she said yes.'  You see, romance CAN be done right sometimes. "},{"Title":"An excellent movie","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie has been blessed with a great script, an outstanding ensemble of actors and wonderful direction by Rob Reiner. My favorite performance is by Martin Sheen but all of the actors do a great job. I have the DVD of this movie and I watch it at least once a month. I think movies like this Dave, for example, and Air Force One, to an extreme degreeare so enjoyable to me, and others, because they portray the kind of president we would like to see in the White House. A very idealistic point of view, perhaps, but you have to take your heroes where you can find them. "},{"Title":"American Presidency 101","Date":"13 January 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The American President can stand alone for its cinematic charms, with sharp script and strong performances, and also for its ability to connect to a typical moviegoer.  This is one movie I can remember that really brings the daily goings-on in the White House seem like daily grind rather than grand drama where huge decisions are made and enormous events occur all the time--granted whatever is decided and happens in the White House is indeed huge and enormous, but the film doesn't inflate it to some elitist/exclusive point of view.And while the movie can be enjoyed purely for its cinematic value, what I do appreciate about this film is that it does make good, valid points about American politics and the presidency of the United States.  President Andrew Sheppard (played by Michael Douglas) engages in several conversations and even arguments about what it means to be in his position and how that affects the way he serves his constituents, the American public.  His last speech rings true; besides his views that favor obviously to the left of the political spectrum, he makes honest comments about how politicians win elections and how that affects their ability to do their job.I consider this movie to be a basic cinematic course in understanding the American Presidency and political elements that invariably surround it.  It may come off as a left-wing, liberally biased film, but it makes no confusion about the fact that whether they are Democrats or Republicans, politicians have their flaws and unscrupulous methods of keeping their position of power, including the President himself.  It is one of my favorite movies, and I give it a 10/10.joe k. "},{"Title":" Just another white guy in a suit!!","Date":"8 February 2009","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" There have been a lot of changes in American politics since this was released, but at the time Rob Reiner was probably motivated to produce this because of the election of Americas first baby-boom president a couple of years earlier. In doing this he attempts to shed some light on the complex political system in Washington DC, perhaps for a new generation of Americans but certainly for those who are fascinated by American politics. It's not just the political horse trading that goes on for votes, or even the power and influence that lobbyists hold but also how the manipulation of polls ultimately determine policy making. More importantly by the 1990's the baby boom generation who were immersed in the social changes and civil rights movements in the late 60's and early 1970's either as liberals or conservatives were now in government either as democrats or republicans. Therefore the script for the American President reflected the cultural clash of that time period playing out in national politics during the 90's.For example, in the USA the American left want to expand the role of government in all facets of life even though very few people demand this. They focus on global warming and international agreements over climate change and attempt to control inner city gun violence (which is really drug related) as well as promoting gay marriage. None of these issues concerns or benefit the urban middle class, the rural blue collar working class or average voter who are the ones playing by the rules and are trying to get ahead.On the other hand the right complain about the demise of moral standards and the strains on the traditional nuclear family. Yet they are often unable to live up to the high standards that they preach and are caught out having extra marital affairs, flirting with collage interns or chasing congressional page boys. Military service is the most honorable thing a patriot can do, but many of them and their immediate family members find better or more lucrative things to do than serve themselves and are happy to send others over seas to do the fighting. Illegal immigration is a real problem, but often it is disclosed that many people that they hire as nannies and gardeners don't have a valid green card. Lastly, big government is good if it's spending that they want! None of these, although embarrassing indiscretions for what they proclaim to stand for affects the quality of life of the middle class either. Americas' first baby boomer President not only never served in uniform but avoided service in the Vietnam war, he experimented with drugs, and over the years fooled around with other women while at the same time being married. His ambitious wife aware of these affairs, not only shrugged this off but was determined to get involved in policy making in the white how and was quite happy putting the political boot in. This was all in sharp contrast to the traditional non-political role the first lady tended to take. The right did not like this type of relationship and it became a political issue at the time.What follows is largely a cosy, easy going romantic comedy and the film touches on a few of these hot button political issues. The fictional President here was Andrew Shepard (Michael Douglas) a single parent, a former history professor and governor from the state of Wisconsin. Elected by a small margin largely on the back of sympathy because his wife died during the campaign he also had the burden of receiving a very small winning percentage of the vote.This time the ambitious woman is Sydney Ellen Wade a pushy, sassy, feminist heavy-hitter from the lobbying and political consultancy world of Washington DC. Having taken a fancy to Wade the widowed Shepard seeking intimacy has to fight off republican criticism that he is dishonoring the white house by having a relationship with her while not being married. (If only Reiner was to know what was to later be disclosed in the real white house a couple of years later)!! This is red meat for his political opponents, but he refuses to be drawn into something he regards as a private matter. However the attacks on his character and the campaign to bring Wade down by portraying her as a radical or extremist eventually takes a political toll, consequently his job approval numbers go into free fall.Also during this there is an sub-plot when Shepard has to respond to a terrorist act linked to Libya. Because of his lack of military experience and needing to look tough for domestic political purposes he orders a retaliatory attack on the Libyan intelligence building in a decisive and proportional response. On this occasion the unlucky recipients on the receiving end of a smart bomb are the janitors working the night shift. The intelligence agents presumably responsible for the original terrorist act know that it is coming and are setting up shop somewhere else. Shepard is not sure of the real benefit of this but gives the order knowing full well that he is beholden to the domestic political reality of not wanting to be seen as weak.In the end Shepard comes out swinging and seems to get the upper hand over his political enemies, although in this case the movie ends as soon as gets the last word! Never the less it's still an entertaining and watch able movie with a fine supporting cast i.e. Michael J Fox, Annette Benning and Martin Sheen. No doubt this inspired NBC's the  West Wing and in all intensive purposes could easily have been a pilot for the series! "}{"Title":"A Mixed Review","Date":"11 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The lead actress is especially good and we've seen her in several good films. I've also often enjoyed films with Michael Douglas. Both attracted me to the film initially. However, this particular film is slanted in its political views and is pulled out by networks prior to every election it seems. The Democrat President, his daughter, his girlfriend (who speaks French!), and his staff and friends are all charming and attractive and smiling and happy, while the Republicans are gray-haired and grave faced. A primary Republican politico, played by Richard Dreyfus, is shown with gray-hair (he was young then), and there's a white spotlight shining down on him (subtle) as he sneers and makes insulting remarks about the opposition. I think bias in either political direction doesn't belong in films, but it will probably never end. To conclude I don't believe Moderates or Republicans will like this level of manipulation by Hollywood. "},{"Title":"Sorkin Warms Up For The West Wing With This Screenplay","Date":"20 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The American President is a romantic comedy that stars Michael Douglas and Annette Bening.It tells the romance that involves a widower US President named Andrew Shepherd and an environmental lobbyist Sydney Ellen Wade,who just transfered to Washington D.C. to take care of the passage of a crime control bill.The screenplay was written by one of the finest scribe in Aaron Sorkin and it was directed by ace director Rob Reiner.The movie was theatrically released in 1995 and it was apparent that Aaron Sorkin is warming up with the writing of this screenplay of the TV series, The West Wing. Despite being clichéd and predictable as well as it presents dated political issues,it was charming and heart- warming romantic comedy due to the performances of Douglas and Bening. There was also a lot of funny and memorable lines that will be a delight to the viewer especially fans of this genre.Overall,it is still worth watching at present. "},{"Title":"Late to the Party","Date":"8 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Though this film was released in the 90s, I'm just now reviewing it because it strikes me every time I watch it that the more things change, the more they stay the same. Aside from being a beautifully crafted love story, this film illustrates several of the problems still plaguing Washington today. That's just the way things are done shouldn't be acceptable, but as long as we allow things to remain status quo they will. If only a real President would emulate President Shepherd's surprise speech to the press corps in this film we'd be on our way to a better world. Marc Shaiman gave us an Oscar-deserving score for this film. The use of I Have Dreamed as the signature song of the state dinner was sheer perfection. Douglas and Benning were at their finest in this film. Reiner is a genius&#x85;.enough said. The American President was--and still is--the perfect storm of talent and creativity. "},{"Title":"Pretty entertaining with a president one can only dream of","Date":"5 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I enjoyed this film. It's pleasant and often very smart. I'm not American, I'm Canadian. Maybe I don't have the right to speak out about Presidents. I just know what I like. Everyone has a different opinion, but I haven't cared for any of the presidents since I've been alive, and I'm 28 years old. Politics bore me to begin with, but this movie is so likable, I couldn't help but enjoy myself. Michael Douglas is one of my favorite actors, and he's rarely been more charming. This is a president I pine for. One that is sharp, witty, caring, genuine, and human. He's not perfect, and he's not ashamed to be human. He actually cares about what the public wants. I get awfully tired of presidents giving people what they want to hear, and not follow up on it. Andrew Shephard (Douglas) will make people pine for a president as good as he is. Douglas was excellent. Annette Bening makes for a solid love interest. Her chemistry with Douglas was great as well. I do have a minor complaint, and that's how the opposing candidate (Richard Dreyfuss) is written. He is shoddily thrown in, without much background or development that is needed. He suddenly shows up to do undermining tactics towards Douglas, and it wasn't enough for me. Maybe I'm being too fickle on this, but it fell flat for me. I will say it's nice to see clichés evaded for once, when it comes to a daughter meeting a love interest of their Father's. I get so tired of the Screw you, I want my Mom attitude that they do in movies with daughters, so it was refreshing to see a scenario where the daughter accepts the love interest. I give all the credit to Shawn Waldron for being such a likable daughter to Douglas. Martin Sheen is great as Douglas's right hand man, and Michael J. Fox is solid as support. I loved Michael Douglas's monologue at the end as well. Final Thoughts Watch this movie whenever you get depressed with the current president. It'll make you wish for a lot of things, but you'll also feel happy and entertained by it. It's a good movie. 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Great rom-com, ignore the rest","Date":"3 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" President Andrew Shepherd (Michael Douglas) is widowed and a single father of a teenage daughter. He falls head over heels for Sydney Ellen Wade (Annette Bening), a lobbyist for an environmental group. His relationship causes major headaches for his re-election chances.The romantic comedy part works very well. Director Rob Reiner knows exactly what he's doing. They are wonderful characters that make you fall in love with. For writer Aaron Sorkin, this is more or less a dry run for his iconic West Wing TV show. It's probably no accident that Martin Sheen is a major actor in this movie. It's a skillfully put together movie.But the issues being talked about, gun control and global warming, is just so dated. It is left wing talking points that clanks whenever they're mentioned. Even at the time, these issues were pushing the envelope. Also the politics just seems so naive compare to today. Where we ever so innocent? This was to respond to the election of Bill Clinton and the scrutiny that he got. Monica Lewinsky has even happened yet. This is a case of reality overwhelming make-believe. "},{"Title":"Clever and very charming picture","Date":"23 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Greetings from Lithuania.The American President is a movie making at its best. Key performances are wonderful by both leads. Directing, music is good. And the real star of the film is script. It's so clever, funny and realistic that you can't keep wondering how the writer put all this stuff together. Well, it's Aaron Sorkin - and that's the answer. This film - is a great film. It's not cheese romantic love story. Watch this film, if you love great writing, great performances and good believable romance. The American President is a charmer. This film is the second film that i writing review about, which headline contains word charming, the first was The Kids are all right. And do you want to know what they have in common? Annette Bening. She is marvelous. "},{"Title":"a complete and utter fantasy - but an enjoyable one!","Date":"11 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" 'The American President' plays in a sort of parallel universe, one in which politicians in general and the president in particular actually have a conscience and are concerned with the well-being of the population. Aaron Sorkin is very adept at tapping into this fantasy-universe as his 'West Wing' takes place in a very similar one. but regardless of this large disconnect from our reality, this is a movie that works. fantastic performances across the board by the all-star cast, combined with slick production values and good dialogue make 'The American President' an enjoyable and emotionally involving experience. 7/10 "},{"Title":"sooo romantic","Date":"20 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I don't think I 'm a romantic guy. I hate chickflics... I loved this film. When zapping through 57 channels - I wouldn't continue watching unless I saw Michael J Fox and more superb characters like dougless and shean.This thing touched me... maybe because of the combination of power, wittiness, recognition, ... and romantically speaking; it's after all in that continents sole palace the white house....Lassies... if you want lure your man to a romantic film he might actually like take this one.I hope there are some more movies out there with action film heroes having this completely different role. Or one could ask Hugh Grant to do some swinging on ropes? "},{"Title":"Wonderful, almost ruined by politics","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The democrats are clean living, free thinking, happy, loving, caring individuals fraught on ridding the world of guns an polution (other than smoke from burning flags, of course). Republicans are mean-spirited, election obsessed hate-mongers who sit in smoke filled room with their cigars and plot how to exploit and conquer. It is this kind of Darth Vader/Luke Skywalker political depiction that almost kills this otherwise great movie.And the sad part is, it is almost unnecessary. Americans would beride a popular president who shacked up in the White House with an activist without the aid of the Republicans. This movie almost insults its viewers by making the electorate seem so swayable - I know it is, but not to this extent. If you have seen the movie, you may agree with my premise that the Bob Rumsen character (played well by Richard Dreyfuss) would have received public backlash for his continual slagging.Politics aside, this is one of the best romantic comedy-dramas of the 90s. Great cast and a wonderful premise, this movie is primarily about two people who live their careers attempting to fund love in without the hounding of the public forum. Douglas and Bening are fabulous and should have received Oscar nominations. One key, wonderful supporting role is the presidents manic campaigner played by the always reliable David Paymer.I am conservative, but also a lover of the arts and movies in particular. I almost always can see past my personal right-ish views to get entertained. But the politics in this are so ham-handed and self-serving that they come near to ruining the film. Still a strong recommendation. ***1/2 out of ****. "},{"Title":"As average as they come...with a few extra niggles","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The American President (1995) ***There are two love stories in this film.  The first is between Michael Douglas and Annette Benning; the second is between writer Aaron Sorkin and the Presidency.The seeds of The West Wing were planted here, but with them came its faults.  What irritates me about the show irritates me about the film; its misplaced and insincere cynicism.  It tries to be too cool for school in its depiction of politicians; they care more about their careers than the truth, they are self-serving and manipulative, they are cynical and driven by appearance not policy, and they have no interest in right and wrong, only Right and Left.  But this cynicism stops at the doors of the Oval Office, and is replaced by misty-eyed patriotism.Michael Douglas's President is somehow separated from the other politicians and their sniping, presumably reaching the White House through simple honesty and integrity.  Like that's happened more than twice.  The weeping violins and Rob Reiner's sweeping camera combine to tell us that this man is one of the greats.  What it really tells us is that the cynicism in the movie is only kids' stuff.There is scene after scene about how the President is just another guy, and Douglas must have taken all of ten minutes to learn his lines as most of them are variations on `Call me Andy.'  But, again, Sorkin clearly doesn't believe his own writing.  This isn't Andy, this is the President of the United States!  Hail to the chief...As in The West Wing, there is a clear formula to the dialogue.  How to sound like a White House aide walk fast down a corridor, weaving in and out of the open plan offices, speaking without taking breath, while quoting statistics and percentages, with some half-assed cynical attitude.  That gets stale by the end of the first reel.Released in 1995, it could have been made as a birthday present for Bill Clinton.  The President has a girlfriend and doesn't want to make any public statements about their relationship, which is a convenient set-up for the message that a President's personal life doesn't matter as long as he's a good leader.  So men like Kennedy and Clinton screwed around on their wives, and even doddery old Eisenhower was rumoured to be getting some, but what difference does that make?  Sure, they lied to their wives and children, but let's not take that as any indication of their morality.Aside from its politics and Sesame Street cynicism, the love story between Douglas and Benning is mostly interesting, and the cast is mostly impressive.  Michael J Fox reminds us how wasted he was through much of the 1990s, with a typically charming performance, and Martin Sheen is worth a mention as the Chief of Staff, in a role pre-dating the violent coup that saw him take the Presidency in time for The West Wing.  As Bill Pullman proved in Independence Day, it's always difficult to be a convincing President, but Michael Douglas pulls it off quite nicely, and while the chemistry between him and Annette Benning won't become the stuff of legend, their relationship was convincing if not always interesting.If you can see beyond the preaching, the movie passes the time well enough.  Personally, I couldn't, so it didn't. "}{"Title":"Another Oval Office comedy with a liberal spin","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A well-made light romantic comedy with first rate production values in the Hollywood tradition of `real' people in a fantasy setting. There are good performances from a number of actors including Michael Douglas who is surprisingly warm as the widower President Shepherd and Annette Benning who is quite convincing as the hard-nosed lobbist Sydney who becomes the `First Girlfriend.' Martin Sheen and Michael J Fox  also turn in sterling performances as senior White House staff. Made in 1995, the film anticipates the character debate that later engulfed Bill Clinton.We have to suffer a  fairly silly storyline &#150; we are asked to believe that the President's popularity drops 20 points as the electorate becomes aware he is dating Sydney. Subsequently, Bill Clinton survived impeachment in the face of much seamier activity and his approval rating (as president) is now, in his final months, higher than President Shepherd's at the outset of the movie. If Clinton was constitutionally able to stand again in 2000 he would probably be re-elected. Strangely enough the American public seem to be able to distinguish to some extent between the purely personal and the public behaviour of those in high office but that would spoil the story here and deprive the conservative Senator Rumson (Richard Dreyfuss) of his target. It is of course much more fun if some conservative upholder of family values is caught with his pants down than if a liberal were so caught, but the scriptwriters here (obviously of a liberal bent) don't try on that obvious ploy. The `real' issues &#150; national security, gun control and the environment, impinge on the story a little but the biggest question is, whether the Prez and Sydney will find happiness together. As in all light romantic comedies we know the answer, but a reasonably witty script means for the most part we enjoy finding out what we already know.The American presidency is by common consent the most powerful elected office on earth, even if one disregards the incumbent's role as Commander-in-Chief. The President is an elected executive king, both head of state and head of government. This role was fashioned in the late 18th century when kings and queens were not only executive heads of government but symbols of national identity and unity. Now it seems an anacronism &#150; no-one would make a film called The British Prime Minister, or even La President Francais. American presidents still have to carry the burden of being national symbols as well as heads of government. That's terribly convenient for Hollywood, but not really in the interests of good government, as the Clinton impeachment crisis showed. Fortunately, as remarked on above, the electorate, given time, is capable of  recognizing that personal sleaziness does not necessarily mean bad government. "},{"Title":"What Would Tyler and Wilson Say To This?","Date":"7 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Out of the 42 individuals who have become presidents two of them, John Tyler and Woodrow Wilson, had wives who died while they were in the White House and who courted and married women who became the second first ladies in their respective administrations. Both Julia Gardiner Tyler and Edith Bolling Galt Wilson were each remarkable first ladies in their own ways and Mrs. Wilson did become a minor issue in her husband's bid for a second term.But none ever engendered the controversy shown here by President Michael Douglas's courtship of Annette Bening. The fictional Douglas is a widower like Tyler and Wilson and he meets and falls hard for an environmental lobbyist. When Bening spends the night in the White House and they do the deed there, their sex lives become campaign fodder for the opposition party in the person of Senate Minority Leader Richard Dreyfuss who is the likely candidate of the opposition.The scenes between Douglas and Bening are quite tastefully done and they show that romance is not beyond the reach of the mature. Of course when you've got smarmy politicians like Dreyfuss ready to make it all sound dirty, sad to say that's all been done before. But when Tyler and Wilson were courting their women you didn't have the mass media and instant communication of today reporting everything down to the latest pelvic thrust. One wonders how things might have turned out for Tyler and Wilson had they had the media attention that President Douglas has in this film.I actually think that Aaron Sorkin might have gotten some inspiration for The American President from Nebraska where back a few years earlier Governor Robert Kerrey was involved with actress Debra Winger. I still remember a certain New York Post columnist named Ray Kerrison getting all kinds of hot and bothered when Winger spent a night in the Governor's mansion in Lincoln, Nebraska the same way Dreyfuss is doing here. What bothered him the most is that no one seemed to care about the horrible moral transgressions being committed in the Governor's mansion. Michael Sheen who would become an American President on a TV series created by Aaron Sorkin and Michael J. Fox are Douglas's two chief staff aides. Shawna Waldron has a nice performance as the President's daughter and she comes over like a real kid and a very unspoiled one at that considering where she's living.The American President is a class and classy drama and you only wish more presidents would act like Douglas and Sheen in their respective fictional presidencies. "},{"Title":"A pleasantly charming film","Date":"2 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I've noticed a strange trend with Rob Reiner films. I always go in expecting something with pretty low standards, and then I always seem to come out pleasantly surprised. Such is the case with The American President. It stars Michael Douglas as Alex Shepard, President of the United States of America. The film tells the story about This widowed President who meets and falls in love with a lobbyist and how they make their relationship work amongst the political strife Shepard must deal with every day, being the President and all. It's a sappy love story on the surface, but a charming, intellectual, and expertly written film at its core.I was skeptical of what this movie would entail at first, but my hopes were lifted significantly when I saw Aaron Sorkin's name under the words Written by during the opening credits. The American President boasts very clever and witty dialogue from start to finish. I wouldn't call it Sorkin's greatest achievement, but it certainly doesn't smell of anything less than excellent. Being that Sorkin is a pretentious fellow there is some pretentious dialogue in here, with lines that more show off Sorkin's craft word play than further the plot, but overall it is astoundingly well structured dialogue that flows with the always recognizable Sorkin cadence, keeping this film moving at a rapid pace that snaps from scene to scene with the utmost professionalism.It also helps that Sorkin's dialogue was given the privilege of being delivered by an incredible cast. Michael Douglas and Annette Bening star in the film with radiant chemistry. Their separate performances are remarkable, but together they make an otherwise cheesy story compelling. The supporting cast includes fantastic performances from the likes of Martin Sheen, Michael J. Fox, and even Richard Dreyfuss. Every actor in this film does their part and they all work so well to bring this film together and lift if above it's clichéd and predictable shell.Without some key elements of this film it could have been pretty terrible, but the right people lined up in the right places to make this film actually work. It's a worthwhile watch that makes an effective use of two hours if you enjoy snappy dialogue and great performances. I wouldn't say that I was touched or moved by this film, but I can say that it kept me interested and it had enough intellect, charm, humor, and talent to make me enjoy it just enough to say good things about it and then move on. "},{"Title":"Our West Wing","Date":"15 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I finally got a chance to see this movie, and fell in love with it. I am a huge fan of the real show (the first four seasons) and this has all the elements I fell in love with. Great acting, real issues faced head on, and writing that you don't find in many movies or television series. You can't watch this while doing other things. You have to pay attention, rewinding frequently to catch that one incredible line of dialog that pops up frequently. It makes you want to buy a copy of the shooting script to catch those wonderful lines over and over again.You can say what you will about the politics, and there will always be disagreements, but after seeing it you want to talk about it. Maybe you'll agree with it, maybe you won't, but if you remain quiet it's your own fault.I'm hoping there will be another edition of the DVD with more even extras. I think it would be a great part of a boxed set once the show goes off the air. It's too bad WB chose to go straight into the movie instead of giving us the menu straight off. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was a senior in high school when I saw this in the theatre. I saw an advanced screening before it was available to the general public with the rest of the top press in Kansas City. (Being a high school editor-in-chief of a paper has LOTS of advantages!) Anyway, this movie was simply one of the best I have ever seen. Michael Douglas was superb, outstanding, worthy of running for President in real life if you ask me! Bening was also outstanding, probably her best perfermance yet. The dialogue between the characters has to be some of the best in any movie I have seen, and I've seen quite a few. Douglas's speech at the end has to be the best ever speech in any movie. ID4's president tried to have a good speech too, and, while it was good, it wasn't close to Douglas's speech here.As a side note, when Douglas finished his speech to the press, about half of the theatre stood up and clapped, and everyone else just clapped and cheered. It made my body tingle. "},{"Title":"A Real Charmer","Date":"4 August 2008","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm surprised to see only a 6.8 rating for this movie. This movie stands the test of time, and now it's become one of my favorite comfort films that I seem to watch again every single year. It works equally as a romantic comedy and a political drama, and every character is given time to be who they are instead of as tools of a plot. Richard Dreyfuss plays the foil in this story as the Republican candidate for President, and thinking about the current election cycle, he actually seems to evoke John McCain in a sort of uncanny way, but he's not just a villain, he's an aggressive candidate who wants to win in a political landscape where the sitting President, played by Michael Douglas, finds his job to be in jeopardy with okay but not very good polls.There's so much to like here; Annette Benning just glows in her role, and it's very skillful how the movie modulates a fine balance between seeing her in her job and as a love interest. I liked the moments between the President and his daughter, which seem so much fresher than more routine movies about regular people and their kids. And of course, the political stuff in the movie is terrific, and it's smart without condescending to us, and plays on a level that even the least politically inclined can still get into.I have a list on My Movies that is called the Overlooked list, and this one is on it; it's still great after over a decade. "},{"Title":"You Gotta Laugh","Date":"23 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Strange choice for BBC 1 to broadcast this tonight more than two months after the presidential race but I guess if they showed this at the start of November everyone would have turned off in droves , so bored were they by the constant mud slinging going on in the race for the White House . I must admit that I was expecting too much from THE American PRESIDENT ( Insert your own political pun here ) since it was billed as a romantic comedy and that's what it is . It's a charming film , a naive film that was made in 1995 but watching it ten years after it was released I couldn't help falling out of my chair as the naivety takes centre stage Michael Douglas plays American president Andrew Shepherd and he bares a physical resemblance to Bill Clinton while the script makes no bones that he's a democrat . President Shephard has a young daughter who is roughly about the same age Chelsea Clinton would have been in 1995 which means I for one couldn't think of this guy as being anyone other than slick Willie . That's why the screenplay negates a first lady , okay it might be important for the plot but could any actress find enough demonic skill to play a Hilary Clinton clone ? As for the plot itself it revolves a romance with a lobbyist and the widowed president . No doubt this was supposed to be touching in 1995 but this was before before  Monicagate  hit the headlines so it's quality entertainment now - I kept expecting Douglas to shout  I did not have sexual relations with that woman  . It's uncanny watching all this play out , it's like being in an alternative universe where environmental groups detest the democrats ( I'm sure they'd have preferred a Texas oil baron become president ) , the French president is guest of honour at the White House ( How times change ) and how a Donald Rumsfeld lookalike can become a presidential candidate for the republicans If you like romantic comedies you'll like this movie . If you like the idea of alternative universes you will love this movie . If you're Bill Clinton you will think this is how life should have turned out "},{"Title":"Can I give it a 0?","Date":"5 January 2001","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Complete waste of film - how can I get that 2 hours of my life back??? This film was just terrible. It wasn't realistic, it was incredibly left-wing liberal, and to top it off, it was boring. Michael Douglas does so much better in a drama or thriller role. This movie magnifies the fact he should leave romantic movies to the Richard Gere's of the world... "},{"Title":"Excellent comedy/romance/political film!","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"14 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm not usually the kind of person that enjoys a political film, but I found this film to very interesting, very fun and very entertaining.  Of course, this film is much more of a comedy/romance film than a political film, but nonetheless there are a great deal of political elements.  Some of the political aspects were strange and confusing, but that's just the nature of politics, is it not?The story is actually rather original (at least I think it is).  It's basically about a widower president that decides it's time to move on with his life and pursue other opportunities (if you catch my drift).  The story is very well done from start to finish and really has a lot of good things to say about politics, the media, relationships and what not.All the cast members involved did a fantastic job.  I'm not a huge fan of Michael Douglas (not really sure why) but he did a superb job and played a VERY likeable, fun president.  Someone that you would really like to know.  Martin Sheen also played an extraordinary Chief of Staff for the president and also played a very likeable guy.  Michael J. Fox did an excellent job with a role that I didn't expect great things from.  Michael deserves a great deal of credit for his role in this film.  Annette Bening...WOW!  She did a great job with her role and looks better than ever throughout the entire film.  I really liked her character, she also played a very warm and likeable character.  Samantha Mathis had a somewhat small role in the film, but nonetheless a very important one.  She really did a great job with her role and also looks fantastic throughout the film.  Finally, Richard Dreyfuss.  He also played a very small role, but an extremely important role and did a great job.  While he wasn't a very likeable character (he wasn't supposed to be liked), he played it perfectly.  Some other great supporting cast members include David Paymer, Anne Haney, Nina Siemaszko, Wendie Malick, and John Mahoney.I should also mention director Rob Reiner.  This guy is just great, he really does a fantastic job directing his films.  This is another great film to add to his already impressive list of credits.I would definitely recommend this film to anyone that likes light-hearted comedies and/or just romantic comedies.  This really is an excellent film and ought to be seen.  I hope that you will enjoy the film as much as I did.  Thanks for reading,-Chris "},{"Title":"More poignant than people seem to think...","Date":"9 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The first review I read here called parts of it sickly sweet, but I would have to disagree with that. There is no sickly to this movie, but yes it is sweet in parts. You can't have a love story without it...the reviewer also said there wasn't much political insight to the movie, but I would have to again disagree. Arbitrarily I would give about 45 or 50% to the political aspect. Michael Douglas and Richard Dreyfuss both give excellent performances to their respective characters. Andrew Shepherd (Douglas) is the laid back, yet intensely serious President (Democrat) who lost his wife shortly before his election, and all through the movie has to deal with a variety of national issues as well as a foreign one. One of the best lines in the film is when Shepherd and his advisors are talking about an air strike he ordered the day before that obliterated a Libyan military office building in downtown Tripoli, after ensuring they hit it when the least amount of people were in the building. After one of the advisors says his actions are very presidential, Shepherd responds that some janitor was probably cleaning up, not knowing he had just ordered the man killed...That was the least presidential thing I do. A very poignant moment indeed, and an excellent insight into the inner turmoil any president must feel in those kinds of circumstances.Senator Bob Rumson (Dreyfuss) (Yes, a Republican), meanwhile, is actively campaigning for a presidential election coming up. He latches onto a political tactic of attacking the current presidents budding relationship with Sydney Ellen Wade (Annette Bening), a political activist who slowly falls in love with Shepherd. Without describing every minute, the relationship plays a significant part in the story certainly, but the life of a president also peeks through all throughout the movie. The speech President Shepherd delivers in a press conference in defense of Sidney as well as his own presidency is in my mind genius, and is the crowning achievement of the movie. It was perfectly scripted and delivered...if the movie doesn't quite live up to political reality, it does come close indeed. It has heavy weight supporting cast, as well as carefully selected secondary supporting cast. It is simply an excellent 2 1/2 hours, and I watch it every time I can. "}{"Title":"This might be my wife's favorite movie.","Date":"2 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" What makes any movie someone's favorite? That isn't easy to define, and if I listed all my favorites it would make many scratch their heads because they are so varied. But this is one of my wife's favorites so we watched it yet again on this cold, rainy winter night the day after new year 2016. On DVD at home.Michael Douglas, about 50, is President Andrew Shepherd, going into the final year of his first term. He had become a widower shortly before the last election and he occupies the White House with his young teen daughter. he has a high approval rating, somewhere around 63% and is planning on pushing two pieces of legislation, one for gun-control and the other to reduce CO2 emissions to help arrest global warming.As a side note, here it is over 20 years later in the real world and the President is actually fighting for those same two issues, still meeting resistance from the manufacturing lobby and the gun lobby. Things don't change, do they?Anyway Annette Bening, in her mid-30s, is attractive and competent lobbyist Sydney Ellen Wade, working to help push through the environmental bill. When she first shows up at the White House for a meeting is thrown for a loop when the President, right after she is caught harshly criticizing him in the meeting, and he asks her to have lunch. Or something, Then she gets invited to be his date for a State Dinner honoring the French President.So the movie is about the President courting this smart and attractive lady while he and she work to get legislation passed. And at the same time dealing with insults and misinformation by Rumford, planning to run against the President.Martin Sheen has a good role as the Chief of Staff and Michael J. Fox, in his early 30s, as the speech writer. Good, fun movie. I like it also! "},{"Title":"Top talents in a soft commercial comedy...","Date":"10 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The Democratic U.S. President, a handsome widower with a teenage daughter who is up for re-election, finds his poll numbers dropping after meeting and dating an attractive environmental lobbyist; the Republican candidate (a slimy worm) combats what is left of the President's reputation with mud-slinging (seems the President's new lady was present at a rally some 17 years ago where an American flag was burned). Star-laden comedy juggles politics with romance and lightly comic asides, but why the President's approval rating keeps dropping never makes much sense (one woman worries about the poor First Daughter caught in the middle!). Aaron Sorkin's screenplay is pure fluff--even the dramatic points he hopes to make, such as a bungled metaphor about people following a mirage in the desert, are noodle-soft. In the leads, Michael Douglas and Annette Bening share a very nice chemistry, and they're surrounded by a wonderful assortment of acting talent, but the political arena director Rob Reiner gives us here simply isn't persuasive. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"The President and Ms. Wade ...","Date":"14 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Many people are viewed as cynical or snobs because they can't enjoy a nice little rom-com or a modern fairy-tale like Maid in Manhattan or Love Actually, but that's only because there are far superior films. The American President is one of them.This is my first time at the White House. I'm trying to savor the Capra-esque quality says Annette Bening to a guard, with a childish and communicative enthusiasm. In no doubt, this is the screenwriter's recognition of the spirit that guided him when he wrote the delightful romantic comedy The American President. Aaron Sorkin, last year's winner for The Social Network indeed insufflates a Capra-esque quality with a modern sauce to make the film an absolute delight.I can't believe the film got only one nomination for Best Original Score, and nothing for the Screenplay, for Rob Reiner's confident directing, or the art-design, considering its meticulous attention to recreate the Presidential environment. I'm not the greatest fan of romantic comedies, but when it reaches such a level of greatness, I think it should be dignified with a more Academic recognition. Take Annette Benign as Sydney, the environmentalist who conquers the President's heart, yes she's not playing a tormented character but within the range of emotions required for her role, she's perfect. She's cute, witty, with the mimics of a little girl, but also manages to be sensual and absolutely intimidating. She never even falls in the typical hard-to-get cliché, because she obviously is also attracted to Shepherd.On the other side, Andrew Shepherd, the titular president is charismatic, ultra-popular, but his specificity relies on his marital status, or as a matter of fact, its absence since he's a widower. Yet he immediately falls in love with Sydney, amazed by her striking good looks and intrigued by her exuberant yet indubitably brilliant personality. We believe that both characters fall in love so quick because they're genuinely appealing. And Shepherd's struggles to seduce Sydney, from the flowers to his own daughter's advice, conveys the state of mind of a man who's totally in love and in the meanwhile provides some of the film's best gags. I could have seen George Clooney playing Shepherd's role if the film was made today, but I doubt he'd pull off as much vulnerability and innocent enthusiasm as Douglas did.Douglas literally plays three characters, there's the President within his own staff and entourage, there's Andy the private man, and there's the President as a 'character' for the Press, the public and the Opposition. And it's thrilling that we never really know when he stops being President and when he becomes Andrew Shepherd or Andy, because Douglas carries this presidential aura like both a prestige and a handicap. For instance, he can date Sidney because no one can't say 'no' to the President', but he's still got to seduce her. He's the most powerful man in the world, but one can be wrong to believe it applies to every situation, especially the most intimate ones. The multi-layered personality serves the film's most comedic moments, but it also works as a powerful social commentary. Indeed, The American President is not just a feel-good romance or a witty comedy; it also affords to be a powerful political drama revealing the intricacies between politics and media.Crime control, environment, lobbyism, pre-election campaign, and the notion of 'character', this idea that the character count more than actions, says a lot about the vision of politics conveyed by the script, not so far from Capra's visions by the way. Andy even believed that If there had been a TV in every living room sixty years ago, this country wouldn't have elected a man in a wheelchair. Flirting with a witty cynicism, the film insists on the importance of appearances and illusions in a media-centric society, but it's only legitimate as long as it's not used to twist the truth. Beyond the comedic aspect, there's more depth in Douglas' character as a man who wants to act according to his beliefs and emotions, and not because he wants to please the crowd, not when it involves his privacy anyway, yet he's still stuck in his position as a President who has to answer to the Americans.In one poignant key-scene with A.J. Mackeray, his Chief of Staff and best friend, remarkably played by Martin Sheen, Andrew questions his own popularity and wonders if in a way; the cancer that took his wife away didn't pave his road to the White House by cementing a public empathy and make him relatively untouchable by the Opposition. The script is clever enough to let us judge by ourselves, Mackeray 'doesn't know but through the film, it's obvious that the romance with Sidney doesn't serve his political ambitions and plays the reverse role than his status as a widower. His own Press Secretary clumsily admits We've never gone wrong parading you around as the lonely widower. But nonetheless, Shepherd is appealing because he doesn't want to be 'an image' and it's this very integrity that hit a sensitive chord in Sydney, she doesn't fall in love just because he is what he is. The chemistry between the lead cuts straight to our hearts because of the solid characterization solid and top-notch writing, this is an adult and intelligent film.One of the best comedies of the 90's, The American President is also served by an impeccable gallery of supporting performances, from Richard Dreyfus as the Republican opponent Bob Rumson to Michael J. Fox, who steals the scene as Lewis, the Domestic Policy adviser. Fox gives such an electrifying performance that I wish he had more screen-time, his performance could have been Oscar-material.(All that said The American President is a flawless film, with maybe one little unforgivable mistake with all the attention paid to little details in order to create an authentic feeling, they could have afforded a Native French speaker to play the French President.) "},{"Title":"An Unpolitical President","Date":"1 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It should have been apparent when Written by Aaron Sorkin appeared on the screen, but government is only a tool in this film. Sorkin uses it with his usual degree of shrewdness, but political concerns are nothing more than an impetus - a joke. THE American PRESIDENT focuses on the most powerful man on the planet. To what is his power relegated? Jokes. Examining the film reveals that most references to political topics are implemented as gags. Shepherd's position of power is a running line, joined by federal disasters, Tel Aviv hostility, assassination, corruption, and dead Japanese leaders, only to name a few. These references are often planted into the script as irony, encouraging the audience to feel that the President deals with Middle Eastern militants like we do the dishes.The larger point of this is also tied to the remarkable success of the film. Sorkin knows every trick in the book and he is shamelessly employing them. Reiners directing is completely unremarkable, but it would be impossible to fail with this script. Why do the conservatives look bad? Because they care about family values. THE American PRESIDENT is the pinnacle of Hollywood Liberalism, or safe liberalism. Shepherd is the same as most people and entirely different from most people. The jokes and the sweetness all bank on Shepherd appearing as one of us. But he's not. The worst things people can do in this film are prioritize something that conflicts with a man who seems not to conflict with anything.THE American PRESIDENT, while being a terribly successful Rom-Com, teaches us something interesting about how Hollywood operates. This movie could hardly anger anyone. And that is precisely because of the script's perpetuation of contradiction and fantasy. The less political, the better.Michael Douglas and Martin Sheen both deliver knockout performances that manage to become something more than Sorkin's mouth.62.0000 "},{"Title":"Good fun","Date":"24 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" US President Andrew Shepherd is a widower who was sweep into power on the back of great public sympathy. Three years into his presidency he meets and falls for Sydney Ellen Wade, an environmental lobbyist. Eventually they begin to date against the counsel of his advisors, giving his rivals (most notably Senator Rumson) and the media the ammunition they need to begin to attack his presidency.This is not exactly a political thriller. In fact it is as far removed from reality as you could imagine. However that's the point, this film doesn't pretend to be anything other than a romantic comedy - it has some political wranglings but it is very far from the (still very tidy and clean) rule of Martin Sheen's President in TV's The West Wing. However the story is nicely handled and Rob Reiner is natually very good at this type of thing. Here it occasionally is far too sickly sweet and sentimental, but most of it works well.Douglas is good in the lead and looks quite acceptable as the President of the US - lets be honest, if it was him or oil baron Bush who would you pick? Bening is also good as Sydney but neither have anything outside of the usual romantic leads to do. The real strength here is the supporting cast - both in terms of class and sheer enterainment value.To name a few - Sheen, MJ Fox, Mathis, Dreyfuss - all big names, all funny performances.Overall this is a big sloppy romantic comedy, but it's done with so much class that it's hard not to like it. Not brilliant, but very enjoyable all the same. "},{"Title":"Great date film that makes you think","Date":"10 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I think this movie has it all. Humor, politics, romance and the fact that it indirectly led to the creation of a long running TV series. (West Wing) So many other movies set in DC are all drama or thrillers or complete spoofs. I think they overdid it a bit on the Bob Dole parody, but Michael Douglas is great as the President. If Gore and Kerry had combined humor with passion for their ideals the way Andrew Shepherd does, they may have done much better. Annette Bening does a great job portraying a sense of both intelligence and innocence. I did not really think the relationship seemed that unrealistic in terms of age difference. Martin Sheen seems more appropriate as an adviser to the President than as the Commander in Chief. All in all, an interesting fictional look at what things may be like behind the scenes in the White House. "},{"Title":"Wonderful fun and light-hearted comedy/romance!","Date":"7 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is such a fun movie to watch. Everyone is at their best here, and the chemistry between Douglas and Benning is perfect. They are so cute together. Sheen and Fox also add their special touches to create a great movie-going expereince.The writing is fantastic- but this is no surprise. Aaron Sorkin scored well a while later with The West Wing, which uses the exact same sets and Martin Sheen.Now, there are those who are incapable of seperating light entertainment from their own political beliefs and feel the need to insult individuals rather than stick to the premise of the film. That is too bad because you're missing out on a sweet, light-hearted romance. Unfortunately, in these polarizing times, even a film from the 90's figures into some people's anger. "},{"Title":"a great romance!","Date":"22 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  michael douglas was a great actor in this movie. playing the president, he is starting to get lonely and when he gets in some kind of political problem where he is attracted to the opposite party, things are slowly heating up with the president and the lady into the environment. there romance is one that should have never been, since he is the president and it could get too crazy with the fbi and the cia and all the important people that need quality protection.  there couldn't be that much privacy. but that's what the movie is showing us. the movie is showing that love will find a way, since love is a must in a person's life, in my opinion.  the movie uses the two actors that have the romance continuing regardless of their status of society. i loved the romance, and i strongly suggest that you should rent this one, and cuddle with the one you love. that's what the movie made me feel like. (A A-) "},{"Title":"Lovely movie","Date":"20 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Being the president and loving a girl at the same time is hard to do. Michael Douglas portrays the president and Anette Bening is the lovely president's girl. Richard Dreyfuss plays the role of an opponent running for the White House.  He is after the president moral.  This beautiful movie includes in the cast a lot of actors (Martin Sheen and Michael J. Fox are the most relevant).  Well narrated, well performed (specially Douglas and Bening) with a solid screenplay and a beautiful score.  Can you be president and love at the same time?  Excellent. "},{"Title":"Clever and charming","Date":"17 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Michael Douglas turns in one of his best performances as President Andrew Shepard in this clever blend of drama, romance, and comedy.  The film depicts the president and the people who surround him as real human beings - not just icons.  The acting is top-notch, most notably from Douglas, Annette Bening, Martin Sheen, and Michael J. Fox.  Marc Shaiman's quietly patriotic and nostalgic score further heightens the quality of the film.  This is one to treasure.  8/10     "}{"Title":"I get the weepies at the end every time...","Date":"21 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Very humorous, real, and touching story of a president's quest for the love of his life.  Michael Douglas and Annette Benning are the perfect actors for these roles.  Michael J Fox and Martin Sheen execute excellently in their supporting roles.  Although I'm a big Richard Dryfus fan and he did a great job in his role, this wasn't particularly a good part for him. "},{"Title":"The most romantic movie ever?","Date":"18 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  *Sigh*Watch The American President with anyone of the female persuasion, and that sound is going to be pretty prevalent.Aaron Sorkin, in addition to laying the groundwork for what would become the greatest dramatic series in television history (The West Wing), has created a nearly-perfect love story.Michael Douglas plays the idealized President.  He thinks things through, hearing advice from every member of his inner circle before making the tough decisions.  He is remorseful when he has to order a military strike, even in proportional response.There's one catch, though.He's a single father.In any other occupation, this would be something that would be easy to overlook.  However, in the real world, the President without a First Lady would be very conspicuous.Enter Annette Bening, a pit bull hired by the environmental lobby to try to force some legislation through.  After an awkward initial meeting and an even-more-awkward discussion in the Oval Office, the sparks fly and, soon enough, Ms. Bening goes to Washington as the President's date to a state dinner honoring the new President of France.The plot itself is unimportant.  For a Sorkin piece, it is fairly derivative of most romantic dramadies.  Sorkin, best known for edgier work like A Few Good Men, and the genre-busting Sports Night, plays it a little safer here.However, no one can spin a word like Aaron Sorkin, and the dialogue between Douglas and Bening is magical.  Even in unbelievable circumstances, both characters are completely fleshed-out, and you believe that there is a chance that these two crazy kids (well...maybe not KIDS...) could wind up together.Even though romantic movies are not typically my bag, The American President is not your typical romantic movie.  Are there better date movies?  Of course.  When Harry Met Sally, Casablanca, and the oft-maligned (though I don't understand why) Serendipity would probably make better rental choices as far as the best date movie.The difference between those (with the obvious exception of Casablanca) and The American President is that TAP works as more than just a romantic movie.  It works as a fine, overall piece of writing, acting, and directing. "},{"Title":"Positive review","Date":"10 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Contains Spoilers The American President is a romance, comedy, and mini-documentary into the workings of the American Presidency, all in one nicely-wrapped movie. This movie shows us the way the American Presidency should be. The cast is all-star, the acting and dialog superb, and all is backed up by a well-written screenplay and excellent directing.The American President stars Michael Douglas as American President Andrew Shepherd and Annette Bening as his love-interest and newly-arrived liberal environmental lobbyist Sydney Ellen Wade. The cast is round out with the talents of Michael J. Fox, Martin Sheen, Anna Deavere Smith, Richard Dreyfuss, John Mahoney and David Paymer with the writing talents of Aaron Sorkin and directed by Rob Reiner.President Andrew Shepherd is a liberal democrat who was elected after being widowed. Environmental lobbyist Sydney Ellen Wade is new to Washington and eager to make an impression on her co-worker. President Shepherd walks into a meeting just as Ms. Wade is making a statement of the President and his environmental record. Playing on her comments, the President states, `Let's take him out back and beat the crap out of him!' Realizing her faux pas, she's embarrassed. The President is intrigued. He asks her into the oval office where he proceeds to ask her to eat with him. She's embarrassed and a bit intimidated.From this point on, the movie works its way around the workings of the Presidency and, at the same time, the beginnings of a romance. Can the American President, arguably the most powerful man in the world, date someone while in office?Of course The President's conservative Republican opponents rally to criticize Shepherd dating a lobbyist, especially one outspoken on human and planet rights which fly in the face of the Republicans. How does a President date someone while in office? Having only been married and in love with his late wife, Shepherd wants to do things personally. He continually runs into roadblocks. He gets Ms. Wade's phone number, while she has yet to have a phone, and calls her at her sister's house. She believes the call to be a friend playing a joke on her and compliments the President on his `great ass.' When the President calls back, he tells her to call the White House operator, where they are expecting her call. Realizing she's made another faux pas, she apologizes over and over enduring herself to the President.The President wants to personally send Ms. Wade flowers. He doesn't want to `staff it out.' He wants to do it himself. But all of his personal belongings, including his credit cards, are in a storage facility. And, of course, florists do not believe him when he orders flowers, says he's the President and asks them to bill the White House. How many Presidents do we know who would do such a thing? How does the American President bring a date home when the White House is full of support staff and always has reporters? How does he spend an evening with his romantic interest and his daughter, when the world is demanding his attention? How will his daughter accept his new romantic interest and how will they resolve the issue of the daughter's mother, his former wife with his new romance?Their first date is at a White House dinner with several dignitaries from all over the world in attendance and they joke around about it being a `typical first date.' This sets the stage for the entire movie and the difficulties they will face.Douglas and Bening are very believable in their roles and make you want the romance to work out. Right after their first kiss, in the `Dish Room,' the President is called away to deal with a bombing on American property. Is this an omen?The love story of this movie does not get in the way of the comedy, nor does the workings of the Presidency override the love story. In fact it adds to and compliments it, much like a good wine compliments a steak, as opposed to overpowering the meal.Both Shepherd and Sydney are trying to get bills passed, and Shepherd at one time lets his aides use Sydney's bill to further his political goals. Instead of trying to work both through, the politics show. Shepherd tells Sydney it's `not personal' but as long as he is The President and she is a lobbyist, everything is personal.Realizing that he has been worrying about keeping his job, and not doing his job, Shepherd begins to take a stand and do the right thing. Always steering clear of the `mud flinging' that is so popular in politics now, he finally takes a stand and makes his statement. His aides sigh a breath of relief and the rallying begins.Most critics agree that this movie is well written and worthy of viewing. Roger Ebert gave it a four-star rating. He comments, `It is hard to make a good love story, harder to make a good comedy and harder still to make an intelligent film about politics. Rob Reiner's `The American President' cheerfully does all three, and is great entertainment.' are right on the money.Films such as JFK show the inner workings of the Presidency and often times become mired down in the muck. The American President keeps a light heart around it and keeps the laughs coming. This film does a good job of entertaining, informing and giving us hope. Hope that our President will be worried about doing his job, and not just keeping his job. "},{"Title":"Liked the film, loved Annette Bening","Date":"9 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was a pretty good movie.  I enjoyed Michael Douglas' portrayal of the president, as well as the performance of Michael J. Fox.  It was interesting to contrast Martin Sheen's portrayal of the presidential aide versus his portrayal of the president in another Aaron Sorkin production -- The West Wing.  And Richard Dreyfus was terrific as Douglas's opponent, Senator Rumson.  But it was Annette Bening's performance that made this movie more than pedestrian. She lit up the screen whenever she was on it.  When Warren Beatty married her, some asked what the prototypical ladies' man saw in this relative unknown.  After watching her in this movie, all MY questions were answered.  Based on this film, he is a lucky man. "},{"Title":"Great Romantic Comedy (it's not supposed to be political!)","Date":"8 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've read a bunch of idiotic comments chastising this movie for its lack of a strong political message, or statements that it wasn't a well executed political film.Guess what?  IT'S NOT SUPPOSED TO BE.This movie is a romantic comedy.Yes, a Romantic Comedy.As such, it succeeds admirably.  It is romantic, and it is a comedy.Why should the arena of the White House be exempt from Romantic Comedy? Why must so many assume that simply BECAUSE it is SET in the White House, that it must, perforce, be a political film.How silly is that?  So, any film set in a college or university setting is about higher education.  Any film set in a small town is about small town life, any film set anywhere is about the arena in which it is set.(banging head against wall)  No, no, no, no, no, no, no.The director used the ARENA of the White House in order to mine comedy out of it, not politics.  Anyone who doesn't understand that is missing the point to an extent that is actually quite scary.The American President  Romantic Comedy (see where it is catalogued in any video store)  Rating 8 out of 10.  Very funny, romantic, with some fun silliness that can, if you let it, cause a laugh out loud reaction.  Great date movie, great hang out and laugh and giggle movie -- and fun for guys too.Any questions or arguments, see above. ;) "},{"Title":" You've got more things to worry about than losing me...you just lost my vote","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Michael Douglas is brilliant as Andrew in this amazing romance movie. The remaining cast is perfect. The costumes are gorgeous. One of the good films in the genre, The American President will press the viewer to accomplish the impossible for love. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"No just another love story","Date":"12 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is the seed of The West Wing, many of the actors followed on to the TV series.The sub-text is great, typical of Aaron Sorkin.  Michael Douglas' speech in the White House briefing room towards the end of the movie is, impactwise, up there with Jack Nicholson's speech in A Few Good Men. "},{"Title":"Good Premise, Good Actors, But Not Exactly a Great Film...","Date":"5 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"   The American President, starring Michael Douglas, Annette Benning, Martin Sheen, and Michael J. Fox has a good premise, and carries strong through the first half, but eventually deteriorates into your average, run-of-the-mill, predictable romantic drama/comedy. The strong performances by both lead actors an co-stars makes The American President a definite must-see. Just don't expect anything too great. 3/5 stars-John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Works well!","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am one of those people that has always been interested in politics. I plan on entering that field someday, and that's why I liked this movie. It shows what our president has to go through, and adds the romantic story so well. I've always been a fan of Michael J. Fox and he's great in this movie. The cast all do an excellent job. I'm not sure what it was, but I felt just a little something missing from the film. But it was still an excellent movie. "},{"Title":"Homage to Hollywood's Golden Age.","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Widowed U.S. president Michael Douglas falls in love in D.C. lobbyist Annette Bening, but a whole host of problems present themselves in this little film that has the best elements of the Golden Age written all over it. Richard Dreyfuss is appropriately slimy as Douglas' arch-nemesis and supporters Martin Sheen, David Paymer and Michael J. Fox add good moments as presidential advisors. Rob Reiner's smart direction raises a questionable screenplay and in the end The American President is a strong production. 4 stars out of 5. "}{"Title":"pretty darn good movie","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Conservatives for years have been blasting away at Hollywood for being left-leaning, biased freaks who only want to push an agenda. This movie gives them more fuel for their fire. It has to be full of the most liberal ideological rhetoric than almost any other film I've seen.That said, it's a pretty darn good movie.The dialogue is generally witty and well-written, and the story is very palpable and hardly ever lags. The acting is great, and everyone is cast perfectly. It almost seems like you're inside the Clinton White House (the idealistic liberal's dream of the Clinton White House). Michael J. Fox fits as the George Stephanopolis-type (or however you spell that name), and Andy Shepherd is classic Democrat presidential material.My only beef with the movie was that when the characters were spouting on about the environment and how guns automatically equal crime (rhetorical question how come the European country which allows everyone to keep a fully automatic gun in their house -- Switzerland -- also has one of the lowest crime rates in the world? Hmmmmm....), the movie became a little preachy. But, hey, it's about politics; I guess that's the way it's supposed to be, right?Overall, 3 out of 4 stars.  "},{"Title":"This has got to be one of my most favorite movies!!!","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I loved everything about this film! The actors are among my very favorites. The characters were wonderful and excellently portrayed. Such fun inside look at the presidency. A great mix of romance, drama and comedy! I have seen this film at least 25 times and never tire of it. For anyone that hasn't seen it you must right away!!  "},{"Title":"Great film but Michael J. Fox miscast","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A great film that looks at the politics of America and where does the public life and private life of a President cross. What ruined the film for me was Michael J. Fox. I could not see him as a top aide to the President... A teen ager in that job....He is too young to play that role. The way he talked to Congressmen on the phone would have cost hin his job.  A more mature actor should have played the role .Send Fox Back to the Future "},{"Title":"no thanks","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I turned this film off about an hour or so into it. Not that it was a bad film, but becuase, to me, it's nothing more than a two-hour Democratic Party infomercial. It's not enough for Aaron Sorkin to tell a story, there has to be a liberal agenda to be pushed along with it. If you're a liberal person and you liked this film, I'm happy for you. For me, I say, no thanks. "},{"Title":"A wonderful, entertaining film.","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is well written, very well acted and leaves the viewer feeling warm and content. Michael Douglas has done a superb job of acting the man inside the President, revealing that the President is just a human being. Annette Bening is totally convincing in the role of Sydney Ellen Wade. Both Actors compliment each other perfectly. The supporting actors too have done a grand job of supporting, even though they are stars in their own right.If you have not seen this film, you have a treat in store. "},{"Title":"An excellent view","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is an enjoyable, and well acted film.  Michael Douglas, Annette Bening & Martin Sheen are excellent.  How accurately it portrays the White House I'm not sure, but I found it interesting and completely captivating.  The story line is fun, and the actors make it believable.  Michael J Fox plays Lewis and underplays him, which makes it work very well.  Martin Sheen is particularly good and it is easy to see why he was cast as the President in West Wing, which was apparently spawned by American President.  To sum up, American President is romantic, funny and great fun.  I recommend it.  "},{"Title":"A feel good romantic comedy, a little cheesy, but well done.","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was a feel good romantic comedy, starring Michael Douglass and Annette Bening as the two romantics.  Douglass is the President of the United States, while Bening is the hard nosed, workaholic, successful Sydney Ellen Wade, who at first was sent to meet with the President to gain his backing behind an environmental bill.  However, it wouldn't be much of a romantic comedy if they didn't fall in love with each other, which is exactly what happens.  What, the President having an affair?  No, he is a widowed father to a daughter who amazingly supports her dad and even helps him court Sydney as he becomes closer to her.  What a good kid, not realistic, but a nice thought.The thing that makes this worth watching is first of all the quality of acting.  This movie may not knock you off your feet or change the way you watch movies, but it does a really good job of keeping your attention.  Douglass plays a President who just wants Sydney to see him as Andy, not Mr. President, all while Sydney is under pressure from the firm that originally hired her to change the President's views on the environment for getting involved personally with him.  Not to mention the fact that the media is all over their relationship.  After they find out that Sydney stayed the night at the White House, the President's impeccable approval rating during an upcoming election year suddenly begins to plummet.  Anyways, without giving any more of the movie away, let me just say that I gave it a 9 simply because the acting was so good in it.  It's great to see a movie that doesn't have any special effects, but leans upon good acting to sell the characters.  Don't get me wrong, this isn't the Shawshank Redemption or Goodwill Hunting, but it is still worth your time, especially if you're tired of movies that don't make sense and rely soley on big explosions and special effects to sell themselves.  "},{"Title":"I Don't Think Michael Douglas Has Ever Been Better","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of those movies that makes you glad they make 'em like they use to. Michael Douglas leads the cast as President Andrew Shepherd. What I like most about this particular presidential performance is that it seems so real. He seems like an Average Joe who just happens to be President of the United States. I don't think Michael Douglas has ever been better. Then there is Annette Bening. This is also one of her best performances. She gives Sidney Ellen Wade flare, charisma and above all, a human touch. The two leads play off each other very well and really make you like them. Yes there are numerous political situations throughout. What did you expect? It's a story about the president. The story is a little far-fetched but who cares. It gives you an opportunity to see the role of the president from a different side. Great movie! "},{"Title":"Aaron Sorkin strikes again","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Having recently been engrossed by the sheer beauty that is The West Wing it came as no shock to me when I realised Aaron Sorkin wrote/directed The American President. Both are very similar, both are great and if you ever want to watch a movie about life then you can't go past this one. "},{"Title":"Perceptive and powerful cocktail of romance and politics","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is an enjoyable, romantic comedy-drama, with some quickfire dialogue reminiscent of classic Hollywood screwball comedies; but with a real political sting in its tail (as in the more recent The Contender.) Though the foreground romantic plot is typically  unbelievable, the White House  background is realistic; and at least one of the two political issues raised - environmental protection and gun control - is still highly topical. (What wouldn't the environment lobby give for this movie's President in office today!?) One of the mottoes of the film is politics is perception, and director Bob Reiner demonstrated his perceptiveness by making this movie, in which the President's personal life becomes an issue, before Monica Lewinski even became an intern.  Michael Douglas as the widowed Democratic President, Andrew Shepherd, gives a star performance that's as powerfully commanding when he's being Presidential, as it's charming and romantic in the love scenes with a radiant Annette Bening as his lobbyist girlfriend. In support, Martin Sheen puts on the hat of Chief of Staff before being promoted to President in The West Wing; Michael J Fox tries out in serious mode the role of political aide he later developed more comically in Spin City; and for once Richard Dreyfuss, as Shepherd's Republican rival, is more unctuous than irascible.        "}{"Title":"Great for a romantic day.","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of my favorite genres; a romantic comedy. Both Michael Douglas and Annette Bening are great in this very romantic movie. I immediately fell in love with the character of Miss Wade, who starts out so confident but is swept away by the president. They made a lovely and believable couple and enjoyed watching every part of it. But there's more that just romance and comedy. It also shows the dark side of public opinion, which results in a great speech by the president. This gave the movie a little bit extra and made it more that just a fun romantic comedy. "},{"Title":"A beautiful history of love !","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The history of love enters a president of the United States widower and a lawyer in the service of the environmentalist cause. Rob Reiner makes us share the intimacy of the tenant of the White House in this carefully packed romantic comedy, the humor of which protects us from any preciousness. "},{"Title":"American President the romantic comedy that never fails to entertain","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The combination of Rob Reiner's excellent direction and this all-star cast makes for a movie that is highly entertaining, touching, and serious. Michael Douglas shines as the president of the United States, Andrew Shepherd. His charisma and his manner make him the ideal presidential candidate, and his acting is perfection, specifically around his daughter Lucy (played by innocent Shawna Waldron) and political analyst Sydney Ellen Wade (Annette Bening at her best). Bening breathes life and spark into her character; her romantic and anger-filled scenes with Douglas are a delight to watch. Martin Sheen, Michael J. Fox, and David Paymer (as the president's top aides) provide both comedy and conflict to the film, and even the smaller characters such as Mrs. Chappill and Lucy are interesting and perfectly cast. I own the movie, and it brightens my day whenever I watch it, no matter what kind of mood I'm in. Even after countless (and I mean countless;just ask my family and friends!) viewings, it never fails to make me laugh and cry.   "},{"Title":"An American gem from Rob Reiner.","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Douglas is the suitably regal head of an excellent ensemble cast.  Sheen shines as his top aide, while Fox scores as the conscience of the cabinet.A warm and funny comedy emerges from the most unlikely place The White House!  Adults will be rapt with this pressured romance, while kids may even learn something about politics and government.A must see. "},{"Title":"Aaron Sorkin warms my heart once again!","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Aaron Sorkin has the heart of a lion, and the soul of a liberal. Watching this movie again today, I recall that the eight years of Bill Clinton's presidency were mostly uplifting ones--filled with a lot of progress on all fronts. The movie does touch upon some of the more salacious points which were brought up, but in all fairness, these points are those of the president's personal life, and NOT those brilliant and shrewd policies which marked his presidency more frequently.People who don't like this movie are missing that point--that the President of the United States has the right to his personal life, whether good or bad, and that it's his public image which is the only one that anyone should be examining in any depth.Too much today, everyone in this country is getting a more intrusive look at their personal life.  Too many people are getting their 15 minutes of fame and much more, and privacy flies out the window.  Should we really know how many men that an actress has slept with or how many women an actor has managed to marry and ditch?  Or any combination thereof?  Do we have the RIGHT to pry into ANYONE else's private life?  Isn't that why it's called a PRIVATE life?Shouldn't the President of the United States also have some semblance of a personal life, without his laundry being shown to the whole world?  This movie brings to bear all the reasons this country is filled with so much hatred, so much anger, and so much fear.  It is because we are too angry to help our fellow men and women, it is because we are too afraid of them because of their color, their religion, their thoughts, their belief systems, and their ideas.In order to make this nation number one again, we need to stop burying our heads in the sand, stop trying to convert others to our ways of thinking, and merely REACH OUT with an open hand, and stop invading their privacy. It's when people learn to respect others, without making any kind of judgements about their deeds and actions, that we will once again be the best place on earth to live.And this film brings all of those points to the light, in ways some people never will be able to. "},{"Title":"President scores hot babe in Oval Office","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Excellent film depicting a single president and his aides efforts to keep his popularity high while juggling a couple of high profile bills and an affair with a liberal lobbyist. The producers didn't bother to hide the blatant anti-gun rhetoric which was a constant theme running throughout the entire showing. Pure propaganda that should be popular with those who think guns kill people.  "},{"Title":"A fun flick","Date":"7 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is decidedly what most folks would call a Chick Flick. However, every man I have talked with who has seen it also liked it. The cast is really great and they jelled. I particularly liked Michael J. Fox's performance. Michael Douglas seems very natural as the President, the sign of a great actor (and excellent casting). He plays a widower who begins to date a woman (Annette Bening) while he is the President. The story has a lot of humor as the press grabs the story and all of a sudden, the romance becomes front-page news. The story moves along nicely and has no trouble keeping your interest. It's such a fun film that I was sorry to see it end. Look for a good performance from Richard Dreyfuss as Senator Bob Rumsen. "},{"Title":"schmalz, but good schmalz","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Plenty of 'big movie' style in this film, but the message is sweet and the balance between the majesty of being President and being a person struggling with love and conviction is winning, if superficial.  A great chic flick, too.  (Sorry, but it is.)  "},{"Title":"Michael Douglas as the leader of the free world...YES!","Date":"30 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"       Of all the `president' movies that I have ever seen, this one ranks #1.  Michael Douglas is great as President Andrew Shepherd, an incumbent president running for re-election.  Oh yea, did I mention that his wife died just before his election into office, and he has decided, after meeting a lobbyist by the name of Sydney Ellen Wade (Annette Bening), that he is ready to date again.        Well, his cabinet members and re-election team doesn't think he should, and throughout this whole movie there is conflict over whether or not he should be dating during an election.  Michael J. Fox is brilliant in his role as Lewis Rothschild, Shepherds' press secretary.  Not since Back to the Future II has it been such a pleasure to watch Fox do what he does best.      Martin Sheen joins this all-star cast as A.J. MacInerney, whom is first and foremost President Shepherd's long time best friend and also happens to be his Chief of Staff.  Annette Bening is superb as the love interest of the president, and is very funny at times.      The choice of actors in this film is outstanding, and the script is very well written.  The American President is not only a great drama, but also a well-written original screenplay. When watching this film you will develop genuine empathy for President Shepherd and his wanting to date but everyone telling him he shouldn't.      There isn't much wrong with this film that isn't technical, which is one of the reasons why I rated this film as high as I did.  Of all the things I liked about this movie, by far the ending was it's greatest part.  I think many of the filmmakers that I have reviewed could, and should, look at the ending to this film and take notes.  "},{"Title":"Worth your vote","Date":"14 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There really is no question about it--romantic comedy is the toughest genre of moviemaking to get right. If any aspect of the production is off, the project is doomed from the start. 1994's Speechless was poorly acted, written, and directed (and a financial flop, too), so it looked as though politics and romance could never mix again. And while 1995 offered up some nice context-free tries (Forget Paris, While You Were Sleeping, French Kiss), the only romantic comedy that got it absolutely right was the topical one-- The American President, Rob Reiner's wistfully funny and charming contraption that gave Michael Douglas his best role in years. As Andrew Shepard, a liberal commander-in- chief who flips for a spunky environmental lobbyist (the sparkling Annette Bening), Douglas seems about 15 years younger. It's a great time at the movies, one worth your vote. "}{"Title":"An old fashioned romantic comedy","Date":"14 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you're looking for a good old fashioned romantic comedy, if you'll allow that to be a high compliment, then this is the film for you.  It stars Michael Douglas and Annette Benning in the best roles I've seen them in (I haven't seen Benning in American Beauty yet).  Douglas is widowed President Andrew Shepherd and Benning plays Sydney Ellen Wade, a Washington lobbyist. Their love affair unfolds against the background of the President running for re-election and quite convincingly puts Douglas in the White House. The story doesn't shortchange the political details either.  It shows the backstage details and deals that we all know probably take place in politics but would rather ignore.  Shepherd isn't just some cookie cutter movie politician who doesn't believe in anything and espouses no ideals.  Whether you agree with the politics or not you have to admire the screenwriter for at least taking a stand.  I won't spoil the love story but I will say that it leads in sometimes unexpected directions and is totally involving.  The casting is uniformly excellent and I especially liked Martin Sheen as Shepherd's Chief of Staff and Shawna Waldron as his daughter Lucy.  If you like romantic comedies then you should definately see this one. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable and well acted","Date":"21 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Just a tad low on credibility, this film makes it all up by being well written, well acted and directed. There are moments in this movie that you just long to see, and it is pretty funny at some points.The factual errors of this film are also easy to overlook - it is too enjoyable to bother about them. The fact that Andrew Shepherd is THE perfect president is, however, a bit too unbelievable. From an outsider's view, no American president has ever been so caring, just and decisive, all at once. But forget about that. This film isn't about the truth. It's a romantic comedy, and as such, it really works well.Even the harmless little Michael J. Fox performs well, which is really remarkable. "},{"Title":"Really lovely romance...","Date":"15 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As a romance film buff, I would have to put 'The American President' in my top three favourites.  It is just a lovely film, underrated in cinemas and not pounded on video release.  It's quiet, realistic (the personalities, not the situation) and it has the twist of the presidency in order to give it a bit of extra bite.  It is sensitively written, encompasses a large supporting cast with out isolating the main story.  It comments not only on romance but the state of politics and society, whilst remaining easy to watch and follow.  All in all its a great film, even if it hasn't got the big A list hitters starring in it.   "},{"Title":"Best date movie!","Date":"18 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you are looking for light humor and funny dialogue this movie is definitely for you. With beautiful actors, the plot isn't anything deep or Oscar winning, but it is sweet and good to see in order to be cheered up.Although this movie lacks some depth, it is brilliantly played out and just that is worth seeing.  Of course, my favorite part of the whole movie were sharp exchanges between the President and his girl friend. Not to mention, this movie is very patriotic in the best sense of the word.Whether you are looking for romance, a laugh or anything else, this maybe a movie for you.  "},{"Title":"Predictable ending.","Date":"7 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The flow of the story is nothing unexpected, so one has to focus at the other virtues of the movie. I have to say it is the best Michael Douglas performance I have seen (and oh I really dislike M.D.!) and the little technical details about the White House insiders are taken good care of. Although the movie ends in an ethical way, (i.e. the Pres is pro gun-control and pro pollution-control), this is a good thing to do for the President of the superpower, but this is a bad thing to do for a movie. Too predictable. "},{"Title":"A jewel of a film.","Date":"12 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one for the budding DVD collection!  Few are the romantic comedies out on the shelves that don't provoke the gag reflex, and political ANYTHING has a tendency to poison all art forms it touches.  AP dodges these bullets effortlessly and still maintains its poise for the entire duration of the story.  Douglas, Dreyfuss, Bening, Fox and Sheen pull together some great character dynamics, Sorkin knows just where to put a joke and just where to jerk a tear, and Reiner's direction is gorgeous.  My only regret was the Wisconsin scene cut from the script that gave an extra human touch to the delicate issue of differing beliefs within a family.  Truth flash to the extremists out there we don't all have to agree all the time!Rent this.  Rent this now, and get a set of dumbbells while you're at it, because when it's over you're gonna want Annette's biceps! "},{"Title":"An excellent movie and a must see.","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think this is a terrific movie.  Being a Canadian, I must admit I was hesitant to see it, because I had heard that there was a lot of American politics in it.  However, I found it to have just the right combination of politics, comedy and romance.  Michael Douglas plays a great president, and Annette Bening does a great job of portraying an ordinary woman who falls in love with the President.  Michael J. Fox and Martin Sheen play excellent roles also.  The comedy was great, and the movie touched on some really relevant issues (gun control, environmental concerns, and international conflicts) which a real President would have to deal with.  All in all, excellently done.  This movie is a must see.   "},{"Title":"I never get tired of this movie!","Date":"9 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The American President is a classic story of a guy trying to get a girl.  But there is one twist; one of them happens to be the President of the United States.  This wonderfully written script is like no others in my book.  I think the characters are superb.  I own this movie and watch it at least twice a week, and never get tired of it.  There's just something about the whole idea that is just grabs me every time. "},{"Title":"A must-see movie!","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this in my government class and I thought it was a sweet love story, quite similar to the relationship between President Woodrow Wilson and rich widow Edith Bolling Galt.Michael Douglas and Annette Bening are excellent in Rob Reiner's funny, yet romantic film. "},{"Title":"Girls like that. So do guys.","Date":"12 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The American President is really an amazing piece of art. It is a romantic comedy that hits the spot for all us hopeless romantics out there. Michael Douglas is charming and Annette Bening is stunning. The movie speaks of many issues with wisdom and beauty. A star studded cast works wonders for the film and makes the movie, in a way, regal. I loved it and so will everyone else! "}{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"12 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is my favourite. I have about 600 movies at home but I see this movie at least once in a month. Annette Bening is, according to my, the best movie player in the world. But also the play of Michael Douglas, Martin Sheen and Michael J. Fox is wonderful. "},{"Title":"Funny and touching look behind the scenes at the White House","Date":"24 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of my favorite movies of the last few years. Michael Douglas and Annette Bening shine in the lead roles, and the supporting actors (Martin Sheen, Michael J. Fox, David Paymer and the others) are outstanding. "},{"Title":"Simple story, excellent movie","Date":"23 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie shows that a good movie doesn't need a brilliant story. The plot is no more than the president has a girlfriend. Yet the dialogs, details and acting make this an excellent movie that makes the viewer laugh, cry and enjoy. There's not a boring moment in the movie and at the end the viewer is left with a warm feeling inside. This is what entertainment should be. Very recommendable viewing material! "},{"Title":"Tasty...well worthy of the big-name cast!","Date":"13 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Call me a bedwetting liberal and a sucker for Michael J. Fox, but this was a jewel of a film.  The round characters complemented one another rather than clashing horribly, and the flat characters were used well to open the viewer's eyes to modern politics' dangerous manipulation of ethics and values for politicians'- and special interest groups'- own selfish aims.Contrary to certain perceptions, I don't think this film was shamelessly promoting any political agenda.  It was simply carrying with it a basic moral theme tied in with a handful of modern issues.  It did the whole thing while carefully limiting its irresistible cuteness to avoid looking like it had been produced by the Olsen twins. And I want Annette Benning's biceps! "},{"Title":"Clever, entertaining and up-lifting","Date":"28 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is an extremely well written and crafted romantic commedy with good visuals, good musical score and fine acting.  In my view, it is a classic in its genre.  I am particularly impressed by the development of the minor characters in the film and the attention to the writing for them.  And, as a non-American, it is up-lifting to see the president and the white house staff both behaving in ways that deserve the respect that is due the office and being shown it. "},{"Title":"A great film","Date":"25 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I recently saw this movie on TV and it is brilliantly directed and acted especially by Benning. Benning shows a very realistic passion about the issues for which she is fighting for. Sheen and Douglas also do a great job in making 2 characters with a long standing friendship very believable. Michael J. Fox played the stereotypical intellectual yuppie (George Stephanopolis perhaps?) and I am getting tired from seeing Back to the Future Boy in this type of role. You also have to appreciate the part played by Richard Dreyfuss (Bob Runson) as the typical out of touch Republican presidential candidate. I loved the line My name is Bob Runson, and I'm running for president and then Michael Douglas says Thanks for clearing that up for us Bob, I thought you were trying to sell us all Amway products.In summary America needs more of these feel good about America movies. I thought it was a surprising treat.Brilliantly written, brilliantly casted, brilliantly directed and decently acted.*** 1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Bening's facial expressions are priceless!!","Date":"25 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw The American President on TV last night, plus I've seen it 3 times on video.  Annette Bening does a wonderful job!!  Her facial expressions are priceless.  The kisses between President Shepard and Sydney are quite lovely-----NOT as is so often the case with Hollywood----a Great White Shark feeding frenzy. The interaction between the White House Staff and the President was interesting---sometimes funny. "},{"Title":"Great Script, Great Direction, Great Performances.","Date":"8 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Rob Reiner and Aaron Sorkin's last collaboration, A Few Good Men was a tremendous success with me.  I thought that the simple conflict was exploited in a very enthralling and entertaining fashion.  Based on this work, I was very excited to see The American President, especially since it starred one of my favourite actors, Michael Douglas.  I was just as impressed with this film.The story had that intelligent humour and interesting story that worked so well for A Few Good Men.  Douglas and Bening had a great chemistry which blended well with their strong performances.  I found myself laughing and crying at the same time.  I empathised with the tragedy in President Sheppard's situation and I was moved by his handling of it.  There are fine performances by the supporting class, especially by Michael J. Fox in a role he was born to play (it's Alex Keaton meets Marty McFly).This movie is thoroughly entertaining and moving.  It will play with all your emotions, from the opening scene with its fantastic musical score to the film's final shot. "},{"Title":"Annette Bening is terrific","Date":"19 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie should be seen just for the acting of Annette Bening.  She seems to be so natural.  This movie surely won't be the same without here presence.  About the movie by itself, it's very interesting for somebody like me, who's not an american, to see the inside life of the White House, even if we know that it's not really like that in real life... "},{"Title":"Schmaltzy, but nice","Date":"5 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There's no question that this movie pushes all the right buttons. It is very cute and plays on your emotions. In spite of the fairly predictable plot and the rehash of the familiar themes and characters, you can't help but like it. Yet another movie with more polish than substance, but if that's what you're looking for in a soft romantic comedrama, you'll enjoy this movie. "}{"Title":"Charming","Date":"4 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Here is one movie that is truly charming and filled with romance. Michael Douglas is as likeable as he can be, and Anette Bening can simply break walls with her smile. The movie is smart, not too sentimental and an absolute must for all fans of romantic comedies. "},{"Title":"Beautifully acted (especially Bening)_ comedy/drama that leaves you with a warm patriotic glow!","Date":"26 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw The American President on TV very recently.  I loved it so much that I ran out and purchased the video.  The White House problems currently in the news had a depressing effect on me and my family.  The American President was a happy antidote.  It is a comedy but not a mindless one. The acting is superb especially Annette Bening and you regain your love and confidence and shout God Bless America! "},{"Title":"Brilliant!","Date":"13 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Extraordinary movie about an extraordinary president. I would vote for Andrew Shepherd right now if I had the chance.The writers did a fantastic job of portraying the game of politics, the intricacies of a blossoming new relationship, and the balance between the two. Douglas was phenomenal in this role, as was Annette Benning. I came away from it feeling energized in several ways.I highly recommend this movie to anyone and everyone. I would even recommend that it be shown in civics courses in high school and college - not for the love story, which I really felt was secondary to the story about the workings of government. Although, make no mistakes about it, the love story was just as fantastic! "},{"Title":"A Political Feel-Good Movie. (no, not an oxy-moron)","Date":"26 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A beautifully crafted film that works on every level.It gives you great insight into American politics, particularly re-election but politics is just one thread woven through this superb tapestry of a tale.The romance is beautifully crafted, with just the right amounts of humour, nervousness and sensuality.The supporting cast are well served by a sparkling script; Sheen, Fox and Waldren get some great one liners And just wait for the quality and majesty of Andrew Shepherd's press conference at towards the end of the film "},{"Title":"The American President as a normal person","Date":"26 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie appeared before the American president as a hero movies (ID4 and Airforce One) but it still a very pro-American president movie. At the time of this movie, there was no hint of disgrace within the Presidency. It was late 1997, 1998 that the whole Monica Lewinsky and Paula Jones affairs hit the media. Nixon and the affairs of Watergate are far behind us so the president was somebody to look up to and admire. Somebody to follow and worship and a position to aspire to. What surprised me about this movie though is that it made the President a normal person. President Andrew Shepherd (Michael Douglas) is a single president, actually a widower. His wife died during his election campaign and this was used successfully to elect him to office. He did not use it because Andrew Shepherd is portrayed as an honest president who loved his wife dearly, but the events that transpired severely hindered the opposition. One day, while debating a bill, an environmental lobbyist decided to speak her mind to the president and this impressed him. He is surrounded by people calling him sir and Mr President even his best friend refuses to treat him as an equal, and thus he is lonely. He is not a megalomaniac, but rather a president that wants the best for people. He is one that wants to serve the people and not be considered to be too important to talk to normal people. Unfortunately, as president, he cannot escape this. A normal walk down the White House brings marine soldiers saluting him, and he cannot go anywhere without the press following him. He cannot even have a private relationship without the press plastering it all over the papers and the opposition using it against him. The movie is not about the President trying to get this girl, he has her right from the beginning. Rather it deals with the pressures of public life and the problems that they put on the relationship. The real struggles come from the guilt that his girlfriend (Annette Bening) has in regards to the president's daughter, and the fact that people will accuse her of manipulating the president. The greater problem, the one the movie is focused around, it the president struggling with the nature of his private life. He refuses to bring his relationship into the open, nor to defend it, while his opponent is constantly attacking it by dragging up the past. One theme that came through this movie is the realisation of the problems of being president. The major one is the publicity of his private life. The press follows him everywhere and everybody knows what he did with his girlfriend. The first time she spent the night over there, everybody in America knew. Thus I think this movie is an attack against the publicity of some of these lives. It depends on the person &#x96; some like to have their lives publicised, while others just can't escape from the press. Generally people do not like the press questioning their activities, especially when they are illegal. In this movie, it is not illegal, but rather private. The American President is a comedy though, but most of the comedy is focused around reactions of normal people to the American President. He has a habit of going out to the people and meeting them face to face. In this movie we laugh at the thing people do when they are nervous, especially when the President rings up. We laugh even more at the way people grovel to him, and their disbelief in the fact that he is personally calling them. This movie forces us to accept the president as a normal person, somebody who loves, hates, and does everything else that we do. "},{"Title":"Feel-Good Fantasy Number Two.","Date":"22 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's about what you'd expect from a director of Rob Reiner's talents and political inclinations. There's an engaging introductory period during Phase I, a brief period of conflict during Phase II, and a happy ending all the way round in Phase III. You finish it glowing.Certain aspects of it are enjoyable. First, there's the lavish and reasonably convincing location and production design. You can believe you're in the china room of the White House, although handsome, young, widowed President Gordon Gekko -- I mean Michael Douglas -- calls it the dish room. Second, there are the performances that, while not spectacular, are of professional caliber by everyone. None of the roles are particularly challenging, most are stereotypes, and I suppose that limits the chances of anyone doing a bang-up job except through comic overreach, which this formula does not permit. Richard Dreyfus probably comes out best as the sniping rival for the presidency.Third, it's funny watching the president trying to act like an ordinary man courting an ordinary lady. He can't just make a personal call to a flower shop after breaking a date and have a bouquet sent to Annette Bening, his disappointed paramour, because his credit cards are stashed with all his other personal belongings back in Wisconsin.The problem with the movie, and it's a big one, is that it's not challenging in any way. The liberal president and his liberal friends come out on top. Nobody uses a swear word. (Ha ha.) Bening is a lobbyist in favor of controls over global warming. Douglas appears ready to dump the issue until he is dressed down by her and acquires the huevos to challenge his opposition. Every good guy and every good position on social issues wins. We finish it glowing.But it's all pretty much dumbed down for the general audience in order to become a commercial success, albeit one with educational intentions.What is it, really, but a combination of Pretty Woman and a cartoon version of West Wing? Says Douglas to Bening, I don't know why I should be explaining all this to you just because I'm -- The most powerful man in the world? says Bening.In Pretty Woman, when Richard Gere takes up with a whore, he's just terribly rich. Here, Douglas is not only rich but the most powerful man in the world. Can we say alpha male and really MEAN it? There are good evolutionary reasons for this fantasy being so popular but not enough space to get into them. Let me, as the anthropologist that I am, just recommend David M. Buss's The Evolution of Desire Strategies of Human Mating. I might as well add that I'm in agreement with Bening's position on global warming, but that doesn't change my temperature of my feelings about the movie itself -- tepid. "},{"Title":"Politics and love - proves to be an interesting combination...","Date":"4 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" President of the USA, Chief Executive, and widower, Andrew Shepherd (Michael Douglas) falls for a lobbyist Sydney Ellen Wade (Annette Bening), and then freefalls in the polls. Bustling staff members, a sneering opponent, state dinners, formal protocol, informal moments, global crises - all come into focus as the President explores the balance between private romance and public Presidency.The American President fits into a category that seems to fly over the romantic comedy label and sweep under the intense political drama tag. In short it is a very well made mix of both with outstanding performances from the entire cast. Michael Douglas shined as the powerful and charming leader. He delivered the best performance in the film and suited his role extremely well. The charisma and subtle attractiveness he exuded was impeccable and I believe that this is one of his best to date. Annette Bening was above average, I didn't find her to completely match Douglas in terms of performance but she was decent and fitted into the shoes of the attractive, confident lobbyist(though I don't find her that pretty to be honest). Martin Sheen, Michael J. Fox, David Paymer, Anna Deavere Smith are all wonderful as the President's speedy staff, and Shawna Waldron plays a small but effective part as Lucy Shepherd, the President's daughter.The American President is an engaging movie that will capture your attention till the very end, a very large part of that due to the dominant and impressive performance given by Michael Douglas. "},{"Title":"My Favorite Movie","Date":"11 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The American President has long been my favorite movie due to the brilliance of Aaron Sorkin's writing style and the performances of Michael Douglas, Annette Bening, Michael J. Fox, and Martin Sheen. The greatest thing that has resulted from this movie is the tv show, The West Wing which features many many characters from this movie, such as Anna Deveare Smith, Joshua Malina, Nina Siezmasko, and of course, Martin Sheen. The fact that you can still fight for your beliefs and fall in love is an idea that many can relate with, and thats partially why it has great appeal. Though some cannot relate to President Shepard's political ideals, they will be able to relate to the pressures of the job and the attraction between the two main characters. Anyway, please see this movie, its also a celebration of the Washington lifestyle, and I hope that you will enjoy it. Its on TBS a lot so please don't hesitate to catch it.  "},{"Title":"Classy and classic.....","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Just when I thought a movie about the Presidency couldn't get any better than DAVE (1993), along came Rob Reiner's THE AMERICAN PRESIDENT, a deceptively simple concept which works phenomenally well and is undoubtedly one of two Michael Douglas performances that are his best - the other being one of the other classic films of the 90's, FALLING DOWN (1993).It is certainly one of the most accomplished pieces of film-making in recent years and like DAVE, changes tack at the least-expected moment to provide a satisfying conclusion.Perceptive and uplifting. "},{"Title":"Over-all, a fine work","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I wonder how much better this film would have been had the President been conservative.  The movie is pretty preachy and has an extremely  liberal slant.  It demonizes the right without apology. It works best as a love story.  The scenes where President Shepherd is shooting pool with his best friend and chief of staff are my favorites. Also done well is the scene where Shepherd and Wade dance at the state dinner.  "}{"Title":"Wishful thinking","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am quite sure that the scriptwriters of this movie read one of those books about `How to write a damn good script'. The story is as conventional and made with so much routine that a confirmed cineast like me shouldn't normally like it but consider it hackneyed, boring and uninventitive.Nevertheless, I have to admit that the movie is very well written, caught me quite easily and managed to keep my interest, mainly by something I like to call `White-House-humour'.Why is that so? It's clear that this movie is a mere product of wishful thinking. I would be absolutely happy, if the United States of America had or had ever had such a likeable, intelligent and sensible president, and I think this is also true for most of the American people. Andrew Shepherd's crew consists of a bunch of weird but likeable characters whose every-day life, if we believe in what the movie tells us, must be full of humour, fun and harmony, and, of course, a lot of work, which they all love to do. Unfortunately, I am not an expert, but I think I can be quite certain of the fact that reality seriously differs from the world presented in Rob Reiner's film. But Wouldn't it be wonderful, if it was true? And that's, above all, what makes us like this film.Of course, I shouldn't forget the acting performances. Much spirit and enthusiasm can be noticed in all of them. Michael Douglas as Mr. President fits perfectly into the wonderful world of his movie. Annette Bening is hilarious as usual, playing kind of the opposite of her legendary role later in `American Beauty'. Michael J. Fox anticipates his `Spin City'-character, Richard Dreyfuss portrays the political adversary a little soullessly but after all convincingly, and so on.   "},{"Title":"Fluffy politico-romcom","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A pretty lightweight bit of romcom, but enjoyable nevertheless, centred on the premise that if you're the president, no-one's ever going to believe it's really you on the other end of the phone line. OK, maybe there's a bit more to it than that, but this is a romcom with the emphasis more on the romance than the comedy, it's a nice little love-story with the odd bit of social commentary thrown gently in, an undemanding, well made bit of fluff. "},{"Title":"Utter propaganda","Date":"15 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was going to title this thinly-veiled propaganda, but I thought better of it, since for most of the movie there's no veil at all.  If a conservative filmmaker dared to make a propaganda piece this blatant and attempted to sell it in today's market, he'd be banished from Hollywood for life.  I was so busy rolling my eyes and stifling my gag reflex that I could hardly pay any attention to the romantic parts of the storyline -- which were pretty decent, but Hepburn and Tracy couldn't have pulled this one out for me.  Zero stars. "},{"Title":"brain-washing","Date":"26 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Take the ordinary man who only wants to find true love. This is by now a wore out formula, and i suppose it was already wore out 12 years ago. This time we have Michael Douglas playing that part. I don't think it fits him so well, but this is side complaint. Than add that layer of American pride, which always takes American cinema (the bad commercial cinema) to portray the president, place him as a god, larger-than-life by making him just a human. So the ordinary man is the president of the States, the most powerful man in the world is an ordinary man Get the paradox? You will have this film, as one more variation on the theme of the let's show us Americans why Americans should be proud of themselves (i'm not American). There's nothing in this one, obviously, it is laughable practically all the way, even more when we check Douglas' uneasiness practically all the time.My main complaint is not against who produces this kind of stuff but on who allowed me to get to it without me making any effort. In other words, why should world cinema markets outside the USA invest in products such as this one? I know that the American culture is, more than any other culture, universal by now, their elections are followed worldwide, their economical situation, their war threats, etc. but that is political. This shouldn't be necessary. There are so much better escapist things coming from so many places, even from the USA. Pity.My opinion 1/5 "},{"Title":"Mostly Entertaining With Hollywood Bias Thrown In","Date":"3 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" For the most part the American President has the same positives and negatives as TV's West Wing. You get to see the human side of your leaders as you would hope them to be, hard working, etc. Douglas and Bening make a cute couple that are worthwhile to watch. The major flaw, like the West Wing, is its sanctimonious tone in preaching liberal positions. Douglas's President is suppose to portray a Democrat, so you can overlook this for the most part. It's just that Director Rob Reiner is such a loony Democratic liberal that he can't help himself. Richard Dryfus is unconvincing in his portrayal of a darker GOP opposition. Douglas is constantly trying for the JFK moment. Michael Moore would feel comfortable with this script. "},{"Title":"If you want your girlfriend back, embrace political correctness","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Boy gets girl. Boy loses girl. Boy goes PC & gets girl back. One of the problems with refering to conservative talk show hosts to show what's wrong with where the liberals are going is that one can say you're using a biased source. Rather than use accusations from their opponents,it's better to use their own defenses to show their inconsistency. Early on in this feature, President Andrew Shepherd aired some rhetoric about the opponents of gun control by characterising them as failing to see the connection b/n handguns & gun-related crime. How utterly condescending!!! The connection between the 2 is the fact that criminals are going to get a hold of handguns whether honest people are allowed to have them or not!! So who's really failing to see the connection Mr President?-Rob Reiner? What part of ..shall not be infringed is not understood here? This feature clearly sympathises with  the views of the liberals & emotionally blackmails the viewer who sees the other side of the issue. Sydney may not have left him for his not being PC enough, but she came  back to him because he repented & saw the PC light, as evident in his Legitimate counter views be damned defense of the ACLU & banning of assault weapons & handguns. He insinuated that you shouldn't criticise the ACLU because of its profession to protect our liberties, conveniently ignoring evidence of taking more liberties than it protects. Because of its intentions we must assume it's virtuous. Elsewhere he said the people drink sand, NOT because they're thirsty, but because they don't know the difference. We're a bunch of idiots! This movie confirms everything Rush & others have said about the liberal agenda in the very way it tries to defend it! There's more I'd say, but I'm probably reaching the 1000 word limit. On the up side, The characters & relationships were genuenely charming. I loved the raport between Shepherd & his daughter, & the romance was one of the cutest I've seen. He was also an excellent diplomat. This is why I'm willing to give this movie a 5/10. The politics were atrociously presumptuous, but the interpersonal relationships made it possible to enjoy. "},{"Title":"A brilliantly crafted film in every way","Date":"29 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film works if you view it as a romantic comedy and not as a political statement.  What a romance needs is a good obstacle and here's an original idea - one of the couple is president of the United States.  As their relationship grows it starts to be used against him and damages his prospects of re-election.This is a rarity - a film in which every scene and virtually every line contributes something worthwhile so that there is nothing I would wish to see cut.  (Most films have some boring bits.)  The partnership of writer Aaron Sorkin and director Rob Reiner achieved the same in A Few Good Men, another film without a minute wasted.Some people feel that the portrayal of the right wing senator is unrealistic because its too unsympathetic.  I think the problem is more that Michael Douglas is a better president than any real life president could ever be. But hey, this isn't real life - this is the movies!The underlying political message is that liberals should have the courage of their convictions and that if they will only say what they believe, they will find that their views are more popular than they expected.  Given the film's timing, the run up to the 1996 presidential elections, it's possible that the real target is Bill Clinton.   "},{"Title":"Entetaining Movie With Believable Characters","Date":"29 March 2010","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Even though the title is rather bland or unappealing, still you should never judge a movie by its title. The American President is a likable movie that that's excellent in entertainment and features very believable characters that is the inspiration of the long running TV series The West Wing. Even though it garnered and Oscar nomination and five Golden Globe nods, it is still overlooked, by the mass and its critics. Sure it may not offer much ground-breaking features or scored high at the box offices when it came out in 1995, you can't ignore the talent pool that collaborated into the making of the film. The leader of the creative talent goes to Rob Reiner (Stand By Me and North) who brought the film to life with memorable scenes and bringing the characters to life thanks to an electrifying ensemble of outstanding performers. Though not for everyone but it's a well known fact that The American President stands out as one of the more better movies compared to a lot of movies that's been released of late. Widowed President Andrew Shepherd (Michael Douglas) is under the pressures of election day worried that his popularity is taking a downward spiral. With environmentalists breathing down his neck about greenhouse gases, they need a strong political voice to help implement this issue so they call on activist Sydney Ellen Wade (Annette Bening) to speak on their behalf. When Wade meets Shepherd at the White House, they eventually start to get more attached to one another. But that doesn't sit well with the media. Scandals pop up like wildflowers which threaten his chances of winning as Election Day is approaching nearer. The believable characters is what brings this story apart. I mean who isn't under the pressures of winning an election? And nobody could represent this kind of fear by Michael Douglas. He represented what a President was like. Call me crazy but for a fictional President, Andrew Shepherd was a more likable candidate than then President Bill Clinton ever was. Annette Bening is the perfect casting choice and makes a wonderful protagonist for Douglas, she's intelligent and charismatic and the chemistry between the two leads is among one of the best in cinematic history. The script by Aaron Sorkin is one of the most cleverly panned and brilliantly edited script ever brought to life on the screen. The dialogue brings the characters to life and not one is caricatured. The score is very provocative and the patriotic music appears during the important scenes in the movie. But Mr. Reiner's directing is the reason to watch this movie. Every scene is executed and makes everything look act and feel real. The only hiccup I have is near the ending which I felt ended too suddenly.Though not a quick-paced action thriller, you can still find lots of enjoyment to the political drama that The American President represents. If you prefer an intelligent, light-heart uplifting movie I suggest you should see this movie. Douglas' Shepherd seems like a President we could all depend. He seems honest, sincere and well-meaning. Someday, there will be a President like Shepherd. Some day! "},{"Title":"Not bad, once you get past the ham-handed politics of it","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a pretty enjoyable bit of fluff once get past the ultra-left stereotyping of politics that makes up most of the subplots in this movie.  The romance between Douglas and Bening is pretty well scripted, but Bening's performance suffers from near-hysterical emoting in too many scenes to be effective.  Douglas is as smooth and charming as he ever is, and is a bit self-effacing in this outing, increasing his charisma.  Definitely had potential to be an all-out classic.This, however, was ruined for me by the WWF-style good guys/bad guys routines that run through this movie.  I guess when you have Martin Sheen, Richard Dreyfuss, and Annette Bening in a movie, you can be sure that everyone to the right of Ted Kennedy will be portrayed as evil incarnate.  Dreyfuss's portrayal of the 'conservative' senator was not bad, but the whole movie was so unbalanced as to be laughable.  Liberals may outnumber conservatives by a small margin in this country, but it is obvious that conservatives are an endangered species in Hollywood. What bothers me is that this lack of balance and fairness absolutely kills the effectiveness of the climactic speech by Douglas.  We should have been cheering him on not for what he had to say but for his choice to be true to himself, and damn the polls!  Instead, it comes across as the last polemic in a series of subtle-as-a-sledgehammer messages.Making a movie with a political point of view is fine, even commendable.  But when you do it and market it as a romantic comedy, and then allow it to be unfair and unbalanced, you've screwed up the movie.  I'd still give it a 6. "},{"Title":"A sweet story I used to believe in, but a little bit trite after further reflection","Date":"21 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just felt like commenting on this since it came on TV again last night. I remember seeing this movie in the theaters when it first came out and I loved it at the time.  I even rented it on video a few times later on that year.  It was a good date movie and really played up on its modern day fairy tale aspect.But after watching it again last night, I realized that that's all it really is.  Don't get me wrong, I still like the movie, but you've got to admit it's just a bit too glowing, even for a love story.  The main characters always seem to say just the right things and we are never led to question them in any way.  They're just a bit too perfect, even when they have to display their obligatory flaws.  I personally thought Annette Bening's performance was average for her, but this is definitely one of the more likeable performances given by Michael Douglas.  The supporting cast was the highlight for me with Michael J. Fox delivering the perfect performance in a role he's obviously custom-tailored for and David Paymer stealing all the best one-liners.And yes, this film is politically-biased (kind of unavoidable in a film about the President).  But even I got a bit irritated with the unrealistically sappy political situation toward the end of the movie (and I used to do volunteer work for an economic rights group similar to the one in which Annette Bening's character works).  The way opposite ends of the political spectrum are presented is just too one-sided.  Much of my extended family is staunchly conservative, but they're not the back room, cigar smoking, close-minded stooges that are depicted in this film.  Maybe conservative politicians are like that, but since they're the only depiction we see of conservatives in this movie, it's not a very fair representation.I'll still watch this movie when it comes on because I do enjoy it.  But if it happens to come on as the same time as Reitman's other Presidential film 'Dave' then I'll definitely opt for the latter. "}{"Title":"Left-Wing Liberal Gibberish","Date":"26 September 2002","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Having a long bus ride with nothing to read, I started watching The American President out of shear boredom.  That boredom quickly turned to anger as the left-wing bias of the movie clearly became evident liberal democrats are good, conservative republicans are bad (and not just bad... evil).Before seeing the final credits, I knew that Meathead Rob Reiner had to be involved in some way.  Meathead is better off sticking with comedy (like the brilliant Spinal Tap), than pushing his liberal left-wing, fantasy-based agenda onto the American public.Such as shame, because the scenes involving the inner workings of the White House were actually quite entertaining.  I suppose partisan politics have to be injected in any movie about an American president, but the concept of balance (especially on Reiner's scale of late, to pardon the pun) seems to be long forgotten in Hollywood. "},{"Title":"Romance wins over politics to create a bland fairy tale","Date":"26 October 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The American President is Aaron Sorkin's fairy tale &#x96; and that isn't a good thing. Reports say that Robert Redford, who proposed the idea, fell out with director Rob Reiner after Reiner wanted to make Sorkin's script focus on politics instead of romance. Well if that's true, Reiner should have buffed up Sorkin's script a little more. This was the least convincing political movie I've ever seen. It focuses on President Michael Douglas and his romance with lobbyist Annette Bening. These two are thrown together so quickly and Sorkin hopes like mad that you forget that they've only met once or twice. While the idea of a dating President is intriguing enough for a movie, the execution was poor here, mostly because despite Reiner's focus on politics, the romance always wins in the eyes of the characters. In one charming yet excruciating scene, Douglas tells his advisors (who probably have urgent information) to wait while he orders flowers. Throughout the movie, his complete lack of political savvy at realising that his romance is not just his business had me almost screaming for impeachment. Bening is no better &#x96; we are told she is one of the highest paid lobbyists in Washington, but she spends almost all of her screen time flirting with the President and creating an enormous conflict of interest. Just because Sorkin's script acknowledges is does not make it okay. The only evidence we see of her skill are one-sided conversations with Congressmen that end on her terms with her desired outcome. Without any hurdles to her objective, we just have to take Sorkin's word for it that she's good. Its not all bad &#x96; Reiner's direction and Sorkin's script are both passable, creating moments that can be both dramatic and charming. A bantering phone conversation between Douglas and an unsuspecting Bening is irresistible. There are at least two very evocative monologues delivered during the film, as to be expected by Sorkin. The light and soaring musical score is used perfectly to create reverence for Oval Office and White House in general.Douglas is charming but I never bought him as a President, especially when placed next to the irreplaceable Martin Sheen (who would go on to play a far superior President Bartlett in the West Wing) as his Chief of Staff A. J. MacInernay (say that awful name five times fast). Michael J. Fox is excellent and delivers an exceptional performance when having a showdown with the President later in the film. An absolutely charming Bening is probably the film's highlight. My biggest problem with the American President is the completely biased portrayal of Republicans led by Richard Dreyfuss. Sorkin has never pretended to be tolerant of right wing opinion, but this sinks to a new low. The group sits around like a bunch of one-percenters, cigars and scotch in hand and gleefully rub their hands together like they're planning to kidnap Princess Peach. The group run rampant with nothing but negativity (as Sorkin perceives they do in real life) and then slink off defeated as soon as Douglas puts them in their place. It makes for a rather pathetic set of antagonists, and is certainly not a very fair depiction either.Whilst I'm convinced that this version is far better than the Redford version we might have seen, the soppy and rushed romance winning over political story made The American President a far less enjoyable experience than I had hoped. "},{"Title":"Not Reiner's best, but a very good film besides","Date":"3 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Having loved Stand By Me, When Harry Met Sally, The Princess Bride and This is Spinal Tap, I saw The American President hoping I would at least like it. And I did. The title may be generic and there may be the odd cliché, but The American President is very likable and entertaining with a Frank Capra feel to it without being Rob Reiner's best. The story has a nice balance of comedy and seriousness, while the screenplay sparkles not only in the more romantic moments but especially in the final speech which was simply brilliant in both writing and delivery. Rob Reiner's direction is outstanding, while the production values are lovely and the music superb. The acting is faultless. Michael Douglas is very commanding in the lead role(that is different from his other roles I noticed) and Annette Bening in a performance that combines slinky sophistication and bubbly wit is terrific. The support from Martin Sheen, Richard Dreyfuss and especially Michael J. Fox is also top drawer. All in all, very good. 8/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Annette Bening Gets the Chief Executive Treatment","Date":"12 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Amiable Rob Reiner comedy that stars Michael Douglas giving an appealing performance as a fairy tale president who's just the kind of person you always wish a U.S. president could be but who never is. Annette Bening plays his love interest, a spunky activist who finds herself cowed by the (chief) executive treatment. Bening is utterly charming and winning, proving that she has what it takes to be a modern-day Barbara Stanwyck or Jean Arthur. The cast also includes Martin Sheen and Michael J. Fox, and the Academy-Award nominated score has been co-opted as the generic background music that plays during movie trailers -- the minute you hear it, you'll realize that you've already heard it a hundred times and think, THAT's where that music is from. Grade B "},{"Title":"A Tale of Love... Well, and About Politics","Date":"1 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" President Andrew Shepherd (Michael Douglas) has been a widower for a while, living in the White House with his daughter. After meeting a lobbyist named Sydney Ellen Wade (Annette Bening), he thinks it's time to date again and pursues her. But can she deal with his power and can he deal with her job as a lobbyist?I enjoyed this film. It was a decent love story, but an even better political story. I'm not sure what world Rob Reiner lives in, but he has an ultra-liberal president and a liberal lobbyist as his main characters. He has the president cutting emissions by 20%, banning handguns and even giving a soliloquy about the Libyan janitor who will die because his government made a mistake and will get bombed by America. No president has ever been this left-wing.Samantha Mathis is in this film and looking her hottest ever (much more so than Pump Up The Volume). Michael J. Fox appears and is incredibly energetic and anal. We'll never see that from him again. One problem was casting Martin Sheen as A.J. MacInerney (I think this was the Defense Secretary). Even before West Wing, Sheen just looks presidential, so when he's in the same room as Michael Douglas, Douglas just loses all his power.The film was a bit long, but not too much. It had Richard Dreyfuss as an old Republican (who looked like an evil version of Dick Cheney). It had the first daughter, who apparently never leaves her room and just studies and plays her instrument all day. (Watch how often she leaves her chair -- like once). Some strange things, but they were entertaining to say the least.Go ahead and see this film. Annette Bening is sort of annoying, but Michael Douglas is always great (Falling Down, The Game). Sure, he comes across as a sexual predator in this one (he basically coerces the woman into a date with his Commander-in-Chief powers) but it worked for him. He somehow manages not to come across as creepy. Check it out and see what I mean. "},{"Title":"Fluff entertainment","Date":"19 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A movie based on the romance of the President and a quirky lobbyist. Some good scenes, clustered near the start, notably the dinner and the first phone call the President makes to Annette Benning's apartment. The movie is fresh at this point and Michael Douglas is cool in his role; Benning, equally charming. Martin Sheen shines in his role as the Chief of Staff and I think is the actor who steals the show. It's no wonder when the West Wing came calling, who was getting the lead role.But this movie gets wearily cute after an hour and falls into cliché in the last half. There is no real chemistry or energy between the two lead actors despite their fine performances and they fall flat. No really emotional scenes and the movie plays it too cool. No charisma.So as a whole, I can recommend this movie because of some good scenes and it's style just expect whipped cream instead of meat and potatoes. "},{"Title":"West Wing-lite","Date":"9 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's terrific fluff; definitely a precursor to The West Wing, but with less politics and more romance. Sorkin's script seems almost like an appetizer for his main dish later. Sure, the president is unbelievably decent and intelligent, but it's a movie; I can look past the relative implausibility of the character to just enjoy the film. There's an excellent cast - many of whom would later appear on West Wing - highlighted by Michael Douglas' likable president and Michael J. Fox's hilarious speech writer. The romance is enjoyable without being cheesy, and the writing is top-notch. Sorkin's trademark rapid-fire dialogue is toned down a bit, which works very well for the film, and the story is simple but effective. Just an excellent romantic-comedy. "},{"Title":"An American classic","Date":"27 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Slick, funny, intelligent and touching; this is one of the few comedies I would put in my top 10 favourite films.Rob Reiner and Aaron Sorkin (of West Wing fame) have created a real gem here. It doesn't talk down to you and the chemistry between the two stars is genuine. The supporting cast is excellent too; especially Michael J Fox reprising the type of role that made him a household name in Spin City, Martin Sheen as the wise and underrated chief-of-staff (If I wasn't (one step behind you), you'd be the most popular History professor at the University of Wisconsin), and Richard Dreyfuss clearly revelling in his bad-guy role. Oh, and the sets are *spectacular*.I first watched it with a girlfriend when it first came out, and we both loved it. Suffice to say the girlfriend is gone, but I still watch this movie when it's on. And the speech at the end still makes the hairs on the back of my neck stand up. "},{"Title":"A very warm, well written and acted romantic comedy.","Date":"24 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" No big secret that I'm not a person who normally enjoy watching a romantic comedy. It's a genre of; once you have seen one movie you have seen them all. Most movies are the same, with cliché, over-the-top and sappy romantic and dramatic situations that are all far from believable. The American President however always has been a movie that I enjoy watching. The mixture of politics and romance works well and the movie is definitely carried to great heights by its impressive cast.Making a love-story involve around the president of the United States already is of course an original and refreshing approach on the genre. It's all the movie refreshing since the two main characters are supposedly in the late 40's/early 50's or perhaps even older. No youngsters who have their entire life ahead of them, who meet the love of their life. This are people who've had a long life and career behind them and have different priorities in life. It's refreshing and also quite daring that a movie in a genre like this picks that approach but it works out very well, which is mainly due to the acting of the two principal actors and the supporting cast. The surreal environment and characters, provide some good comical moments at all. It's not easy doing simple things such as ordering flowers by phone or getting a serious date when you're the President of the United States of America.In fact, the story really isn't that special, although it's still solid written, with some good dialog. The movie is more romantic than comical probably and the movie also isn't the deepest going movie around. Still the characters are given depth and are being fleshed out perfectly by the actors.Michael Douglas and Annette Bening are very convincing together as two persons who are falling in love, in an almost surrealistic environment. They share some great on screen chemistry and their acting is truly great and yes, Michael Douglas is convincing as the President and he handles the more comical like situations also very well. It makes the love story between work out beautifully. They're also being supported by a fine supporting cast, including actors such as Martin Sheen, Michael J. Fox (though he seems a bit out of place in his role), David Paymer, Richard Dreyfuss (who stays a bit too underused) and John Mahoney.The movie does a very good job at portraying how personal life and politics always get mix up and milked out by the press and opposing parties. The movie shows how ridicules and completely uncalled for that all actually is. It's like people with political agendas can't have a personal life without it being covered and discussed by the general public. It shows the influence and power of media in this world of television, radio and newspapers and how it can influence your opinion regarding a certain subject or person, you don't even know in real life. The movie makes its point well, without ever getting preachy or too moralistic about things. Kudos to the writer Aaron Sorkin (also the creator and writer of The West Wing) and director Rob Reiner, who always keep the balance between the different subjects, regarding politics and love, right. It makes the movie work out powerful and effective, as well as heartwarming.The movie is good looking and has good production values. The cinematography by John Seale makes the movie look warm and the musical score by Marc Shaiman makes the movie powerful.I wish Rob Reiner made more movies like this.8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Great, feel-good movie everyone can enjoy!","Date":"12 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I love this movie! Mom mother forced me to watch this movie when I was 12 and I loved it then too. Besides a few curse words here and there, everyone can enjoy this movie. It's sweet, sassy, and uplifting. Michael and Annette make a great pair in this movie. The work really well off of each other. The comedy, drama and romance shine with this duo. And for all you West Wing fans, Martin Sheen is great in this movie. He and Michael J. Fox team up to be a great pair. With that cast and great supporters like David Paymer and Richard Dreyfuss, this movie can't miss! Great flick for a date or a night with friends. Yes, I'm sure it's categorized as a 'chick-flick' but the comedy in the movie makes up for it. I can recite every line of this movie and still love to watch it. Great flick! "}{"Title":"A Romantic State of Union.","Date":"19 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Romantic comedies have long been relegated to the demeaning stable of Chick Flicks because their sophomoric bent allows them no breadth of intelligence or forays into behavior with balls - pussies browbeat men into behaving like pussies, whilst pulp novella situations play out in a world inhabited by pussified male models and Jennifer Lopez.Director Rob Reiner's *The American President* is exactly the opposite; not only is the male protagonist anything but a pussy, or unlikely to be pushed into being one, the movie is intelligent and charming, yet masculine enough for men to appreciate, with astute writing and full-bodied characters, and takes into account the fact that some viewers can apprehend more than just boomboxes outside bedroom windows or fart jokes.Michael Douglas is The American President, Andrew Shepherd, a widower with another term election looming. Annette Bening is lobbyist Sydney Ellen Wade, whom he falls for. The obstacle between the smitten lovers is nothing short of the aura of the Presidency itself, and writer Aaron Sorkin (*A Few Good Men*) brings a depth of humanity and humor to this situation that is sorely lacking in American love stories.Douglas effortlessly inhabits the President's mantle and it is a constant joy to see him imbue this office with a power that we know the real President does not have, a poignancy we know the real President does not possess and a humanity we know the real President has long since lost. (As in most American movies portraying the Presidential post, the refrain must unfortunately read, We can dream, can't we?) When President Shepherd orders an attack on a foreign country, his concern is for the civilians with families who will be working the foreign embassy when it gets bombed; it is a heart-wrenching decision for him &#150; as opposed to the real life President G.W. Bush's demeanor when asked whether he suffered any pangs of conscience after greenlighting the Iraq war, I made the decision. I sleep well at night. To the real life President, only one thing matters &#150; winning. Sociological disparities like this litter the film we realize that opposing party leader, Bob Rumson's (Richard Dreyfuss) smearing of the President's love life and his half-baked jabs at Shepherd's flag-burning, hippie girlfriend were reined in by the film-makers, after being aware of the real-life President's office stooping to outright lies to blacken its opposition (Bush versus Kerry, 2004).And though it is obvious much White House protocol was passed over with a wave of the Hollywood wand, the movie is so well-made that these deficiencies seem like trivialities.Supporting players are suitably brilliant Martin Sheen, as Shepherd's right-hand man and confidante, Michael J. Fox (reprising his role as some kind of Alex Keaton within the President's cabinet), David Paymer (the role of pollster couldn't be more suited to a character actor so jumpy and uncomfortable), and John Mahoney (the character actor with his picture next to father figure in the dictionary).*The American President* never loses its focus on the love story; the element which actually holds our attention, rather than making us wince, due to its being played out by intelligent adults, instead of pussified male models and Jennifer Lopez or 16-to-20 year-olds making all their decisions under the influence of hormones and beer. Witnessing the chemistry between Shepherd and Wade, we can't help but speculate that if the real-life Presidency could experience one-millionth of this heady hallucinogen with a woman one-billionth as vivacious and witty as Annette Bening, there would be infinitely less political turmoil in the world.As it is phrased outside Presidential circles Dude, you need to get laid more often. "},{"Title":"flawless look inside the  life of a fictional American President(Sorkin ,Douglas and company strike gold)","Date":"3 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" without knowing beforehand,it isn't hard to figure out Aaron Sorkin is the genius behind this movie.yes,Rob Reiner directed this masterpiece.and yes it had an a-list cast in both leading and supporting roles,all of whom were amazing.but it is the writing of Sorkin that really makes this film what it is.the man is a pure genius when it comes to great dialogue.wit,sarcasm,drama,romance,all conveyed beautifully by his writing.everything works in this film.you might need a hanky in the last act,as there is a real tear jerker of a scene that has huge impact,and will leave quite an impression.Micheal Douglas is brilliantly cast as the American President.man,they guy has presence.the speech he delivers could have come off as maudlin and hammy in the hands of a lesser actor.this is how a presidential speech should be.and we can't forget Annette Benning who does a superb job as the romantic interest.something else i was really impressed by was how the president was portrayed as a normal man with normal, problems,without diminishing his importance as the leader of the free world.this is a flawed man. another great feature of this movie is that there is no patriotic,inspirational flag waving blather. Everything is very low key.i have never really been interested in The west wingbut i've been converted.Sorkin is of course also the genius behind that show.anyway,i can't say enough aboutThe American president.this is one of the top 5 five movies i have ever seen.Flawless. 10+/10 "},{"Title":"Politicians deserve private lives too","Date":"18 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I loved the film and found it well done in many respects, but a good bit of my appreciation for it is probably related to it highlighting the reality that even prominent public figures deserve to have private lives. The harsh glare of ever-present publicity makes it impossible for us to attract most top people into even remotely considering a run for office. The way this film depicts the widowed president is positive and yet he is clearly just another guy when it comes to needing somebody special to share his life. The Annete Benning character he falls in love with is seen as bad for his politics, but she's good for his soul and that should be what is important. Of course, it all works out so much better in the cinema world than it ever does in the real world. "},{"Title":"humor and romance in politics","Date":"9 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The American President is one of my favorites. I watch it at least 12 times every year because of its half serious and half humorous take on the life of the president. The acting is tremendous from a wonderful cast. Near top of the line camera work and directing as well as excellent editing. It's a story about a widower liberal president with a teenage child that finds a soul mate in the hired gun of an ecological watchdog organization just before the second term election. The conservatives pull their usual strategy of harping on everything that isn't religiously correct about the incumbent and his girl friend. These attacks go unanswered until the president makes a relationship ending mistake and has to do some fancy footwork to get everything back on track. The backdrop smacks of the moronic family values campaigns of 2000 and 2004. "},{"Title":"My faviorite unbelievable love story.","Date":"1 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" If you are hopelessly romantic, you MUST see this movie. Excellent performances from Michael Douglas, Annette Benning, Martin Sheen, Michael J. Fox and many others.If you were a West Wing fan, you will be amazed how many things were plucked from this movie and dropped into The West Wing.Pre-maritial sex, occurring after a brief courtship make it unfit for viewing by teenagers - unless this is something you approve of as a parent and would like emulated. I was willing to overlook it, because I enjoy the love story so much.Maybe being widowed at a young age, like the President, makes the movie closer to my heart.I highly recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"American President to West Wing - Aaron Sorkin all the way!","Date":"2 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This was just on TV in my area, and I was listening to the words rather than watching. This movie seems to me to be an early version of West Wing! You have Martin Sheen, and whenever he was on the screen it was so *odd* for him to be AJ and not President Jed Bartlett. Then Joshua Malina as a lobbyist, who took the place of Rob Lowe on West Wing, and Anne Deaverre Smith as press secretary, not wearing a uniform of a higher up Army? Navy? official as Nancy McNally. And then, while Pres. Shepherd was talking to AJ he said he studied under a Nobel prize winning economist... Which is Jed Bartlett's background! If you love West wing, you'll like this movie. "},{"Title":"My Name is Sheppard and I AM THE PRESIDENT","Date":"19 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This Movie is one of the best movies i HAVE seen. Douglas is Great  We have serious problem and we need serious people to solve them... J. Fox is great in this film as well. Along with Michael Sheen. I highly recommend this film to anyone who like politics movies. I love these types of movies ones that have a good plot and background The director who made this movie should do a sequel to it like for the elections and the 2nd terms and him and Syd getting married. I am thinking that a sequel to this film with all the original people would be very cool to see. I also like Jaine who was the personal aide to the president, she did a very good job in this movie, it a lot of work to be a personal aide to the president i would assume. "},{"Title":"burning cloth","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The American President is one of the best political/economical movies I've seen, alongside Wall Street and Syriana. It's got it's funny moments, true, but I feel that the movie is more of a drama than a comedy. I'm just saying that because I found my copy of the movie in the Comedy section at Best Buy. It also expresses a good message - the symbol of a country can't just a flag. I like that comment because a flag is just a decorated piece of cloth, and no matter how much symbolism we put into it, it's still just a decorated piece of cloth that can become engulfed in flame should a Zippo or match be the catalyst. Show me more people like that on the news and I'll feel better about living in a country that calls itself the Land of the Free. "},{"Title":"Ten Best","Date":"5 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is without a doubt, one of the 10 best movies I have ever seen. Like most of you, my extensive knowledge in movies makes picking favorites difficult. But, it's the type of movie that makes you smile while you watch. The interaction between Annette Benning and Michael Douglas is amazing. The feelings they go through are the reason why I love love. Watch it every Valentine's Day, it works...The phone conversation when Annette Benning makes the nice ass remark...The Virginia Ham being delivered...The initial confrontation in the Oval Office. There are times during this movie, when Michael Douglas has his little shining moments where you just get goosebumps. Particularly during his argument with Michael J. Fox regarding the leadership (or lack thereof), and of course, the climactic speech...You say you want free speech? "},{"Title":"Actually, a very good movie","Date":"28 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I first saw this one on a movie screen, way before it hit the video market. In my opinion, this is an honest portrayal of some of the trials and tribulations a President of the United States can expect to go thru. That the exact same circumstances have not arisen recently is due to our unique media structure, but the plot is believable, as are the performances by every actor and actress I remember seeing in it (remember, Douglas was nominated for the Oscar as Best Actor for his work in this picture). Not for nothing was this an inspiration for the long-running TV series, The West Wing. For me, it works on several levels as a lesson in politics, editing and romance. This is one of ours - my wife and I - favorites. "}{"Title":"Charming, fantastic, heartwarming, sweet, and funny political romance","Date":"24 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" In my opinion, this is a charming, romantic, fantastic, heartwarming, sweet, and funny political romance. Everyone involved did an outstanding job, the costume and set design were nice, the direction was superior, and the movie was perfectly cast. When I saw that Michael J. Fox and Martin Sheen were in this, I was surprised. I just wish their roles had been bigger, though. Also, I thought that Andrew (Michael Douglas) and Sydney (Annette Bening) looked nice in their evening attire. Before I wrap this up, I'd like to say, Michael Douglas and Annette Bening have scored big! Now, in conclusion, if you are a fan of Michael Douglas or Annette Bening, I recommend this movie. You're in for a real treat and lots of laughs, so go to the video store, rent it or buy it, kick back with a friend, and watch it. You'll be glad you did. "},{"Title":"Politics and sex - what else is new?","Date":"2 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The story is ridiculous, the acting, especially Annette Benning's, is poor, Michael J. Fox playing a character with the name Rothschild is a bad case of miscasting, and the portrayal of a President having an affair with a lobbyist causes me to wince. Yet I like this movie. You ask why, and I'll tell you. Because of Michael Douglas. This was a Michael Douglas movie. He actually gives a great performance as a President whose presidency is in a real crisis because of his indecisiveness and desire to do what is expedient at the expense of what is right. This President is so befuddled that he even has an affair with a lobbyist, which in the real world would be political suicide and be the subject for a slew of investigations and possibly indictments. But allowing for literary license, the movie avoids these political unpleasantries and concentrates instead on the relationship between the President and the lobbyist, with the latter using sex to manipulate the President and thereby achieve her political goals. That such shenanigans go on in this movie reduces this movie to the level of a distorted love story; that such shenanigans also go on in real life gives cause for serious concern. "},{"Title":"A love and political story that is effective in both areas","Date":"8 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Rob Reiner's film worked for me, i thought the story was great, great writing by West Wing's Aaron Sorkin. Story involves a democratic president running for re-election and having a relationship with a woman (his wife has died). People can argue film is biased, but so what, most are, least they picked the right side. The film is well-directed by Reiner, interesting throughout, and the script is great, serious when it has to be and funny at times as well, a very touching film in general. The performances were great for the most part, Douglas, Bening, Sheen, and Michael J. Fox were all great in their roles. best performance of film is probably between Martin Sheen and Michael J. Fox who both represent different sides of the presidents cabinet, sheen being the conservative old man and Michael J. Fox the young liberal. Dreyfuss is also good as the man running for re-election against the president. In general this is a very entertaining film, good to see a film about politics and love, that doesn't mess it up. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Cuddler","Date":"21 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have never liked Michael Douglas, but Annette Bening and Michael Fox make the film worthwhile. A great political bedroom comedy. Get some hot chocolate, popcorn and snuggle down. It's a good chick's movie, date movie, cheer-me-up movie. Also good after a bad day at the office.The story of a widower President and an upcoming election. The opposition here is played with cackling premonition by Richard Dreyfus, who could easily play the current VP to a T. Nina Siemasko is a perfect sister for Annette's Sidney Wade. Nothing is left out, even the perfect, precocious daughter; but there's a light touch for a story that has to wrap in only two hours. Even Amber Frey had longer than that.Carrie "},{"Title":"Great story gets tied up in partisonship by Reiner","Date":"16 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really liked this story as it shows the very human problems that a man would face if he was either single or widowed and the president to boot!  The two lead actors are terrific as well.  For much of the movie Reiner takes an even-handed approach with liberal topics, as gun control and the environment are debated with a degree of fairness.My problem?  Reiner takes a not-so-veiled shot at Senator Bob Dole in the character of Rumson.  First of all, the politics of personal destruction are not limited to one political party.  Reiner chooses to ignore this fact.  Second, despite your view of Dole's politics, he is a genuine war hero who gave much of his body in the service of our country during World War II.  The closest the director of this film came to serving this country was in his dreams protesting.I don't like cheap shots; Reiner should be ashamed of himself.  "},{"Title":"Michael Douglas Makes A Good President Portrayal But The Film Itself Could've Been Better","Date":"22 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Michael Douglas portrays the U.S. President. He has been a widower for some time and decides that it's time to put some romance back into his life. He soon begins courting a young lobbyist (Annette Bening). Meanwhile, his political opponent (Richard Dreyfuss) tries to get anything private on their affair so he can use it to nab Douglas in front of the press. Yes, the plot is silly and sometimes predictable but Douglas' easygoing lead portrayal makes it better than what it could've been. Casting anybody else in the leading role here probably would've been a mistake. Director Rob Reiner is, as usual, in fine form. Screenwriter Aaron Sorkin's script isn't all bad but it's not on the level of his previous film, the courtroom classic A Few Good Men.  "},{"Title":"Movie Perfection","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Once in a great while, Hollywood produces a great picture, which I can watch over and over again. The American President is one of those rare movies.(A few spoilers ahead)Michael Douglas stars as the President, and does a superb job at it. Annette Benning is a powerful lobbyist for an environmental group. She meets the president by accidentally insulting him when she thinks he isn't around. After a brief face to face meeting where the president actually asks her to go somewhere to get a cup of coffee, she goes back home. Later that night, he calls her on the phone. Thinking that it's a friend of hers calling as a joke, she insults him again. When she realizes that she just insulted the president again in the same day, embarrassment fills her face. The President was actually calling her to invite her to be his date at a Formal State Dinner at the White House.After agreeing to go to the dinner, the movie then follows the two in a courtship. Meanwhile, since it's an election year, the President's challenger to the White House (played by Richard Dreyfuss) uses this courtship to rally the American people to his side, citing family values, etc. (Sounds familiar, doesn't it?)The movie has many more detailed parts to it, but that's the basic foundation of the plot. What's so great about this movie is that it is not only brilliantly acted by all actors, it also places the President of the United States in a different light - almost as just one of us. The plot is charming, the dialog is precious, and the acting is superb.The movie? One of the best I've seen.Recommended to all - especially fans of romantic comedies.Rating 10 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"One Of The Best Movies Made","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What can be said about this movie? One word sums it up. WONDERFUL!! Rob Reiner is a genius and what a cast he got for this one. Let alone Bening and Douglas shine, but look at the rest of them. Samantha Mathis plays an assistant to the President and is great but take a look at Michael J Fox. This has got to be one of his best performances ever. When he gets p****d off just watch him shine through. No more is he pigeonholed to be in a comedy, after this. the movie flows so smoothly and does not disappoint at all. Buy the DVD, it is worth it so you can watch it over and over without wearing it out. Bening is such a terrific actress and so beautiful for a woman in her 40's now. Bening is one of the most beaufiful women by far. Bening, Kim Basinger and Sela Ward are the 40 something women us 20-30 something men just adore. So American President has many reasons to watch it or own it. "},{"Title":"&#145;West Wing' not-quite-as-lite","Date":"1 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The sanctimony meter doesn't redline until at least half way through the movie. Douglas acts a credibly matter-of-fact president, for the first couple of reels, at least. And Sheen has left his halo in his trailer.That's about as good as it gets.Leaving the political stuff aside (in the end, it's the Sorkin stacked decks we've come to know and loathe), one gets to the characters. Which are really disappointing.In particular, I'd love to love Annette Bening. She should be great in the Ginger Rogers/Jean Arthur role of the smart, feisty career girl who finds love. Except that, here, she comes over as having the backbone of a jellyfish.She gushes like a fourth grader to the security guy (to get in the clunkiest imaginable namecheck for Capra). In her first scene (in the Oval Office) with Douglas, her babbling apologies are tedious, not charming. And then she crashes into reverse gear to offer him a pretty crass threat (all to set up a lame variation on the &#145;storm out into the cupboard' joke).Why would a ninny like that set the president's hormones going?Then she has what should be the scene of the movie. Mistaking Douglas on the phone for a colleague's impersonation. It starts off badly, with some unfunny banter with her sister (less rapport than with the security guy).The three phone calls with the president seem pretty routine in structure - mistake, realisation, apology (another one!). And the script plays a pretty straight bat, too.It's the acting and directing/editing that kill it - the realisation call should be a single shot on Bening, watching her act deflation and embarrassment in face and body. I assume she couldn't manage it because a cutaway on Douglas is edited in at the crucial moment. Certainly, that's what her (underwhelming) shots in that scene would suggest.And when she rings back, it's back to the rather whiny tone of the Oval Office. She muffs her reference to &#145;the nice ass remark', diction-wise.(Calista Flockhart, at her best, was technically much better at this sort of thing in the first couple of seasons of &#145;Ally McBeal').There is no flirtiness in her banter (&#145;How did you get my number?') with Douglas; his smile at the end suggests pleasure at finding himself able to get a date rather than any overwhelming erotic interest in Bening.And at the dinner for the French president - an absurdly charmless lump serving only to show Bening has at least one old-fashioned &#145;accomplishment' (a smattering of French) - there is a candidate for least romantic ballroom scene ever. Her babbling at Douglas's invitation is really old by now; the average airport departure lounge has a more romantic ambience; and the music is dreadful (the trumpet is clearly a refugee from &#145;The Alamo'). And neither of them appears to be able to dance.(Technically, the lighting is appalling (like a theatre with the house lights up); the shots of them shuffling around cold and uninvolving (the final crane shot looks as if it is from a CCTV camera!)It's pretty much downhill all the way after that.Why does Hollywood keep on serving up these poor excuses for female characters?Contrast this film with &#145;Mr Smith Goes to Washington' (Reiner brings it up!). A film made at a time when, by and large, women's services behind the camera were either menial or horizontal.There, the Jean Arthur character (who has evidently done horizontal service herself) is utterly cynical, and bent on doing to Uncle Sam what he has done to her in the previous couple of decades.She shamelessly uses Smith as a tool - and, even when she falls for him, doesn't let her hormones get in the way of setting him up in the cruellest of practical jokes.She was only a lowly secretary (the only women who had been Senators up till her day were Senators' widows) - but she never traded on being the &#145;little woman'.And her character (more than any other) drives the plot of the film.Compared to her, the Bening character is vapid and weak, a caricature of womanly attributes.(The relationship between Douglas and his daughter might have taken the edge off one's disappointment - a different sort of flirtiness. But even that classic, the tying of the male klutz's bow-tie engenders no spark.) "},{"Title":"Too Political; Just Enough Romance","Date":"31 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Rob Reiner's The American President, from a fairly good screenplay by Aaron Sorkin, is a romantic comedy that gets too much into the politics of its lead character, but is quite excellent as far as romance goes.Michael Douglas plays the esteemed President, a truly nice-guy widower (a President with morals is quite a hard thing to buy) and Annette Bening is the feisty political strategist he falls in love with. Th supporting cast of the film is absolutely wonderful, peppered with names like Martin Sheen and Michael J. Fox.Well, no, I didn't enjoy the politics in the film, even though I know a lot of people found them interesting. I could never exactly figure out WHAT the President and the Bening character were fighting for or against, and I don't think that the Republicans would go into a massive character debate because a widower finally found love again (although those Republicans can be pretty mean; no offense to any conservative readers). Still, The American President is worth seeing for a really great romance. Rated PG-13. 114 minutes. 7 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Geez, and I thought my love life could be rough at times","Date":"13 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I was going through my mom's movies and I came across The American President, I love Michael Douglas and Annette Benning, so I figured I could give this a shot. So I watched it this afternoon and over all, I think it was a good movie, it was definitely a different concept. We got to see our president's more human side, he's our leader, but he's also a person as well. What would it be like to have a president who wants to date someone? I thought that this is a pretty well written film, I'm not really into political films, but this story worked very well and was mature as well. Michael Douglas and Annette Benning were just beautiful together and had great chemistry on screen. Michael held himself well as the president of the United States, he brought a more sensitive side to the character. We have also a great supporting cast like Michael J. Fox, Richard Dreyfuss, and Martin Sheen who made the story very believable.President Andrew Shepherd is very loved by his people, the next election seems like and open and shut competition since everyone loves him. But his wife passed three years prior and he's raising his daughter as well as having to be the president of our country. When he meets with a lobbyist who represents the Global Warming Commity, her name is Sydney, and immediately, they are attracted to each other. But when election time comes up, his opposing canidate is hitting him hard as well as the American people for his personal life.The American President is worth the look, it's a nice movie that gives a different look into the president. But it was a sweet story and the acting was very good, of course the film has little flaws here and there, but they're looked over. Michael is very charismatic on screen, with Rob Reiner as the director, you could never go wrong. I was expecting a little comedy since this was in the genre of romantic comedies, but maybe I don't have that certain sense of humor. But it's good movie, I do recommend if you get the chance to watch it, it's a sweet story.7/10 "},{"Title":"Given present times, it seems Aaron Sorkin was right on","Date":"7 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Mr. Sorkin was predicting today's political climate when he made this movie. Many of the story lines (family values, personal lives, behind the scenes maneuvering and the far right's influence on what's news and what isn't) could be from today's headlines. I wish Mr. Sorkin could help us see where the return to respect and reason in politics will return.I watch this movie over and over again just to see the terrific way each of the actors played their roles. Michael Douglas is always a pleasure. Annette Benning is a treasure. Martin Sheen is every man's best friend. The humor and respect shown for differing views is much needed today. I only wish we had a president with as much integrity as Andrew Shepherd. Sadly, this is only a movie. The rest of us are living in the real world. Maybe some day . . . . "},{"Title":"Good, but not great","Date":"25 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really enjoy political satire and films with the president as a character in general. This is a good movie, it was written by Aaron Sorkin, so it has great dialogue. The main problem that brings it down a few pegs is that president Shepard seems to be really politically naive for someone that has been a politician all his life. Like when a picture turns up of Sydney burning a flag at an anti-apartheid rally, the president seems to really not understand why that's a political problem, and he seemed so shocked that people might raise an eyebrow at the president dating a lobbyest that is actively lobbying the white house. And of course, when he announced at the end that he was going to go door to door to take peoples guns away, he lost reelection that very moment. I'm a pretty liberal guy, I would shoot myself in the head before I voted for Bush, but come on, these plot points really went beyond suspension of disbelief. But, the writing is strong, and the cast is wonderful, so it's still worth watching, just be ready to roll your eyes a little. "},{"Title":"Just Okay, But Michael J. Fox at his best","Date":"20 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It was a unique topic to work on, but a one that has been more or less wasted by a poor script. The president falling in love at first sight? Well if you are ready to believe that then go for the movie, the rest will just make sense.As for the acting, not much too speak, Michael Douglas as the President is just okay. Annette Bening plays her part well, a bit uncomfortable though. But the real highlight was the acting of Michael J. Fox. Although he had a small part, but without any doubt stole the show.All in all, a average movie, 6/10.  "},{"Title":"Extremely likeable romantic comedy/ drama","Date":"2 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Lucky old Mr Douglas - Ms Benning simply gorgeous.  Very pretty lady with smiley eyes.  Lovely romantic movie of the old school with lots of likeable support characters and good situation comedy.There's a political thread somewhere in here and apparently being 'for' gun and polution control makes this film a radical liberal's joy-fest.  Coming from a land where even having this debate would be deemed right-wing extremism, I find some of the previous comments hard to understand.  But there's a whole lot that is hard to understand about the US these days.....There are some vaguely serious points in here about loyalties and the true meaning of freedom and pride in one's country.  Some particularly poignant remarks between Douglas and Fox near the end given the current conflict.  The context of today makes this an interesting film to revisit - but I owe that Annette B is reason enough for a second dip.How come no one even half as honorable, informed or intelligent ever gets to be the president of the US?  It would be nice to think that this paradigm is not confined to celluloid. "},{"Title":"Chick flick, but good","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  My wife LOVES this movie, so we finally got a copy and I've seen it about five kazillion times, but have to admit that as a light and fluffy chick flick it does somehow stand the test of time and repetition. There are some good quotable lines in it and you can hear some of them repeated in The West Wing, which I also find compulsive viewing (same writers etc). After all, we all need a good image of the American Presidency while You Know Who is at the helm in reality!!!!!  "},{"Title":"FANTASTIC!","Date":"10 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The American President is a brilliant film to watch no matter what your mood.  Its the type of film that never gets boring no matter how many times you watch it.  This timeless movie about a widowed President falling in love whilst trying to win the next election is a masterpiece that has to be seen. Its an absolute must for your home video collection to shove on on one of those rainy days, or when you're fed up with watching the same old films over and over again.  The cast are fantastic in their roles and highly believeable.  This is one film that you cannot miss. If you liked 'Dave', you'll like this one too. "},{"Title":"The Perfect President-I'd vote for him!","Date":"14 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is a wonderful way to spend time! President Andrew Shepherd is a widower with a daughter. He falls in love with a lobbyist named Sydney and the public begins to wonder, mostly because his opponent tells them about Sydney's past. I was cheering him on the whole way! If old Bill had done the same thing and admitted it, I might have supported him too. Michael J. Fox is also good. Of course, there's the first daughter, who advises her dad by saying Were you a dork? If you were, you should say you're sorry. Girls like that.  SEE THIS MOVIE!!!!    "},{"Title":"Inspirational","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie shows people and politics the way I wish they were.  The characters are committed, idealistic, and have a great deal of integrity, and the romance is beautiful.  I watch this movie whenever I need inspiration. "},{"Title":"Great!","Date":"19 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In a time of cynical and pessimistic films, it's refreshing to see one that is honest and sincere and simple.  This is a film is just that.  It is a feel good romance that rarely possesses the corniness that most feel good romances do.  It is nice to see a film in which the good guys take the high road and are rewarded for it. "}{"Title":"My name is Andrew Shepherd and I AM the president!","Date":"25 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There's not a lot that bothers me, but when you quote a movie, you should at least have the decency to quote it correctly!  Yes Dan, I'm talking about you.THE AMERICAN PRESIDENT is my favorite movie of all time and it is disappointing to see that it doesn't get all that it deserves.  It has everything a good movie must have, plus it's well directed and entertaining to all audiences.  It has comedy (It's a good thing he cleared that up because that crowd was about to buy some am-way products!), romance, anger and politics all weaved together in a masterful script.  for this movie to be misquoted or wronged in any way is disrespectful to the entire art community. "},{"Title":"A wonderful romantic comedy","Date":"24 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The American President is a movie that makes you feel good. That seems like corny praise but Rob Reiner's sparkling look at romance in the White House is one of those movies that does everything so well it almost makes itself look effortless. First, there's Aaron Sorkin's remarkable screenplay, which is not only full of great wit but also with extraordinarily smart dialogue. Second, there's the tone that Reiner has set for the film, one that is glamarous and charming enough to hark back to the great romantic comedies of Hollywood's golden age. Third, there is the cast, which is simply perfect. Michael Douglas shows a range that some might have forgotten existed after his recent roles; he's funny and utterly charming. Annette Bening lights up the screen in the classiest romantic performance from an actress in eons. Michael J. Fox has never been better in a movie and neither has Martin Sheen. David Paymer, Wendie Malick, Anna Deaveare Smith, John Mahnoey, Samantha Mathis, and Richard Dreyfuss offer solid support. This is a great, Capraesque movie--one of the finest romantic comedies of the 1990's and one that didn't deserve to be snubbed by the academy when Oscar nominations came out in 1996. The American President is two hours of warm and funny pleasure and the fact that it barely seems to exist in reality is only part of the fun. "},{"Title":"Hard to believe this movie 16 years later","Date":"16 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The American President is the wildest wish-fulfilment the presentation to Congress of a bill to cut C02 emissions by 20 per cent in the next 10 years. Unheard of then, and certainly unheard of now.It made the President's love affair in this movie, and it would have promised to change the direction of the USA in 1995. However, in 2008, after General Motors went bust, America bought the company and it went back into business with bigger cars, all of them gas-guzzlers. Far from resembling anything in The American President, it has been downhill all the way. Now the USA wants all of Canada's evil tar sands for itself and is fielding environmentalists to stop it being shipped to China.Rob Reiner made a very decent, upbeat movie, that showed great promise for the Republic in the right hands. Sadly, it has now become a relic of a former era. Nevertheless, I enjoyed the lift it gave me and I recommend it to others. "},{"Title":"Prequel to the West Wing","Date":"1 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As a huge fan of the West Wing (at least until Sorkin left and the show tanked), I recently re-watched this great movie that I hadn't seen since 1995 and fell in love all over again.  The best part of any Sorkin project is invariably the dialogue, and The American President pulls it off brilliantly, combining ironic satire and soul-stirring powerful speeches seamlessly in a way that's simply inspiring.As I scroll down this comments page, I see a lot of people complaining about the film's liberal bias.  Well, yeah, excuse me but duh, this is a film about a liberal democratic president.  In the US there's basically two choices of who will be in the White House - a Democrat or a Republican. (A lot of people criticize the West Wing for the same issue, although as a longer-running series it had more time to delve deeply into issues.)But one of the reasons I admired this film (and the West Wing), is for its courage not to back down from controversy.  It's not afraid to say something strong, at the risk of offending some members of the audience.  The producers could've chosen some unimportant issues for the political subplots, but instead chose gun control and the environment, two extremely controversial issues.  Love them or hate them, at least it's plausible to assume that these issues would cause a very close political fight in Washington.  Somehow I don't see the fictional President coming up shy of the votes needed to pass a bill saying that the sun will rise in the East tomorrow.  The issues HAD to be controversial in order to make the film work.And my personal politics aside, I think that's part of what makes this work. Nobody wants a waffling president afraid to take a stand on any issue. People want leadership.  When Michael Douglas delivers his speech to the press corps at the end, you feel a shift in the room - someone willing to take a stand for what he believes is the right thing for the people.If you disagree with the politics, fine, but the film is open and honest about its political agenda.  Unlike some movies (like Michael Moore's manipulative, dishonest Bowling for Columbine, for example, that takes advantage of an audience through false footage and misrepresentation of fact), this is a romantic comedy that also works as a political statement without being too self-important.It is funny seeing Martin Sheen as the Chief of Staff and not the President. I hadn't realized how much of the movie's cast went on to the West Wing. Besides Sheen, there's Joshua Malina, and I think I saw a few other familiar faces.  And Annette Bening shows glimpses of the talent that later became so obvious in performances such as American Beauty.Overall, I give this film a 9.  See it if you have the chance. "},{"Title":"Fun and romance in the White House","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  ***Starring Michael Douglas, Annette Bening, Martin Sheen, and Richard Dreyfuss.The widow American President of the United States starts to fall for a lobbyist for an environmental problem.  Against the wishes of his advisors, he still decides to date her.  This only helps the Republican who is vying for the next Presidential election.Douglas and Bening's roles are perfect for them.  They make everything they can with this.  Dreyfuss also does good as the villain.  The movie provides some fun and also has a nice fun plot.I recommend it. "},{"Title":"Outstanding Romantic Film - Liberal Politics Expected","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As entertainment, The American President is wonderful. Very touching performances by all of the cast. You can see how The West Wing has been so popular with this being the pilot. Along with Dave, these two films give us a feel-good attitude about the role of President of the U.S. and sympathy with such a monumental job.I love political films and expect a liberal leaning from Hollywood so I wasn't too surprised with the plotline. Alot of reviewers here were heavily impacted by the speech at the end. It was a great speech for the rah-rah crowd. The ideology of gun control and the environment are  very divisive issues.  The law says don't commit crime but, obviously, people commit crimes by disregarding the law. Only the law-abiding citizens won't possess an outlawed handgun. Human nature can't be controlled by Washington. The legislative process is also skewed for dramatic purposes in this film which gives the average viewer a false idea about how things are done on Capitol Hill.Great speech by Michael J. Fox character about leadership.A very entertaining film with a very warm romantic story.  "},{"Title":"The most charming, winsome romantic comedy ever made","Date":"5 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  While none of us really have any idea what living in the White House is actually like, I'm sure we'd all like it to be something akin to what we see in the American President.  Assuring us immediately, as Michael Douglas' Andrew Shepherd walks down the corridor, responding to rapid fire questions from a myriad of staff, this movie feels right.  It feels like Andrew Shepherd is the President, and that we are in the White House.  We then meet Annette Bening as lobbyist Sydney Ellen Wade, and we can see why the President is smitten.  She plays as likeable and winning a leading lady as I've seen at the movies.  Because we buy that we are watching the President, and because the two leads play such winning characters, and because they have such great chemistry, the romantic exchanges between Bening and Douglas are among the most delightful ever put on film.  Charming, witty, and winning, director Rob Reiner's The American President is a joy to behold and will put a smile on your face. "},{"Title":"10 on a scale of 10","Date":"25 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have only given about 15 movies a rating of a 10, and I have seen thousands. That should say a lot right there. This genre (romantic comedy) is one of my two favorite genres and this is only the second 10 in the genre I have given. The other was When Harry Met Sally. In order to get a 10 a movie has to not only be perfectly done as well as be a movie that I enjoy watching, but it has to have that special characteristic that cannot easily be defined.This movie offered a unique view into a president's personal life. It also offered a unique perspective on what it might be like for a president to date while in office. (I, of course, mean dating as a SINGLE person, unlike Clinton.) The movie politics are slightly left of center while I am slightly right of Attila the Hun. Nevertheless, I didn't feel that had any bearing on the movie.I think the special characteristic in the film that made it a 10 was the chemistry between Douglass and Bening. I have rarely, if ever, seen such a wonderful match. Both actors were sensational in their parts and we were really rooting for them.All movies like this start with a chance meeting. Then they progress to the infatuation. Then love. Then the obligatory problem, which threatens the relationship. And, then of course, the reconciliation and happily ever after. And, so does this movie. In some cases the problem is merely tacked on so as to meet the formula. In some cases, it is a reasonable variation on the plot. In this case it was the inevitable outcome of their relationship. What I mean is that they HAD to go through it in order to satisfy the complicated political relationship they had with each other. Those problems weren't watered down or glossed over. They were dealt with in one of the most powerful speeches you will ever see on film. Except for the politics, I would have stood and cheered - both for the courage of the character and for the inevitable romantic result. See the movie and see what I mean. "},{"Title":"An intelligent romantic comedy for all adults!","Date":"25 January 2009","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The first time I saw this movie, I wasn't old enough to vote yet. After following politics a few years later, I watched this film again and I discovered that I really loved this movie! Michael Douglas plays a likable yet sympathetic President while Annette Bening is absolutely adorable in her role as the President's love interest.This film isn't about vilifying one political party or making another heroic, but instead it shows how living a political life affects the lives of all these characters and how even political figures in high office have complicated lives too. This is an intelligent romantic comedy for all adults. "},{"Title":"Bias political opinions ruined this one for me...","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I claim to be neither democrat or republican, but I must say that this movie completely seemed to me that it was saying, Democrat-good, Republican-bad. Common guys, I understand the brutality of a Presidential Campaign, but really a film should be about a story that entertains and enlightens, not about who's right and who's wrong in someone else's opinion. I praise Michael J. Fox for his wonderful acting and the romantic story was really very charming. I enjoyed those parts, but sorry it was just a little too political for me. 6.5 out of 10. "}{"Title":"This is a great story!  Among my top ten favorite movies ever!When you see Rob Reiner as Director,  Castle Rock Entertainment,  WildwoodEnterprises (Robert Redford Production Company),  and casting by Hirshe","Date":"25 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This one of the best performances by Annette Bening!  What a great part to act!  Siskel and Ebert stated that Ms. Bening glows. I do not understand how someone can glow in a movie but she does. She is absolutely  beautiful in this classic! Then you have veteran Michael Douglas (Wall Street) playing the President. He is very believable. Martin Sheen (Apocalypse Now)  plays the President's Chief of Staff, best friend, and confidant. Besides the work he does at the White House he shows the human side of the President. Michael J. Fox  (Spin City, Doc Hollywood) is the best. Who could tell that he had Parkinson when he played Lewis,  (Hang in there Michael! We are rooting for you, my own dad had that, I myself sort became an expert on the illness, you will be fine!). Lucy Shepard played by Shawna Mathis is so adorable. She keeps repeating  Girls like that! Everything is girls like that! . Compliment her shoes, dad, girls like that. The acting is fabulous. The fake White House looks so real. My favorite scenes are hard to pick because the entire movie is perfect, but here we go When Sidney makes a fool of herself in front of the President, and also on the phone.  Annette Bening looks good even in her pajamas with her hair wet!  The Flower Shop fainting! That is so funny! Michael Douglas' smile as his daughter plays Hail to the Chief. Sydney coming to eat meat loaf at the White House, shows that they are just humans. How well Dupont Circle is described in the movie. I also hate Dupont Circle I would rather die than drive through it. Even if I drove, I would be dead anyway! Martins Sheen's conversation with the President. How he tells him as it is! Samantha Mathis (Little Women) trying to figure out if dogwood is a flower or a tree! How she briefs the President so well! The President's last speech that made us all cheer! How finally The President realizes that he has a rose garden. I highly  recommend this movie! This is one cool movie!  "},{"Title":"Thank God they still keep making these kind of movies!","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  After viewing dozens of Oliver Stone/Tarantino-like bloody action-dramas one can't help feeling a sigh of relief and gratitude when seeing this movie. It's not an epic masterpiece, but it is however a VERY charming love story, if not all to deep, and with a stellar cast. Had this movie been made 50 years ago it would probably star Hepburn and Tracy and be one of the great American classics. "},{"Title":"New genre, political romantic comedy?","Date":"23 February 2006","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is entertaining enough, fills in enough political insider stuff, has a nice romantic storyline and one of Michael J. Fox's best acting jobs. Martin Sheen does some prep for his West Wing turn as chief of staff very handily. Michael Douglas handles the President/single parent role competently. The real star is, of course, Annette Benning, who steals just about every scene. Richard Dreyfuss really hams it up as the loyal(?) opposition candidate. The plot follows young, handsome, charismatic President Andrew Shepherd as he wines and dines lovely lobbyist Ellen Wade, while trying to run the country, improve his popularity and electability, navigate political minefields and raise his teenage daughter. The film is well directed by Rob Reiner, who always seems to get that extra something out of his actors. My wife liked it a lot more than I did, but it's still an entertaining, if fluffy political/romantic comedy/drama. "},{"Title":"I can see it again and again","Date":"21 February 2006","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The more you see it, the more likenesses you see with the West Wing. Martin Sheen caught the taste and went one step higher on the ladder of presidency. Anna Deavere Smith plays a similar role in both. Joshua Malina too Even Nina Siemasko (Sydney's sister is also Bartlett's second daughter). Of course that's all Aaron Sorkin's doing. The dialogue is witty, and the story more or less believable - OK, I think she jumps in his bed a little too easily, but then it's only a 90 minute film. One small problem though - Annette Bening's french is passable, but could they not have found a french actor to play the president of France? Are Americans that deaf to good accents? "},{"Title":"Pleasant potential overtaken by hippy dippy politics","Date":"13 October 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I've had this movie in my library for a long time and recently viewed it for the 1st time in about 5 years. The base story is a cute little romance with some comedy elements thrown in. Even the very clichéd character portrayals as all Democrats good and all Republicans bad is tolerable, even though some of the depictions are really nonsensical. I can accept this somewhat as it comes from Rob Reiner who has talent but continues to let his artistic endeavors get heavily tainted by his childish and buffoonish life outlook.The acting is universally good and the nonpolitical portions of the script were very well done. But in the end the movie is completely undone by the loony toony pronouncements by the characters as to what cataclysmic results await us in 10 years if we don't toe the proper Al Gore line on global warming or whatever we're calling it now. It's 20 years down the road and were all still here and doing fine.The only value to watching this movie now is to realize the extent of the liberal nonsense that was routinely included in movies in the 90s. Today, at least they make an attempt to incorporate their agenda in a little more sophisticated manner. This movie is now hopeless for anybody with a brain. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable, Light Fare","Date":"7 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Enjoyable, light fare concerning the widowed president's attempt to have a serious relationship with a political campaign manager shortly before a tense election.Director Reiner delivers a romantic-comedy that is far more palatable than his When Harry Met Sally, being consistently funny and containing many genuinely likable characters. Romance is provided in the form of lonely President Andrew Shepherd's burgeoning relationship with Sydney Ellen Wade, a political activist who crosses paths with Mr. Prez when they clash over an environmental issue. Things start to go wrong when an American public who expect higher standards from their leader begin to frown upon the couple's companionship.Reiner has set an enjoyable tone and temperament to his film, and even the dramatic element is handled with tact - one can forgive the script writers for trying to give the pic a conscience, throwing in strong references to two hot current issues, those of the environment (fossil fuel emissions) and crime (ownership of hand guns). Fortunately The American President remains essentially a romantic-comedy, though the serious diversions carry a fair amount of weight, and they do it admirably.Michael Douglas steers away from femme fatales on this occasion to deliver an agreeable performance as the 'leader of the free world'. Even more enjoyable is a funny, and incredibly fresh turn from Annette Bening, who delights as the president's new girl. Bening hasn't been so completely watchable since The Grifters and Regarding Henry. Lending classy, solid support is Martin Sheen, as Shepherd's old friend and Chief of Staff 'A.J.', and Michael J. Fox, in a return to the form that endeared him to audiences ten years ago, as agitated speech writer Lewis Rothschild. Worthy turns also from Robin Givens, David Paymer, Samantha Mathis and Richard Dreyfuss.Impressive White House sets compliment proceedings, as does Mark Shaiman's music.Sunday, January 21, 1996 - Boronia Century Cinemas "},{"Title":"I love this film","Date":"2 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is my favourite feel-good movie of all time. It is funny, heartwarming, and I would vote for Michael Douglas as President any day! He is so 'Presidential' but very human at the same time, the ideal image of a President (though I'm not an American!). Some of his expressions are wonderful - eg when Robin says something about parading him as the lonely widower (wow, wonderful reaction), and when Lucy plays 'Hail to the Chief' (nice self-deprecating grin). There are so many great throwaway lines in this film too, they make me laugh every time. Annette Bening is great - what an expressive face she has. Martin Sheen is superb as Chief of Staff - brilliant actor - and Michael J Fox is so intense. His speech about leadership is just so good. But the speech to end all speeches has to be Andrew Shepherd's press conference speech near the end of the film - wish the present American President could make a speech like that! "},{"Title":"The American President","Date":"2 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I hardly know a thing about the job of the President of the United States, but this film can answer some of those questions, from Golden Globe nominated director Rob Reiner (When Harry Met Sally, Misery). The very good Golden Globe nominated Michael Douglas plays President Andrew Shepherd, he seems like a normal everyday guy, but his public image as the leader of the nation is more well known. Golden Globe nominated Annette Bening as Sydney Ellen Wade falls in love with him and they both don't care about the media, she did care a bit about his image but they soon forgot that. Also starring Martin Sheen as A.J. MacInerney, Michael J. Fox as Lewis Rothschild and Richard Dreyfuss as Senator Bob Rumson. Basically this is a good film because it has light humour in places, and it is a good representation of what the President's life is like out of the public eye. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Music for Marc Shaiman, and it was nominated the Golden Globes Best Screenplay and Best Motion Picture - Comedy/Musical. It was number 75 on 100 Years, 100 Passions. Very good! "},{"Title":"A good tale with terrific writing","Date":"31 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" So you don't think this movie really depicts the way politics are.And you don't believe a president can become involved with a lobbyist.It's tinsel. If one is interested in Romance, the leads are VERY attractive people. They do not start out hating each other as many romances do. They begin by an immediate recognition of the worth and value of the other. Each has gone through something that makes that value apparent to the other, although we really focus on Andrew Shepard (Douglas). He is charming. He has just enough little boy in him to be very appealing;the wife of the best man at Shepherd's first wedding explains to Sydney that men like to be insulted by women. She says that with great affection and we know that in Shepard's case, it's true. Sydney's instincts, fortified in part by that comment, defers to his office, but she is not intimidated by the man himself. And he knows that. He likes her all the more for her graceful balance.But it was the politics that we find interesting, or I did. There was a time in American history when politicians were idealists. One cannot read about John Quincy Adams without some admiration for the American system.Here was a man that served the United States for almost his entire life. He was an ambassador and most remarkably, he was a Member of Congress after his presidency. He believed very strongly that the constitution should be tested over every issue and put forth legislation that branded him as an abolitionist in the worst sense of the word -- uttered by people who made it sound like it had only 4 letters. He was one of those who defended the rights of other to speak those things which he himself would spend his life speaking against. But he felt that Congress should debate everything of political relevance. JQA took very little for his public service. He was always trying to find money for just his basic needs. Compare that to modern politicians.The last speech Douglas gives and the one Rothschild gives before are classic yearnings for what was a more idealist time that once existed in the past. It always brings tears to my eyes because I admire America immensely and wish there were men like Andrew Shepherd in public life. The Federalist papers could never be written by Bush and Bush as they were by Adams and Adams. I would so like to see men of ideals governing us. Not to be.But that does not stop me from wanting it.See the movie. Listen to the speeches. Learn about what America was like at her best and hope that we could have her be that way again.5 out of 5 "},{"Title":"&#145;The American President' is more than just a political movie!","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Rob Reiner's &#145;The American President', is a refreshing look at the controversial and sometimes boring subject of politics. This movie also does more. It has a wonderful love story, with a very comedic feel, which is different to other romantic movies I have seen. I am sure that being &#145;The President of the United States' is arduous task at the best of times. However this film gives a much different look at what it means to be the US president, in the public eye and in private as well. How does the widowed leader of the free world balance his many obligations to his country with the ordinary demands and everyday rites of courtship? When US President Andrew Shepherd, quite unexpectedly, falls in love with Sydney Ellen Wade, an environmental lobbyist, he must overcome obstacles not faced by average citizens; he must worry that the public's right to know will collide with the desire for personal privacy. Political crises are different than personal ones and somehow the American President alone must find a way to balance time to do his job, for the love of his country with his love for an incredible woman.It is obvious that this movie's main stars, that being Andrew Shepherd (Michael Douglas) and Sydney Ellen Wade (Annette Benning), steal most of the limelight. There roles as politicians are so believable, it allows them to do so. There onscreen chemistry was amazing. In addition to having such comedic scenes also makes this movie funny to watch. One such highlight is when the President is asking Sydney out on a date. He is immediately snubbed as she thinks it is a big prank and comments to him &#145;you have a great ass'. When she realises that it really is &#145;Andrew Shepherd &#150;the president' on the phone, she contemplates on the terrible blunder she has just made.There are some other funny moments in this movie, many surrounding what and how the president approaches &#145;courting' Sydney. The simple task of ordering flowers over the phone is a difficult thing for the president, when his credit cards &#145;are stored in Wisconsin'. Furthermore when the flower shop hangs the phone up on the President, it just goes to show that the presidents personal matters should be handled someone other than him. Sydney also has her problems with this relationship. The career woman is told by her boss that, `The time it will take you to go from presidential girlfriend to cocktail party joke can be measured on an egg timer.'The screenplay was well written for this movie by Aaron Sorkin. I like the comedy and drama, in addition to the three differing circumstances that he presented. We have the president and the job that he must continue to do, while also being in a re-election year. This part of the story gives good tension to the movie. Then you have Sydney and her political position as an Environmental lobbyist who is trying to win votes to pass a crucial fuel bill. Then to interweave the beautiful love story between the two, keeps the movie interesting and strikes up the perfect balance.The supporting cast for Douglas and Benning in &#145;The American President' is first-class. A.J MacInerney (Martin Sheen) is the president's right-hand man, Lewis Rothschild (Michael J. Fox) is the president's conscience, with a brilliant scene of retaliating remarks between Douglas and Fox close to the end of the movie, Robin McCall (Anna Deavere Smith) is the press secretary, Leon Kodak (David Paymer) is his pollster and Janie Basdin (Samantha Mathis) is his personal secretary. I also enjoyed the role of the president's daughter &#145;Lucy' (well played by Shawna Waldron). Her character had wisdom that her Father needed and was a good change to see from time to time.The political feel this film had was also a highlight for me. It handles such issues as the environment via Sydney's character and gun control through the president character in the most professional way. The final speech of the president's, is as powerful a moment I think I have ever seen in a movie, and has a very political feel to it as well. I love the end of the president's speech when he says &#145;My name is Andrew Shepherd and I AM the president!'Someone told me before I viewed this film, that `fans of the West Wing, will like the &#145;The American President'. While I do agree, I also feel this movie can be enjoyed by anyone if they desire to watch it. I am not a fan of &#145;The West Wing', but you can certainly see the resemblance to that show in this film. Also consider for a moment the scandal that has surrounded the title of &#145;US president'. After the revealing affair of former US president Bill Clinton, I am certain this movie has helped in making the title of &#145;The American President', strong and great once again. For some reason I was attracted to this movie and perhaps it is because I like Michael Douglas' onscreen presence so much in it. However after viewing it I loved every aspect of it, the cast, the story, even the politics. If you want to see a good night's entertainment, then &#145;The American President' is the movie just for you.CMRS gives &#145;The American President' 5 (Brilliant Film) "}{"Title":"Love meets politics","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Michael Douglas plays President Andrew Shepherd.He's a widowed man who falls in love with a lobbyist Sydney Ellen Wade (Annette Bening).American President (1995) is a good Rob Reiner movie.The actors are one thing that really make it work.Douglas and Bening make a wonderful couple in the lead.They have that chemistry thing going on.There are also Martin Sheen as A.J. MacInerney, David Paymer as Leon Kodak, Richard Dreyfuss as Senator Bob Rumson, Nina Siemaszko as Beth Wade, John Mahoney as Leo Solomon and Michael J. Fox as Lewis Rothschild.Fox hadn't had many decent roles since Back to the Future III but this movie made him popular again.This is a movie that shows that everybody can fall in love, even the president.I sure would like to see Shepherd in the White House rather than George W. Bush.Let's hope we don't have to stand him for another season.Maybe there will be John Kerry as the next President of the United States.But that's enough for the politics.I recommend this movie for everybody, especially for the Democrats. "},{"Title":"If 7 of every 10 Americans could see this","Date":"23 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" In 1995 we were in a really good time (politically that is) In Canada and the Us we had Liberal parties (democrat in the US) in power and the economies were doing well. That is probably the only bad thing about this film, the timing. The American President was a political/romantic comedy film, that was directed by Rob Reiner and written by Aaron Sorkin (both famous from A Few Good Men). The film had a lot to say about politics but because we were in a stable political time, it was ignored. That is a real shame because this is one of the best political movies ever made.The film is about President of the United States, Andrew Shepherd (portrayed by Michael Douglas) in his third year in office. After achieving a 63% job approval rating he decides to tighten ship and focus on passing a crime bill through congress. Well that doesn't sit well with the Global Defence Council who are continuously asking the president for a large fossil fuel reduction (20%) on the new environment bill. This in turn causes the presidents first meeting with GDC lobbyist Sydney Ellen Wade (Portrayed by Annette Bening). A fire ball, Sydney's first meeting with the president is followed shortly by her inadvertently insulting him. After a few awkward meetings they become a couple. The problem is that this relationship is the perfect opening for Republican Senator (and presidential opponent) Bob Rumson (portrayed by Richard Dreyfuss) to start a character debate with the president. This causes his job approval rating to start dropping and the loss of votes on the crime bill.The acting and writing have to be the two most important things in this film. Douglas plays the president that we all want; confident and wont back down to spineless opponents. He and Bening are the root of this film but Michael J Fox and Richard Dreyfuss are the cherries on top of the Sunday. Fox plays an unspecified role (sorry but it's never specified) in the presidents cabinet. He is the member who always wants to stay on the right path, wants to be risky to do the right thing. He is my favourite actor in the film and I'm sure that anyone who sees this will agree. Dreyfuss plays Rumson and I'm completely positive that this is the role that got Oliver Stone to select him for the role of Dick Cheney in his film W.There is a quote that sums up what this film is about.Lewis Rothschild You have a deeper love of this country than any man I've ever known. And I want to know what it says to you that in the past seven weeks, 59% of Americans have begun to question your patriotism. President Andrew Shepherd Look, if the people want to listen to-&#x85; Lewis Rothschild They don't have a choice! Bob Rumson is the only one doing the talking! People want leadership, Mr. President, and in the absence of genuine leadership, they'll listen to anyone who steps up to the microphone. They want leadership. They're so thirsty for it they'll crawl through the desert toward a mirage, and when they discover there's no water, they'll drink the sand. President Andrew Shepherd Lewis, we've had presidents who were beloved, who couldn't find a coherent sentence with two hands and a flashlight. People don't drink the sand because they're thirsty. They drink the sand because they don't know the difference.God just watching that scene sends shivers down my spine. It is mind boggling. If this movie had been made just a few years later this world would be such a better place. I believe that if it had been released in say late 1999 or mid 2000 then Gore might have won the election. This film is almost perfect so i'm giving it 9.4 stars out of 10. "},{"Title":"This job is all about character.","Date":"19 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Andrew Shepherd (Michael Douglas), a former college history professor, who rose in politics and won the Presidency of the United States in an accidental victory. A Democrat, his Republican foes could not use their normal weapons about the weak character of the Democratic nominee because Sheperd's wife died just before he got the nomination. Had they attacked the margin of victory would have been larger for Shepherd.He is now in the third year of his administration, looking forward to renomination (and re-election) because he has a 60% approval rating. He plans to use this by getting a weak anti-assault weapon bill passed (basically to try the waters - he can just pass it despite the gun lobby). But he is soon confronted by a leading environmental lobby group led by John Mahoney. They have hired a new lobbyist, Sidney Ellen Wade (Annette Benning), who is forceful and attractive. Soon Sidney and Andrew are starting a love affair, and the leading Republican rival of Shepherd - Senator Bob Rumson (Richard Dreyfus) starts using the love affair to undermine public confidence in the President and his administration. To further complicate matters Benning is determined to get legislation passed to reduce gas emissions in cars - and makes a deal with Douglas that he will back her bill if she gets enough Congressional support for it in ninety days. And as his effectiveness (re the gun control bill) ebbs, her lobbying skills slowly builds up her required voting block.THE American PRESIDENT was one of several films that were produced in the 1990s regarding the life of the American Presidency. Starting with DAVE in 1993, continuing with THE American PRESIDENT, and concluding with MY FELLOW Americans the issue was what does the public expect of the men elected to the White House, and what does it get. The answer was mixed. James Garner and Jack Lemmon discovered in MY FELLOW Americans that their best intentions and wishes were weakened by realities that caused their policies to help Americans. But they put aside their old animosities to bring down a corrupt President and his administration (Dan Ackroyd). Kevin Kline finds he was selected to be a stooge by an overly ambitious chief of the White House staff (Frank Langella) to replace a dying, unconscious President. But he and the First Lady (Sigourney Weaver) turn the tables on the villain, and demonstrate what the office required of the President, which (sadly) the original President did not have - character.The running thread of all three films is that the public expects the President show a real degree of honesty and integrity where it counts. Legislative tricks are winked at, if the President is shepherding the nation correctly. Douglas understands this too, but briefly forgets this truth when he is worried about getting his useless legislation through as a symbolic victory, and when he keeps thinking that he has only one more possible election victory ahead of him (for re-election). But he comes to admit his temporary lapse in memorable fashion as the film approaches it's conclusion.Well acted by it's cast, including Michael J. Fox and Martin Sheen, both of whom shake up the chief executive about what he has failed to do confronting Dreyfus, and skillfully directed by Rob Reiner, this is one film that never fails to make an audience of American voters think clearly about the responsibility of the voter and the elected official towards each other and the country. I strongly recommend it. "},{"Title":"A love story with a political backdrop...or is it the other way round?","Date":"31 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Near the beginning of the movie, the fictional president muses on the bachelors America has had in the White House. There have been three, and of these two married while in office. Like all men, they met, courted, and married a woman, but somehow they did it while running the country. How did these men manage it, he wonders. This movie presents a look as to how one man might do so in modern times.Andrew Shepherd (Michael Douglas) is a very popular president. Widowed shortly before the election, he is also a lonely single father, struggling to raise a somewhat precocious daughter (Shawna Waldron) while running the country. He has a devoted staff, and a fair amount of clout in congress. In short, he plays the game well. Into this picture comes lobbyist, Sydney Ellen Wade (Annette Benning), bold, brash, and new to Washington. Meeting her awakens Shepherd's longing for companionship, and the two start a relationship. Romance is difficult enough under normal circumstances, but when the eyes of all are upon you, it can be downright impossible. Can the two of them balance their personal relationship with the professional demands of their careers? And if so, at what cost? The movie plays heavily on the struggle to maintain personal integrity in a political setting. Shepherd is loathe to play the game of dirty politics, and risks his popularity to try to keep what is personal out of the political. And yet, when even his personal life is threatened, he more than rises to the occasion, giving a speech about American citizenship which should resonate with all Americans.The acting is spectacular. Douglas is at his charismatic best as a man who controls by underplaying, and who truly believes in integrity. Benning gives her usual charming performance as a woman who is a bit bewildered by what has befallen her, but is true to herself at the core. Shawna Waldron steals the scenes she is in as Shepherd's twelve year old daughter, Lucy. Martin Sheen gives a beautifully controlled performance as the chief of staff, best friend, and confidante of the president. Michael J. Fox hits the right notes at the head speech writer. Anne Haney is wonderful as an unflappable secretary, and Samantha Mathis is delightful as a secretary whose main wish is to help the president, even when he doesn't want the help.A movie which sheds a lot of light on American society and politics, and which makes you wish Andrew Shepherd were a real president. A charming look at the lives of those in power. And ultimately, a must see. "},{"Title":"The American President's  got my vote.","Date":"26 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Michael Douglas gives one of the best performances of his career as Andrew Shepard, the President of the United States. Annette Benning, one of the best actresses working today plays Sidney the President's girlfriend.This movie doesn't miss at all. It combines a great love story with some of the best politically oriented material I've seen in a long time. This movie is really really Good. The movie's main flaw is that it doesn't go on longer.Douglas, as Andrew Shepard is utterly perfect. Although, Andrew feels at times, almost to good to be true, it's easy to put your skepticism aside because somehow he convinces you. Benning is stunning and great as always. The movie keeps you on the edge of your seat with it's switching back and forth in focus from the glorious love story of Sidney and Andrew and the unfolding of their relationship, to the highly charged political atmosphere. Somehow the movie does the Combination of Political movie and romantic comedy almost flawlessly. The movie works, not just as one of the most charming love stories to come around in awhile, but also as an edgy political drama with a lot to say. And anyone who's a fan of political movies and romances has found their dream here. It's a lot deeper then I expected it to be.I happen to like both genres but many movies in either of these genres are just, to me, not very interesting. American President is an unexpected pleasure. It is greatly entertaining but also very thought provoking and an extremely smartly written movie. It's wonderful to see Douglas playing someone other then the victim.His press conference at the end is marvelous. This movie is also a fantastic look into the world of politics and if one is a political junkie that's just icing on The cake. Sure some things are completely unrealistic but it's a movie. And a really good one. "},{"Title":"Grown-up romcom","Date":"24 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A charming but thorough-going adult movie. I was surprised at the ease with which Reiner strikes a balance between seriousness and disposable comedy. This is largely down to the cast. Reiner (anyone!) is spoilt with Bening and I want to know if Michael Douglas has done any other presidentialism... I particularly liked his (Gekko/'greed is good'-reminiscent) hijacking of a press conference to take on Dreyfus' (delicious) presidential challenger. Douglas goes from strength to strength for me. The cast goes much deeper than this right into the territory of the impressivebutunknown, and is worth a visit for performances alone (I've recently seen it again and have to comment on just how good Anette Bening looks, let alone acts!).Above all this film successfully blends a simple moral theme - at very high speed by the way, probably just how it is in Washington - with a simple love story. I cannot commend highly enough the maturity with which this is presented the plot is weighty enough, given the dramatic meat of demands of state vs demands of the heart without 'does he love me?', 'how can I tell her how I feel?' distractions.There are plenty of loose ends and the occasional contrivances, but the film ends on a morally vertical trajectory and satisfaction guaranteed. Rubbish title though! 6/10 "},{"Title":"How could you NOT love this movie??","Date":"20 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie has it all. . .  Romance, patriotism, comedy, drama. ..A non-political movie about politics.  About doing the RIGHT thing and about finding love in unexpected places and at unexpected times.The Presidential speech at the end of the film is gripping in its intensity and honesty, and so powerfully moving that even after the number of times I have seen it, I still cry.America isn't easy.  America is advanced citizenship.  You've gotta want it bad.  Because it's gonna put up a fight.  It's gonna say, `You want free speech?'  Let's see you acknowledge a man whose words make your blood boil. Who's standing center stage and advocating at the top of his lungs that which you would spend a lifetime opposing at the top of yours.  You wanna claim this land as a land of the free?  Then the symbol of your country cannot just be a flag.  The symbol also has to be one of its citizens exercising his right to burn that flag in protest.  Now show me that; defend that; celebrate that in your classrooms.  Then you can stand up and sing about the land of the free.  -  Andrew ShepherdThat quote says it all about the feelings this movie provokes.Watch it!  More than once. . . "},{"Title":"Mr. President, you've got bigger problems than losing me. You just lost my vote.","Date":"24 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Michael Douglas and Annette Bening lead an all star cast that includes Martin Sheen, Michael J. Fox, Richard Dreyfuss, John Mahoney, and even the writer, Aaron Sorkin, in a Rob Reiner comedy/drama that is funny from start to finish.An Oscar nomination and five Golden Globe nominations support the fact that this film was extremely well written, superbly directed, and had some outstanding actors in charge. It wasn't all laughs, as there were some serious political issues confronted in the film.No matter how many times I watch this film, it never gets boring. It is an excellent comedy/drama with some damn fine actors. "},{"Title":"Tennessee Meathead Vs. Radical Republicans","Date":"4 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" By now, you know the abject leftist political content...consider how that narrative exists as a movie. Not this movie you paid to watch, the real-life movie played out in U.S. politics every day.The preaching to the choir (the movie audience) starts right away. The battle lines are drawn in the middle act; the hero is accused of a peccadillo via the most 'inflammatory' vision his enemies can dig up.Hollywood knows that to promote its agenda, it has to fight for control of that 'movie'--this is ongoing. What better way to bolster leftist values than have the most powerful man in the free world star in a date movie, get the girl, humiliate Hollywood's opponents, and save America itself? It is consummated through the President's speech to the government (the press corps; Hollywood believes the media rule us-- here they hang on every word in rapture). You just watched Tennessee Johnson.Reiner tries to conflate all this with Capra...no deal. The 'numbers' have swung decidedly against Hollywood in recent years. Today, Tennessee Meathead would be impeached. "},{"Title":"A Liberal's Fantasy","Date":"17 March 2003","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have several problems with this movie, not the least of which is positing liberalism as Good (environmentalism, gun control) and conservatism as Evil (character assassination). Mr. Sorkin -- it ain't that cut and dried. Besides, were the plot played out in real life, I would have real issues if a widowed president bedded a woman -- nay, a political lobbyist -- several doors down from his sleeping daughter.Also, Annette Bening's performance was insulting. Her character is supposed to be an intelligent, six-figure political operative (a closer) -- instead we see a giggly, scatterbrained schoolgirl. And Richard Dreyfuss is no more credible as the seething, sniveling Bad Politician. "}{"Title":"Gives a good insight on what the presidency  must be like.","Date":"22 December 2004","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" You can call The American President whatever kind of movie you want, but it certainly isn't a comedy. Of course it has some funny parts, but which movie hasn't? It just isn't enough to call it a comedy. Does that mean that I didn't like the movie? Of course not. I'm just saying that the name comedy is inappropriate for this movie. I would rather call it a politically inspired romantic drama, because that's exactly what it is. And it's a good one too...In fact this movie gives a good view on how the American president's every move is followed by the press, the public and the opposition, ready to punish him for every little mistake that he makes. It shows clearly that it doesn't matter what the man has to say or how he says it. All that counts is that he does exactly what is expected from him, no matter if he likes it or not. It shows that even the president isn't but an ordinary man with human feelings, but that his life is being lead by many others except by him.Even though sometimes too little happened to keep the movie very interesting, I have to say that in the end it still worked well. Overall the script is good and the actors did a nice job. I give this movie a 7.5/10. I've already seen a lot worse than this one. "},{"Title":"if only I could purge this film from my memory...","Date":"5 April 2004","Score":"8 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The American President can't decide whether it wants to be a syrupy, fairy-tale romance or an anti-Republican rant.  The film ends up with a foot in both camps, which makes for a very awkward and uneven tone indeed. Though the current administration scares me silly, I used to have quite strong conservative leanings, and I felt patronized and irritated by this movie's constant, simplistic criticism of right-wing values.  It attempts to defend Clinton by presenting a sanitized version of that particular President.  If you're going to defend Clinton, then REALLY defend him; don't do Clinton lite with a lite version of his scandals.  The Republican characters are all, as you might expect, dumb as bricks, and it's up to Michael Douglas to call a press conference and blast them all for being prejudiced fearmongers.  Way to go, Michael. Now, I don't mind political commentary in a film, if it's at all well done. But this film stereotypes liberals and conservatives alike, and has about the sophistication level you'd expect from a political treatise written by a p****d-off 15-year-old.The movie is hypocritical, too, because it creates a very passive and flighty character in the form of Sydney Ellen Wade (Annette Bening, annoying as all Hell in this movie).  Wade takes a deferential, reverential, and generally submissive posture towards the President, which certainly undermines this film's claims to political/social Enlightenment.  The woman's a chattering nitwit who supports that most popular of causes - environmentalism - instead of expressing her opinions on a really controversial issue (like abortion, for example).  In short, she's about as feminist as low-riding jeans, and her attachment to the President becomes a sort of Disney-like tale of wish fulfillment based entirely on a powerful man.  Eeww. Believe it or not, this was my ex-girlfriend's favorite movie (nice to know that good taste continues to thrive in this day and age, eh?).  When I complained that the politics alienated me, she screeched back that it was the story she liked, not the message.  What story?  What message?  This whole thing can be boiled down to the statement It would be nice to date a Democrat President.  And it would be death to date a Republican one, presumably.  Pathetic. "},{"Title":"Arron Sorkin, the smartest writer i constantly disagree with","Date":"30 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" it is hard for me to describe Arron Sorkin. as a screen and TV writer, he is head and shoulders above any i have ever seen.in this movie and the west wing, his presentation is smart, witty, direct, full blossomed and rich. it is like drinking great wine to enjoy his writing.in A Few Good Men, he showed the same and it is my understanding that he is as close to being a marine as i am to being the easter bunny.his views on civil rights, the ACLU, and our beloved constitution are for the largest part wonderful.his views on the second amendment are absolutely, totally wrong. the problem is that he presents this wrong thinking so convincingly.the line in The American President... guns kill people... is ridiculous and i fear the opinion of a smart man who has not bothered to be smart about guns.people kill people. the already disarmed nations now are realizing that people kill people. they are asking for their guns back.i worship Arron's writing, but on this issue, he should quit playing ostrich. "},{"Title":"Yeah whatever...","Date":"3 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This could have a been a much better film had it not spent most of its time preaching to the viewing audience about political correctness. Michael Douglas plays Mr. President who is widowed and the first single President who has ever sat in the oval office. He meets a lobbyist (Annette Bening) and a love interest sparks between them. Of course The President seems to have way too much time on his hands with nothing else to do but see her. It was an interesting idea for a story and could have been much more charming had it not had a script that pretty much expressed its own political views. I don't want to go see a film that pretends to be one the whole family can enjoy and yet disguises itself with PC nonsense. But Hollywood is like that and they can never seem to stay true to a story without making it into some type of commercial. But then again look who the director was....Rob Reiner. Need I say more. "},{"Title":"Expect a political message in this movie","Date":"21 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have to say, the love story in this film is good. However, it isn't until later in the movie when it hits you with its political message. I'm not here to bash any political party, but I think it's fair to say, whether you agree with the left or not, expect a lecture on matters of gun control and the ACLU.In my opinion, this movie could have done without the partisan messages. At the very least, Rob Reiner could have picked more middle-of-the-road issues to address in his movie.Unlike other movies that are so blatantly political to the point you know to avoid (or go see) them, the message in this film will certainly sneak up on you. "},{"Title":"Why can't the most powerful man in the world have the one thing he wants most?","Date":"29 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" MICHAEL DOUGLAS stars as President Andrew Shepherd who, quite unexpectedly, falls in love with ANNETTE BENING starring as Sydney Wade, an environmental lobbyist, In The American President. The film offers a rare glimpse at an uncommon romance involving a most powerful man who must overcome obstacles not faced by average citizens. Complicating his desire for personal privacy and his efforts to maintain a relationship are issues President Shepherd must confront approval ratings, an inquiring press, and an aggressive political opponent (portrayed by RICHARD DREYFUSS).Fortunately, he does have some help. Domestic Policy Adviser (MICHAEL J. FOX), White House Pollster (DAVID PAYMER), White House Press Secretary (ANNA DEAVERE SMITH) and Personal Aide (SAMANTHA MATHIS) coordinate his busy schedule, deal with the demands of Congress, and quell any global predicaments, all during an election year.But political crises are different than personal ones.Only this American President can find a way to fulfill the responsibilities of the office as well as the needs of the woman he loves. "},{"Title":"A fresh idea ruined by predictable idealogy.","Date":"19 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Warning parts of the movie will be revealed.Rob Reiner directed this movie, but it feels like a cross between Frank Capra and Oliver Store.  A little more Capra, a little less Stone, and it could have been a great film.The American President is your basic Cinderella story, with a President(Michael Douglas) instead of a prince and an environmental lobbyist (Annette Bening) instead of Cinderella.   If you're a liberal, you'll probably love this movie.   If you're a conservative, you'll feel like the wicked stepmother.It's true that politics and love make for strange bedfellows, and this movie uses both to present a fresh idea - being the President ain't all it's cracked up to be, especially when it comes to dating or buying flowers. Unfortunately, in a celebrity-obsessed culture where Kermit the Frog testifies before Congress about the environment,  Mr. Reiner and Mr. Sorkin feel they too have a message to send to America - and it has little to with the issues President Shepherd and Sydney Ellen Wade hold dear to their hearts.     In conservative Senator Bob Rumson, we have a character with the kind of shallow stereotypes that make me believe the creators of this movie don't know any conservatives (And since they live in Hollywood, I shouldn't be surprised.) Rumson is a blowhard with no independent thoughts of his own. He speaks in a drawl, a subtle nuance to let us know he's stupid. Rumson, Rumsfeld, Rush, Reagan, what's the difference?  To liberals they're all dumb blowhards, as we know from turning on the television everyday.It's perfectly acceptable for this movie to epsouse liberal political views, since it involves the world's most prominent politicians, and the Sorkin and Reiner are well known liberals.   But when they talk about tolerance and acceptance of those with different viewpoints (like President Shepherd's membership in the ACLU) I guess their tolerance only extends to those who share their views.  "},{"Title":"Rob Reiner's wet dream fantasy.  He should stick to watching porn.......","Date":"18 February 2008","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The pure and unadulterated hatred that Rob Reiner has for half of this country (meaning Republicans) can be shown in just the casting of Richard Dreyfus as a conservative Republican in this film. The comments before of this film portraying Democrats as honorable, intelligent, nice guys and the Republicans as hate filled, mud slinging, mean spirited politicians is exactly right. In Reiner's world, all good people want a liberal Democrat for President and will be grateful for the opportunity of voting for one. It never, ever occurs to him that someone from a different party and ideology may have a good idea. Or just maybe, MAYBE, a good person but with a different take on things. Nope. No room for that. Dems good, Repubs bad. "},{"Title":"Shockingly worse than The West Wing","Date":"27 August 2005","Score":"7 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" If you watch this film, as I did, after already falling in love with Sorkin's The West Wing prepare to be very disappointed. There is not a single moment in this feature where the dialogue is on par with that of the long-running TV series.In fact, it is difficult to believe that Sorkin had anything to do with The West Wing after watching this and Sportsnight. The story here is superficial, the acting largely atrocious (keep an eye out for the wooden pole that in some scenes replaces Douglas) and the screenplay more akin to corny Saturday-afternoon television. None of the characters are believable - some actors try harder with their material (Fox gives it a good stab), but there's no saving paper-thin characterisations that surround a cheap love story.Give this a miss - it'll only disappoint, and instead watch any episode of The West Wing again. "},{"Title":"Feminist's Nightmare","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"7 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Oh yes, a powerful, liberal-minded woman falls in love with an arrogant penis-controlled bloke. How does he gain her affection? Well, luckily, his teenage daughter knows the way to a woman's heart and tells him. Compliment her on her shoes. Women love that. There you go. Women aren't complex, free-willed organisms after all. They're easier to train than dogs. "}{"Title":"Great plot, poor result","Date":"11 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I rented this movie the other night because neither my girlfriend or myself had ever seen it, even though we had heard from a mutual friend how great it was.Now, I am pretty conservative in my views, but I knew going in it would be pretty liberal given who directed it. I figured before the movie started Michael Douglas would play a compassionate popular liberal beloved by the masses, and there would be a stodgy conservative opponent as his antagonist. But I thought thats where the political statement would begin and end.OK, the plot was solid Single president falls for a lobbyist. OK, this has potential I thought to be pretty entertaining, since the plot was unique. But then the movie turned into a liberal infomercial. The movie became more about gun control and environmental issues than it did about the relationship between the President and Sydney(Annette Bening).There were several ridiculous premises in this movie 1) The character Sydney playing this six figure lobbyist who is a closer. Could she have been more flighty? She was constantly disorganized and seemed in awe of everything. Hardly a closer. I am an sales, and she could not close selling a glass of water to a man dying of thirst.2) Secondly, is there anything more ridiculous than Richard Dreyfuss playing a right wing fanatic? This is the most liberal man in Hollywood and her is playing some right wing ideologue. Give me a break. I liked how he took his conservative character and made him as sinister as possible.3) The speech at the end was simply ludicrous. The line about I am a proud card carrying member of the ACLU was a joke. First, no president would ever admit something like that, being an active member of an ultra fringe group. Second, why even bring something like that up. You just alienated off over half the movie going audience who is moderate or conservative.I thought the plot was great and unique. I thought Michael Douglas was a good choice as president. But the movie went from being a movie to a left wing political statement, which is why the movie failed.Its a shame to see a great plot ruined by Hollywood having to force their political views on the audience "},{"Title":"Liberals always claim to love the flag too, but...","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  First let it be known that my political views would be considered conservative if they had to be categorized.  That said I have always been able to seperate my political/moral views from my enjoyment of artand entertainment (my music collection is heavy with Dylan, Springsteen, my books with Chomsky, Morrison and many of my fave movies are dead Man Walking and the like).  I surrender to the fact that lefties generally make the best movies, books, music, etc.However I just could not get past the flag burning aspect of this movie to enjoy it.  I kept waiting for the Hey I was young and stupid then and I apoligize but it never came.  She acted as if she was still proud of it, and of course in true limo-liberal style she now wants to be part of the power structure that she abhored enough to desicrate it symbollically.  And the FRIGGIN' PRESIDENT of the UNITED STATES didn't have anything to say about it other than to defend her right to do it (hey call me jingoistic if you like but I just think the the U.S. Pres, our leader, should hold the flag in high regard--I know it's an old-fashioned notion but what can I say) and therefore give his tacit approval.  The underlying message is that its okay to burn the flag.One thing is for sure, when Reiner was playing Meathead on All in the Family, little acting was required on his part. "},{"Title":"inane, silly. Skip it.","Date":"19 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" There's nothing really wrong with a movie with a political slant--there have been many which have such, and carry it in a very skilled fashion, Mr. Smith Goes to Washington being a prime example. But if you're going to take on the task of making a film with a political message, you better succeed; it's a long way to fall if you fail. The American President fails big time.It's about a left-leaning President who struggles with his innate liberalism when being pushed by polls and politics to moderate his positions. The laughable conclusion has him deciding he's going to be true to his left wing self and introduce a White House Resolution on gun control. Forgetting about the fact that there's no such thing as a White House Resolution, this movie can't quite transcend the sophistication of a left wing pamphlet. The chief Bob Dole-ish Republican nemesis to the Clintonesque Michael Douglas is out and out evil, beyond caricature, they might as well have used a cartoon evil doer from the X-Men comic books. If one wants a decent political thriller-comedy, rent Wag the Dog; if you have to have a left wing political movie, try out Three Days of the Condor or Seven Days in May. They at least are really well done, and have something a little more sophisticated to say. The American President gets its political message from bumper stickers--and even they are more entertaining. "},{"Title":"A cartoon fantasy for Democrats","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Really, how else to possibly describe this movie? The characters are all cartoon cutouts - especially the eeeeevil Republicans. The dour gray-haired Republican prez candidate has no real issues to run on (but I repeat myself), so the eeeeevil Republicans deviously scheme in their smoke-filled room to undermine the saintly Democrat president's credibility. But I thought Richard Dreyfuss miscalculated his portrayal of his Bob Dole-like character by not bursting out at some point like Simon Legree with a Nyah ha haaaaa!!!. Would've added a little subtlety. Just a quibble...Anyways, the dastardly Republicans are able to hurt the saint - er, President because this widower has - horrors! - A girlfriend! We know their love is pure by the sappy music that always swells up when they're in the same room, and by the dating advice his daughter gives him in between tuba practices.OK, so Republican- (or conservative-) bashing is part of the standard Writers' Guild contract. But there's NO clause that says the writer & director MUST insult your intelligence while doing it. Jeez!  "},{"Title":"Meh!","Date":"14 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I didn't like this movie. 'Nuff said....OK, well maybe not enough. To be fair, I thought the supporting cast was good. Martin Sheen and Michael J. Fox were perfectly fine. It's too bad the leads, Michael Douglas and Anete Benning, had to implicate them in this fiasco.See, the politics of this movie, while incredibly biased, are alright. The simulation of what might happen in the life of a *normal* president doesn't bother me. It's the romance, which is unfortunately the central conflict of this story.Romance is an incredibly difficult thing to pull off, but this movie doesn't even aim in the right direction. By the end of Forest Gump, I felt for the characters and sympathized with their lives. Here, I could not have felt more distant. The romance was cheesy and the acting was wooden. Nice shoes. Give me a break! Only recommended if Catwoman is too good for your standards. "},{"Title":"I'm a huge West Wing fan but...","Date":"2 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie was a thundering disappointment. Everything that makes the West Wing great snazzy dialogue, swift pacing, believable characters and actual political wrangling are all either MIA or severely diminished in The American President. Most of the women give dreadful performances, particularly Annette Benning who is more annoying than usual here. It's sad because the women on the WW, Sorkin's own show, are well-written, well-acted and more than just tacky window dressing or dinner companions. I get the distinct impression that Aaron Sorkin was asked to tone down the Beltway talk and idealogical debate; Politics is reduced to a hit and run here. There are seeds here of better things and it's apparent because many of the character types and backgrounds were raided and improved upon later. Martin Sheen is good but he can't match John Spencer's Leo McGarry. Michael J. Fox is under utilized and a mishmash of Josh Lyman and Toby Zeigler. He should have been more than just a liberal Alex P Keaton in the background. The press secretary who goes on to be Bartlett's National Security Adviser does a bang up job in both roles, I wish she was in more things. Michael Douglas is likable enough but, either by dearth of script or talent, can't pull off the fleshed out complexity that Sheen has in virtually the same role. Sorkin has something in common with Joss Whedon, they both made movies that didn't live up to their respective visions and rectified that by helming stellar TV shows with knock'em dead casts and gifted writing. "},{"Title":"Artificially sweetened political correctness","Date":"7 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"          The message of this film is truly profound. Democrats- especially liberal Democrats occupying the White House- are good.Republicans- especially conservative Republican Senators  from Kansas- are bad. The ACLU is, of course, double plus good, and all decent Americans should join it immediately. Conservatives are ignorant Ogres who want all our children armed with automatic weapons, and who dream of polluting outr waters and our skies. Burning the flag is a brave act of protest made by passionate, committed radicals struggling to protest corporate power.Rob Reiner remains one of the most over-praised directors of our day..a sort of pseudo -Capra. Annette Benning is beautiful, and Micheal Douglas overacts almost admirably.A 5-and thats being liberal.  "},{"Title":"Green Berets had more subtle political undertones","Date":"13 May 2003","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Here's a movie about a president who creates a scandal for himself, and then gives a climactic speech to acquit himself.  It just HAPPENS to be made while Bill Clinton has a scandal, and it's filmed by Rob Reiner who just HAPPENS to be openly democrat.  All I have to say is that this kind of bias leaves the movie with an inability to hold a foundation to the message it attempts to make. "},{"Title":"Get Out The Barf Bags!","Date":"17 November 2005","Score":"22 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is so Liberal it's sickening. I mean, I've come to expect a little left-wing propaganda in most films from Hollywood, but to this degree?!Two hours of Liberal preaching are capped off in the U.S. President's final speech of the movie, in which he proclaims how proud he is to be a card-carrying member of the ACLU!!! Ha ha. I guess we all supposed to be cheering at that point. Personally, I reached for the nearest barf bag.This movie is simply director Rob Reiner's propaganda piece for his agenda. Being a card-carrying member of the ultra-Left People For the American Way, Reiner shows us a charming, loving portrait of a President that somehow reminds us of Bill Clinton, if he were a bachelor.Can you imagine if someone was this heavy-handed on the Right and tried to make a similar movie?? Never happen. For one thing, the critics would tear it apart, which they didn't dare do with this piece of slick celluloid brainwashing. "},{"Title":"Good Performances From Douglas And Bening In A Movie That Seems Strangely Dated","Date":"30 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Written by Aaron Sorkin, The American President is clearly the forerunner to the far superior television series The West Wing, created by Sorkin a few years later. Perhaps that's the film's greatest weakness it suffers in comparison to the TV series.To give credit where credit is due, Michael Douglas and Annette Bening offer exceptional performances; Douglas as the widowed President Shepherd, and Bening as Sydney Wade, a high profile lobbyist who enters Shepherd's life as his love interest. As the story of the pair's romance, this movie works quite well. There's a nice chemistry between the two, and both were quite believable in their parts. The supporting cast didn't work quite as well for me. I was not taken at all with Michael J. Fox as the president's domestic political advisor Lewis Rothschild, and Martin Sheen was difficult to accept as the White House Chief of Staff A.J. MacInerny, although that probably has to do with being so accustomed to seeing him as the President in The West Wing. It's difficult to accept him in the lesser role now. Richard Dreyfuss was OK as the mean-spirited right wing senator and presidential candidate Robert Rumson, although he didn't have a lot to do in the role.The story, unfortunately, left much to be desired. As I said, the love story works well but everything else seems dated and rather bland. Perhaps in 1995 it seemed cutting edge as family values were gaining importance on the political agenda, but only eight years later in 2003 it's hard to accept that a widowed President having a romance - even with a lobbyist - would cause such angst and such a massive drop in his approval ratings (even if he did sleep with her in the White House.) Of course, that's a post-Clinton/Lewinsky perspective, which we saw didn't affect the president's popularity at all. There also didn't seem to be much of excitement that happens in the Shepherd administration. We spend a lot of time watching lobbying for two competing pieces of presidential legislation a crime bill and an environmental bill. Frankly, political lobbying is not that exciting. True, Shepherd had to bomb Libya once, but even that seemed somewhat out of sync with the rest of the story.If you like romances, this movie will be enjoyable, but if you're looking for any real meat to the story, you'll be disappointed. I found it gently amusing at times and never particularly engrossing, not an unpleasant film to watch but at best a very average piece of work.5/10 "}{"Title":"Eyeroll...","Date":"20 October 2003","Score":"6 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" While staying at a remote lodge with friends, I was roped against my will into watching this utter nonsense called a movie. Admittedly, I never saw it before because I knew that with Rob Reiner and Aaron Sorkin in charge this was going to be full of liberal fantasies. Was it ever. I was surprised they just didn't put Richard Dreyfus, the eeeeeeevil republican in a Hitler mustache and just end all the subtlety.Geez!! Talk about stereotypes. I thought that maybe, just maybe the romance would be enough to carry the film. NNope. I am a chick who loves chick flicks, but this one I just couldn't stomach. I knew there was a good reason why I never watch the West Wing...I'm sure it's just more of this stuff, just on a weekly basis. Perhaps if your politics are left leaning (or non existent) that you will like this film...I just found myself rolling my eyes at the ridiculous stereotypes and not being able to enjoy the story. "},{"Title":"A potentially good film ruined by a liberal anti-gun theme.","Date":"1 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A movie with a potentially excellent plot and superb acting unfortunately ruined by the liberal anti-gun theme and politics portrayed throughout the film. "},{"Title":"Idiotic, Fascist, Jingoistic PC Claptrap","Date":"22 February 1999","Score":"8 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The American President posits that America would be a paradise if everyone obeyed the dictates of rich white liberal dilletantes. An all too familiar Hollywood theme.  "}]