[{"Title":"Island of Cut-Throats","Date":"6 December 2004","Score":"52 out of 77 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Making a valiant stab at becoming an action figure, Geena Davis plays Morgan Adams, a wily, rough & tumble pirate woman who lives for adventure and the like. When her evil Uncle Dawg (Frank Langella) turns on her and her dad, it's a race against time for Morgan as she tries to piece together a map that will lead her to Cut-Throat Island, where unimaginable wealth in stolen pirate gold resides. Along the way she is pursued by an evil British officer who goes into cahoots with treacherous crew members and Dawg, aided by a pretty boy Jack-of-all-trades thief named William Shaw (Matthew Modine), and confronted with a series of wildly over the top set pieces that no human being could possibly survive. One of the most expensive flops ever made, this overlong but endearing and even occasionally exciting film deserved much better than what it got in the summer of the mid-90s. Not quite as funny as Pirates of the Caribbean but still fun. Already a cardboard cut-out role to begin with, Geena Davis struggles to overcome her natural aura of motherly warmth to play the roughish Morgan, but she plays the part well enough (she really does come across as somebody's mother, albeit the kind of mother neighborhood boys fantasize about). It's easy to imagine her in the ring with Keira Knightley - who played Elizabeth Swann in Pirates of the Caribbean - and to have Geena walloping Keira's waif like frame. Matthew Modine has his moments as Shaw and Frank Dracula/Skeletor Langella is enjoyably hammy as Dawg.If nothing else, rent it for the expensive sets, fancy costumes, and elaborate, over the top stunts - many of which Davis and Modine did themselves. "},{"Title":"A very entertaining high seas adventure&#133;","Date":"21 May 2007","Score":"41 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The film opens in Jamaican coast in 1668&#133; While the Port Royal governor wants so badly the lady pirate, Morgan Adams, and will pay well for her, Dawg Brown (Frank Langella) was grabbing Morgan's father Black Harry (Harris Yulin) to take the first piece of a map (split into three separate pieces) to Cutthroat Island, where a treasure of a Spanish gold ship is said to be buried there&#133; Each of the other sections of the map is held by Morgan's two uncles Dawg&#151;the bad pirate who doesn't want to share the treasure&#151;has the second piece stolen from a now-deceased brother, and Mordachai holds the third at Spittlefied Harbor&#133; So to seek the Spanish Treasure and to avenge her father's death, Morgan (Geena Davis) has to join with her uncle Mordachai and fight her murderous uncle to obtain the third part of the map&#133; The governor of the island (Patrick Malahide) offers Morgan two alternatives One, an ignominious death on the gallows or she might cut him in for a share of her grandfather's treasure&#133; At the slave market, Morgan was looking for a man who can read Latin&#133; So she picked a handsome convict who passes himself off as a physician with a natural pitch for music and a perfect taste in wine&#133; His name was William Shaw (Matthew Modine). If you enjoy Seventeenth Century pirate movies, and like to see how 92 million dollars were spent in sea-battles, rope-swinging, slow motion swashbuckling action, cannons with many explosions and many fires, plenty of rum, cove and cliffs, lots of treasure, the destruction of two Jamaican towns, gorgeous ocean vistas and breathtaking visuals &#133; don't miss this one! "},{"Title":"Just a good movie to relax to.","Date":"2 February 1999","Score":"49 out of 76 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Cutthroat Island is a movie that you can just sit back, relax and watch it with a big goofy grin on your face.  Sure it tanked at the box office, but don't disregard it totally.  It's entertaining as hell.  Geena Davis is rather engaging as a female pirate and Frank Langella seemed to be enjoying himself.  Most people will say that this movie can't hold a candle to the pirate films of Errol Flynn, and they're right.  But for a rock em sock em pirate adventure with more explosions than the high seas ever saw, watch Cutthroat Island. "},{"Title":"Tongue in cheek action/adventure fun","Date":"31 January 2005","Score":"43 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I bought this on DVD not having heard of it or read any reviews so I watched it with an open mind. It is for me a good, fun to watch, action movie which entertained me - so I don't care if it wasn't (or ever will be) Oscar material - it just entertained me and that is why I watch films. The locations used in the film are first class as are the costumes. The fact that many of the stunts in the film were performed by the actors and not stunt doubles seems to add an immediacy and credibility to the film. There is what I would call non-nasty violence in the film (think of the A-Team) and occasional language which although again not really nasty, could deter parents from allowing the younger members of the family from sitting down and watching this as a kind of family matinée film. "},{"Title":"not fair","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"27 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This film was responsible for the bankruptcy of the company behind it, Carolco. Which is a shame, but the film is not as bad as it is rumoured to be. Far from it. It's above average oldfashioned entertainment.The soundtrack alone is a standout. Sweeping and powerful, it serves the plotline well and it's a joy to listen to on its own. Although the characters aren't among the most complex and well defined in movie history, they work (with a couple of exceptions, among them Maury Chaykin as John Reed, whose acting just doesn't match the tone of the film). And then there's the beautifully reconstructed pirate ships, well choreographed action sequences and terrific special effects.In short this is a film that has an unfair rep and it is really worth your time. A great warmup for Pirates of the Caribbean (which hasn't opened yet in this neck of the woods). "},{"Title":"Controversial, but some may like it","Date":"27 June 2004","Score":"36 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is certainly a controversial film, with some who dislike it. And one also cannot ignore that the film has lost a lot of money. However, I was one that actually enjoyed the film - a lot. It was a good film for me to just simply enjoy. And that is one great reason for watching movies in the first place.I did like Geena Davis in the main role. In fact, the two roles that I liked her the best in were Cutthroat Island and Last Kiss Goodnight. I would have loved to see her do more of these action type roles. She is certainly good in other roles, but I prefer her in the action roles such as this one.I was indeed surprised when visiting the Guiness Records building in Hollywood California, and learning that this movie was the largest box office loss. My feelings on learning that were but, I liked it.  "},{"Title":"A Femme Fatale Swashbuckler!","Date":"12 October 2004","Score":"40 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Who says women can't be good pirates? Being a woman certainly doesn't stop Morgan Adams (Geena Davis) from plundering and manning the high seas. Sure, she's a bit incredible at first, but this movie is more about the classic treasure-hunt adventures of Robert Louis Stevenson than any life realities. Just look at the success of Pirates of the Caribbean! At least this movie is far more realistic than that, without any curses and such and...sadly, without the prizewinning role played by Depp. Davis does manage to lend credence to the part of a strong woman who still maintains some rules and beliefs in her pirating. She is the daughter of a pirate captain. Her father is murdered by her uncle, Dawg (Frank Langella), in his search for a mysterious treasure. Apparently, several of the family members each carried a piece of the map to this treasure but none of them wanted to share it and thus, it has remained unfound. Morgan begins a journey to get that which is rightfully her's and her shipmates, all while being pursued by the British navy, her uncle, and amorously pursued by a professional thief, William Shaw (Matthew Modine). Cutthroat Island is a new tale of a pirate classic! 8/10 "},{"Title":"SUPER-CHARGED PIRATE ACTION ADVENTURE.","Date":"2 September 1999","Score":"31 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I was pleased to see all the good things other users have had to say about this super-charged pirate action adventure.From the moment we are introduced to the character of Morgan Adams and the roistering score booms out we are set for two hours of rollicking good entertainment and a movie that was inexplicably damned by critics all over the world.I think they disliked the admittedly huge cost of the project rather  than the movie itself and maybe Renny Harlin did go over the top in this respect, but when what you are seeing on the screen is as exciting as this who cares.Frank Langella made an excellent villain and his comrades were as black hearted a bunch as ever sailed under the skull and crossbones.Matthew Modine was a bit weak as the second lead although he visibly tried hard.CUTTHROAT ISLAND rightfully belongs to Geena Davis as she swashes her buckle with abandon throughout.One thing though,I fail to see how anyone could call Geena Davis a beautiful woman;indeed she is positively ugly here.For a truly beautiful female swordfighter check out Maureen O'Hara in 1952's AT SWORD'S POINT (SONS OF THE MUSKETEERS in the U.K.).Ignore nit-picking critics,sail to CUTTHROAT ISLAND and join Morgan Adams in her audacious adventures. "},{"Title":"A Fun Movie....But TOO Much Action","Date":"27 March 2006","Score":"27 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Despite being fun to watch and very entertaining, this is not a film that draws me back for many viewings. Maybe it's too absurd a beautiful woman pirate Morgan Adams (Geena Davis) punching everyone out at every turn can get a ridiculous and tiresome after awhile. It just an excess of everything, almost cartoon-like.If you haven't had enough action in first hour (and you do), the last half really goes crazy with a non-stop battle scene that goes on and on and on.Nevertheless, there are some good things to watch in here besides Davis and her pretty face. the movie was filmed in Malta and in Thailand and features some beautiful island photography. The ship is magnificent and when two ships are side-by-side firing cannons at one another, it's an awesome sight and even more awesome sound. You really need to watch this with a good stereo system to appreciate the great audio work in here.Frank Langella also makes for an interestingly effective villain (Dawg Brown) while Matthew Modine (William Shaw) chips in with a co-star and male companion for the good guy, er good girl , Davis character. "},{"Title":"Surprised, ofttimes entertained, but ultimately disappointed.","Date":"1 October 2010","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The biggest box office flop of all-time. Its curiosity from that fact that drove me to finally watch this movie 15-years after its original release and is probably why most of you are here reading this review. Curious to how a movie involving pirates with a ~100$M budget and a seemingly attractive name like Cutthroat Island could fail so spectacularly. Below are my impressions- Geena Davis (main actress) B-list quality. Relatively physically unattractive, ofttimes robotic in delivery of lines (sometimes the result of poor dialogue by the writers), emotionally detached (seems to lack facial expressions except when smiling), and amateurish acting in a lot of the earlier scenes (being out-acted by a monkey is not a good way to start off a movie). She also had the weight of stigmas regarding the believability of a female captain commanding ship and crew to contend with (see Keira Knightley's later performance in Disney's Pirates of the Caribbean; awkwardly unbelievable doesn't begin to describe her attempts to play captain). However, against these odds a more convincing female captain I cannot imagine (when she isn't forced to deliver corny one liners). She manages to retain a feminine quality while simultaneously displaying tomboyish and oft crude mannerisms that make her character very believable whether issuing commands, wielding a gun/sword, or performing one of the movies many stunts. She quickly makes gender a non-issue (no easy feat) and I actually found myself having a great time watching this movie and her role as it went on.- Matthew Modine Bottom-of-the-barrel actor as many reviews describe him when compared to whom the director preferred to play the leading male (Tom Cruise, et al). Personally, I found him to be one of the easier characters to like, often providing some humor to an otherwise serious cast. His performance and appearance reminds me of Cary Elwes in Princess Bride.- Cinematography The movie is shot with a raw-like quality that seems to be lacking polish or post-production touch-up. Released in 1995, but feels like your watching something from the late 70s-early 80s. Relies on traditional pyrotechnics and stunt work as opposed to fancy CGI effects. While originally apprehensive I soon found this style a bit refreshing as it gave a more ad-hoc feel akin to things like The Indiana Jones Epic Stunt Spectacular (Youtube it!). In addition, it made for a few unintentionally funny moments like Modine getting clubbed over the head during an escape sequence with a flying barrel from an ill-planned explosion effect? Unfortunately, this form soon showed its limitations. The naval battle at the end is a prime example. Beyond belief is probably the best way to describe it. Two ships at pointblank range broadsiding each other for 5-mins and no visible damage aside from a few makeshift fire-pits on the deck? Yikes! It destroyed the mood and brought my excitement level to a screeching halt, which was finally beginning to recover after the disappointing treasure discovery scenes (scenes where unrealistic extravagance was sorely needed). To say the entire ending was botched is an understatement. It was embarrassingly executed visually and continuity-wise especially considering its budget and 1995 release date. A lot of the blame can be placed on poor script and stunt planning. Watching Captain Morgan and Dawg awkwardly climb the mast for dramatic effect or conveniently place ammunitions topped off with an out of character, Bad Dog! one liner was just one of many things that left me scratching my head.In the end I'd say some of this movies most endearing qualities were the very things that limited its potential to attract an audience or deliver in key moments. Its truly a shame as this movie had the potential to be so much more. Despite its shortcomings, however, I was entertained and impressed far more than I ever imagined when I sat down to watch the biggest box-office bust of all-time and would recommend at least one viewing even if it means having to sit through its cheese-ball ending. "}{"Title":"Pirates and clichés","Date":"12 September 2009","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Considering how rare pirate movies are (or were up till this came out) Cutthroat Island must've sounded so promising to the masses of that year. then again, the simple fact that this became one of the centuries biggest flops means one of two things. Either peole were NOT interested, or the very first viewers told all their friends to avoid at all costs. While it's not a terrible film, in the end Cutthroat Island amounts to little more that a string of clichés, which attempts to take us back to the days of Errol Flynn, but instead becomes a rip-off.Scene one introduces us to Morgan Adams, a cunning young lady and a tough pirate. Shortly after the opening credits end, her father dies, but before he does, he makes Morgan captain of his ship, and gives her a piece of a map. It is a map to Cutthroat Island, where a massive treasure is supposedly buried. The map piece she has however is in Latin, and no one aboard speaks or reads it. They sail to Port Royal in hopes of finding a slave who speaks it. They find and purchase one, Dr. William Shaw, arrested for thievery. The next step is to find the other two pieces of the map, and one of them is in the hands of Morgan's evil uncle, 'Dog' who also wants the treasure. It now becomes a race for the gold and glitter. Meanwhile, the Royal navy has set out to catch Morgan.Cutthroat Island offers everything you might expect. There is sword play, gun play, jailbreaks, storms at sea, ship battles, and booty. All of this however is presented in a mediocre way. Most of the action scenes are unconvincing, badly choreographed, and too much is in slow-mo, especially during the climax.Next there is the problem of acting and characterization. What Geena Davis does is not acting, it is play acting. Her character amounts to little more than a girl who can wield a sword, and command a crew. Matthew Modine as Shaw is equally two-dimensional, although he is occasionally quirky. Frank Langella as a villain does nothing but growl and sneer. He doesn't even look like a pirate. His haircut for instance is too short, and would not be possible without a modern electric razor.On the positive side, at least it's watchable. Seeing as the film is mostly one action scene after another, you keep watching just to see what happens next, but it never gets better. I doubt it will be long before Cutthroat Island fades into oblivion, considering it is the biggest financial loss to this day. While it is not the worst movie, oblivion is probably where it belongs. "},{"Title":"The Captain is a...lady?","Date":"28 August 2004","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Director Renny Harlin always seems to give you something to talk about. CUTTHROAT ISLAND is loud and dumb, and in spite of ridiculous dialogue there is almost non-stop action for over two hours. Morgan Adams(Geena Davis)is the pronounced captain of a pirate ship sailing the Caribbean in the mid 1660s. Adams and her motley crew are hunting for the treasure of millions of pounds of gold buried on Cutthroat Island. The problem is that she has only a third of the treasure map. Another third of the map is held by her Uncle Dawg Brown(Frank Langella)who would rather fight or even kill his niece for sole possession of the riches. William Shaw(Matthew Modine)is an odd sort of swashbuckler that reinforces the winsome female pirate in her search for the other third of the map as well as the fog swallowed Cutthroat Island.It is evident Davis worked hard in this stunt filled flick. However there seems to be no chemistry between the pairing of Davis with Modine. Modine was given the job when Michael Douglas bowed out due to Davis' beefier role. Langella seems at times trying for a laugh than be the menacing villain he is expected to be. Davis at most times is 99% eye candy. There is good support acting from Stan Shaw, Rex Linn and Angus Wright.  The movie offers some breathtaking visuals; the best being the explosion of Dawg Brown's ship. I also liked the brief scene of a crew member getting his foot tangled in the anchor chain and going overboard. The London Symphony Orchestra provides a rousing score; but all of the energetic action could not save this movie...it bankrupted Carolco Pictures. "},{"Title":"an absolute mess of a movie","Date":"14 November 2009","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I watched it tonight for the first time - I've listened to Debeny's score before, and in my book a good score usually meant a good movie. So I thought I'd take out the DVD and watch the movie. Here where I knew that my book would have to be rewritten. I can definitely see why this sank the Carolco ship. 1) Everyone is miscast. I have never seen a movie with worse casting than this - Davis doesn't look/sound/act like a pirate. The scene where she climbs over the rock after the jump is fantastic for obvious reasons, but she still doesn't cut it as a pirate. The question of believability is not that of can a woman be a pirate captain but rather how can this woman be a pirate captain? And there could have been many answers she is like a mother to them or they are all in love with her or she is a b-tch from hell and they are scared of her, or a combination of the above. Unfortunately, the movie gives us no credible answer, and neither does Davis' performance. Modine is trying to be what Matthew McConaughey would have become a few years later. Problem is - he is no McConaughey, although he is trying really hard. Langella doesn't look or act like a pirate - he seems to be more of an army major at a boot camp. At some stage I almost expected him to check his wrist for a watch and shout You have 40 seconds, now move it soldiers! Stan Shaw's role is probably supposed to be comic relief. Otherwise, I can't understand the idea with the ridiculous Jamaican accent. Unfortunately, there is nothing funny about his role or his delivery, so the joke becomes on him. Even the extras are miscast! During a flyover scene of the ship you can clearly see the actors struggling to climb down the Jacob's ladders - was it really that hard to find actors who could manage it a bit better?2) The dialogue and realism. This is a PIRATE movie. They are supposed to use naval terms. Their speech is supposed to be peppered with swearing. It doesn't have to be R-rated, because there are ways to stylise speech without degrading it with F-words, but the dialogue in CTI was not stylised at all - it just sounded like a bunch of people talking on a morning train on the way to work. This, however, is a minor problem, compared to the overall level of dialogue, interactions and humour in this film. From the balls jokes to wash your mouth to the final I want to see you in my quarters, it was just cringe-worthy. 3) Action sequences. Could someone in this crew do a bit of research? What canon balls were used for battles, how enemy ships were boarded, what a sailing ship looks like in battle, for heaven's sake? Why is a ship intact after a broadside-to=broadside battle? Why are the masts still standing? Honestly, I am not a navy historian, but for anyone who read C.S.Forrester as a child these scenes are mind boggling. And don't get me started with the Why's? on the final duel - that scene is just below criticism. Then there is the lack of blood. For some reason the director decided that it's OK to have blood and injuries that the protagonists suffer, but there should be no blood in battles. That's fine, but then the battles should be choreographed in a way that doesn't require blood. Instead, we see close-ups of people getting stabbed through with sabers, only to see a perfect clean blade when it is pulled out. In some instances the movie doesn't even try to make the impression - you see people getting killed by getting slapped on their backs with sabers. Production values, anyone?Finally, I feel sorry for John Debney. He composed a wonderful score for a movie bad beyond salvation. If only this score would have been used for Pirates of the Caribbean instead of that awful stuff by Trevor Rabin it would have been so much more fitting a good score and a good movie. And I wouldn't have had to rewrite the rules in my book.Bottom line - 3/10. 1 for the score, 1 for the Geena Davis scene after the jump and 1 for the monkey. "},{"Title":"I was born poor, I had no choice but to become a thief and a liar.","Date":"16 July 2012","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Cutthroat Island is directed by Renny Harlin and written by Robert King and Marc Norman. It stars Geena Davis, Matthew Modine, Frank Langella, Maury Chaykin, Patrick Malahide, Stan Shaw and Rex Linn. Music is scored by John Debney and cinematography by Peter Levy.A film of many flaws, with a reputation akin to it being the devil of big budget failures, it is, however, a wonderful piece of piratical entertainment if you are prepared to see past the monetary excess. Famously cited as the film that bankrupted Caroloco Pictures, the truth is that Carolco was going under anyway, the studio had filed for bankruptcy before Cutthroat Island had even been released, the box office performance was irrelevant, it wouldn't have made a bit of difference. And while no amount of hard sell marketing could have gotten the film to make back the $98 million spent making it, it received no support from distributor MGM who were in the process of being sold, so finances for marketing were not available.Harlin's movie has all the pirate movie ingredients crammed in to the plot, though it is a standard plot that sees Davis as female pirate Morgan Adams who leads her charges on a quest to find the ultimate treasure hoard. Problem is that the map is in three parts, each part held by separate people, one of which is Morgan's vicious Uncle Dawg (Langella). The hunt and race is on, and Harlin doesn't pause for breath, he's a kid in a sweet shop armed with wads of cash, but the money, as gargantuan as it is, is there on the screen; well except for the hiring of better actors that is. Two magnificent ships were built for the production and they are magnificent, the costumes, the sets, pyrotechnics, exotic locations (Malta and Thailand standing in for 1668 Jamaica), stunning sound editing and visual thrills, all high on value and all cloaked by a tremendously robust score from Debney.Action junkies are well served here, with wild horse drawn carriage chases, sword fights aplenty, ships in side by side explosive battle, mucho perilous situations, bodies falling from heights or thrown in the sea, and we even get a comic relief simian! Who, as it turns out, is one of the best actors on show. It's hard to believe that a pirate action film such as this would not be better appreciated had it been released in the last ten years, and I say that not just because of the success of the Pirates of the Caribbean franchise, but more so that the blunderbuss popcorn movie has greater support these days. There's a good portion of the movie loving faithful who just want to be entertained, where rapid thrills are a requisite, not well drawn characterisations and thespian class. Judged on those terms then Cutthroat Island is a winner for sure.Main problems are the clunky script and the three pronged miscast errors in the lead roles. Davis (erm, wife of Harlin) is full of guts, really attacking the material with gusto, but she never convinces, it always feels like a caricature and she's uncomfortable delivering key lines. She would prove herself a fine action actress a year later with The Long Kiss Goodnight (also with Harlin directing), but she's woefully out of place here. With Davis demanding more and more screen time for her character, the role of Shaw began to thin out, which was too much to bear for Michael Douglas who bowed out late in the day. In came Matthew Modine, zero chemistry with Davis, a bland acting style and as far removed from the period setting as you could get. Langella just isn't menacing as the main villain of the piece, a very good actor in the right role, but not here and some of his attempts at nastiness feel like panto season has started early.Problems for sure, but wade through some of the misconceptions and poisonous press and you will find a film desperately aiming to please you, with much on offer for the pirate movie fan to savour. 7/10 "},{"Title":"One of the all time greatest pirate films ever made!","Date":"13 July 2003","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  One film I added to my Best Films of 1995 list!!I still don't know why this film was never a hit.  I mean it was no Best Picture contender, but it was a great action film and it was Renny Harlin at the top of his game!Geenea Davis never looked better and director Renny Harlin has never made a more action packed film since Cutthroat Island or after Cutthroat Island!I saw the film 2xs when it first hit theaters, then bought my copy as soon as it it video (this was before DVD came into play then I up-graded my copy) and I loved it then and I still love it!It's just a great ol' adventure story about a female pirate (Geena Davis looking really good) and her companion race against their rivals to find a hidden island that contains a fabulous treasure.  Whats up against her besides her nasty uncle is a crew that is sceptical of her leadership abilities, so she must complete her quest before they mutiny against her.I think the reason so many critics hated it was because it was a woman doing what men only thought they could do and a woman doing it better!The plot had strong action, great lines and a strong plot with a fiery woman's point of view, with lots of action and romance with that ol' B movie adventure fell that still to this day keeps me on the edge of my seat no matter how many times I watch it!Bravo Renny Harlin and Geena Davis!!Who knows with a stroke of luck and a few movie buffs like me who love this little undiscovered lost treasure of a film it may just one day see the light of day as a un-song hero of pirate films and become a cult classic!One can only hope! "},{"Title":"Swashbuckling fun at its best!","Date":"3 May 2000","Score":"13 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Pure joy for fans of old fashioned sea adventure and entertaining, if stereotypical, peg-legged, eye-patched pirates shouting Arr!, this movie does not pretend to be anything else than it is - great fun based on popular legends and beliefs rather than the facts on pirate lives. And so much the better! Non-stop action, fantastic score, breathtaking sceneries and props, adequately fun script, and, yes, even good acting (to my surprise, Geena Davis actually managed to deliver a good performance!). Frank Langella is almost as good a pirate as Walter Matthau was in Roman Polanski's equally underrated pirate classic. Hearing various bad comments about the movie, I had low expectations, but was pleasantly surprised to find out that the bad reviews and comments were simply unfair. Apparently, critics these days follow one another in their opinions rather than actually watching the movies, and people are looking for violence and blood of Mortal Kombat kind rather than simply entertaining if unrealistic movies like Cutthroat Island (actually, the movie seems to have been researched quite nicely - it's the first time I've seen Hollywood use actual squad wine bottles in a pirate movie instead of modern-shaped ones!) "},{"Title":"End of Carolco","Date":"19 July 2014","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" No doubt that before Johny Deep and Jack Sparrow, flooded theaters, Cutthroad island La Isla Cutthroat, in Spain, was the most serious attempt to resurrect the old genre of film and sword. As we all know the stakes of Carolco, was a total failure that led to the same production of emblematic films in the history of cinema as Terminator 2, Total Recall and Basic Instinct, economic collapse causing their demise. Views today, hard to believe that a film with so much budget, familiar faces and a classic story and easy to assimilate not only cause concern in most of the public. Especially if we note that the film is a simply brutal media deployment. The beautiful scenery, atmosphere of the sixteenth century, explosions, chases, battles at sea, well ..... certainly can not say that it lacks spectacular. Then, because that way the film crashed at the box office? what went wrong?.One factor, I think, is the simplicity argument. We tell the story of treasure and such, but there is no narrative depth, nor the characters, the story seems more an excuse to show the large budget that had, with dozens of chase scenes and sword fights that have a story. The funny thing is that movies now do exactly the same, but much worse than this but to have success, so perhaps this factor is not as important. I think another factor to consider is Geena Davis. Her work in the film is good and meritorious, but the problem is that the majority of the public simply does not believe in heroin, as simple as that. There was an actress that people imagine in such roles, despite their efforts to show otherwise, as would later in Lethal Memory. And finally, perhaps the most important of all, was overconfidence. Simply did not think the failure, which prevents a filmmaker always think, even though I know not to do it. Both the producer and the director Renny Harlin, began to commit excesses, they spend money on superficial things and whims of the director with his partner, as the story of the white donkey imported from Malta, where the tape was filmed in the United States, or the improvised script, which they say was written at the same rate at which it rolled. In short, squandered and squandered what they wanted, completely blind until the subsequent disaster due to open their eyes. However, despite all this, the failure of the film is justified. I think not. Come have said the film is a very entertaining adventure story which is enjoyed without problems and that does not give rise to boredom. It is possible that if instead of Mathew Modine, had put an actor with more hook at the box office, Michael Douglas, for example, could have changed anything, but it's only a guess. Keep in spoilers. spoiler Perhaps this film was destined to fail because it was released at a time when the genre of Pirates was practically dead, and the film was condemned by almost everyone for not having enough acting hook, a campaign of poor publicity and too superficial history and simple, although it is a completely repeat spectacular and entertaining film before the era of digital cinema. Moments to remember The Morgan horse race to save his father at the beginning of the movie, just beautiful. The appearances of Frank Langella as Dog, a great villain that saves much of the film. The flight of Morgan and Shaw in Port Royal carriage, a whole sample as they were before the action scenes without the aid of computer or anything. Magistral. The naval battle, exactly what I said before, great work of Renny Harlin. Others say more, but I think I already spread too, I hope you enjoyed reading this review. Thank you. "},{"Title":"Ahoy Geena Davis","Date":"8 April 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" After the death of her father, swashbuckling Geena Davis (as Morgan Adams) inherits his pirate ship. More importantly, she acquires one-third of a treasure map. The map's location reveals the answer to the question, Why did men in the 17th century wear thick, long-haired wigs. Of course, it's because they had treasure maps tattooed to their scalps. Probably, you did not know that. Baldness was also a problem back then, as the scalp map was written in Latin to discourage common spectators. Not well-versed in Latin, Ms. Davis must buy a slave to help translate the treasure map...Recently sentenced to slavery after stealing a woman's jewels, handsome blond-haired Matthew Modine (as William Shaw) is called into service. Not only does he read and speak Latin, he's also good at doctoring and kissing. A jack-of-all-trades slave, Mr. Modine quickly comes into possession of another third of the treasure map. The last third is kept by dastardly Frank Langella (as Douglas Dawg Brown). Davis and Modine must put the three pieces together, but Mr. Langella isn't cooperating. In fact, he would rather kill Davis and Modine, then keep all of the treasure for himself...King Charles (the monkey), Chris Masterson (as Bowen), Rex Linn (as Blair) and Stan Shaw (as Glasspoole) are supportive. Davis doesn't seem like a bad choice for the lead, even when you consider she was Mr. Harlin's wife. But her performance is far too indirect. Modine is appropriately less masculine. Even with its faults, this should have been a better picture for director Renny Harlin and his crew. Sure, it's crammed and cramped, but there is enough action to bring people into the theaters. While too blaring and bombastic, it might have been a hit in more pirate-friendly waters.***** Cutthroat Island (12/22/95) Renny Harlin ~ Geena Davis, Matthew Modine, Frank Langella, Chris Masterson "},{"Title":"captain davis","Date":"25 November 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" i never that this movie had flopped in the theaters,, i was reading someone's comments and i was like wow it shouldn't have,, ig guess the times back then wasn't really ready for a swashbuckling female captain,, geena davis did do a decent job,, matthew modine was alright,, probably cud have used someone a little better to compliment geena. the premise wasn't bad,, makes you wander if pirates of the Caribbean took some of this and made it their own,, o well food for thought ,, overall this isn't a bad movie,, it has it's decent moment,, but it's not a great movie either, it's like right in the middle of the road so that's why i rated it a 5. "},{"Title":"Sensational! Geena Davis met her calling in this film!","Date":"31 August 2014","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This film has everything a pirate film should have & plenty of it! This movie is absolutely the greatest pirate movie ever filmed. Those who think otherwise must be dilly. Not only does it have a great plot that is not only both believable but the outlying scenes that take place amid the surrounding area of the main characters is fabulous. As for those have a rather pathetic attitude regarding a beautiful woman in such a role should take a peek or two at history where they will find no less than 5 fierce females pirate Captains who were well known for their skills is sword fighting, but with pistols as well. I have always been amazed by the lack of fighting &/or sea battles in so-called pirate films. In the realm of pirate movies, this film has the best overall sea battle, followed by Captain Blood, & next Pirates Of The Caribbean (The Black Pearl,) & lastly The King's Pirate. It's a shame that it wasn't promoted better. It was already out on VHS tape before I ever knew it existed. "}{"Title":"Misfired, miscast swashbuckler...all effort and no pay-off","Date":"3 May 2011","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Female pirate off the coast of Jamaica leads the all-male crew of the Morning Star in a revolt against her treacherous pirate uncle, who holds the third and final piece of a treasure map scrawled in Latin. Six writers worked on this would-be pirate epic, an expensive box-office debacle credited with ruining Carolco Pictures. Substituting funny bluster and swagger with explosive action (execrably staged), the picture gets nowhere quickly. Geena Davis has class and sass to spare, but director Renny Harlin overworks her natural appeal. Davis should never have to labor so hard to give us the goods. The actress isn't convincing as a femme swashbuckler, but we know she's capable of giving a fun, attractive performance; Harlin's monotonous staging and strident tone pretty much sabotages the actress until she appears literally in over-her-head. Matthew Modine, an educated slave who joins Geena for adventure and romance, somehow equates smarm with charm, while Frank Langella (as Dawg!) keeps creeping in and out, his voice a grating croak. Film should have been full of robust, hard-boiled whimsy, but Harlin doesn't have the right touch. By the time the Morning Star has hit stormy seas, with Davis fighting to thwart a mutiny, most viewers will have abandoned ship for heartier treasure. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Mindless Fun","Date":"1 September 1999","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  OK, so the plot has holes you could steer a Man 'O War through, and the dialogue was stilted.  (What, do you think I was born last Tuesday?)  And yes, it sank at the box office.But it's still a FUN movie.  The statuesque Geena Davis is every bit the action heroine, all six feet of her, and she looks great in a pirate outfit.Great action as well a chase through town aboard a stagecoach, a fight scene in which Geena heroically swings from a chandelier, and a full-scale boarding action, culminating in a fight to the death with her mortal enemy atop the rigging of a doomed ship.  Clashing Cutlasses! Cannon!  Boarding parties! Treasure!What more you could you ask for in a pirate movie? "},{"Title":"a great tongue in cheek pirate adventure","Date":"8 May 1999","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  In the spirit of pirate movies before it, not only does this movie have great action, but excellent witty dialogue and fun characters. And the hero(ine) is a smart, tough female.  It's always great to be able to root for a group of baddies.  Just tense enough, just funny enough, and just all around great.  Genius director, and Geena Davis is wonderful, as always. "},{"Title":"Fantastic, fun, pirate adventure!","Date":"4 April 1999","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  When I saw this movie, I was carried away by the excitement of the adventure.  I have waited a very long time to finally see a heroine as strong, fascinating, and likeable as Morgan Adams (Geena Davis).  Her character is a wonderful change from most female characters I've seen. Davis is in a perfect role as a rough pirate woman.Throughout the movie I remember hearing the audience cheering and clapping as the pirate companions foiled their foes.  Everyone seemed to be electrified by the pure pirate adventure and chattered excitedly to one another as they exited the theater.  Imagine my surprise when I heard how lousy this movie did in the box office.I believe this movie's box office failure was a prime example of bad-timing and scathing reviews.  Such reviews made me wonder if any of the reviewers had actually watched the movie!  Pirate adventures are meant to be simple -- all treasure hunt and swashbuckling style.  The incredible, well-done explosions and death defying stunts made this movie an edge of the seat experience.Anyone who has ever enjoyed pirate adventure stories or role-played in treasure hunting genres will truly enjoy the fun ride of this movie.Sometimes a treasure hunt is just a treasure hunt!  Enjoy it! "},{"Title":"A Woman Pirate?","Date":"9 September 2004","Score":"27 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I am a native Californian, but I have been living in Norway since 1996. Therefore, since only the box office blockbusters seem to make it over here, I did not have a chance to see this in the theater. Somehow, I seemed to have missed it when it came out in California. Nonetheless, I have seen it here on TV a couple times. The first time I saw it was just after I had seen The Pirates of the Caribbean (POTC) and I thought it was made afterwards in an effort to be as good or better than POTC. Then I came to IMDb and I was surprised to find that it was actually done so many years ago and I hadn't known about it. I do not think it was better than POTC, but it is certainly every bit as good, and Geena Davis does an excellent job of portraying what Anne Bonny must have been like as a pirate. If you are a Geena Davis fan, I would say that this is a MUST SEE. I personally thought she did a much, much better job on this movie than she did as the lame-brained Larry in Fletch or the saccharine-sweet mommy in the Stewart Little movies.I have noticed that most of the people posting on the message board about Geena Davis have said that they think the role should have gone to someone else (a male) because 1) she is a woman, 2) she was the ship's captain, and 3) she had pearly white teeth.Being a woman pirate IS historical, but most people do not know about it. There WAS a general rule that there were to be no women aboard because it was considered bad luck and it was often considered such a grievous sin that any man disobeying the rule would be immediately put to death. Nonetheless, there WERE a few women pirates who were smuggled aboard dressed in men's clothing. However, they had to know how to pull it off by fighting like a man. Two women of notoriety were Anne Bonny and Mary Read, who were both smuggled aboard by the captain himself, Calico Jack Rackham. You can find biographies about all three of these pirates (among others) at several websites under the keyword pirates.So far as Geena Davis not being convincing because she was a woman playing a pirate -- a Captain at that, in the Trivia for Cutthroat Island, IMDb tell us the following The flag flown by Morgan Adams was in reality the flag flown by Calico Jack Rackham, one of the only Caribbean Pirates to have women on his crew; Anne Bonny and Mary Read. He later turned his ship over to the two women. With that in mind, wouldn't it be more than safe to assume that this must have been the catalyst in writing this movie, and therefore, the movie would most likely have been written as a fantasy of what it would be like to have a woman pirate as the ship's captain?The pearly white teeth thing is also believable because, after all, women pirates were few and far between, and when they were aboard, it was in their teenaged years and because they were smuggled on in men's clothing and they were bound to be caught soon, I would imagine that they would have had pearly white teeth. By the way, where did the idea come from that all pirates had rotten teeth?I wonder if the reason that this movie did not make it in the box office is because of the woman pirate concept. If that is the case, why don't the critics bother to get out their history books or surf the web to find out if there WERE any women pirates in the annals of history?I wonder if they would have begun the movie with a written history of women pirates, and if they would have stated that the flag that Geena Davis flew in the movie was the authentic flag that was flown by the woman pirate, Anne Bonny, if that would have added creditability to the movie--especially if it were read by some famous celebrity. On the other hand, the name of the movie is everything, so I wonder if the name Cutthroat Island was to its demise. Perhaps if this movie were called Pirates of the Caribbean and backed by Disney Studios, it would have been a smash hit. Too bad it wasn't.  "},{"Title":"Old style action adventure yarn, better than it's reputation suggests.","Date":"11 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Cutthroat Island starts as evil pirate Dawg (Frank Langella) is making fellow pirate & his brother Black Harry (Harris Yulin) walk the plank in an effort to make Harry surrender his part of a three piece map that reveals the location of the biggest haul of treasure even stolen, Harry refuses to give his brother Dawg the map & jumps into the Ocean where he is saved from drowning by his daughter Morgan Adams (Geena Davis). Dying from his injuries Harry tells Morgan where the map is & to use his pirate ship & crew to find the treasure, Morgan agrees & sets out to find the other two pieces of the map, one is held by her uncle Mordachai Fingers (George Murcell) & the other by the vicious Dawg who also want the pieces of the map. Morgan & Dawg race against each other to work the clues out & set sail for Cutthroat Island where the treasure is hidden, the British army not fond of pirates are also along for the ride as the winner takes all...This American, French, Italian & German co-production was produced & directed by Renny Harlin straight after his success with the excellent Cliffhanger (1993) which sort of explains why the production company gave him complete control to do whatever he wanted, well actually it doesn't does it? Anyway, already widely known as one of the biggest financial flops of all time (it cost over $100 million but made just over $10 million) this swashbuckling pirate action adventure film is one that I have seen several times & admit that I've enjoyed it each & every time. While Cutthroat Island is far from perfect it's great at what it sets out to be, a loud, fast paced action adventure centered on pirates, sword-fights, mysterious islands, stolen treasure & lots of simple comic book style character's. The typical Hollywood role reversal where the leading action star is a woman & has a man as her sidekick makes an unusual twist even if nothing is done with the idea apart from some smutty one-liners. At just under two hours maybe it's a little long & there really isn't enough plot here to justify that duration, Morgan reaches Cutthroat Island about an hour into the film & then it's her against Dawg & the British army with none stops fights, explosions & corny dialogue. I'm not sure people spoke like this back then, the script is a little wooden with cardboard character's but overall Cutthroat Island is good fun & it's a pity they don't make visually spectacular action adventure films such as this anymore.I assume much of the colossal budget went on production design & it show's with gorgeous locations, sets & period production design. There are some great action scenes too, Morgan single handedly destroys two entire towns in her quest for the treasure & there's some quite violent fights with lots of clanging swords, rifles & even huge cannons being used. Michael Douglas was originally set to star in Cutthroat Island but pulled out saying the Geena Davis character was expanded at the expense of his. Oliver Reed was originally cast as Mordechai Fingers but was fired after getting into a bar fight & mooning at Geena Davis (!). Director Renny Harlin was dating Geena Davis at the time & managed to convince the studio that she should take the lead role despite never having made an action film before. Carolco Pictures who had financed Cutthroat Island filed for bankruptcy three weeks before it opened in theatres, quite why they spent so much on it remains a mystery.With a supposed budget of about $115,000,000 there's a lot of visual flair on screen with exploding pirate ships, entire period towns, daring stunts, numerous fights, huge set-pieces & plenty of exotic locations. Filmed in Malta, England & Thailand. The acting is alright, no-one puts in a great performance but no-one is overly bad.Cutthroat Island was a massive flop for sure but it's actually a pretty decent action adventure film that I have always liked watching, who would have though the similarly themed Pirates of the Caribbean films would go on to become such box-office hits. I liked it, a bit shallow but still very enjoyable. "},{"Title":"One of the best modern Pirates with both humor and action.","Date":"8 October 2011","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Geena Davis is truly believable in this film. She makes me feel that this is almost a 'documentary'- even though I know, many things are makebelive. Artistic freedom its called ;-) But I WANT to believe ! And the humor - even in the action scenes makes me believe. I does seem plausible ) Maybe you have to like her to like the film, I don't know. But after seeing her in the movie 'Long kiss goodnight', I don't understand that these films don't get a 10' from people. Maybe its because shes a female hero ? Shes occupying the male scenario, and this never makes people feel at home. But that its the charm of it. None of the people I recommended the film to, were disappointed. In my eyes its a GOOD film for anybody above 10 years. Both with laughter and suspense. An old pirate version of Raiders of the Lost Ark. I still feel the same of the film even after seeing it more than 10 times. "},{"Title":"Arr, a pleasant surprise, indeed","Date":"6 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" There's something about Cutthroat Island that makes it enjoyable in spite of its shortcomings (miscast Geena Davis, sometimes questionable direction, sour reputation for bankrupting its studio). Mainly, this is a pretty kickass pirate movie with good action and an unflagging sense of adventure. Most of this is due to the magnificent score - which is probably the magical ingredient that keeps this vessel afloat.Honestly, this would probably be dead in the water without Debney's score (bad puns on the house), but I enjoyed myself a lot more than expected.7/10 "},{"Title":"One Of The Best Pirate Movies Ever","Date":"8 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Superb Action Flick, this film is one of the best rides you will ever have. The acting was great, the casting was great, and the story was excellent--It is hard to find a pirate movie this much fun, although the Pirates Of The Caribbean movies were great also.Sit back, relax, and have a good time.Having a female pirate in the lead was an inspiring choice(although we know it was Renny Harlin's wife). I think the only other female pirate movie was Anne Of The Indies(1952).This film is totally believable, you really feel like you are watching a genuine true story. fun for all ages "},{"Title":"A Criminally underrated film that shouldn't deserved to fail","Date":"28 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I know what you thinking, we ripped Cutthroat Island before, but what critics didn't know that it's a swashbuckling pirate movie. Yeah, even with the bad dialogue, poor production value, and Geena Davis performance as a female pirate were lackluster at best. Suddenly, Carolco returned to sender and destroyed the film industry as becoming the latest victim of facing bankruptcy soon after the film crashed and burned hard at the box office and holds the (now-defunct) record of Biggest Box Office Flop of All Time with an embarrassing $98.1 Million budget only to reach $60 Million.Make no mistake, the film was bad. But I haven't even watched it on TV or appearing on other premium networks. To me, I felt like it should've add more money to make and director Renny Harlin still has lots of gas in the tank left for his ailing career.But Cutthroat Island is one of those films that is criminally underrated. And much like the success of the long-running Pirates of the Caribbean series, Cutthroat Island never had a chance of becoming a potential franchise too. But if you haven't seen this classic, it's worth a rental or buy on Blu-Ray. "}{"Title":"No Pirate Treasure","Date":"3 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  In Hollywood, a curious belief persists that movies about pirates never do well at the box office.  Recently, Pirates of the Caribbean proved that belief wrong.  But before that, Cutthroat Island may have given credence to that belief.  Granted, Cutthroat Island may not seem realistic.  But still, I found it somewhat better than it was made out to be.  One good quality of the movie is the sound effects.  In swordfights, the swords ring beautifully when they clash.  Cutthroat Island may not be Pirates of the Caribbean,  but there are worse choices you can make. "},{"Title":"Putting on the Dawg!","Date":"5 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"   Whatever has happened to Langella?He did so much splendid theater work on the New York stage in the 1960s and 70s,and his early film work.Talk about a treat!He was one of the most pungent personalities in movies.Sinisterly handsome,sexy,sensuous,with a lanky musculature,and an aura of intriguing darkness.And now he's playing flawed villains who can't win due to their own self-destructive tendencies.(See Dave,and Junior,and you'll see what I mean.)   And,by the way,the way he gets it in the finale is totally unbelievable.Getting hit by a cannonball in no way would propel him through the bulkhead and into the deep.In real life,he'd just be torn to shreds. "},{"Title":"Everything you heard is true","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" All the misgivings this movie has been the brunt of are unfortunately spot on. Sometimes you can champion a movie no one else will, but this doesn't seem like one of those cases. 'Cutthroat Island' is an action driven pirate story that harks back to simpler times, but that has the side effect of making the story feel rather flat and the characters fall on the cartoon side. You know Geena Davis is going to survive every kind of attack on her. It's that kind of movie. Oh sure, there's a lot of money on display. The production values are great, but the flick lacks a real sense of energy. The directing isn't bad either, but everything feels fabricated and not in a fun way.The basic tale of 'let's get the gold before they do' with the minor twist of having a female pirate as the lead is the sole thing that sets 'Cutthroat Island' apart. It pulls no surprises, there's an obligatory revenge subplot and the whole thing felt very long in the tooth by the time it had ended. Gigantic action set pieces can only get you so far. Cutthroat Island is like 'Waterworld' in many ways. An expensive sea faring adventure long forgotten by many with the best of intentions in mind. It's not horrible, but noteworthy? Not really. "},{"Title":"Not worth it's awful reputation but certainly not really worth watching","Date":"17 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  When her father is killed by pirate Dawg Brown, Morgan Adams takes up his ship and crew and continues his hunt for treasure &#150; the map for which is on several parchments.  Enlisting slave William Shaw to help her, they set out to find the treasure and avoid Brown.With Pirates of the Caribbean getting everyone's gander up for pirate movies all of a sudden I decided to review this film, having seen it first in the cinema and being unimpressed.  On TV the feeling is the same.  The plot is a treasure hunt, but it never really sets the pulses racing or feels like it is a really fun romp or such.  Instead the story telling is rather workmanlike without spark or life.What exists in it's place is a lot of noise and energy &#150; but it is energy that is misdirected and misplaced in this case.  The action scenes look very expensive (when a lavish harbour town is destroyed you can see the budget) but the also lack excitement or tension.  Instead they are hollow spectacles.  I'm not a big fan of Harlin's work.  Cliffhanger was OK but Die Hard 2 was the weakest of the series.  Here he can't seem to find the excitement in his action &#150; maybe because some much effort was on the design of effects shots than on reasons for the action.Davis is OK in the lead role but it is easy to think of a couple of actresses that might have been more convincing playing it tough.  Modine has a few lines that suggest his character will be better than he actually is.  Despite a few witty moments of banter early on he just becomes a bland character.  Langella is OK but only because he has a reasonable screen presence rather than having a great character.Overall this is dull and not very engaging at all.  The action is hollow and the plot/characters have nothing to really grip.  Not worth it's awful reputation but certainly not really worth watching. "},{"Title":"35 swashbuckling fans say Forget it!","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  As a female fencing coach, I am one of the biggest swashbuckling movie fans anywhere. I watched this movie in a room full of 35 other fencers, many of whom love to dress up as pirates and do sword demonstrations at history fairs. These are people who have seen every swashbuckler ever made, and relish even mediocre fantasy and sword movies just for the action.And we all hated Cutthroat Island, if you can say hated when we were laughing so hard we thought our sides would burst. To top off the nonexistent script and lifeless acting, the film appears to have been directed and edited by untrained ten year olds.This one was given the real MST3K treatment at our annual fencers' Xmas party, and none of us are snobby critics. We love a good pirate story well told. This wasn't it. "},{"Title":"Why not produce a real Pirate film?","Date":"19 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I think that more people are interested in the true history of piracy in the 18th century than a film of this nature.It's part of UK history in Gibraltar and US history on the northern coast of Africa.C'mon guys, make it happen without a trillion dollar budget, but with an intelligent writer at least.Let the world know.  "},{"Title":"One of my most favorite movies.","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I've probably watched this as many times as I've watched any of the STAR WARS or STAR TREK movies. Excellent sound track!! It is light-hearted and very entertaining.  My favorite line of the movie is  I find myself being fired upon by an entire ship! "},{"Title":"Underrated action/adventure","Date":"15 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was greatly underrated.  Renny Harlin, in my opinion, made a great film.  Set in the exciting 16th century in Jamaica, it is a film of scoundrels, of treasure, and of blood-thirsty pirates.It's a landmark film in many ways, and is sure to entertain after each viewing. "},{"Title":"Awesome fun! A great fantasy adventure","Date":"31 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Why is it that movies like Die Hard and True Lies (both excellent) do so well at the box office, but movies like Cutthroat Island and Long Kiss Goodnight do not? Has Mr. Harlen or Ms. Davis been blackballed by the industry? If you have not seen these films and you love action/adventure, you are cheating yourself!! Any fan of Pirate stories should give this one a try. Well done! "},{"Title":"One of my favourite movies","Date":"16 November 2013","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" It was love at first sight, I like everything in this film.... the action is great and non stop, the settings is awesome, the ships are beautiful and the final battle and explosions is 'Die hard' worth. Even the love story never becomes schmalzy because the whole film is permeated by good sense of humour. It's a pity that it was a flop when it came out, perhaps it was too ahead of it's time with a female pirate doing all the action on her own. I read another comment saying that everything is amazing but there is too much action and strangely it is the same comment I heard about Salt with Angelina Jolie (another of my favourites). I don't understand... a number of franchises built their fortune on non-stop action - Die Hard, Lethal Weapon, Bourne Trilogy to name the top ones - and this is a pirate movie for god sake, but there is too much action.... "}{"Title":"'X' marks the spot for mediocrity","Date":"22 October 2013","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This Geena Davis vanity project, directed by then husband Renny Harlin, is remembered primarily&#x97;if it's remembered at all&#x97;as one of the biggest box office bombs of all time ($10 million gross on a $100 million dollar budget). Geena Davis is way out of her depth (pun!) as the Pirate Captainess Morgan Adams, but it's not the action stuff where she comes up short. Her performance here is simply dreadful. And co-star Matthew Modine is... well, he's Matthew Modine. To his credit, the normally comatose actor does manage to squeeze every last ounce of charisma out of himself. Unfortunately, an ounce is about all that he has. With its rousing (if perhaps relentless) John Debney score, a few well staged action sequences, intermittently witty script and strong villain (Played by the great Frank Langella), Cutthroat Island could've been an above average swashbuckler with better leads. "},{"Title":"Much better than other more popular pirate movies","Date":"19 February 2013","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" It's a mystery that will probably never be solved. Why did this film flop so badly whilst the Pirates of the Caribbean did so well? I don't even know anyone who has been able to stay awake right until the end of POTC part 3, a film so long that people have used up their entire annual leave watching it and still not got to the end. People who claim to have seen part 4 are clearly lying.Anyhow, Cutthroat Island delivers everything that you want to see in a swashbuckler and it does it in a sensible amount of time without filler and without a gazillion CGI shots. Geena Davis is very winning as the lead, the cinematography is excellent and the score is outstanding. Bears comparison with anything from the Golden Age of swashbuckling.Now this would have been a good basis for a franchise. "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie!!!","Date":"13 October 2007","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" SPOILERS AHEAD MAITEY!! Cutthroat Island is one of my favorite movies. Now, I am no movie expert, but I have seen more of my share of movies. Geena Davis might not have been the best choice for Morgan, but really she does make a pretty cool pirate! I wouldn't mind hanging out with her, as long as I stayed on her good side. Cutthroat Island may not be the best action flick, but in it's day (1995) it was a good choice. It has some of the BEST real explosions found in any movie (not those CGI explosions)!! Especially near the end. WOW!! Can that one be topped? Also, the soundtrack is definitely AWESOME!! John Debney is a very talented composer and his work is like no other. I challenge anyone to get the soundtrack Cd and listen to it alone. I have done it many times, and I didn't really care for that type of music until seeing this flick. Thank you Renny Harlan for bringing this story to the big screen. Job well done! "},{"Title":"One of the best pirate flicks of all time","Date":"26 May 2007","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Cutthroat Island. 1995. This film is a fantastic romp. The whole hidden pirate grotto is a homage to the old Pirate Ride at Disney. Pity they've now changed it. Snelgrave, first mate of the Reaper under Dawg Brown, is a great old sea dog. Some people say that there is no chemistry between the cast, I feel that's wrong. The look and feel of this film, from cast to ships to locations, is lush and very piratical. Dawg Brown is a classic piratical foil for Morgan Adams (Geena Davis). An unfairly-maligned epic pirate tale. As you watch and enjoy this rollicking adventure, realize that it's a homage to all those over-the-top salty sea dog flicks of the 30s-40s. Nicely done. One of the best pirate flicks of all time. "},{"Title":"Got to be more like this","Date":"16 June 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" What a movie......great story line and very exciting.There were things in this movie i've never seen before in other movie's like the when the warship blows the fortress to pieces only to try to catch the escaping Gena Davis in the carriage. Also the beautiful surroundings contribute a great deal in this movie.And than the sounds. Damn....there good.....like in the scene in the jungle...with all the birds and other animals. It's like you're there for your self in that jungle.to bad there ain't many movies like this definitively wort watching again....and again......and again...... "},{"Title":"Action, adventure and a lot of fun! Underrated in my opinion.","Date":"14 October 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I love pirate movies, and this one has all the swashbuckling action I enjoy, with humor and some really great one-liners! Geena Davis is the daughter of a pirate captain who has 2 brothers. Each has a piece of a map to a hidden treasure trove. One of the brothers is out to get the treasure for himself and kills her father in an attempt to seize his piece of the map. The story becomes a race between Geena and her uncle to get the rest of the map and find the treasure.Ms Davis makes a good pirate and does her own stunts, which is impressive. Frank Langella plays the evil uncle with wicked flair, and Mathew Modine is appealingly larcenous. Overall this is good entertainment and I recommend it! "},{"Title":"I'm all at sea when it comes to things...nautical","Date":"11 August 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  No doubt about it! Cutthroat Island is definitely the best pirate movie ever! I have enjoyed this one much more than any other certain Spielberg or Stone film ever, within reason! So much action, so much artistic use! The first thing I MUST mention is the score by John Debney. The swashbuckler suites contain the most effective notes and chords ever! The score is arguably on the the best in the twentieth century. Next, Geena Davis, I mean, honestly, the most knock-em- around gal I have ever seen in this sort of film! Davis, having strong outlook from Thelma & Louise is an all out butt-kicking pirate-babe! Out to search for a family treasure, or more, a stolen family treasure, but first, she must beat Uncle Dog (Frank Langella) with the help of a fraudish slave (Matthew Modine). The acting is old-fashionably outlandish, and often fierce, but this IS a pirate movie...no one ever fight more hard for pride. Co-stars are just as well spoken the same , Patrick Malihide is predictably traditional villain as the Gov. out to seize the Pirates. The way the film was put together, is breath-taking! From a fast-paced horse riding over lands and masses of water with an occasional fight or two, in glorious 2.35.1 aspect ratio. We then are taken to the waters of Jamaica and elsewhere to this adventures heart-racing finale! The witty dialogue, and quirky plot lines also make this one fun to savor until the last minute! No reason why this film suffered the beating it took, now, I only hope more people will see the great adventure that lost its treasure in the box-office to the exceeding grouchiness of the world, and its viewing delight! A perfect 10/10!  "},{"Title":"A Pirate's Nightmare","Date":"1 February 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Take a mediocre modern day action film script and transplant it to a pirate era rife with pastel costumes, extra-clean-theme-park locations, and people who speak with a contemporary tongue.  Throw in a cinematographer with a flair for the outright boring and inappropriate, six writers, and a director whose crowning achievement is 'Die Hard 2 Die Harder.'Wow.  This movie was destined to be crap.  One could only hope for the MST3K 'bots to save us by hurling a few witty barbs at this cinematic gem.  See it if you like things along the lines of 'Con Air' or 'Horrible Movie the Movie.' "},{"Title":"Not even a good effort !!!!!","Date":"1 December 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I always like to give movies the benefit of the doubt, but this movie   was truly(truly) bad. How can a movie have what seems to be so many   great action scenes, be so boring ( that in itself was an amazing   feet). And the dialogue, was this supposed to be a comedy or what? I   can't even say this movie was so cheesy it made me laugh it was   that horrable(I can't believe how bad this movie was) Just because Gina   Davis wanted to be an action hero when she grows up doesn't mean we   should have let her. My friends, Pirates of the carribean this is not. "},{"Title":"Nonstop action-BUT THATS ABOUT IT...........","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  You'd think a movie that cost 92 million dollars would be the biggest hit of the year. It sure wasn't the case here. Originally, it was to star Michael Douglas, but he WISELY turned it down. While the action scenes are OK, the movie has absolutely no interesting characters. Thats part of what makes an action movie work. (Example Die Hard) I think it was just an excuse for Geena Davis to do a movie with her then husband, Renny Harlin.  "}{"Title":"A real stinker","Date":"4 October 1998","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Maybe the original concept looked good when it was pitched to the studio executives, and it certainly could have been made a better film than the turkey it turned into.Gina Davis plays a tough pirate in typical action flick style - nothing can keep her down, bullets, swords or explosions.As with most action heros, she has her side-kick and love interest in Matthew Modine. There doesn't appear to be any chemistry between the two, so there's very little in the way of a sub-plot to keep the viewers interest.The plot is very simplistic and nothing more than a flimsy link from one action sequence and the next.Typically, in the action genre, the sound effects are excessive, but in this film they're also laughable. Not only do we get the usual sonic boom as fist brushes face or soft stomachs, we're also subjected to the sound of swords being drawn; each time accompanied by the sound of metal being dragged over stone. And what's with the cannon balls that are supposed to be solid metal causing giant explosions ?.This film is pure drivel. On the plus side though, I think it'd make a great film to watch in the company of people who like films that are so bad they're funny. "},{"Title":"My swash has never been so buckled...","Date":"20 January 2009","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I'm a pirate movie nut me hearties and this film hits the mark in just about every way possible... arrr.It has no ghostly sailors or fictional sea monsters. It's just about pirates and treasure and high seas high jinx... nothing more. What else do you want?Cutthroat Island was made a good few years before the lamentable fairy stories from Disney... Pirates Of The Caribbean 1, 2 and 3. It stars Gina Davis, Matthew Modine and Frank Langella. The story centres around locating a treasure hidden by Captain Morgan Adams' father. She is aided by a scoundrel-come-lover, William Shaw and hindered by her uncle 'Dog' who wants the booty for himself. The plot is complicated by Patrick Malahide's wonderful Governor character, comically assisted by 'Trotter' a half-baked lieutenant.The action is fast, the direction is spot on (by Renny Harlin, Gina Davis's hubby) and it's filmed in some fabulous locations. Cutlasses, guns, cannon, daggers, rip roaring sword fights, a carriage chase, slow-mo punch-ups... it's marvelous!Forget the Oscars, buy or rent this top notch piratefest and escape to the blue waters with Morgan and her crew. I guarantee you a breathless romance of the high seas!I have a shooting script, a treasure map, a production drawing and an extra's costume from this movie... all purchased on eBay. That's how much I love it.Not all film is meant to show us a new slant on the human condition. Some is just for fun. See it as that and you will find yourself a real gem. Avast me hearties! Cast off the bow lines and set sail for uncharted waters... er... arrr (again). "},{"Title":"CutThroat Island","Date":"26 October 2007","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I first watched this movie when I was a little kid and loved it. And latter I watched it as a teen and I still love it. It's a funny adventurous movie with many things to keep you wanting more. Geena Davis was great as a pirate a real cutthroat with many funny parts in the movie with Mathew Modine as William Shaw. There were also many funny scenes with Actor Frank Langella as her evil uncle Dawg. And don't listen to any bad reviews until you watch it and judge for yourself.Because too many good or great movies are ruined because one bad review just see what you think about this movie. If you like comedy, adventure, fighting, pirates, and things blowing up you will most likely like this movie. "},{"Title":"Swashes and Buckles Ahoy!","Date":"25 October 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I loved this movie! Unbelievable Geena Davis does her own stunts, and the movie zooms along at a fast clip from start to finish. Great love story, lots of ego gratification for ladies as Geena is the lead pirate in a pirate ship. Great cast! Great location! Great stunts! Great story! Hurray!She rides horses and carriages! She swings from ropes! She swims! She swordfights high up in the ship's rigging with her mad and very evil uncle, played by none less than Frank Langella, in one of his most eeeevvvviiiillll roles. Great laughs, great fun, great scares, great thrills! And a grand pirate treasure to boot!This is not a flop. This is a sleeper. Go see it and be entertained! "},{"Title":"Everything a Pirate film should be!","Date":"11 August 2004","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Fast paced, thrilling joyride about a female pirate(Davis), daughter of an age old pirate who is given a task before her father dies to find a great treasure which her grandfather left behind on an expedition. However there is a catch Her Uncle Dawg(Langella) is after the treasure too, and will stop at nothing to steal it from his niece, with swashbuckling adventurous results. This film is a great gem of a movie, and what a pirate film should be. Now a days you have films like Pirates of the Caribbean that take all the money at the box office, and get nominated for Academy Awards, but this film is all that one would hope for in a pirate movie. Geena Davis turns is a very credible performance as Morgan Adams, the female pirate with an attitude and a look that could kill. She creates a character that the audience can root for, as she kicks butt through the movie and delivers one liners that, while some might consider lame(You like to was things? Start with your mouth!) Are effective in the end due to honest portrayal. Real sex appeal too. Some of the scenes involving water are really satisfying to the male audience. One great thing for money making, but it is done artistically as well. Matthew Modine is fun as the slave Shaw, whom is hired to translate a map founded by Davis. He plays his role out as annoying but with a little wit and charm. The best part of this film can be said to be Patrick Malahide as the canning Gov. Ainslee. This is a real funny character, while not much in the film, steals every scene he is in. Langella is a treat as the villain of the film, Captain Dawg. Very vile and reptilish, something that heroin Davis can play off of. The direction is superb. Renny Harlin had done his fair share of action films prior to this film so he really knew what he was doing. With a budget like the one this film has how can an action director go wrong! I really enjoyed his style. Especially in the first chase scene. The music is the heart of the film, as composer John Debney created an all too wonderful score to play with Morgan and her mates as they sail to victory, to the battles of the evil Dawg, to the beautiful opening credits which photograph Malta all too beautifully. Possibly one of the ten best scores of the nineties, this soundtrack soars with beauty and swashbuckling adventure and not a song is to be missed! The cinematography is to be mentioned too, as the cliffs of Malta and wherever else this film was shot are brought out to aesthetic ebullience!All in all, this film has all that a film goer can want in an action film It has action, sex appeal, excitement, danger, widescreen, and a great ending! It's really too bad this film flopped, as I adore it and would have liked to see it win some awards of some sort! What an awesome film!  "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is one of the rare masterpieces of movie history. It has an excellent cast, photography, editing, score, special-effects, settings, and so on! Everything is excellent in this movie! Just look at the lavish photography, the wonderful historical correct settings and props! The acting is of course simply great, too. Davis and Modine are just the right people for their roles. I guess such masterpieces like this that will become classics just have to flop at their first release, like Disney's Fantasia did. Renny Harlin can really be very proud of his present for Geena Davis. "},{"Title":"What's the big deal?","Date":"7 August 2003","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is not the best movie in the world, but it sure isn't Gigli! When it was coming to theatres, I saw a poster for it (just a Jolly Roger), but never saw any trailers, TV spots, print ads or anything. I'm guessing MGM wanted to wash their hands of it for some reason. I really hope it wasn't based on test audiences or something lame like that. To put it to comparison, recently Dreamworks' SinbadL.o.t.7.S. flopped but had an adequate marketing campaign. If anyone bothered to ADVERTISE this film, it would have done okay business even if it couldn't come up with all of its budget.Now getting to the actual movie itself, sure, a lot of it was Mediocre City, but there was enough going for it to keep it in M.C. and out of Razzie Town. I would gladly pay my $1 to see this movie at the 2nd-run theatre, heck I'll take my whole family for $8. Percentage-wise, that $8 would actually make a difference to their Box Office performance.Now if somebody could just make a Monkey Island movie... "},{"Title":"The most boring action packed film I have ever seen","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Pirates out to steal the gold, chariots racing through the streets as bullets zing past them, sword fights, hand to hand combat, quicksand, slavery, mutiny, Erol Flynnesque type swashbuckling.  This sounds like a great film, an Indiana Jones for the 90's.  But let me tell you this  Renny Harlin is no Steven Spielberg and Geena Davis ( what a joke ) cannot even carry Harry's fedora.Cutthroat Island is a terrible film.  It is easy to see where the 92 million dollars was spent, but that does not mean it was spent wisely.  Great pains went into set design, costume design, locales, and probably the catering.  Where they did not spend it was on a good script or a first rate cast.  I mean come on, Geena Davis as the toughest bitch you have ever seen since Ripley in Aliens is a stretch.  But to be fair, if that is what the producer was thinking, then he should have his head examined.  Look at it this way, Weaver started her career as a tough cookie and then built her resume from there.  That is why she is believable in the tough role of Ripley.  But Geena Davis all of a sudden tried to reinvent herself as an action star.  Her roles were generally typical women roles.  So why cast her as the tough as nails FEMALE hero in the story?Now this may sound incredibly sexist but why was the hero a woman in the first place?  What hero has been a woman in a movie like this?  Don't you think that it gives the film a squalid taste to put a woman in the role that was probably written for a man in the first place?  Let's be realistic here, I don't believe that she could beat up every man that tried to subdue her.  I don't believe for one second that she could take a bullet wound in the stomach and still run, jump, swordfight, battle, swim and then fall down from exhaustion only after she was safely on her boat.  I just don't buy it.But the main part of the problem has to be Renny Harlin.  I have to admit that I was very impressed with Die Hard II and Cliffhanger, but this excuse for a film is pathetic.  Action is always better when it serves a purpose.  Here it is a nuisance and it gets cumbersome very fast.  In fact I would say that the action in the film is it's worst quality.  If you are going to invest almost 100 million bucks into a film, shouldn't you make sure that it is at least fun, competent, and maybe a little enjoyable?  Just a mild observation.  Action can't just be about blow ups and chases and guns and fights and swords.  Action has to have some sort of a build up, some sort of meaning.  It should further the plot of the film, not hinder it.  Cutthroat Island has none of that and doesn't understand what action means.  Renny Harlin was lucky not to be ostracized from Hollywood with this lame, banal and just plain awful effort.To sum it up, it should have been a man in the lead, it should have ended an hour earlier, and Harlin should take directing lessons from Spielberg before he attempts a project of this nature.  3 out of 10-- a truly awful and disgustingly inept film.  Avoid at all costs.  Wow, what an awful film!  An awful awful film.Did I mention it was awful?  Just checking.  "},{"Title":"Amazon Mistress","Date":"14 December 2001","Score":"15 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" To appreciate this film you have to-- Have Geena's role as Louise firmly planted in your mind, which is the case for moderately serious moviewatchers-- Appreciate the valentine that this is from her husband -- who would go even further later-- Live in a post-feminist mind that appreciates a woman in a man's role but secretly relishes when she is sexy, and rationalize it because she has a high IQ-- Know that this woman did many of her own stunts at nearly 40-- Be aware that pirating was all about sex not gold-- Spent a fair amount of your youthful imagination with 'Treasure Island' inspired fantasies.If so, you don't care that this movie is as bad as, say the Jurassic Park stuff, and for much the same reason. You just don't care. "},{"Title":"Before Pirates Of The Caribbean Arrived Came This...","Date":"17 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Whilst it proved to be a monumental multi million dollar flop in the box office both in the US and UK, 'Cuttthroat Island' is in fact not as bad as the critics had originally made out. It is not an outright classic by any stretch of the imagination, but neither was it as awful as they have stated themselves. It is at most an OK film that is fun and entertaining to watch. I think though that the most of the critics condemnation of this film was directed more towards the budget of the special effects, costumes, the large ships which were built etc, as opposed to the standard of the film's narrative itself. However, the slating this film received was a little too harsh.Geena Davis plays heroine Morgan, whose 'tough as nails' approach attracts the attention of Matthew Modine's William- a thief who longs to be part of the adventure and together the pair set foot to avenge the death of Morgan's father and to get their hands on the treasure. Davis was very good, whilst I thought with Modine's performances, whilst it was okay, i'd have expected more from him in that role. Some of the scenes in the film did drag on a bit too long though, whereas some of the dialogue was a bit cheesy, which is a criticism of Cutthroat Island, but otherwise other than Pirates of the Caribbean there have been not that many swashbuckling, pirate based movies made for the big screen.It is definitely not as bad as the reputation it first received when it came out and I have seen much worser films than this. Overall, Cutthroat Island is an okay movie- although with the colossal big bucks being spent on the film, it is a little disappointing to see that the film's extraordinary budget didn't really translate into success on screen, in regards to the story. Which is a bit of a shame given that the scenery and locations of the film looked spectacular.If you do see it, then do so with an open mind and do not expect it to be anything like Pirates of the Caribbean. "}{"Title":"A Good Adventure, what Hollywood is suppose to do.","Date":"13 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  No, this isn't an Academy Award winner, but it is a good adventure movie to enjoy.  Hollywood is make-believe.  I enjoy a good adventure, and Geena Davis adds some humor.  This movie has adventure, a mystery, and some light humor, but so did Indiana Jones, and that was make-believe too.  For those who say this was a bad movie, why?  Just because it doesn't have major laser special effects, or wasn't the thing that's hot at the moment? PLEEEEESE!  I go watch a movie to be entertained - which is what Hollywood Professionals are suppose to do, not sit through a quick money maker, unprofessional production like The Real Cancun.  Get a life people.  I recommend this good adventure! "},{"Title":"Swashbuckle, bam thank you Finnish Man","Date":"28 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Renny Harlin should have put a little note before the film starts. It should have read 'This is an action movie, enjoy!'. If that was there then the audience could have put expectations aside and enjoyed two hours of action which evokes memories of the memorable Errol Flynn swashbucklers which 'they just don't make anymore'. This really is a right old enjoyable knockabout, and sure it maybe a touch overlong but thats only because Harlin thought it would be nice to conclude what there was of the plot.  The fact is this wasn't meant to be a momentous morale story. Its a piece of entertainment and it does entertain.Thelma and Louise is a better film but I'd choose this over that anyday. Two hours of pure adrenalin. "},{"Title":"Not Such a Flop.....","Date":"15 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I mean, yes of course it was a flop at the box office because it cost a lot of money to make and was released around the world and only made a fraction of that money back. So by the technical definition of flop this movie was a flop.But most flops are really bad movies. Like really bad. Like REALLY bad. And this movie isn't bad at all! Not even half bad. I think this movie is even slightly better than the average movie especially when you consider putting it up against just other movies of the same era. It's a decent movie.I don't know if it was maybe bad marketing, or bad word of mouth, or just a sexist attitude that didn't want to see a movie with a female ship commander, but this movie deserved better! "},{"Title":"Boilerplate Cheese...but Serviceable Cheese","Date":"5 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" From the director of Die Hard 2 (1990) and the collective pens of six screenplay writers comes Cutthroat Island (1995) the brazenly cheesy pirate saga of ill repute. Starring Oscar winner Geena Davis, Oscar nominated Frank Langella and&#x85;umm&#x85;Matthew Modine, Cutthroat Island is the tall tale of a female pirate captain (Geena Davis) attempting to find the fabled titular island before her heinous uncle (also a pirate captain and also Frank Langella) does. The key to her triumph; a con artist named Shaw (Modine) who knows Latin and can translate the map.This movie is about as boilerplate as one can get. The characters are one dimensional, the dialogue stilted, the special effects; a masterwork in bombastic nineties ridiculousness. Yet there's something near-magical about this particular train wreck. Nearly ever scene has explosions and sword fighting mayhem all of which are well choreographed if sloppily done.Geena Davis tries her absolute hardest to pull off her Captain Morgan (yes her name is Captain Morgan), a lord knows her 6 foot frame would have made her an obvious choice for hard fighting buccaneer. I commend her for the physicality she brings to the role managing to get punched in the face and break through candy glass unfazed. But her elegance and beauty betray her. Her smiles are always genuine and her body language is always feminine; maybe the demeanor of a bourgeois suffragette at the turn of the century but not that of a bloodthirsty rogue pirate.Most of the blame for this film's so-bad-it's-good quality lies squarely with the director Renny Harlin who also directed the recent clunker The Legend of Hercules (2014). Harlin comes from the school of grandiose action films before CGI. Like Guy Hamilton and John McTiernan before him, swift, consistent flow of action takes precedence over story, human characters and all the other little things that don't matter. They accomplish this with elaborate set pieces, daring stunt work and, as mentioned before, lots and lots of explosions. Unlike Hamilton and McTiernan, Harlin has no artistic instinct behind the camera. The cinematography is grimy and brown and the set, while expensive looking is nevertheless noticeably fake. It's as if Harlin wanted to update the swashbucklers of Douglas Fairbanks yet didn't bother to update anything except for the actors.Then there's the writing which is borderline absurd. What passes for witty one-liners, are groan worthy puns and non-sequiturs with little bearing on anything of consequence. Everything else is exposition. It's as if the six writers of the film all hated each other, were trapped in a room together, unable to leave until they came up with something and poised to be overly critical of everything the other said and did. What's left is a script with no creativity or panache. In being so bland the authors of this rubbish commit the cardinal sin of writing letting the audience notice the exposed frame of the writing instead of the action on the screen.Yet, at the end of the day, Cutthroat Island is too harebrained to be taken seriously. If you go in with low expectation and a tendency to not take yourself or your films seriously, you might come out of a viewing on top. There is intrinsic value in watching a movie like Cutthroat Island, especially if you plan on going into a career in film. Movies like this serve to make you acutely aware of what not to do.http//www.theyservepopcorninhell.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Generic","Date":"7 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" If someone had told me in the mid-90s that they were planning on making a movie based on the Disneyland ride Pirates of the Caribbean, Cutthroat Island is what I probably would have imagined every pirate movie cliché shoved into one overlong movie with a rip-off Korngold score and lots of bland action. Luckily, the people who took the seemingly impossible task of turning one of Disneyland's worst rides into a movie did good on it. They probably learned their lesson from Cutthroat Island, which makes all those mistakes and more and ended up being one of the biggest box office blunders of all time. Besides its general blandness, Harlin makes the huge mistake of putting his wife Gena Davis in the lead. She plays a pirate captain, and is never at all believable. Matthew Modine provides no help as the uncharismatic male lead, a role wisely turned down by at least five other actors beforehand. The action is often ludicrous. Yet, with all its flaws, it's hardly an insulting film. It plays, you watch, it ends, you forget. It's pretty enough (especially on Blu Ray). I was kind of wishing the actors and pyrotechnic guys would just let me enjoy the tropic vistas and elaborate sets. "},{"Title":"Watched it again - even better!","Date":"20 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I had seen Cutthroat Island a couple of times; when it first came out and again about three years ago. Last week I saw Pirates of the Caribbean about which everyone seems to be raving. So I watched Cutthroat Island again.As far I am concerned, and my wife concurs, Cutthroat... is far superior Than Pirates... in every respect, except perhaps the music.Cutthroat... has better and more action (the last battle between the ships is very well done), better humor, and no weird ('Depp') characters. And as far as acting is concerned, Geena Davis does an excellent job, as does the rest of the cast.Cutthroat Island - - - much better "},{"Title":"Below Average, but not horrible","Date":"9 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I don't see why this movie gets so much praise from reviewers here at IMDB. Cutthroat Island, while not horrible is far from a film that deserves praise. Many people love the movie simply because it has pirates and things that go bang.I personally couldn't enjoy this movie because it is rather weak in general. The story is nothing new or remotely original. The script is rather weak highlighted by tons of quips. Also the female captain twist is barely that. It just takes away from the whole pirate feel of the film. Still all was not bad in this film. The effects were well done, notably the ship to ship fighting. The scenery and score were also very good. When it all boils down, these things alone cannot save a weak film.In general I would recommend this film to a die hard pirate film fan, or someone of similar interest. For everyone else there are much better things to be done with our time. This movie is mindless action with a pirate feel. I plan on seeing Pirates of the Caribbean this weekend. I have a feeling this movie will please pirate fans, and those who crave a little more than those crazy characters in our films. "},{"Title":"Being a pirate is...fun!","Date":"11 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Above all Cutthroat Island is a fun high-seas adventure.  And I think that's what director Renny Harlin wanted it to be.  Being very athletic Geena Davis is wonderful as a female pirate because she fits the part.  It's much more convincing than having some Hollywood queen who is completely foreign to a little dirt, grime and action.  The fact that there isn't a wealth of recent pirate movies sits Cutthroat Island near the top of the heap, but I don't think it's unjustified.  It really is a fun movie, and that's what a pirate movie should be.  How can you have a completely serious pirate movie?  It wouldn't be any fun. You have to have a guy with a wooden leg, some kind of pet-be it a parrot or a monkey, and guys that say aye and arg.  The ship to ship cannon fight is amazing.  The simple reminder that seaborne warfare was like that once is amazing enough.  Just pull up and start blowing the trash out of each other at close range.  A far cry from today, where we just fire missiles at targets dozens of miles away.  Flintlock pistols and sword fights are always cool, and Cutthroat Island has its fair share of them.  I enjoyed Matthew Modine's character, but I admit at times his lines seemed an uncomfortable fit, as though they were shoehorned in. The rest of the supporting cast is effective, and Frank Langella as Morgan's despicable uncle is the typical bad pirate, but enjoyable none the less.Pirates of the Carribean is coming out a few months from the time I am writing this, and it will be interesting to see if and how the two movies are compared.  If you haven't seen Cutthroat Island, rent it and sit back and enjoy the action.  As I've mentioned several times, it's a movie meant to be fun, and I believe it is. "},{"Title":"Bad Lead","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This film would have been excellent if it hadn't been for Geena Davis. She is totally unconvincing as the pirate captain Morgan. Sure she is nice to look at but that's about as far as it goes. Davis is an ok supporting actress but when a film relies upon her armature acting skills to carry it you can bet its going down the drain very quickly indeed.On a positive not there were many excellent things about this film as well. Beautiful sets, costumes and support characters, namely Shaw and Maddog. Exciting action and a fast pace make for an exciting romp. If only the Producers had given the lead to someone other than Davis this film may well have become a classic.6-10  "},{"Title":"fun movie","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie makes for good entertainment. Though it follows a 'popular' story-line, the awesome sets, the pirate action and the locales make this movie a neat entertainer! Further, Gina Davis is a pleasure to watch.  "}{"Title":"Well, it's not all bad","Date":"5 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Though usually I save this kind of thing for the end of the review, I thought I'd start this one off with the pros and cons.ProsOutstanding soundtrackGood special effectsAside from Horatio Hornblower, this is the only movie of the '90s with any real age of sail high seas adventureConsActingPlotDialogueHistorical AccuracyDialogueOverabundance of ExplosionsDialogueIrritating Plotholes and stupid 90s humor.---------------------I think that probably the reason this movie is beat up so much by critics is that it had so much potential. It had the budget, and the talent, to be great, and thus it was expected that it would live up to that potential. Alas, it did not, and the biggest problem was that it seems that no one bothered to read the script out loud before giving it to the actors.The special effects were excellent if overdone -- never has naval action looked better.  Doesn't matter that explosive cannonballs weren't invented for another several hundred years -- the fireballs look good.  However, besides the special effects and the absolutely outstanding soundtrack, this movie has not much going for it.Geena Davis, normally quite a good actress, seemed completely uninspired throughout most of the movie.  The other actors were mostly competent, but just weren't given any materiel to work with.  Probably seventy percent of the dialogue in this movie was stupid one-liners or banter that advanced the plot not at all, and what was left just wasn't very appealing.  The characters never developed, they just seemed to jump from action sequence to action sequence, indestructible and unfazable as only action movie heroes can be.  And the plot of the movie was basically a big plothole.Still, if that had been expected, this movie would have been good eye candy. But I expected so much more.  With a good script, good direction, a little more realism, and some character development, this movie could have been outstanding, possible one of the best 10 films of the century, depending on your taste.  And those modifications could have been done without any extra cost...in fact, cutting down on the overblown explosions would've cut costs. So its just a big shame that the potential was wasted. "},{"Title":"Fun escape","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Some have called this movie a stinker.  However, our family likes it.  If you need a movie to make you think hard, then perhaps it's not for you.  But if you enjoy a fun, adventure escapism movie, it's not bad.  It's swash buckling, so how   much plot can you expect?I give it a 10 for fun, and a 6 for plot.  "},{"Title":"pretty good i reckon. not as bad as people make it out to be","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  really good i think, and it DEFINITELY doesnt deserve all that dissin many guys have been giving it. acting was pretty good, all the action scenes were real good, the scenery was real good, what else do u want in a movie like this? i think it gave us what we expected and did it pretty well. so give this movie a break and watch it, it aint that bad i promise. "},{"Title":"Much underrated","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Despite its massive box office loss, this is actually quite a fun little film. Sure, it could possibly be lambasted for being a vanity project from its director (after all, he did let his then wife of the time take the leading role and let the film go massively over-budget) but the action sequences are exciting and plentiful, the sword fights are well-directed and choreographed and the whole cast seems to be having a whale of a time and it has to be said their enthusiasm is catchy. Unfortunately nowadays, kids these days don't seem to have the patience for a good old-fashioned swashbuckler which is a real shame, because in my estimation Cutthroat Island has over 10 times as many fights that are at least 100 times more exciting than anything you'll find in mainstream sci-fi pap like The Phantom Menace. Besides, what looks better, blasting someone in the stomach to end their life immediately or clashing swords with your opponent, elegantly hacking them up a piece at a time with a touch of class? I know which one I'd take anytime. Anyway, Cutthroat Island is a throwback to the glory days of Errol Flynn and Douglas Fairbanks Jr. and as a both an adventure and pirate movie, it largely succeeds. Go see it now though, because I have the feeling its the last in its genre we'll see for a while...  "},{"Title":"A great swashbuckler unjustly maligned by chauvinistic critics and uptights","Date":"14 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Why oh why did this movie bomb?  I thought it was exceptional fun, no more ridiculous than any of these testosterone pumped action films since Die Hard that the public sheepishly flocks to see.  The stunts are amazing in their choreography, Davis and Langella are great, Modine is o.k. (he's getting kinda typecast as a smart aleck) and the movie accomplishes exactly what it set out to be...a pirate adventure of the greatest magnitude.  We can only guess that joe-average-movie goer has gotten too cynical for pirate adventures since Polanski's Pirates and Harlin's Cutthroat Island were so senselessly trashed by el-pretensioso critics.  If you want to be entertained...SEE THIS MOVIE! And for those who want realism in their action movies...well, GET REAL! "},{"Title":"*** Ignore all the mean critics","Date":"17 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Ignore all the critics who tore this adventure yarn to shreds--even though as a tribute to the good old days of Errol Flynn swashbucklers it doesn't quite make the mark, as it's not slick or smart enough, it's definitely great entertainment. Geena Davis is once again every inch a superstar as Morgan Adams, the captain of a pirate ship looking for the lost treasure printed on a map made from her uncle's scalp (!). The thorn in her side is that she and her goofy companion (an ineffective Matthew Modine) have to find it before her evil other uncle (Frank Langella) does. Lots of action and gorgeous locales make this good (though not exceptional) moviewatching. "},{"Title":"One of the best action movies of the 90s","Date":"16 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  We all know this film went wildly over-budget and was lambasted by the critics.  Yet here is a case where the critics, hunting in packs as they often do, were reviewing the budget, not the film.  For Cutthroat Island is a stupendously enjoyable action movie and, to its credit, one of the few big-budget Hollywood adventures to allow a woman to take centre stage (and even rescue the hero).  The acting honours however are stolen by the villains  Frank Langella as the murderous Dawg and Patrick Malahide as the louche but ruthless British commander Ainslee.  There's also a very funny turn by Angus Wright as  Ainslee's put-upon assistant who ends up...no, that would spoil it!  The climax (Bad Dog!) is wonderful and John Debney supplies a rousing Korngoldian score.  Unlike some of your writers (and I'm delighted to see that almost all of them enjoyed this underrated film), I had the chance to see it on the big screen, and did so - three times!   "},{"Title":"Great fun in a much too-little visited genre","Date":"4 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I've never quite understood why Cutthroat Island was such a commercial failure. The movie is pure fun, and then some. And furthermore it is in a genre which is much too-little visited. Frankly, the only other pirate/high-seas movie I can recall seeing is a tv-series chronicling the great Captain Cook's journeys. And that isn't even a real pirate-thing. True, Cutthroat Island is nothing than a saturday afternoon adventure yarn, but that's exactly why I think it was so great. Stereotypical characters, an incredible truthfulness to the genre and an *incredible* score - I mean, it's Indiana Jones in the pirate era! The general flaming this movie has received goes beyond my understanding... "},{"Title":"Just What It Should Be","Date":"20 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It ain't Citizen Kane, it may not even be the best pirate movie ever made, but Cutthroat Island sets a goal and reaches it.  I think Roger Ebert summed it up best when he said this movie was everything a movie called Cutthroat Island should be.  It's a big, dumb, fun movie, and I can't understand why it wasn't a hit.  After all, this was the year Batman Forever (which I also enjoyed, BTW) came out and was a smash -- what intellectual edge did Val Kilmer and Jim Carrey have over Geena Davis and Matthew Modine?The best way to see this movie is with a letterbox video on the widest possible screen and the best stereo system you can get your hands on.  I wish I'd been able to see this movie in the theatres instead of discovering it on home video, but, well...Who knows?  With any luck, Cutthroat Island will become a cult classic, an underappreciated gem of a movie you can compare to films like The Mask of Zorro.  One day, Cutthroat, you will get the praise you deserve.  "},{"Title":"Great Swashbuckler,","Date":"3 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" It was about time someone did a swashbuckler right, and  I think that Cuthroat island fits the bill. No obvious backlot shots, dainty leotards and sissy foil props. These are full shots of real ships on location, and that's a cutlass in Geena's firm grip, the real steel choice of all self respecting pirates. And isn't she a cutie? I love the way she sells the captain in charge part. The action almost never stops in this fast paced movie. My only beef was the monkey.  I started hiding behind a box of cereal or a beer every time he started his pat little smiling routine. After a while I just couldn't look at him any more lol. But we all have our eccentricities. It's a great swashbuckler, and i watch it over and over. And the supporting cast was great too. I wish they'd make more of these. "}{"Title":"Why did the critics slate this?","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I can never understand why the critics were so harsh on this film. It makes a refreshing change from all the asteroid/alien/tons of SFX films that have come out, and it is also very refreshing to have a tough female who gets to kick butt while the leading man is left holding the reins! Geena Davis is brilliant as Morgan Adams, and the action pieces she and Matthew Modine do are wonderful. The pirate ships and locations are breathtaking, and all in all it is a really good lose-yourself-in-the-adventure kinda swashbuckler, that up untill 'The Mask of Zorro' just didn't get made any more. This film did not deserve to bomb the way it did. There are plenty of awful films out there that did better then this and didn't deserve to! I give 'Cutthroat Island' 8/10 "},{"Title":"Cutthroat Island- Just great fun!","Date":"1 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I didn't get to see Cutthroat Island on cinema. I had to get it on video. -I expect it was not put on at my local cinema because of the bad press the film had been getting, and of course with it being a phenomenal box office flop- but flop does not necessarily mean bad. (even The Wizard of Oz was not a box office hit first time round) Cutthroat Island is, in my opinion, just a really fun film, that happened to come out at the wrong time. It is the kind of swashbuckler that does not get made anymore. Geena Davis makes a brilliant Morgan Adams, the ruthless pirate daughter of Black Harry, searching for the legenday treasure of Cutthroat Island, pursued by her father's killer, and her uncle, Captain Dawg. Matthew Modine is her love interest and side kick, a would-have-been-slave till Morgan 'rescues' him because he is the only one who can decipher the map leading to the treasure. The two work well together, and it's interesting to see in the horse and carriage chase scene, that it's the woman who gets to punch and kick the guards around, leaving the man to take the reins! All in all, I do not think this to be a bad movie. No, it's not perfect (then what film is) and it obviously has its flaws, but don't watch it expecting a masterpiece, and just enjoy it for the ride. And what a ride! "},{"Title":"Bomb at Sea","Date":"5 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The movie is truly deserving of all the scorn heaped upon it. Geena Davis reads her lines like she's playing a tobacco store Indian instead of a wacky 17th century lady-pirate, which is already a goofy thing to make a movie about. Matthew Modine? What is he doing in here? I almost feel terrible for the army of set and ship builders that must have worked on this picture for having done such a fantastic job making such a splendid looking cesspool. I mean that - the production values are really excellent, and all for naught.I'm not sure Renny Harlin isn't a complete moron, in fact, I'm fairly certain he is a drooling idiot. The movie has no heart. It races from bombastic set-piece to more bombastic set-piece, without developing the characters in plausible way, shape, or form. In one of the first scenes of the film, Geena Davis scalps her father. What??? Okay, so she scalps her father. Does this have any emotional impact on her? Not a chance. Her uncle kills her brother and spends the entire film trying to kill her. Does this affect her character's psyche in the slightest? Nope. Instead, she goes and bangs Matthew Modine. What a stupid movie. People who like this movie should be forced to have I like Cutthroat Island tattooed on their foreheads so they can be ridiculed more quickly. "},{"Title":"One of the most underrated movies ever...","Date":"8 August 2011","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Just finished it from BluRay. I have seen it many times and it is always a great pirate movie. Much better than any of those POTC movies. This is real stuff. Full of action and humor. It's a pity that it flopped because of poor marketing and fighting between Hollywood studios. Love it every time. Of course it is not perfect movie but it is full of action and fun. OK maybe it should have another crew but Davis and Modine do fine they job. Langella is great on his job. This should be classic and certainly need another round on movies. Maby they could turn it 3D and never know if new generation founds it. After all this should get another chance. "},{"Title":"A masterpiece of swashbuckling fun, romance and adventure!","Date":"2 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" What a shame that this movie did so poorly at the box office. When it came out on DVD, it was already a budget DVD selling for less than $10.00. So it can be assumed that Cutthroat Island will never come out on Blue-Ray.This movie is a pirate movie made in the tradition of all the other great pirate movies. It is a non-stop adventure that starts with a treasure map and continues with lots of swashbuckling, romance and an excellent plot that keeps on changing without slowing down. The special effects were spectacular. Attention to detail was excellent. A lot of research was done to make sure that the weapons, the costumes, etc. were done to perfection. As for Captain Morgan Adams' pearly white teeth, not all pirates had rotten teeth. Though dentistry of the time bordered on cruelty (except that cruelty wasn't as painful), people did not eat as much sugar and sweets back then. So it was possible for people of that time to have a full set of healthy teeth.On a scale of one-to-ten, I'd give this movie a perfect ten, in spite of that plastic garbage bag being dropped in the background in one scene. "},{"Title":"Cutthroat Island","Date":"8 November 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" why is it that pirates of the Caribbean curse of the black pearl and pirates of the Caribbean dead man's chest are among the Recommendations for Cutthroat Island but pirates of the Caribbean at world's end is not?why is it that pirates of the Caribbean curse of the black pearl and pirates of the Caribbean dead man's chest are among the Recommendations for Cutthroat Island but pirates of the Caribbean at world's end is not?why is it that pirates of the Caribbean curse of the black pearl and pirates of the Caribbean dead man's chest are among the Recommendations for Cutthroat Island but pirates of the Caribbean at world's end is not?why is it that pirates of the Caribbean curse of the black pearl and pirates of the Caribbean dead man's chest are among the Recommendations for Cutthroat Island but pirates of the Caribbean at world's end is not? "},{"Title":"Lavish production","Date":"6 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I missed this film when it first came out, but, by word of mouth heard it had gained a rather poor reputation. So I wrongfully gave it a pass. It also seemed odd to me that the swashbuckler genre would make a comeback in the mid 90s. It just seemed so out of place. Years later (yesterday in fact) I bought a cheap used DVD of the film, and after a couple of viewings I think I understand what happened.I remember the ads for this film looked good, yet everyone seemed to trash it after it came out. How could a period sea-adventure-epic fall flat on its face? Why were audiences only marginally Luke warm to a film that has some of the most spectacular production values I or anyone else had seen in a long time? Particularly when it was exceptionally well shot and had a solid cast behind it? I'll be blunt. Geena Davis is no Anne Bonnie. She looks the part, but doesn't grab the role with both hands. She goes through it, acts the part, but doesn't become the part. She's more or less being one of the guys on the set. She has some flourishes, but I honestly believe she was mis cast. The Morgan character needed to be dynamic from page one, but Geena Davis really doesn't give us that--in-spite of being a capable thespian that she is. She isn't tomboyish enough nor feminine enough. Morgan needed to be exchanging insults and intrigues with the crew. Drinking them under the table like the Marion character in Raiders of the Lost Ark. She needed to be target practicing and getting into the occasional brawl. She needed to be bawdy and animated. But Geena Davis instead gives us a feminine 17th century naval captain out of the British tradition. She's not so much a pirate as a naval officer whose been thrust on a pirate vessel. In retrospect Geena Davis may have been trying to give us a woman exuding reserved masculinity, but it doesn't quite mesh with the film.Mathew Modine does an okay job. Looking at his and Davis'es character, one clearly sees an intentional role reversal being played. But again it doesn't seem to gybe (to borrow from nautical parlance) with the rest of the film. Modine needed to be the modern male in need of a woman. Instead he's assigned the role of a feminine intellectual in constant need of rescue. He's not competing with Davis so much as waiting for her to save him. I think both male and female audiences expected him to be a bit more.The final nail in the coffin is the pacing of some of the action sequences. Again, it's all exceptionally well photographed, but there lulls in the pacing. The super-majority of it is well done, but there's maybe a handful of mis-edits that combine with some awkward feats on the part of actors and stunt men that don't quite click together. Like I say, for the most part you hardly notice them, and the action as staged is good. But there're a couple of miscues that add to the unimpressive role-reversal theme that I think don't sit well with the audience.All these elements give the viewer a kind of awkward acceptance of the film, but a subconscious refusal to call it a good movie so to speak. Which is a real shame, because this film otherwise has all the earmarks of being an extremely promising production. Some mis-interpretation of the parts by the two main leads fuses with some mis-paced action to render a film a little uneven, but otherwise spectacular.Some improvements; the Morgan character needed a sidekick. A female one too. A few more cutaways during the climactic action sequence, a few less slow-motion shots, and a little more heart and dynamic-ism from the two leads and you have yourself a winner. As it stands now the film is about 85% there.Incredible locations, fantastic costuming, respectable SFX, an exceptional supporting cast, give this film a chance. It's not Master and Commander, but it is respectable Sunday afternoon fare.p.s. It also has an outstanding score. "},{"Title":"CutThroat Island","Date":"12 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" From Razzie nominated Renny Herlin (Die Hard 2 Die Harder, Cliffhanger, The Long Kiss Goodnight, Deep Blue Sea), I had seen this pirate movie maybe once or twice before, more perhaps in my youth, but I had to watch again to get a better opinion. Basically Morgan Adams (Geena Davis) is the female buccaneer turned captain who recently lost her father Black Harry (Bean's Harris Yulin) after being captured by her nasty uncle Dawg Brown (Frank Langella), and she wants her vengeance. In the meantime however, she and her crew are seeking the mysterious shores and lost treasure on the hidden and uncharted CutThroat Island, but they need three portions of a map to find it. Morgan gains herself a new recruit with slave William Shaw (Full Metal Jacket's Matthew Modine), and while he is confident in her, the rest of the ship's crew may not be, and the quest is made difficult by the Navy, led by Governor Ainslee (The World Is Not Enough's Patrick Malahide), looking for her. Morgan and Shaw work out how to get to CutThroat Island, and the pirate ship, the Morning Star, manages to survive a storm and get there, and on the land they try to follow directions to find the treasure. Of course Dawg manages to find the island as well, and in the process of taking the treasure back to another ship, they steal it for themselves. There is a big battle with two ships and cannons, and one of the ships ends up blown up and sunk, Dawg is killed in action, and the crew get the treasure back, Shaw and his love interest embrace their feelings, and Morgan suggests they sail on to new treasures. Also starring Entrapment's Maury Chaykin as John Reed, Stan Shaw as Glasspoole, Rex Linn as Mr. Blair, Paul Dillon as Snelgrave and Malcolm in the Middle's Christopher Masterson as Bowen. Davis is naturally beautifully and fitfully feisty, Modine is alright as the slave who helps and falls for her, and Langella does fine, the story is your typical treasure hunt full of bangs, frills, costumes and tropical locations. This was made for millions of dollars, and it was one of the biggest box office flops in movie history, there are tiny ways you can see this as it isn't always the most exciting or original pirates film you will see, but at the same time it isn't the worst, a reasonable action adventure. Okay! "},{"Title":"Pirates of the Caribbean meets Thelma and Louise!","Date":"13 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  If you liked Pirates of the Caribbean  Curse of the Black Pearl, you'll love Cutthroat Island.  All the same high action adventure without the supernatural stuff and with even better special effects.Geena Davis plays a woman who can put any man in his place as Morgan Adams, heir to the pirate family map.  She was raised in piracy and does it better than anyone else on the high seas.  She never met her match in this movie. Maybe someday Morgan will meet up with Jack Sparrow, and then there will be fireworks!I highly recommend this movie to all lovers of the romantic pirate genre. It will not disappoint. "},{"Title":"There is no explanation as to why this film failed- All the Elements for greatness are present in this movie","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I have always been a sucker for films with a 1700's theme, and this one was no exception.I believe this to be a GREAT film. Infact it baffles me that this film was a box office flop.....and for all those who go on and on about how no one will ever compare to Erol Flynn is this reason this movie flopped. I need to say this to you ...most of the movie goers nowdays weren't even alive yet when Erol Flynn was making films-Erol Flynn had nothing to do with the failure of Cutthroat Island at the box office. In fact I am 31 years old and I cannot name a single movie of Erol Flynns that I have seen, and I'd be willing to bet that the majority of todays college age studentS have never even heard of Erol Flynn!!The truth is -I dont know why this moview failed. It has all the right elements in place. This film had a Fantastic music score, the acting really wasn't all that bad, the specail effects were wonderful, it had a very good story(even better than the classic Treasure Island),The photoghraphy in this film is beautiful, Gina Davis had never looked sexier than she did in this film, the custumes are sharp, creative and the swords were very original, this film has the best Ocean Battleship scene ever cought on film-Its an amazing scene, This film has plenty of humor, action & Adventure. and most of all this IS a very FUN movie to watch again and again. I really like this movie!!!!There is no explanation as to why this film failed- All the Elements for greatness are present in this movie. Get your Popcorn out-I'm giving this film 5 out of 5 stars- A perfect Film! "}{"Title":"Much better than the critics.","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I think this movie is much better than the critics.  It compares to 'the crimson pirate'  a lot of action a lot of fun.  There are not much movies like this nowadays. See the movie by yourself!  "},{"Title":"You have to appreciate the only pirate movie made in the 90s","Date":"16 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It's not the best movie of the decade, or even the best action movie, but it's is not all bad as the critics and box office make it seem.  The action sequences are well executed and for the most part original.  Admittedly, this seems to be at the expense of acting and script.  The acting seems stale, as if much of the time the actors were trying too hard to imitate the 19th century vernacular.  This makes many lines seemed forced and phony. But that's not to say the characters are unlikeable, or unwatchable.  It's hard not to like Geena Davis; she's such a versatile actress.  The Long Kiss Goodnight is one of my favorite action flicks, and that's probably why I liked C.I. (same actress & director).This movie is not meant to be taken seriously.  It's just a fun film!  The story moves quickly with plenty of opportunities to change locations and costumes.  It's shot beautifully.  It sounds great--musket shots, swords being drawn, explosions.  If you're in the mood for high art and exquisite acting, rent a Merchant-Ivory.  Then rent Cutthroat Island to unwind.Perhaps why I like it so much is the genre.  They don't make many pirate movies anymore.  (Critics will say, Watch C.I. & you'll know why.)  But with the current focus on special effect-laden cinema, the pirate/high seas genre is ready to be reborn.  Cutthroat Island is a good start.  I had hoped that it would pave the way for similar films, but the poor reception has proved otherwise.  See this movie and judge for yourself. "},{"Title":"Favorite movie ever.","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It's like The Princess Bride with a treasure hunt.  It has pirates, sword fights, a love story, murder, and betrayal.The critics panned it, but I loved this movie. I bought it on VHS, but I also ordered it on DVD.  The effects are spectacular.  If you are a fan of the movies that feature a gratuitous explosion of the local filling station, this movie has it in spades. "},{"Title":"(Die) Har, matey!","Date":"28 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Renny Harlin, who directed Die Hard 2, trades airports and airplanes and Bruce Willis in for Pirate Ships, the High Seas, and his wife Geena Davis, and gives us a great swashbuckling adventure that went down in the Guinness book of world records as the biggest cinematic financial flop of all time....why people stayed away from this adventure is beyond me...The odd thing about the reviews that question the believability of Geena Davis as a pirate captain is that the Morgan Adams character is loosely based on the real life exploits of the female pirates Anne Bonney and Mary Reade, who were the lovers of Captain Calico Jack Rackham. Calico Jack commanded the sloop William, and preyed upon ships in the Caribbean (the same area Geena Davis's Morgan Adams prowled about) in early 18th century. During one battle, the William was caught off guard off the western tip of Jamaica by the Governor. Anne Bonney and Mary Reade roused the crew, and led the fight when the William was boarded. Also, the flag used for Morgan's ship, the skull with the two swords, was the same flag used by Calico Jack's William. As far as the film's performance at the box office, what can I say? How many critically acclaimed films have flopped, while the public flocks to see such movies as The Waterboy and Batman and Robin? Yes, the plot was thin, and the dialog was cheesy (I must visit that shop when I have more time!) But I sense that the real reason behind the hostility to this movie is nothing more than good old-fashioned male chauvinism. How DARE Geena Davis take such a macho role! But take it she does...not only take it, but Geena did her own stunts, something many of the macho male movie stars do not dare to do. That scene where Geena crashes through the window onto a wagon driven at a full gallop...let's see Arnold Schwarzenegger do that. I hope more women get roles like this.... "},{"Title":"I loved it!","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I know most folks didn't seem to like this movie, but I loved it! It is a swashbuckler in the old sense, with Geena in the staring role for the modern sense. If you like good action films that just let you loose yourself for a while, I recommend this one! If you're a nitpicker, forget this one. "},{"Title":"Renny Harlin has done it again","Date":"4 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The day this movie was released was the second greatest day in adventure movie history.  The first, of course, being the day The Long Kiss Goodnight erupted on the movie scene.Cutthroat Island is destined to be a cult classic, in the same vein as Tremors and other classics that cross genres between humor and either horror or high adventure.  Geena Davis is to die for.  She is the archetypal super-woman unstoppable,  irresistable, simultaneously crude and sexy, yet at the same time incredibly humorous.The critics be damned.  This movie is one that you will want to watch over and over again.  It's precisely what is needed on a  Minnesota winter night to warm your heart and lift your spirits. And, if you're not lucky enough to live in Minnesota, well then...it's even more important for you to watch this film.If you don't get great enjoyment out of this film, you probably take yourself a little too seriously!If you liked this film, you'll like The Long Kiss Goodnight and Tremors. "},{"Title":"Before PofC came the Cutthroat Island","Date":"12 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" It's been a while since I saw this film, but undoubtedly it's still as good as it was back then.Cutthroat Island reminds me greatly of Pirates of the Caribbean film trilogy. Not only for the pirate theme, but for the similar spirit of the movies - adventurous, at times dramatic, comedy with a romantic twist and loads of action.I'm not the right person to judge the historical accuracy of this film, but maybe it shouldn't be sought out from a fictional adventure movie in the first place.And for the person who wrote If you can believe Geena Davis is the leader of a ship load of pirates without being the victim of a perpetual gang-rape, then by all means, enjoy the film., I'd like to reply Ching Shih. Who was not only a leader of a ship load of pirates, but the leader of 2,000 ships load of pirates. "},{"Title":"Not bad..not bad atoll..","Date":"27 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I like this movie. Yes, it's overblown and over budget. True, there are plot holes you could sail a massive schooner through. (And there is very little on screen chemistry between the two romantic leads). But..if taken as an adventure-pirate movie, it's darn good, maybe one of the best. If made a decade or more earlier, it would have been considered an amazing achievement. Forget heavy handed critiques, if you like a good swashbuckler, it's not to be missed. (and Geena is just gorgeous). This movie harken's back to the great 30's and 40's adventure movies, and easily out pirates The Pirates of the Caribbean. "},{"Title":"Action-packed perfection!","Date":"26 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I don't know how many times I've seen Cutthroat Island, but it keeps on getting better and better. The movie has everything you would want in a pirate movie A super team of dirty pirates, a quest for a treasure, love, hatred, family intrigues, action, guns and sword-fighting.. Everything you need! The fact that it was made in -95 does not make any difference - there are not many pirate movies made this good! let's not forget them! Geena Davies does a fantastic job, along with all the other pirates. This film shows a certain hint of girl-power, even though female pirates did not ocure that often. After the film ends you'll be so energetic and exited you want to jump up the walls! If you haven't seen this movie yet... oh, shame...  "},{"Title":"A fun pirate ride!","Date":"7 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  We have always thought this film was under-rated.  I've bought it on VHS twice (the first one broke), and now on DVD.  If you loved Pirates of the Caribbean then you will like this one.  (Provided you can handle the hero being a woman!)  The best lines are from Matthew Modine's character William Shaw, like during a fight/chase when he says, It is hard for me to imagine, Madam, when I will ever need to use Latin in your employ!!, or, I find myself fired upon by an entire ship!Between this movie and The Long Kiss Good Night Geena Davis joined Sigourney Weaver and Linda Hamilton as women capable of carrying my kind of chick flick.  (My sister and I are both sci-fi and action junkies and we say that our three favorite 'chick flicks' are Aliens, Terminator II, and Cutthroat Island.) "}{"Title":"Excellent movie!","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Great pirate film!Its one of the best!I really liked Geena Davis in this and Frank Langella was awesome!Matthew Modine was good.Great action and great music by John Debney!This is a very underrated and misunderstood movie and deserves a lot appreciation it has over the years.If you like pirate movies and the cast mention then check out the ultimate pirate movie,Cutthroat Island! "},{"Title":"How this film flopped?","Date":"16 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I can`t believe that such a film could be a flop. Renny Harlin delivers the goods in this one. You can argue whether such genre revisionism was needed in 1995 when PULP FICTION and such demythologizing movies ruled the box office, but I believe that this film would be a sleeper during the years. I have never seen orthodox pirate swashbuckling action done in such a way. You can dispute some other assets in this film but when it comes to pure swashbuckling piracy this is the one. After this film flopped Hollywood should seriously reconsider the fanbase for such cinema because film geeks around the world brag about CAPTAIN BLOOD while they have no energy to actually pay respect to the contempo CAPTAIN BLOOD. My assesmment of this one is 10/10 on basis of what this film was supposed to be and that`s a grand pirate actioner with powerful swordfights, ship sinking and tropical locale. God bless Renny Harlin! "},{"Title":"Action and adventure with a beautiful leading lady","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It really irks me when people slate movies such as this because it flopped at the box office. Unless they are based on mega selling books (i.e. Harry Potter, Lord of the Rings) or have the sheepish following because their star is in it, then most films don't make it big anyway. Most are seen on video or DVD. Look at Blair Witch, massive box office, dreadful film, but the idiots who want to look cool say what a fab movie and they could see it for what it was. Yeah honest.Anyway back to cutthroat. Tongue in cheek action adventure which keeps the pace from start to finish. Geena Davis is a fine actress who is seriously underrated. I enjoyed the film for it's escapism and for what it was, entertainment. "},{"Title":"Nearly a new 'Crimson Pirate'","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  If Burt Lancaster's 'The Crimson Pirate'(1950) is quite probably the most entertaining pirate movie ever made - the 'serious' Erroll Flynn's movies apart - this 'Cutthroat Island' scratches, although a little bit lighter, the same level.  Wonderful action and locations, vigorous, splendid soundtrack, fair acting (Geena and Langella at their best), what else do we need?  It's a pity that, as we've heard, it lost money.  It really deserved a better destiny, once it's so rare a pirate movie nowadays.  Maybe it's a movie yet to be discovered, by future generations. Once and a while I use to play it in video, just for the kicks. I keep watching it as a delightful piece of filmaking. Chests, full action, daredevil stunts, jolly rogers, adventure, islands, deep blue sea, smell of powder.  I loved it.  "},{"Title":"As good as any pirate movie made","Date":"15 March 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I have never understood why this was such a flop as the box office. Likewise I have never understood the bashing it took from critics. Some of the faults they found with the movie exist in just about every big block buster action movie made since, but we and they look the other way when we watch. Cutthroat has everything you ever wanted in a pirate movie, ship battles, sword fights, romance, treasure, betrayal and perhaps one of the best musical scores ever written for a movie. It's not perfect but it doesn't have as many holes as blockbuster movies like Face Off or Die Another Day. Since the advent of CG, stunts aren't done by people anymore but by computers and movie makers have become more and more outrageous and unbelievable with those stunts. This is not the case in Cutthroat. There are some great stunts but they are all done live no CG, it's old school. If you want to watch a movie for fun this is a fun movie. Perhaps most amazing of all the movie isn't filled with foul language, or blood. That doesn't mean it's not intense at times but it's done without all the stuff that make lots of action flicks objectionable to parents. Even kids will love this one. "},{"Title":"Could this movie have been worse?","Date":"19 February 2000","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  That's scary to consider. The only redeeming thing in this entire movie was one stunt. Geena Davis' character Morgan was fighting on top of a carriage, which went underneath an overhanging roof. Davis jumped on top of the roof, ran up it, jumped thru a window, ran thru a room, jumped out a window, and did a forward somersault off the edge of the roof down into the seat of the carriage sitting in an upright position next to Matthew I Haven't Given A Good Performance In Years Modine. The forward somersault is amazing because either Davis did it herself or has a twin sister who is a stunt person.The rest of the movie is absolute garbage, with the standard modern day dialogue in the past, and the extremely tired action hero banter and catchphrases, none of which is funny. Did pirates spend so much time keeping their ships in such pristine condition? You'd think that even after going thru a tropical storm there'd be some wear. Maybe I just have too low an opinion of 17th(?) century shipbuilding techniques. If you want to see a better pirate movie, rent Jaws. At least Dreyfuss does a 2 second impression of a pirate that's more entertaining than anything this movie has to offer. "},{"Title":"So bad it was entertaining. A personal favorite.","Date":"29 May 1999","Score":"14 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  If you can believe Geena Davis is the leader of a ship load of pirates without being the victim of a perpetual gang-rape, then by all means, enjoy the film.   "},{"Title":"Hey, Real Stunts!!","Date":"22 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Just as good as Pirates of the Caribbean and wonderful example of a movie that relied on practical FX and stunts. Before CGI locked its claws on Hollywood and turned film into highdef cartoons. Sure, most can complain about the hollowness of the script and some bad acting. COUGH Matthew Modine. But, over all, if you like pirates, lost gold, remote islands real wooden ships, gigantic (and I mean GIGANTIC) explosions then this movie for you. In fact during a scene where people fall down a seaside cliff into an oncoming wave my 5 year old gasped out loud. Proof that despite our technical achievements in movie making, a solid stunt can still marvel. "},{"Title":"More visually appealing than PotC","Date":"24 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" (I marked this with spoilers but I'm not 100% that is does have them...better to be safe than sorry I guess.)When this movie came out in theatres I was too young to have seen it. But over the years I managed to watch almost all of it on TV. It's a fast-paced pirate adventure that (thank god) has a believable female lead. (FYI YES there WERE female pirates back in the day. Google Ann Bonny and Mary Read for a start.) The locations, sets, costumes and score are all brilliant. While's it's true that the chemistry is a bit lacking between Morgan (Davis) and Shaw (Modine) and some of the lines are a bit...stilted (I must visit that shop again. When I have the time.) The overall effect is breath-taking.If you're in the mood for an evening of enjoyable fun, and some laughs (watch how many times Modine's character gets smacked upside the head) then this is the movie for you. Forget about the lack of accents in some cases and the fact that the critics completely panned this movie. It's good to watch and if it doesn't make the kid in you want to pick up a sword and map and start searching for lost gold...well...your inner child needs therapy.P.S. Cannonballs can explode when they hit objects. There's a certain type that has its own fuse to make it explode and not just rip through things. "},{"Title":"A good, fun action adventure","Date":"29 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I honestly do not understand all the bad reviews of CTI! The film is a humorous action package, which is well done with fairly good action, lots of laughs, great FX and impressive stunts. The locations and costumes like straight from one of your old Errol Flynn or Burt Lancaster pirate films, as well as is the plot. Geena Davis in the lead runs around the Caribbean as a hard punching, back talking, drinking pirate, teaming up with ex boyfriend to go hunting for treasures. Follows a great adventure of love, cannons, ships, rum, cutlasses and lots of fun!Yes, it's brain dead, yes it's unrealistic, yes it's pointless. So what? I like it! Avast ye miserable bilge rats! Swab the decks! Raise the main sail you no-good-dung heaps! And bring out me grog!-Respect the Humpp, ye treacherous lubbers! "}{"Title":"superb","Date":"1 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  One the most overlooked films in the video arsenal.  Great actions sequences, great story, great film!  This movie didn't get allot of attention at the box office; too bad because allot of people missed out out. If you haven't seen it, go to Blockbuster and rent it.  You won't be dissapointed. "},{"Title":"Arrr!","Date":"13 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I haven't seen this flick in a long time, I remember I liked it... I think. No wait, it wasn't the movie I liked it was the soundtrack. Ok screw the movie, buy the soundtrack... if you want a good pirate flick go see Pirates of the Carribean... Depp you rule! "},{"Title":"Charming run of the mill","Date":"10 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This film has some cool action, but could have been a lot cooler. It could seem like it was made in a haste, or it just didn't have the budget such an adventure film deserve. Most apparent is the huge trunk of the figurehead from a wrecked ship floating atop the water in a very styrofoamish way... Also, the fighting could have been better choreographed, the naval battle could have been more believable, etc, etc...  Still it has its own strange charm. Maybe it's the Harr harr, where's the grog me laddies? white-skull-on-black-flag thing - not to mention the hunt-for-the-treasure thing...  "},{"Title":"Great escapism.","Date":"23 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Okay people, lighten up.  Yes it has problems, but I defy anyone to find a truly flawless movie.  It can't be done.This movie had great action going for it, as well a a great lead in Geena Davis, who pulls off action movies surprisingly well.  A story with a treasure map, betrayal, swordfighting, adventure, comedy, and one kick ass villain to boot.  If anything else, it will entertain you, and that is what a movie should do.And to the person who made comments about the swordfighting...there's a difference between fencing and swordfighting, I'm afraid.  Fencing is ballet with swords, with rules and points involved, as well as grace and form.  Swordfighting is the complete opposite.  See Die another day for an example.  I have done acting and have worked in plays involving swordplay, and taken classes on fencing.  There is a big difference between the two, so to criticize a film because the swordfighting doesn't use real fencing moves is, well, silly. "},{"Title":"Will the nay-sayers just lighten up?","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Okay,it's not King Lear,and Messrs Davis and Modine are surely the least charismatic actors since the cast of Thunderbirds,but it's big,stupid fun with a veritable checklist of things any pirate yarn should have (treasure-check-segmented map-check-raffish hero-check-spunky heroine-check-hissable villain-check-slimy naval types-check,etc),done on the biggest possible scale.And it is,after all,no more nor less than good,saturday matinee ripping stuff.And my little boy loves it.So there. "},{"Title":"This movie delivers!","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie got everything a good pirate movie should have A captain with a ship full of good pirates, a Captain with a ship full of evil pirates, lots of cannons, swordfights, a treasure, a treasuremap and everything people who saw pirate movies as children wants...This movie manages to keep suspense, action and humor at appropriate levels the whole time, more than you can say about many other movies... But of course you have to live with the unrealistic behaviour, e.g. the main character cannot die, the evil guys cannot shoot properly and so on, but for real fans of the pirate genre this movie is a bliss ) "},{"Title":"Not so bad infact ...","Date":"4 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is one of the movies that has a terrible reputation but is actually quite good ... Cutthroat Island is one of the few adventure films made in these times, and that I fear is one of the reasons it was received so poorly. The movie brings to life the good old pirate movies with Errol Flyn and does it with class.Don't believe the critics, rent it, watch it and enjoy it. "},{"Title":"A Great Pirate Movie with a Twist.","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Robert Louis Stevenson would love this movie!  It has all the elements of a great pirate epic swash-buckling; battles at sea; sword fights; amazing action; a dashing hero rescuing a plucky lover and even a monkey! And to give it that twist over other films of the genre the hero is a woman! When that woman is played by Geena Davis - well, who could ask for more?  I loved this movie so much I bought a copy to watch with friends.  What could have been a typical action/romance turns into an amazing romp filled with pyrotechnics and the right dash of tongue-in-cheek.  The action is gripping and the characters carry a time-honored plot very well.  Watch it - you just might like it. "},{"Title":"It's not as bad as everyone pretends it is","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Cutthroat Island isn't as bad as everyone likes to think it is.  It's a pirate movie, it's fun.  Just because it didn't do that well at the box office doesn't mean it's all that bad.  I wouldn't put it on my list of all time favourite movies, but it's worth watching at least once. "},{"Title":"People who hate this movie obviously never watched pirate movies as a kid.","Date":"7 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Most people hate this movie because of cheesy special effects, no chemistry between the main characters, unbelievable plot, etc. Taken as a movie of substance, similar to other dramas of today, yes it's true it doesn't have much to offer. *BUT* I don't think that is what the producers intended when they made this movie.This movie is a grand epic of a pirate movie in the same genre as the pirate movies of the thirties and forties. As such, it's a fantastic movie. You get all the glitzy, whiz-bang, completely-unbelievable-in-real-life special effects that you saw in the old pirate movies. And the fantastic filming locations, along with the great views. And the outlandish costumes and sets. You also get the heroes continuously triumphing over the bad guys regardless of how dire the circumstances. I think the producers did a great job. The one mistake they made, and it is a big one, is making it unsuitable for the eight to twelve-year-old's that would enjoy the movie the most.Still, it's one of my favorite movies. But I'm also a big fan of Geena Davis.  "}{"Title":"Ode to OJ Simpson","Date":"15 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  1995 was the year an American hero was put on trial for slashing the throat of his ex-wife and ex-wife's friend.  Everyone watched the daily trial and listened to the bloody details.  By the time Christmas rolled along everyone was anxious for a holiday movie treat.  So what do a few Hollywood little-brains do?  They release a film called...get this...Cutthroat Island!  Cut Throat Island!!!!  And these people were from Hollywood...where all the real throat cutting happened and all the court room drama and hoopla was happening all year long.  Helllloooooo????  How many people wanted to see a film called CUT THROAT ISLAND after the OJ trial?  No one.  Duh!  Little brains. "},{"Title":"Hang the critics!","Date":"23 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  What determines a movie's quality? It's ticket sales? What the critics say? How many Academy Awards it receives? Well, most people think ALL of the above is true, but, in fact, NONE of it is true, as is evidenced by this film. It's a pirate movie, plain and simple. A pirate movie is supposed to be unrealistic, campy fun. After all, Errol Flynn is classic, and he portrays PIRATES as romantic heroes--so, first off, if you want realism, consider the genre. Okay, now into the film. As a moviegoer, film student and someone with a brain, I can safely say that this is a fine film! To break it down The score is absolutely fantastic, and I know this will sound sacreligious to some, but on par with Star Wars. Lust listen to the CD sometime. The film is beautifully photographed, the costumes are exquisite, the sets marvelous to behold, and believe it or not it's probably the most accurate pirate movie technically speaking (no rapiers here, but brutal, no-skill cutlass brawling, pirate terminology, dress, and even the way they open rum bottles!). But, if it's so good, why did it bomb? Unfortunately, there is one thing wrong with this movie--it's own production values. With the actors surrounded by such lavish sets and special effects, you feel you ARE IN the Caribbean, and so you want to it be realistic, but, as I said, it's a pirate movie, and stays campy. Now, this uneasy feeling you have when watching it gets compounded by the slightest slip-up, and, like any movie, there are many. However, if you can just keep in mind that it's supposed to be fun, free-spirited adventure, you'll have a great time! But I must, in all honesty, point out some really bad parts of the film First, the monkey and the cabin boy are way too Disneyesque, and in fact never contribute to the plot, but rather than try to look cute, and come off as annoying (heck, the monkey in Raiders of the Lost Ark did more than most villains ever do). There are a few no brainers that subtly but powerfully make you want to dislike the movie (like when they leave the cliffs so as not to be seen and thus not let Morgan be found but leave the ropes there anyway, or when they all hide in a bush ten feet away from a guy and aren't seen). But what it all comes down to is that this was still an enjoyable film, and would have done very well if the critics didn't program people into believing it was bad to begin with. This film is proof that critics have finally succeeded in deluding peoples' minds so much that they have no opinion of their own, and simply go with the popular concensus (usually made from heresay more than experience). The pirate genre is relatively new to this generation, so people didn't know what to expect, and so, rather than giving the film a fair shake, the critics assaulted it (I guess they had to meet their quota of negativity and dirt, and Cutthroat was their scapegoat). Well, you know, Disney's Fantsia flopped when it came out to, no studio wanted Forrest Gump, and Star Wars was made almost on an accident, so, who is to say what is quality and what isn't? I say if you enjoy the movie (as I did) just forget the critics and have a good time. This film is fun! "},{"Title":"Not as bad as critics claim","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I rented Cutthroat Island recently because I haven't seen it since it was first released...I could barely remember anything about it, but I did seem to remember that I liked it.  I know that it flopped critically and financially, so I was curious to see if I would still like it or not.This movie is not as horrible as the critics make it out to be.  In fact, it's a fine action movie.  It looks absolutely gorgeous...the sets (especially the ships) are just great.  I was surprised at the number of stunts that lead actors Geena Davis and Matthew Modine did themselves, such as when Davis falls out of a window, rolls, and lands on a moving carriage.  There's another scene where Davis falls from a balcony onto a table, and the camera stays on her face the entire time.The film is not without faults, though.  Geena Davis fails to deliver her lines convincingly on several occasions.  Also, there are a handful of embarrassingly bad one-liners sprinkled throughout the film, including the line spoken by Davis right before she vanquishes the bad guy once and for all (I'll leave the details of that scene as a surprise).  Another has the villain standing in the middle of a large battle screaming, I love this!  I love this!  Such scenes are painful to watch.  The soundtrack for this movie is incredible...probably the best thing about the film.  In fact, I was just at http//www.filmtracks.com and noticed that it is one of their top-ten sellers.At any rate, this is a fun action movie...a great one to show the kids.  It doesn't have any pretentions of being anything more than a Hollywood pirate movie--in fact, it seems to revel in its Hollywoodness, which I think is why it was misinterpreted by so many critics. "},{"Title":"No where near as bad as I thought...","Date":"10 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Okay, so the plot has big holes, the acting is a little cardboard and it doesn't hold a candle to the classic pirate films, but it's still fairly good fun, well intentioned and has some pretty decent action sequences (but then would we expect anything else from Harlin?).Davis does her stock action characterisation, Modine acts well out of type and the supporting crew of gnarly pirates are a bit of a laugh too.  "},{"Title":"Convincing the non-pirates","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Certainly it is not as good as the classics, but the movie combines an action-film with a pirate- and nature-celluloide.Sometimes it is falling back into those gender patterns, G. Davis wants to quit, this is one of its weaknesses. But it is very tentious and non-boring made. The director may have been a great camera-man, too. "},{"Title":"A better then average Pirate/adventure Flick as viewed by a re-enactor.","Date":"13 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  As a historical re-enactor, I really enjoyed this film.  There are plenty of mistakes, but the costuming, sets, and fight sequences more then make up for this.  I would highly reccomend this movie...it is just pure fun! "},{"Title":"really good pirate action movie","Date":"10 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Some complained about lack of depth, realism etc. - well, what do you expect? This is a pirate action movie, and this genre seldom deals with deep relationship troubles or philosophical questions. And that's ok - that's what other movie types are for. I like this movie. Its a pirate action movie, and a good one at that. Excellent carribean motives, /real/ ships under sail, more sword fights, traps and explosions the real life pirates ever saw, costumes from sketches rather than real life, and exactly the story one expects from this genre. Plus some nice punchlines and minor story twists, and a bit too much slow motion.Honestly, what do you expect from this genre? This one doesn't pretend to be anything else, and is really good at being that a pirate action movie. "},{"Title":"not as bad as all that...","Date":"10 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Every once in a while, a movie comes along that everybody decides to hate but which is actually not too bad.  Waterworld was this way - it was a silly, unrealistic action movie, but it worked fine to pass a couple of hours.Cutthroat Island is exactly this way.  I enjoyed it; I didn't care about realism, acting, character development, or anything like that, nor did I expect to find them in the movie.  I went because there were buckles to be swashed, cutlasses to be swung, ropes to be swung from, and cannons to be fired, and all of those were available in plenty.It's mindless, but fun.  No great art, but good action.  Just take the right attitude, and don't get all artsy and you'll be fine. "},{"Title":"Entertaining, need to be seen in a theatre","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  My wife and I saw Cutthroat Island the night it opened at our local theater - older, downtown, 2 screen.  We told all of our friends to go see it, while it was there (we knew that seeing it on video could not compare to the 'Big Screen').  Most of them had never heard of it (had anyone even seen a preview or an ad for it?) and others were more interested in seeing the recent blockbuster or God-awful VanDamme movie at the local multi-plex. We found this one of the most enjoyable movies we'd seen in quite a while. Beautifully filmed, full of action, we found no need to pick it apart critically.  It was fun and entertaining. Isn't that the way movies were meant to be? "},{"Title":"Good period action","Date":"22 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It's hard to find an action movie these days that doesn't involve countless scenes of gunplay. Don't mistake this movie for anything but an action film; a period action film that is. Generally action films that take place in past time period are some sort of Conan rip-off. The age of pirates is a genre so underexploited, but this movie has plenty of fun with it. Some absolutely great stunts in this movie, and lots of good cheesy one-liners. Unfortunately this movie didn't do too well and Geena and Harlin went on to make a modern gunplay action movie, but thanks for treating those of us who watch action for the fun of it, not some canned psycho-drama. "}{"Title":"Not excellent drama, but good action","Date":"17 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Cutthroat island is not and I guess it was not meant to be any great drama, more likely to be an easily digestible action movie. As an action movie it fulfills its place as well as any action movie.I have to correct one unfair criticism during days of pirates and muzzle loader cannons there were also other kind of cannon balls than just solid metal ones. Different kind of cannon balls for different purposes, solid metal cannon balls to knock down walls and gates and others filled with powder to cause destruction inside enemy ships or among enemy troops. Of course it's funny if cannon ball's explosion looks just the same as explosion of a barrel of gasoline. At least they are not shooting with assault rifles without chancing the clip. "},{"Title":"All time favorite of Douglas Fairbanks aficionado","Date":"7 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  THE BAD GUYS ARE EXQUISITE; the ship battles are in real time and space of seawash.  I have never seen two hulls of that size in sail draw together from such a telling perspective, and it was breath-taking.  Geena Davis is magnificent; Matthew Modine is charming . . . . What a great time this movie gives us!  I have been watching pirates for a long time.  Have read Daniel Defoe, RLS, Conrad, and the Hornblower series.  Italian pirates, English pirates, French pirates, Burmese pirates, Arabian pirates, Terry and The Pirates, Water World . . . . . The romance of the sea, the dangers, the promise are all a pirate adventure needs, with hearty (or slyly scheming) characters played honestly and well.  To be watched again and again. HUZZAH!  Get your retrospective movie house to put it on the big screen. "},{"Title":"Marvellously unsympathetic","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Some of the characters are portrayed marvellously unsympathetic, as indeed such villains should be. Particularly Frank Langella as Dawg Brown and Rex Linn as quartermaster Blair are splendid. That aside the movie has two serious flaws First of all the explosions are much too spectacular yet seem utterly harmless. I would much rather have them be more crude and limb severing. Secondly, the movie would have lasted only 20 minutes if it hadn't been almost entirely slow motion. Renny Harlin is good at slow motion scenes but this movie has almost nothing in real time. Very, very tiring. I must say, though, that as a pirate movie it is only surpassed by the Crimson Pirate featuring Burt Lancaster in a mind-boggingly acrobatic performance. "},{"Title":"What's wrong about a pirate's story being so simple and cheap?","Date":"8 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  About the only thing that bothers me in this film is the Thailand jade-green of the sea instead of Caribbean blue (I wonder why they couldn't use more of the Mediterranean blue in Malta which was one of the places it was filmed), but then perhaps the green resembles the roughness of the wild seamen. I may should not have been commenting since I haven't even tried to see it in the theater. Although watching it on a TV screen reminds me of the days I watched Treasure Island at the school auditorium. Davis is extremely a straight captain. The movie has just the right amount of bangs, booms, smacks and bloodiness (but not too much blood. That's the point) necessary in a pirate's movie, and of course a perfect title (say it out loud and enjoy your tongue as you pronounce the thr part). Or maybe I just like movies with Matthew Modine in it.  "},{"Title":"One of three movies I've ever walked out on","Date":"28 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Gina Davis and crew overact so much it makes me cringe. The humor is so simple that you can virtually finish everyone's lines before they do. Everyone overacts with such drama and gusto, that if someone had said they were going to make a sandwich, it'd be said as if they were going to do something that may sink the ship, and would take 10 minutes of sandwich making/dramatic discussion. Boring, overacted, over dramatized and childish writing. I've walked out of other movies not because they were awful, but simply because they weren't my style. I can't honestly figure out who would get into this movie. Perhaps people who've never seen a movie? I love Gina Davis, but the director and script steered her toward a performance that any first year drama student could have pulled of just as well. "},{"Title":"Sorry, Ms D....","Date":"30 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Cutthroat Island is, as you might expect, a pirate movie. It is bright, colourful, action packed, with some excellent set pieces, some decent villains, good production values, some rather ubiquitous music (the stuff never stops, I mean never), and some miscasting in the main two parts.Matthew Modine is a decent actor, but he is fairly light on charisma. His part demands someone who can play a likable rogue while commanding the screen - Jeff Daniels might have worked in a part which would have suited the young Harrison Ford (it is very Han Solo-ish). The fact that the rather unimposing Modine was cast may be explained by the casting of the main character.The chief protagonist, the lady pirate, is played by Geena Davis. I don't much care for Geena Davis most of the time - she does nothing for me - although she was excellent in The Long Kiss Goodnight. Here, however, she does not suit the part, although she tries hard. Director Renny Harlin obviously thought she was right for the part, though - mind you, he would have had plenty of opportunity to audition her, what with being married to her at the time. This may explain why the male support was cast with an actor who does not overshadow her.With different leads, especially with some chemistry between them, this would have been a terrific film. As it is, it's OK. "},{"Title":"One of my favorites","Date":"20 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" No this isn't some artsy movie but its a great action movie! One of my all time favorites. There is a lot of explosions, stabbings, and violence. Oh my! I think people are way to hard on this movie. I don't get it. The acting is great. Big budget. Good action sequence. I mean what do you want? Wow that explosion had such deep meaning on so many levels! whoopee Dee do! If you really need something to hold onto for meaning in your over critical lives then ponder the family relationship of the pirate captains and really how many steps are you away from it in your own family? There you go now there's something for everyone (except kids). "},{"Title":"A thrilling bundle of fun for an evening at home with the family","Date":"10 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I just don't understand why this film was considered a flop!!! Except that it was not a box-office success. I live in Germany, and here it is shown on TV regularly (dubbed unfortunately for me), which is the sign of a good film, or it wouldn't be shown in the first place. It has been shown repeatedly for the last 10 or more years. So maybe it was only American viewers who didn't appreciate it. Then why? I personally found it a bundle of fun, full of action, and also with a good deal of comedy, which rendered it more family entertainment. Perhaps the film is not mean and gut gripping enough to convince teenager audiences 13 years on, even though not as trite as a Disney film. More modern action films are usually supported by computer technology and run at a much faster pace. Here the stunts were real, performed by the actors themselves. All the more reason to applaud them. Why did this film get such negative criticism? Gina Davis doesn't have to be pretty, here she's playing a pirate! Matthew Modine's was an attractive he-man hero, his athletic abilities enabled him to perform this very active &#150; and demanding - role convincingly, and his character was really very humorous and versatile. The villains were convincingly bad, they got their punishment, and the happy ending made the film satisfying for younger viewers. The ships were awesome, leading to questions and discussions on how they were actually sailed or controlled. So what went wrong? I assume it hit the cinemas at a bad time, had to compete with other films or the events of the times. I have lent out my video of the film repeatedly, and never had a negative comment when it was returned, so where did all the sarcasm originate? Does a film have to have steamy sex scenes, massacres and slaughters, machine guns, gangsters and drugs, to be a success? That doesn't say much for movie-goers!! I (and my family) will watch it again when it next comes round! "},{"Title":"Easily tops POTC","Date":"2 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Bored to death by the overlong Pirates of the Caribean and had enough of an effeminate J. Depp? Cutthroat Island is superior to any of the idiotic POTC versions. Modine is a far better actor than Orlando B. and Geena Davis trounces the totally out-of-place K. Knightly. The big question is, why did this one flop at the box-office? The presence of Frank Langella alone should make it a bona fide picture. The answer should be that the time wasn't right and it probably missed the questionable humor provided by J. Depp. I watched Cutthroat Island without leaving my seat whereas POTC (any one of the three) induced the desire to yawn at length and step outside for a smoke. "},{"Title":"The biggest flop of all time is not the worst movie of all time.","Date":"18 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Cutthroat Island has gotten an horrible reputation, due to the fact that this is the biggest box office loss of all time. The movie actually managed to make Carolco Pictures go bankrupt. The company who brought us pictures like the first three Rambo movies, Total Recall, Jacob's Ladder, Terminator 2 Judgment Day, Basic Instinct, Total Recall and Stargate. It's actually in the Guinness Book of World Records as the biggest loss of money for a film company ever. In that regard it's pretty amazing that director Renny Harlin is still working in the business, on also fairly large movies.But of course Cutthroat Island is far from the worst movie of all time. It's action packed fun non-sense, that is being pulled down as a movie by its script and wrong casting choices.Of course director Renny Harlin wanted to cast his newly wed wife (and of course they are already divorced a couple of years later again) as the movie's main lead. It's not necessary that fact that a woman plays the main part in a pirate movie that makes it bad but it's the fact that Geena Davis isn't showing her greatest skills in this movie. The movie also isn't being helped by the lack of chemistry between Davis and Matthew Modine. But in his defense, he was a last minute addition to the cast, after several actors already declined the role. Frank Langella on the other hand goes deliciously over the top as the movie its ruthless main pirate villain. I guess he must have really had fun playing in this movie. To bad that none of the other actors really put any fun in their roles.There lats perhaps one problem of the movie; it's too serious all. The movie was obviously an attempt to put new life into the pirate/swashbuckler genre. After the failure of this movie, the swashbuckler genre seemed pretty death, simply because no film company dared to make another pirate movie again, until Pirates of the Caribbean The Curse of the Black Pearl, which came an unexpected huge success.The movie has a quite simplistic dark, serious color tone and atmosphere. Some more colors could had done wonders and would had made the movie a more interesting to watch. It now instead tries to be an hard entertaining action flick, with big stunts, explosions and fights but miraculously with no blood in it.At its time this movie was really big because of its stunt work. It also was one of the most expensive movies of its time with an close to an 100 million dollar budget. This big budget can be seen back on the screen, since this movie is an almost non stop action flick, with constant chases and explosions. This however of course truly goes at the expense of the story. The movie actually features one of the most awesome looking explosions in movie history, toward the end of the movie. It's one of my all time favorite movie explosions. Yes, I'm weird. It's story is way to simplistic and it's of course about a treasure hunt. The movie basically features all of the clichés the genre has to offer. It therefore is also predictable and perhaps even a bit tiresome to watch.Basically the biggest reason why you should ever watch this movie is the musical score by John Debney and performed by the London Symphony Orchestra. Can you just imaging how bad this movie would had been without its musical score? I even dare to say that it is the very musical score which is the reason why this still is a watchable movie. It certainly is a reason for me to watch this movie once every few years. The score is totally overblown yes but it's oh so brilliant and sweeping. It's actually pretty funny how in some sequences absolutely nothing interesting or spectacular is happening but the musical score still manages to make it sound as if the most exciting and biggest thing in movie history is happening on screen.Yes it's a very well watchable movie, that perhaps is also better than the reputation given to it but it's also way too flawed to call this a great one as well.6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "}{"Title":"Great Film, Poorly Publicised","Date":"23 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Given the lack of advertising it had on release (in Australia, anyway) I can probably boast to being in the minority of people who first saw this film at the cinema. I was nine at the time, and went with a friend from primary school who'd already seen it once. We both loved it, and at the end, I remember the friend's mother (who had also enjoyed it on both occasions) comment that it was a shame so few people knew it was on.This film became a staple at every sleepover I had between nine and fourteen, not just because I loved it, but because all my friends did, too. I've had it on VHS (home-taped) for years, but bought it again today on DVD, because even as an adult, I still really enjoy it. It wasn't until a year or so ago that I was startled to learn it was the most expensive box office flop on record.Given that I'm yet to show it to anyone, adult or child, who hasn't enjoyed it, I think it's fair to say that rather than being a bad film, Cutthroat Island had the misfortune to be exceedingly poorly advertised. Almost nobody knew it was on, and then all they heard later was that it flopped, thus generating an assumption that it sucked. The cast is good, the script is fun, the effects are great, and while it's not the greatest film in history, it's much, much better than a lot of stuff that earned more money (Blade 2, for instance). You could do a whole lot worse. "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"17 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Listen, I hate the fact this was a box office flop. For what it is, its a great movie. You want action, adventure, and a good soundtrack, enjoy this movie. Prior to Pirates of the Carb, this was my movie of movies. Take the DVD and toss her in. You wont be sorry.I am not actually sure why this was a box office flop. Maybe the critics, who don't know anything said it was good and that is why no one actually went out and watched the movie.I hope that history turns this DVD into a must have. I mean its not scarface, but for its pure entertainment value, its a must have.Gene Davis has always been a fav actress of mine for the roles she plays.Enjoy "},{"Title":"Pirate movie is an appealing effort, but has action to spare","Date":"23 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Cutthroat Island - Strapping pirate captain Geena Davis joins forces with scoundrel Matthew Modine to avenge her father's death and find the other halves of a treasure map from her miserly uncle (Robert Langella). It took four writers for story and two for screenplay to construct this paper-thin plot with underwritten characters, but Renny Harlin throws in everything he can think of for good measure from large-scale stunts in slow motion to nonstop special effects and then some. Davis and Modine have an appealing energy, while this sprawling, slickly made extravaganza gets the job done, but otherwise, doesn't quite gel to be grand entertainment. Wow, there must be high-quality dentistry aboard the pirates' ships!  ** ½ (out of ****)   "},{"Title":"Lost at sea","Date":"27 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  From its previews, I figured Cutthroat Island would be full-sized big-screen entertainment that would suffer on the small screen.  So I went to see it at the dollar theater for that reason.  It filled the screen, all right, but that's the most that can be said for it.Cutthroat is a huge-budget Valentine to its star, Geena Davis, from her husband, director Renny Harlin.  As the imaginatively-named heroine, Morgan the Pirate, Davis is supposed to be irresistible, but is, as usual, only annoying--like somebody's smart-aleck tomboy of a kid sister pestering you to arm-wrestle with her. She and the miscast Matthew Modine generate no chemistry while cavorting through a movie evidently designed to be a cliche museum of the arrgh-ye-scurvy-sea-dog genre.  It's all there--the hidden treasure, the cryptic map divided into three pieces, the chases, the swordfights, the mutinous crew, the corrupt military pirate hunters, the cliffhanging (literally), the climactic sea battle with two ships broadsiding each other--and it all goes on forever, full of sound and fury, signifying nothing.  Cutthroat is a self-conscious attempt to make another one of The Type Of Movie Nobody Makes Anymore, as was, say, Silverado, after the Western had been declared dead and buried.  It's served up with an arch attempt at tongue-in-cheek that doesn't work.  Apparently the makers of this movie wanted to make an entry into, or an homage to, a beloved genre, but didn't trust the material, so they sent it up instead.  The result isn't so much a twinkle in the eye as a nervous twitch.  As a series of action setpieces, it works well enough.  But given the choice, rent Captain Blood instead and see the real thing. "},{"Title":"Best Pirate movie evarrrr","Date":"29 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Hey, I like pirate movies. Could be just the history geek in me. Also gotta admit that I like some Renny Harlin films (Die Hard 2 and Cliffhanger are amongst the greatest action films of all time). So basically, all I can say about this much much maligned film is this the best pirate film ever made. Hands down.The interesting thing here is that, since this movie is in the Guiness Book of records as the biggest money loss in cinema history, how come studios didn't learn from it? The critics savaged the film, and no one saw it. So why do they keep making over-bloated rubbish movies? Ahoy Matthew Modine and Geena Davis!! swab the poop deck and bring me some rum! "},{"Title":"Hi, I love movies, and I hope you do too.","Date":"26 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Cutthroat Island is a sword-fighting swash-buckling, pirate action movie. It is about a captain and her crew set off to find a lost treasure island as you might put it. Her crew and her encounter some dangerous obstacles on the way to their gold. If I had to rate this on a scale 1-5, I'd give it a 5. It has a little bit of everything except action. It has a lot of action. The reason why Cutthroat Island is so good, is because it's like a huge puzzle. everything fits perfectly in place. The names seem right, the clothes seem right, the actors are amazing. If I had to rate this movie on a scale of 1-5,I'd give it a five. Why? Because of everything I just told you about it. If you like pirate movies, you'll literally kill for this movie. "},{"Title":"classic pirate movie","Date":"25 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" IMDb 5.1 is absolutely under-rated, especially when you see Pirates of the Caribbean among top250. for me, it's better than PoTC.you would have been attracted to this movie even from the right beginning Mongan's father kidnapped, Morgan's wisdom of taking away bullet. OH, the scene of riding towards the sea was magnificent...from thief to treasure-seeker, and finally fight alongside with Morgan, Matthew makes a great part of it. you could know Morgan will finally make it when she repressed the betrayal. last point, we would not be able to see the evil was defeated by the power of ghost, which makes PoTC less perfect.if you like pirate movie, then NEVER miss this one. "},{"Title":"Underrated Pirate Movie","Date":"23 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I really do not understand why this movie bombed so badly at the box office at the time (1995-96). It's spectacular,never allows the viewer to take a breath and is excitement all the way.Cutthroat Island was criticized for being stereotypical and cliched, but what do you expect from a PIRATE movie ? Renny Harlin made this movie clearly having the old swashbuckling classics of the past in mind. Its a boy's dream which unfolds gloriously on the big screen. Allright, Geena Davis may not be a strong actress like Sigourney Weaver or Linda Hamilton,but she shows some real passion for the genre.She also did a lot of her own stunts as you can clearly observe throughout the movie.Frank Langella as the evil Captain Dawg Brown is really one of the best sadistic villains ever. He`s so good,you almost root for him to win the race for the treasure.The sets are amazing and incredibly detailed, you won't believe the work they put into the ships,costumes and the various assets. John Debney (now famous for Passion of the Christ) delivers a loud and rousing score, which really pumps you up for the action sequences.If you look at Disneys Pirates of the Carribean closely,you will see a lot of scenes which look strangely alike to Harlin's movie.Not only because they're the same genre, but many action sequences are staged and executed in almost the same way and style as in Cutthroat.Sometimes I felt like having some sort of deja vu. While Disneys Pirate movie suffers from an overuse of digital FX,Renny Harlin's movie uses much more practical effects, which look more credible than the newer movie. Well, I like both movies,but Renny's film is simply more effective as an action movie, while the Johnny Depp- Movie drags a lot during the middle part. I invite you to re-discover this 9-year old gem,and if you want old-fashioned adventure spiced with massive explosions,this is the flick for you. "},{"Title":"Easily one of the worst movies ever","Date":"8 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I used to think that Batman & Robin was the worst Saturday afternoon dreck that cable TV had to offer, and then I saw Cutthroat Island. I stand corrected. To say it's a bad movie gives it too much credit -- something would have to be there in order to be bad. And the simple fact of this movie is that there is no there there.Perhaps the most unusual part of this movie is that in every single action sequence (and, surprise, there are lots of them) Geena Davis looks either bored or freaked out. Keep in mind that the character isn't supposed to look this way -- she's a badass pirate, after all. It's the actress herself who is plainly not made for this role and her face telegraphs that she wants to get off the set and get a divorce from her insane director husband as soon as possible.Oh, and let's not forget the quips those supposedly witty things that action heroes say to make them seem so calm while all hell is breaking loose. This movie is filled with them. In fact, one could argue that there is no dialog in this movie -- just a unending series of unrelated quips. (Any surprise that IMDB's Quotes section for this movie is empty?)In short, get drunk or stoned first if you intend to watch this movie as there is no other conceivable way to enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Very Good movie","Date":"5 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was entertaining, very well photographed and had good acting, score and settings. I wonder how a critic can say this movie is bad when there are so much bad movies released nowadays, this movie stands out as a really good one. Modine also looks quite sexy, and Davies gives an sympathic performance. The thing I'm really forward to is a pirate movie with gay (non-stereotypical) pirates, since according to scientists like Richard Burg most pirates were gay. A good sequel to this movie with Davies and Modine would also be a very good thing to do.    "}{"Title":"Not Original Just Cut and Paste Formula","Date":"18 January 2009","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie tanked at the box office for a very good reason. Its not very good. It a cut and paste plot with costumes.Matthew Modine (as William Shaw) and Geena Davis (as Morgan Adams) are probably better than this. Female pirates really did exist in history, but this Hollywood version doesn't hold water.Davis just doesn't look like a swashbuckling sword fighter. Look at her face as she is fighting. She doesn't make it works One scene from the fight between Morgan and Bad Dawg Brown) at the end of the movie is a cut and paste from one of the Star Wars movie.I can not recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"There are worse things than walking the plank....","Date":"17 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" There are worse things than walking the plank....such as watching this movie. When I was watching this movie, I was thinking maybe Geena Davis had fallen through a time warp to the 1950s, because that was the feel of this movie....minus the sense of adventure.The story involves, pirates, buried treasure, maps, ships, etc etc.The good things are the acting. Mostly brilliant, and believable.On the negative side is the story, action, editing, cinematography, lighting (they lit this film for 1950's film stock....aghhhh), well everything else. I bet even the catering was bad on this film.Personally, I am a big fan of pirate movies, but these days it is hard to find any good ones. "},{"Title":"Congratulations, madam. There's another town you've destroyed.","Date":"6 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" In its day, Cutthroat Island was the most entertaining pirate adventure that I was ever aware of. Coming from the director of Cliffhanger, you just know that this film is going to have enough explosions to make Michael Bay jealous. Sure enough, the film is loaded with explosive action and hard-hitting sword fights. A lot of the action dominates the film's final act, which is pretty much an all-out extravaganza of wild swashbuckling, booming muskets, and ear-shattering cannon fire. The rest of the film is fairly light and adventurous; maybe not perfectly-paced, but not too boring either. It also tries its best to be hard-edged, but it never really feels like anything more than a mere PG-13 flick. In this day and age, the Pirates of the Caribbean series totally supplants this film in all areas.The story for CI is pretty straightforward, and dare I say standard fare. Pirates get a hold of a map, find some treasure, then duke it out. That's pretty much it. The film tries its best to make the plot roll up and down in a standard thrill-ride formula, stretching the thin story out to fill the runtime. Even though it entertains, it's not terribly deep or anything. The best that can be said is that the characters are likable (including the villain).The film looks nice, with some decent and stylish photography and editing. Acting is not too bad; I enjoyed Geena Davis, Matthew Modine, and Frank Langella in their roles. Writing is not terribly sophisticated, but it gets the job done. This production has sets, props, and costumes that look the part and fit in with the film's settings. Music is appropriately adventurous.Maybe not the best film in this genre, but it certainly entertains. It's worth a rental.4/5 (Entertainment Good | Story Average | Film Pretty Good) "},{"Title":"Sometimes it's hard to be a woman pirate...........","Date":"28 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Like the excellent Jean Peters in Anne of the Indies,Miss G.Davis has moments of self - doubt in Cutthroat Island,but they are few and far between and she is generally able to reconcile the gender nature has thrust upon her with the task life has handed her.In truth,apart from serfdom or motherhood there were few roles for women in the 17th and 18th centuries,certainly none where they could compete on equal terms with men,so being a pirate was a good alternative to being permanently pregnant and considered the property of more or less any man that came along. Miss Davis gives a remarkable performance as the pirate gal,if I wanted to continue in the sexist vein of some of the comments here I could say she has all the vitality and grace of a young Tony Curtis but of course I couldn't possibly comment on that. The Disney comic book pirate franchise that for some reason appears to have robbed so many people of their critical faculties has unaccountably succeeded beyond its makers' wildest dreams;all the more reason to wonder out loud why the infinitely better Cutthroat Island died a death.Is it because the great Miss Davis is unmistakeably a flesh and blood woman rather than the sexless Miss Knightley or the androgynous Mr Depp? A Citizen Kane amongst pirate movies,it will one day find its place alongside Heaven's Gate as a work that sunk a studio because critics couldn't see any further than the ends of their intellectually gifted noses. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly fun, non-corny pirate movie...","Date":"28 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" 1st watched 11/26/2008 - (Dir-Renny Harlin) Surprisingly fun, non-corny pirate movie starring Geena Davis as the star pirateer. This movie grows on you despite it's unsuspected lead female character and it's very un-heralded theatrical release. The basic storyline is about finding treasure at Cutthroat Island and finding and putting together the pieces of the map that are in the hands of different parts of the Pirateer's family. The first piece of the map has to be scalped off her dead father, the 2nd is with a nicer uncle and the 3rd is with the mean other uncle. The last, of course, is the hardest to get and played by the Dracula portrayer, Frank Langella. The thing I liked about this movie is that it is not overdone and over-played but rather is a pretty straight-forward action movie. The movie was released at a time when pirate movies and especially an action movie with a female lead was not as accepted as it is now. Nonetheless, Geena Davis holds her own and the movie gets you rooting for the good guys(aka. the nicer pirates) and this is where it succeeds. This is really all that's expected from these type of movies, so bravo for all who were involved here. "},{"Title":"Simply put Spectacular!","Date":"16 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Sometimes when trying to say something it is good to be blunt and right to the point very quickly. So I'll do that. This movie is simply a spectacular blast of sheer action and adventure. Another way to put it would be that it is Pirates of the Caribbean, but 8 years earlier and with a female lead. Maybe it took some years until Tomb Raider came out that big budget action-fest could be seen as having a woman hero. Also pirates was a rare action movie setting. One infamous effort, Roman Polanski's film simply titled Pirates ended up being a disaster and the topic of pirates may have very well been cursed. Until the Curse of the Black Pearl, that is.Maybe cursed isn't the best way to put it, but when a spectacular and well made action movie like this goes completely unnoticed only to be repeated 8 years later with great success sounds like it just may be a curse.And spectacular this movie is with awesome action sequences that have the slow-motion grace of Peckinpah, though without his grimness. And it is all done with minimal 1995-era CGI yet packs some truly spectacular explosions that have yet to be matched using computer graphics. Also slow-motion is something vastly under-used in movies today that prefer shaky-cam and quick cutting. Renny Harlin is a master of the art yet after his 1990 hit Die Hard 2, he never quite had a series of financially rewarding films despite being able to make some of the best action sequences ever to grace the screen. It could be because, unlike Pirates of the Caribbean, Cutthroat Island doesn't have quite the same fantasy light-hearted tone. It is more akin to Indiana Jones. Meaning there is blood and general badassness throughout. Pirates were after all ruthless people and this film shows this much more than PotC yet remains fun throughout.And the climatic battle is a knock-out scene that tops anything and everything in the Pirates of the Caribbean trilogy. --- 9/10BsCDb Classification PG --- violence "},{"Title":"THE TREASURE OF A Spanish GOLDSHIP","Date":"4 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  CUTTHROAT ISLAND is a memorable film. GEENA DAVIS is great as the pirate Morgan Adams. The theme music for the movie is very distinctive and enjoyable. Renny Harlin is a better Director than people give him credit for. I liked how the movie hints that there will be a sequel set near MADAGASCAR. With the end of the relationship between Geena Davis and Renny Harlin I don't think that the sequel will get made. Then again with the success of Pirates of the Caribbean maybe we will see another pirate movie soon. When Cutthroat Island came out Regis Philbin on Live with Regis and Cathy Lee said Its been a long time since there was a good pirate movie out.In the movie the character of Morgan Adams says The treasure of a Spanish Goldship. I think that there really are Alien Goldships on the Ocean floor. Made out of gold because they are easy to weld. The ships probably look like giant diving bells. In the series STARGATE SG-1 the characters talk about the Gou'ld which sounds a lot like gold. I think that human submarines in the Caribbean encountered the Goldships and they are shared between the British and the Americans. I think that the Goldships are close to the Bahamas. If there are Aliens I wonder what aspect ratio they use for their televisions. Probably a 21 aspect ratio. I enjoy watching CUTTHROAT ISLAND on DVD in Widescreen by the way. Mathew Modine does a fine job of acting as Willy Shaw. The passion between Davis and Modine is believable. I found the hiding place of the treasure of the Spanish goldship to be quite witty. I would highly recommend both Cutthroat Island and Pirates of the Caribbean for your viewing pleasure.  "},{"Title":"Unappreciated swashbuckler","Date":"8 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I don't get it.  The story was fun, the action well done and non-stop, the acting was over the top-basically a superior popcorn muncher.  Why didn't it work?  The not as well done Pirate of the Caribbean made a fortune. A movie in my opinion that worked only when Johnny Depp was on screen.    If you get a change, sit back and watch.  It does what it was meant to do-entertain and that it does well with action and humor.  "},{"Title":"A personal observation of Cutthroat Island by Richard Washington, Founding Buccaneer, Electric Pirates Entertainment, Inc./EPE Holdings, Inc.","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The company was dead. One way or another, they had to make this movie. The speaker is Geena Davis --- Captain Morgan Adams herself --- and the 'they' to which she's referring is Carolco Pictures, they of T2, Rambo II and III, Basic Instinct and 20 other titles. One way or another, Geena explains in the Sunday New York Times article Debacle on the High Seas, which was published some two years ago, this was their last movie. That movie, of course, is 1995's Cutthroat Island --- which, as that article reveals, proved to be Hollywood's biggest $100 million flop. But if you love movies about swashbucklin' Pirates (as I do!), here's a film that stands out as a virtual Pirate's paradise! Directed by Geena's husband at the time, Renny Harlin, CTI is a truly unique Pirate adventure. Starting things off in Jamaica during the 1660's, the story begins with the feisty Morgan rescuing her father (Harris Yulin) from the machinations of the nasty Dawg Brown (Frank Langella), only to see Papa Adams die in her arms. Before he does, he reveals the secret to Cutthroat Island's great treasure. That secret has its origins in a map which has been divided into three parts --- the first third of which has been somehow tattooed on his head. The second third is in the hands of Morgan's Uncle Mordecai; Dawg himself seeks to grab the last third before Morgan does, and basically the tale follows the two Pirates and their crews on a fast-paced, occasionally ribald, but wildly exciting quest to see which of them can put it all together first. Problem is, even with all three of its components put together, the map is mostly written in Latin; and it's up to Morgan Adams and her crew, aided by the young con man-turned-wouldbe physician Dr. William Shaw (Matthew Modine), to translate the text, follow the map's instructions, abscond with the Cutthroat treasure and sail for home. Now, why the critics had it in for this film when it was first released is beyond me. I strongly suspect that there is a so-called politically-correct generation that is completely unprepared for movies about Pirates. That is why, I guess, there are folks like myself who long for the days when you could watch a film featuring Pirates --- and not be afraid to tell the world about it. That was my hope some 15 years ago when I saw Roman Polanski's Pirates (rest in peace, beloved Captain Red!); clearly when Cutthroat was first released, it was my hope as well. You cannot know how devastated I was when, through the film's initial U.S. boxoffice flop, those hopes were summarily dashed. Yet, as Founder and Chairman of Electric Pirates Entertainment, I have never failed to lose hope that Hollywood will one day get with the program and make another Pirate movie in this just-now-born 21st Century. As I discovered for myself some 72 hours ago, what makes Cutthroat Island so magical is that it features the one thing I never thought I'd see in my recent life as a Pirate movie lover namely, an all-Pirate happy ending! Believe me, I wept for joy as Morgan and Dr. Shaw kissed to the rousing cheers of their shipmates as the Morning Star sailed off to adventures new, fully loaded with the treasure of Cutthroat Island! Know this, you Hollywood yesmen, yuppies and other losers we who love Pirate movies will continue to get on your case until such time as you give us what we want --- by which I mean, the Cutthroat Island sequel! Got it? And just in case you didn't get the message, there's a little magazine called No Quarter Given --- which, like Cutthroat Island itself, is a Pirate's paradise --- that would very readily back me up.  "},{"Title":"This is proof that that not all box office flops are bad","Date":"12 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" this movie was a box office flop I cannot imagine why?. It has a great story, wonderful stunts. Good costumes, it is well acted. The original score is beautiful to listen too. The scenery is magnificent. ...and the action is very fast paced.If you like movies like the Indiana Jones series, the Zorro (Antonio Banderas era) movies, and Pirates of the Caribbean....then you should love Cuthroat Island.The failure of this film at the box office is a mystery to me because it has all of the right punches to make it a success and yet it still failed. - I dunno why I actually like that Daredevil movie too with Ben Afflec, I didn't understand why it flopped either. It wasn't the best movie ever but I thought it was decent.but this just goes to prove a point, and that point is that sometimes great movies fall through the cracks and fail at the box office and then are soon forgotten, what a shame too.don't rob yourself of the wonderful experience that is ..Cuthroat Island.go see it today ...you'll thank me for it "}{"Title":"Great Movie, bad casting.","Date":"3 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I think this movie would have been a great success if they had just picked better lead actors, Geena Davis and Matthew Modine are so whitebread it's pathetic watching them playing badass pirates.  They bring all the emotion of a first sitdown reading of a high school play to the screen. The good news is that the rest of the cast is great and carry the movie.  Frank Langella is excellent in his role. All in all still a good ole adventure flick worth watching. "},{"Title":"Don't judge until you see for yourself!","Date":"25 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I really enjoyed this film and have to say that I think one of the reasons it was so universally panned is that the star pirate is female. Had the lead been male it might have been a different story in terms of the film's success at the Box Office. Shame, because it is fast paced and the action scenes are great! Geena Davis is actually very good with her wild hair and mucky tan - she looks and sounds just like a pirate captain should, male or female. Matthew Modine is suitably funny, sly and cute as a foil to Davis's rough and readiness. I also like the fact that when it comes down to the last big fight it's Davis who is left to face the villain alone to give him his comeuppance and not her male pirate posse. I say let people watch this film and judge for themselves, because if you like pirate movies you won't be disappointed! "},{"Title":"Quite possibly...","Date":"17 September 2003","Score":"7 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" ...the worst movie ever made.  We're not talking Gigli bad, we're talking about a Battlefield Earth type of monstrosity.  The depths of its horror is truly staggering, mind-numbing -- almost Cthulhian in its epically bad scope.  You will be praying for the Great Old Ones to shred your mind before this movie is over.Good actors with terrible acting; a good director with terrible directing. Why, God?  Why?This move should be shown in films schools as the perfect example of how good intentions can go horribly, horribly wrong (and well as demonstrating when NOT to use slow-motion). "},{"Title":"A classic in every way","Date":"11 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I remember this as one of my childhoods greatest action/adventure movies. Being a great fan of any good pirate story, I just had to re-watch it as an adult.What I found was a movie almost as good as I remember it. As an adult, I would of course smirk a bit at plot holes and some of the cheesy choreography (by which I mean such things as a bunch of Carolinians standing still in the middle of a battle, almost 'waiting' for the coming bomb to go of, or the 'good guys' appearing out of nowhere right behind the said Carolinians). But never mind that! Let's focus on the good things instead.It starts in the middle of a scene in which we are introduced to two of the main characters, the protagonist and the antagonist. The incident makes us understand that the protagonist (the pirate captain) is a well known pirate with a reputation, and the antagonist (a highly reputable politician) has got a taste for pirate flesh (on several levels, I might add). We quickly get into the story, and along the story goes on, we are introduced to more and more details about the persons and what has happened before the movie. A plus is that it's not like thrown in your face at the end. Another mark on the good side is all the playing around with details typical for the pirate genre (by which I mean both books and movies, of course). But it never really gets cliché! Sometimes the movie is on the edge to get so, but never quite takes that final step over. We got a treasure island (Cutthroat Island), a bunch of hilarious/funny/goofy/kick ass pirates fighting each other and the 1600s government, some clever lines, a few bottles of rum and the Caribbean landscape. What else can you ask for in a pirate movie? The stunts, effects, acting and editing are never less than so-so, sometimes really good. Bare in mind that it was made almost twenty years ago, and the conditions as we have today wasn't really the same (which makes it easier for me to watch ... I know films from today that are far worse made). On the hole if you would like to watch a good ol' pirate movie, with all the necessary ingredients, this is the one for you. I you are not a fan of pirate movies, but would like to change your mind, this is definitely the one for you! "},{"Title":"A reasonably exciting swashbuckler.","Date":"24 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Hard to figure why this film bombed as badly as it did. You're telling me this movie lost something like 100 million?? Ouch! Do Johnny Depp and Jerry Bruckheimer make that much of a difference? Apparently so. Anyway, though night quite as enjoyable as the most recent POTC romps, Cutthroat Island is a lot of fun. And you can even see some touches that POTC may have borrowed from this film. Such as the cute little monkey for reaction shots. But this is a straight up swashbuckler and does not have elements of the supernatural or CGI beasties.Geena Davis plays Morgan Adams, a female pirate captain who assumes command of a ship after its former captain (her father) dies early on. In order to hold her crew together, she decides to seek a vast fortune in Spanish gold found on you guessed it... Cutthroat Island. But of course finding this treasure will not be easy. Davis has only one of three pieces of the map (taken from the scalp of her dead father no less!) and the other two belong to her uncles who are deadly pirates in their own right. And the map is apparently written in Latin which nobody on her crew can decipher. So she will also need the strapping scoundrel William Shaw (Matthew Modine) to assist her. It is apparently hard to find people who can read a few words of Latin in the 17th century Caribbean! And of course the corrupt local English lord of record wants his share of the loot and the heroine dangling from the gallows at Port Royal. Prepare for some swashbuckling! This film is truly exciting, and full of dangerous stunts often performed by the real actors themselves. I'd say the combat scenes here are a touch better than those of POTC. The script has some humor, but nowhere near the funny dialog of POTC. Davis seems badly miscast at first, but she grows on you. Its easy to see why Michael Douglas pulled out of this project, assuming he was up for Modine's role. He almost seems like an afterthought by the time this movie is over, and Davis seems to get all the fun things to do. It really is a vehicle of hers, but unfortunately it got driven off a cliff. Davis and director husband Renny Harlin tried it again the following year with Long Kiss Goodnight, but that was also a financial disappointment. Davis really hasn't done all that much since this movie. Frank Langella is terrific as the baddest pirate of them all Dawg Brown. Look out for Rex Linn from CSI Miami who plays a pirate with weird tattoos all over his face. If you are in any way interested in Pirate movies or lore, give this fine film a chance! 8 of 10 stars.The Hound. "},{"Title":"Fun romp","Date":"19 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Is this an intellectually challenging movie? Hell no.Is it a damned good fun swashbuckling romp? Hell yeah! Cutthroat Island is for everyone who likes action, funny one-liners and a slight twist in the concept. If you, like me, remember watching reruns of old Errol Flynn and Burt Lancaster pirate movies as a kid, you owe it to yourself to watch this one.It's not going to engage your brain too highly, but sometimes that's no bad thing. We don't always need Citizen Kane, after all. This is a good movie to get out on a night in with the family, where you can grab a drink and some snacks and while away a couple of happy hours. "},{"Title":"action,adventure,danger,romance and humour(what else do you need?)","Date":"6 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" i don't see why this movie has such a low rating here(5.1/10)i mean it has load of action,suspense,intrigue,romance.it's funny and has great stunts.granted,it doesn't have the epic scope of the Pirates of the Caribbean films,but it's a different movie.it's a light hearted ,fun romp which doesn't pretend to be anything else.it's not just fun and games,of course.there are some sc4ens of peril and danger,but these elements are all balanced very well.add to that,The performances of Matthew Modine and Geena Davis,as well as a great supporting cast,and you have the ingredients for one terrific movie.and lets not forget the direction of Renny Harlin.these things are all enough for me to highly recommend the movie.for me Cutthroat Islandis a strong 9/10 "},{"Title":"Pirates of the Caribbean 4 Cutthroat Island","Date":"28 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Pirates of the Caribbean 4 Cutthroat IslandIt would be better if Captain Jack Sparrow continue his adventures and looks for the treasure of Morgan Adams. It would be best if a POTC4 movie would show pirates pillaging, stealing, and... pirating...I've seen Cutthroat Island, I must say the story is full of action and over-action. The story is quite vague but entertaining in some way. Unlike the POTC trilogy, well, you can't compare a blockbuster with a B-movie.I would like to see where Morgan Adams got off, Captain Jack Sparrow gets on board. "},{"Title":"Gimme some stereotypes and a big glass of Grog! Yar!","Date":"28 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Love this movie SO much. Why was it such a big flop, you might ask? Itcould be because it's the most femenist action movie since THELMA & LOUISE. The total amount of crotch-kicks inflicted on male characters runs in the high double-digits, and this movie is so loaded with hilarious girl-power innuendo (See? I got your balls!). The special FX are great, there are plenty of pirate stereotypes for everyone (like the tattooed boatswain Mr. Glasspoole, the helpful Caribbean pirate, the fresh-faced pirate apprentice, etc.) Uncle Dog steals the show, and the sets/scenery in Malta and Thailand are breathtakingly gorgeous. The soundtrack is also superb--very piratey and action-filled. This movie is an overlooked gem, similar to the 1992 version of Treasure Island starring Charlton Heston. If you like Pirates, you owe it to yourself to see both movies! "}]