[{"Title":"Easy to like","Date":"11 February 2001","Score":"61 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Director Amy Heckerling knows a thing or two about high school flicks, having directed the highly successful `Fast Times at Ridgemont High'.  Heckerling put her talents to work thirteen years later for the next generation of high schoolers, writing and directing this hilarious satire of life at Beverly Hills H.S.  Heckerling takes a different approach from `Fast Times', which found its comedy in the absurdity of reality, depicting situations into which teenagers really get themselves.  Here Heckerling's comedy mostly comes from mocking the superficiality of the high school `in-crowd'.  While this is not the first time this has been done, few have ever done it with such blistering wit.  This film became the standard for a spate of 1990's high school flicks set on the west coast that borrowed many of its elements.The story focuses on Cher Horowitz (Alicia Silverstone), who is the most popular girl at Beverly Hills H.S.  Cher seems to be a superficial airhead, but this belies her conniving and manipulative skills at getting what she wants.   Superficial yes, airhead no!  In a plot derived in part from Jane Austen's `Emma', Cher works behind the scenes to arrange love matches between various students.  She even orchestrates a relationship between two teachers to improve their moods so they don't grade so harshly.  Like Emma, she is a master of love for everyone but herself.Heckerling does a fantastic job of presenting what seems on the surface to be a cotton candy story with lightweight characters, but really runs much deeper revealing subtle truths about human nature.  Her direction of the fledgling cast is superb, milking every ounce of comedy out of each scene.Silverstone sparkles in the role, which is probably not far from a reality with which she is very familiar.  She actually attended Beverly Hills H.S. with co-star Breckin Meyer, although she didn't graduate due to career commitments (she received a G.E.D.).  This film catapulted her to teen prominence with two MTV movie awards and an American Comedy Award as funniest actress in a leading role.  She plays Cher with both arrogance and vulnerability, and her comic timing is impeccable.  She also has a knack for physical comedy, with a broad range of contorted facial expressions and amusing use of body language.  The rest of the teen cast is also great, especially Brittany Murphy as Tai and Breckin Meyer as Travis.  Dan Hedaya is also priceless as Cher's work obsessed attorney father.This film is easy to like.  It is a light and funny spoof, but it still has nuance.  I rated it an 8/10.  For those who enjoy high school comedies, this is required viewing. "},{"Title":"Clueless An near-perfectly updated classic","Date":"17 August 2006","Score":"59 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Isn't my house classic? The columns date all the way back to 1972.When romantic high-school comedy Clueless (1995) was released, it was immediately vaulted into cult-status and firmly stapled as one of the most original teen-flicks of the 1990s. 'Original' is perhaps a term wrongly applied since it is based on the queen of romance Jane Austen's Emma (1815) . But what Clueless did was update the classic story by coating it with high school drama, teenage girls and shopping and sprinkle it with heavy doses of humour.Emma is no longer Emma; she is Cher (Alicia Silverstone), a spoiled rich girl walking around in her Beverly Hills mansion in a bubble of stereotypes and teen-clichés -- but with a great big heart. So big-hearted, in fact, that she takes on the lost goofy new girl in her school to find her love and popularity, knowing full-well that it could destroy her own reputation. Clueless thus sees Cher and her best friend Dionne (Stacey Dash) on a mission to do good. Real good.All the detours this mission entail are captured brilliantly in the film, taking the form of love-interests, parties, shopping and misunderstandings. From Cher's grumpy lawyer-father (an hilarious Dan Hedaya) and her nerdy step-brother (a likable Paul Rudd) to her eccentric group of friends at school, Clueless is a superb ride of teenage comedy camp. Only just over 10 years old, it is still extremely dated today. But no matter, because the 90s clichés like skateboarding, Marky Mark and the catch-phrase As if just make it so much more contemporary and fun to watch. What elevates Clueless (1995) above generic high school comedy is its use of stereotypes. In most films they are unintentionally there to create a subconscious effect, but in Clueless they are made fun of to a much higher degree -- they are overblown and glorious. It brutally satirizes rich kids and their 'problems' and juxtaposes them with a classic, heart-felt love-story. The kind that only Jane Austen can write.9/10 "},{"Title":"Cluey in spite of its cluelessness","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"64 out of 79 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Let's set 'Emma' in a modern high school!  Does this sound the obvious kind of movie gimmick that everyone uses nowadays?  Perhaps, but it's an inspired idea all the same.  Jane Austen's characters, and her readers, and the society in which her novels are set, like Jane Austen herself, are HEAVILY conscious of class and social standing.  No atmosphere quite so snobbish exists in the modern world.  EXCEPT, that is, in the corridors and courtyards of the right kind of high school.  And where else in the modern world would you find so many people who seem to spend all their time calling on one another?I was reminded of how well Heckerling moulded Emma to fit a modern setting when I saw the idiotic 1998 version of Great Expectations, adapted by someone who somehow failed to notice how important all the stuff about class and snobbishness was.  It's clear that Heckerling understood her source.  She isn't afraid to make changes - even radical changes, if the modern setting requires as much - and no character exists MERELY because they have an analogue in Austen's novel.  (The most crucial thing is that the Emma-equivalent be sufficiently charming; and so she is.)  The result is a film which is winning and satisfying, whether or not you know anything about the source material. "},{"Title":"Funny, charming and innocent","Date":"14 November 2000","Score":"57 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is another one of those feel good pictures you can't go wrong with. It's light and breezy like cruising the boulevard with the top down and it offers lots of laughs to boot.Amy Heckerling has brought us another winner with a great supporting cast. A young teenage girl coming of age in of all places, Beverly Hills. The lead character, Cher played brilliantly by Alicia Silverstone, is a self centered high school girl in the beginning of the picture who's only interests include clothes, cars and credit cards. As the film progresses, she begins to mature and actually begins to care about other people, not to mention her environment. It's worth renting anytime. Just like European Vacation it doesn't matter how many times you see it, it still makes you laugh and that's worth it all.  "},{"Title":"A refreshing change from the John Hughes/Breakfast Club generation","Date":"23 December 2001","Score":"48 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A silky-smooth, vanilla-coated pleasure about matchmaking in modern-day high school. Far from the insufferable smugness of all those '80s teen-flicks, Clueless is bright--in both senses of the word--clever, funny, fanciful and yet grounded in reality (a rich one). Alicia Silverstone is adorable, but the supporting cast is affable and seemingly carefully-picked (they all get their share of funny lines and star-making scenes, particularly Dan Hedaya, superb as Silverstone's father). Seems more inspired by Jane Austen's Emma than based upon it, with a few mean-spirited lines but plenty of lightly innocent laugh-getters. *** from **** "},{"Title":"Joyous and sparkling teen comedy","Date":"8 May 2005","Score":"34 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie is way above so many of the others of its' kind. It's consumately likable, funny, sweet and sharp- the script is a killer, and the acting is fun and enjoyable.Part of the success of the film is due to the fact that it appeals to several different audiences, and on multiple levels. I first watched this movie with my mom, who loved the link it has to Jane Austen's Emma- all the main characters and the plot are direct modern equivalents to the novel. For instance, the famous passage in Emma inwhich Harriet burns all her mementos of Mr. Elton becomes the scene where Tai does so infront of Cher's gasfire. From this perspective alone, the movie is so fun and sharp to watch- even if your forte isn't usually American Teen High School comedy!But this movie works on a really dumbed down scale too- let's face it, not everyone is big on English literature. The movie has an awesome soundtrack, Paul Rudd is unbelievably cute as Mr Knightly or rather Josh- and my boyfriend leads me to believe that the same is true of Alicia Silverstone- who still sparkles 10 years later as a mid-nineties teen queen with good intentions, Cher. Her performance here is impossible not to warm too, unless you have some sort of grudge against Valley girls, inwhich case you might not like it so much. Seriously though, this film is a must see for anyone who likes some real quality comedy- I'm so fond of this film personally that I would suspect basically everyone would enjoy it. "},{"Title":"An Excellent Modern Teen Adaptation Of Austen's 'Emma'","Date":"11 August 2008","Score":"23 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Just the other day I watched Heckerling's wonderful romantic comedy satire 'I Could Never Be Your Woman' and I thought I'd revisit 'Clueless'. The last time I saw it was 10 years ago and today I enjoyed it just as much. Heckerling's adaptation of Jane Austen's 'Emma' may appear like a fluffy teen flick on the surface but there is a lot more to it. It works on multiple levels and 'Clueless', in a way, is a social commentary as it reflects a reality that still exists in today's society. First of all, the teen life is very realistically portrayed albeit with a sarcastic tone (such as the striving for high grades, obsession with image and partying). It somewhat reminds me of 'Heathers' (another excellent teen satire). While 'Heathers' is a much darker film that looks at teens in the 1980s, 'Clueless' looks at the adolescents of the 90s. Moreover, Heckerling brilliantly uses different kid of comedies through one-liner and dialogue, situational, and slap stick.Then the class distinction too is cleverly demonstrated through the eyes of Cher. The characters too work on multiple levels. Cher appears to be a popular stuckup bimbo type lass but once Hecklerling allows us to dig a little deeper, we see that she is unintentionally manipulative and knows how to use her strength (her power of persuasion). Yet, she is good at heart and even though her initial intentions of getting the two teacher together was to get an A grade, she's happy with the outcome of her matchmaking and the acts that follow are with more sincere purpose. Tai too appears to be the dumb new girl but she is far more experienced than Cher and when opportunity strikes she makes a place for herself in 'society' (i.e, highschool).Alicia Silverstone plays the part as though it was made for her. She has the right looks, age, excellent dialogue delivery and is a total natural in performing. 'Clueless' was the film that made her an overnight star and a very promising actress however, unfortunately, her following movies have been disastrous and the actress rapidly vanished into oblivion. She is supported by an equally great cast that includes a goofy Breckin Meyer, a weirdly fashioned but still gorgeous Stacy Dash, a naive Brittany Murphy, a laidback Paul Rudd, a hilarious Donald Faison, a bitchy Elisa Donovan and a fire breathing Dan Hedaya.For me 'Clueless' is among the top teen films along with movies like 'Heathers'. Those who childishly dismiss it as a fluffy chick-flick don't know what they missed. I was watching '10 Things I Hate About You' which is an adaptation of Shakespeare's 'The Taming Of Thew Shrew' and while that film failed to engage me for the most parts, 'Clueless' succeeds in all departments because it's much more than just another teen flick. It's a highly entertaining satire and it's a nuanced teen comedy with a subtle social comment. "},{"Title":"A pleasant surprise","Date":"22 August 2005","Score":"29 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I wasn't expecting much of this movie, until I started seeing it. It turned out to be quite entertaining. Clueless is about the shallow and rather stupid rich girl Cher Horowitz, who only cares about herself and how popular she is. But then she starts this kind of 'project', together with her best friend. One of the aspects of this project is about making a new silly girl of their school look as 'cool' as they are. This 'silly' girl is very well performed by Brittany Murphy. I hardly recognized her! The lead role is for Alicia Silverstone who gives an excellent performance as well. Furthermore there is another great performance Paul Rudd (who we also know as Phoebe's boyfriend in Friends). Also Dan Hedaya and Breckin Meyer (Road Trip) are funny.Funny and very entertaining movie from the director of Look Who's Talking (Too). Definitely worth watching! 7,5/10 "},{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"29 March 2005","Score":"26 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A generally quite well made, enjoyably stylish and interesting matchmaking tale aimed at teen audiences, the film manages to incorporate a number of very clever parallels to Jane Austen's matchmaking novel 'Emma' while also providing a good satire on high school life. The idea is somewhat simplistic, the plot is sort of predictable, and the young performers all look too old for their teenage characters, but these are all minor vices against this strong entry for the teen flicks genre, with a surprisingly very realistic and actually almost heartfelt performance by Alica Silverstone to top it all off. "},{"Title":"Clever spin on Austen's story with good satire and performances","Date":"31 August 2005","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Cher (Alicia Silverstone) is a popular ditz at her local high school in Beverly Hills. She's a spoiled, pampered little princess with all the right social connections and endless wealth. However she has yet to find a man in her life - all the Baldwins (as she and her clique of friends call guys they like) have been taken.When Cher receives a foreign exchange student, she takes her under her wing and decides to try and find her a boyfriend - ironically without having her own yet. Predictability ensues.I read Emma in early high school as I'm sure most kids did, and the movie puts a clever spin on the tale. Alicia Silverstone is surprisingly good in her role, perfectly playing a blond bombshell without a brain but a good heart - only Reese Witherspoon has done such a good job recently at portraying the west coast bimbos. (No offense to the west coast bimbos out there.) The movie's director, Amy Heckerling, has always been rather reliable on the whole and her direction is solid here - she could have turned Clueless into a crude, unfunny sex comedy with little wit or brains, but instead she takes a rather dubious idea for a film and transforms it into a well-made, well-acted, funny, inspired, lively, witty satire.Much better than expected. "}{"Title":"They really were clueless!","Date":"13 January 2007","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A friend of mine kept telling me You have to watch Clueless; It's just the best movie ever! So I watched it and, well, no offense to anyone who likes this movie, but it really sucked. The only good thing about it was that it had (a few) good-looking guys in it.Most movies actually have plots to them; ones that go up and down as the movies progress. This movie's plot just flat-lined the entire way through. If a movie's not gonna go anywhere then it should at least be funny. But somehow it can't even manage that! The funniest line was And my buns they don't feel nothing' like steel, and that's not very funny at all! Maybe I'm nit-picking here, but I cringed every time Cher (seriously, who would name their kid that?) said Haiteeans; It's Haitians you moron! She was so annoying! By the time she was held up by the thief, I was rooting for him to shoot her! And what is with the computer program that picks out her clothes? Honestly, she can't get off her @ss and go look in the closet?! Exactly what kind of school allows you to walk through the door dressed like that anyway? Slut School? If any one of those girls stood on a street corner, they would definitely get picked up by the cops (if not some horny guy). And that hat that Dionne wore at the beginning; what was that, a plant pot?! If you want to watch a good teen movie, then I suggest Sixteen Candles or Ferris Bueller's Day Off. Of course if you're like my friend and you think that shopping, fashion, and popular people *cough*vain brats*cough, cough* are what make a good movie, then you might actually like Clueless. I, however, did not. "},{"Title":"Ten out of Ten","Date":"24 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" BEST CHICK FLICK EVER! Cher is your average Barbie. She's the most popular girl in school, she enjoys shopping, and giving people make overs, and most importantly, she doesn't date high school boys. in the beginning of the movie, Cher does things that typically benefit her. Until her step brother from her dads previous and very short marriage comes to visit. Cher and josh don't get along. they're always picking on each other, and Cher doesn't know why he still comes around if their parents are long divorced. to summarize the rest of the movie, she changes to a more humble person and tends to not only do things that benefit herself. A bit cliché, but a lovely movie to watch with friends. "},{"Title":"This film is about a teenage girl learning to do good for others.","Date":"6 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Cars, clothes and credit cards- the three C's in Cher Horowitz's life. As Alicia Silverstone so brilliantly demonstrates, being the most glamorous and popular high school girl in Beverly Hills isn't easy.Cher is a beautiful, ultra-rich teenage girl who is envied, admired and loved by all her peers. Cher is your typical status- and style-obsessed modern girl who is less concerned about getting good grades than wearing the right outfit. Cher gives the audience an insight on the hearts and minds of today's pampered youth and proves that while she may be a spoiled princess of Beverly Hills, her heart lies in the right place and she has good intentions. The audience can expect to see various demonstrations of teens proving this stereotype wrong.Cher has many expectations to fulfill. Her father is a litigator so frightening that he gets paid $500 an hour just to argue with people. However, despite how fearsome he is in his career, he is a caring father. Cher refuses to take no for an answer in any aspect of her life and uses her inherited conniving, manipulative, charming personality to get what she wants. In the beginning of the movie, Cher comes off as a typical valley girl- spoiled, air-headed and totally unconcerned with anything that's not related to her.Cher has many expectations to fulfill. Her father is a litigator so frightening that he gets paid $500 an hour just to argue with people. However, despite how fearsome he is in his career, he is a caring father. Cher refuses to take no for an answer in any aspect of her life and uses her inherited conniving, manipulative, charming personality to get what she wants. In the beginning of the movie, Cher comes off as a typical valley girl- spoiled, air-headed and totally unconcerned with anything that's not related to her.When Cher receives a bad grade in her debate class, she becomes inspired to play matchmaker for two of her teachers which in turn leads her to desire to do more good. She goes against the rich girl stereotype by helping her hopeless teachers find love. Although she originally sets her teachers up with the intentions of improving her own grades, after she sees how happy they are together, she realizes she has the opportunity to help others around her.When a hopeless new girl, Tai, transfers to her school, Cher and her best friend, Dionne, use their popularity for good rather than evil and take on the challenge of giving her a total makeover before introducing her to the Beverly Hills High School scene. Tai makes new friends, gets her heart broken, and eventually ends up with Travis, the boy she has been crushing on since day one.After Cher discovers Tai has become more popular than her, she recognizes how misguided she was and gains a greater perspective on what she wants in life. She changes her appearance in hopes to look older and her priorities by taking on responsibilities at school. She soon realizes that she is surrounded by good people and that each of her friends have a quality that makes them good and unique. Cher brilliantly validates the concept that not all wealthy people are snobs and that anyone can change. "},{"Title":"Better than expected","Date":"25 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I've been watching these 'chick flicks' for a while now, even when I am certainly not the aimed audience, but along with others, I think this movie has some good comedy in it as well as many low-key references to the snob life. The movie centrals around Cher, a rich daughter of a lawyer, who tries to B.S. (actual quote) her through most of her life. When she gets inspired to make more contribution to society, she started learning a new girl from California the ways of living like a rich snob. The movie is full of side-stories, interesting characters and funny references that even appeal to an older audience. The narration is a bit dull, but that's traditional for these kinds of movies. I particularly liked the acting of Alici Silverstone and Donald Faison. The soundtrack is also really on point.I would like to end this review by saying it's probably not the best teen flick out there (having watched Mean Girls and 10 Things I Hate About You), but it's certainly a fun, short movie to watch and it won't disappoint you. "},{"Title":"Moves, behaves, and mesmerizes like a high school girl","Date":"7 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Amy Heckerling's Clueless does two things I never thought I'd see a teen movie do and that's, for one, humanize a group of commonly stereotyped, mostly materialistic brats to the point where someone can actually find them not only amusing but sympathetic characters, and two, bring out the main ideas of a beloved piece of classic literature through a smooth, respectful modernization. In case you haven't noticed, the film is loosely based off of Jane Austen's 1815 Emma, a bourgeois look at marriage and fidelity, and Heckerling does a nice job of minimizing that fact just enough to where the film's target audience doesn't feel like the lights are off and they are struggling to stay awake during movie-time in their literature class.Moreover, Clueless is a film that's so easy to love but so hard to adequately describe why. It concerns a young, high school girl named Cher (Alicia Silverstone), your average Beverly Hills girl who speaks and acts just like you'd presume a spoiled mansion girl would. Her widowed father Mel (Dan Hedaya) is a litigator, basically meaning he gets paid to argue, so she claims, and her best friend is Dionne (Stacey Dash), who sticks by her side through all her dramatic moments and daily quibbles. One of Cher's most recent dramatic moments of crisis is when her ex-stepbrother Josh (Paul Rudd) comes to live with her and her father temporarily during the same time a new girl by the name of Tai (Brittany Murphy) enrolls in Cher's high school. After playing matchmaker for two nerdy teachers, Mr. Hall and Miss Geist (Wallace Shawn and Twink Caplan, who are based off of Mr. Weston and Miss Taylor in Emma) in efforts to improve her lackluster grades, Cher is convinced that she can turn Tai's rather average personality and beauty into knockout-level by fixing her wardrobe and mannerisms and setting her up with Elton (Jeremy Sisto), a wealthy jock, despite her fondness for Travis (Breckin Meyer), the troublemaking slacker.Heckerling, who takes over the screen writing job as well, really works not only to keep Clueless moving at a pace that consistently keeps the audience interested, but to humanize these often dehumanized, and admittedly unlikable, characters. Thinking back to our own experiences in high school, I'm sure we could put other names to every character I just listed and Heckerling does that in order to form that kind of connection. Most teen films have that kind of familiarity with their story. However, instead of stopping there, she works to illicit a kind of humanization that makes you sympathetic to these characters. By the end of the film, or even midway through, Cher doesn't seem like such brash diva with a credit card, but a strangely harmless figure wrapped up in herself to a fault.Cher may be a bit intoxicating and cocky, but one thing she isn't is harmful or a bully to those not in her league. Even her efforts to set Tai up with Elton instead of Travis, while a hasty and somewhat cold to her friend's personal feelings, isn't meant to be a ploy nor an attempt to oppress her character whilst holding on to her popularity. She's a more complex figure than one initially assumes because her efforts are just misguided and her attitude is more conceited than open; she's not a particularly bad person or the queen bitch of her high school.Heckerling's dialog in the film is sharp and biting, as if every character on-screen unabashedly says what's on his or her mind rather than locking down their feelings for a more socially acceptable comment. Consider Josh's response to Cher she asks him if there's anything she could selflessly do that would benefit humanity. Josh opens the refrigerator door before turning around and replying with, sterilization. This kind of dialog carries throughout the film and no character here feels out of Heckerling's beautifully satirical, revealing little universe; nobody feels like they're not in on the joke nor lost in their own role.Clueless, I feel, speaks to the millennial generation and those born in the early 2000's better than anybody, though nobody would be removed from enjoying this; the familiarity of Austen's novel on older viewers and the casual depiction of the teen scene on the younger viewers is one makes this film have almost universal appeal. However, the way Clueless moves with a certain stride in its hips, like a teenage girl with a new outfit, the way it talks, with a Californian accent that has every syllable hitting your ears in a unique manner, and the way the music, the dialog, and the mannerisms of the characters resonate so fiercely, is what ultimately makes it a winning combination of an ordinary chick flick and a biting teen film.Starring Alicia Silverstone, Brittany Murphy, Paul Rudd, Stacey Dash, Breckin Meyer, Jeremy Sisto, Wallace Shawn, Twink Caplan, Donald Faison, and Dan Hedaya. Directed by Amy Heckerling. "},{"Title":"'If anything happens to Cher I have a .45 and a shovel and I don't think anyone would miss you.'  (Dad)","Date":"21 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" All these 20 years since the movie came out I had either missed it or just wasn't interested enough to take the time to see it. Now I found it on Netflix streaming and watched it today. For what it is, what what it sets out to do, it is a really good and entertaining movie.The star is teenage Alicia Silverstone as Cher. Her mother died when Cher was very young, from a common liposuction procedure gone bad. That is an appropriate clue to Cher's world in Beverly Hills.Her dad is a high-priced litigation attorney so Cher pretty much has the run of her credit cards and going to the mall is one of her primary ways to relieve stress of school or boyfriends.But Cher in her own way is very intelligent and caring, her focus is just superficial. Her best friend is Stacey Dash as Dionne and they quip that they each have names of formerly popular singers who do commercials now.One of the reasons I chose to see the movie now is for Brittany Murphy, before she became well-known, as Tai the new student. Cher takes pity on frumpy red-haired Tai and takes her on as a project. Murphy is very good in this role.The other main character is a young Paul Rudd as Josh, a college student who is Cher's dad's former stepchild in one of his marriages gone bad. Dad still likes him and Josh hangs around. Dad wants Josh to become an attorney.Of course the whole movie is a parody of teen life and teen issues, and at its core is just an absurd comedy, and a very good one. SPOILERS For my own recollection ... after all Cher's fretting about her virginity and finding a boyfriend she at the end realizes that Josh and she are the best match, he is a nice guy who is intelligent and ambitious and he stands up for her when others criticize her. So they become a couple and the rest is uncertain. "},{"Title":"Fun colourful film based on Jayne Austin's Emma","Date":"31 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This film is based on the book Emma, by Jane Austin, it was released in 1995, and to be honest nobody really expected much out of it, they just assumed it would be another teen drama set about rich kids in Beverly Hills. but when I got around to watching it I was actually very surprised about how good it actually was. Alicia Silverstone is just truly wonderful as Cher, she sets herself out to help her friends and just about everybody else with their relationship problems. The reason she Ne does it? Because she is lonely and doesn't want to face up to her own problems. Stylish and very sharp is how I would describe this film which was directed by Amy Heckerling. Amy has also directed National Lampoons European Vacation, Fat Times at Ridgement High and one of my favourite John Travolta films Look Who's Talking. The screen play is just excellent its clever, hip, funny and sharp. Each of the cast deliver their lines perfectly I think Brittany Murphy stood out as a fashion victim made over by Alicia's Silverstone's Cher. Dan Hedaya plays Cher's Father It looks like everybody had a lot of fun making this film. "},{"Title":"A funny and silly movie..","Date":"19 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" So as it'd the 20th anniversary of this and Iggy Azalea reminded me of this, I decided to actually sit down to watch it!I was so happy Cher and Josh were finally a couple because they really deserved each other from the start. Paul Rudd had such a baby face there that really he didn't look like a college student. He still looks the same today. Alicia Silverstone looks so much like Melissa Joan Hart aka Sabrina. Gosh, they should be sisters because are identical! It was so odd seeing Brittany Murphy as it is only seven years since her passing and she just looked so stunning in the movie. I just loved her accent and her style. I honestly wish she lived longer, she was such a talented actress that left us too soon, RIP ♡ "},{"Title":"Social Insight On Teen-agers","Date":"12 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Alicia Silverstone stars in a comedic film that becomes a satire on the ultra-rich High School students that is based on Jane Austen's 1816 novel Emma.Cher and Dionne are upper-class students at a Beverly Hills High School who cares more about wearing the right clothes and popularity rather than getting good grades.But Cher found herself wanting to more in life as she wants to help the less fortunate as well.She later takes action by bringing two of her two introverted teachers who wants to do the same and tries to convince them to give her higher grades as well.She meets a new friend Tai,who starts out as a geek but later becomes her prodigy.Unexpectedly,she meets the perfect boyfriend at the least expected moment.This becomes a fresh and original film about teen-agers that its intended audience will probably still enjoy today despite being released in the 1990's.The screenplay did very well in dealing with the shallowness that female rich teen-agers that viewers are accustomed with.Miss Silverstone also provided a good performance especially with the way she dealt with Cher's character transformation in the road to maturity.This will always remain a compelling move about teens up to the present moment especially with the way it provides a social insight on teen-agers. "},{"Title":"It's like totally awesome. And not sporadically either.","Date":"10 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" One of the best teen comedies ever and it has withstood the test of time 20 years on. The Breakfast Club of my generation, if you haven't seen it, you must be cranially challenged! From the opening sequence to when Cher tries to pick that classic yellow tartan outfit (eeww) using the largest computer in the world (cool in THOSE days) to the sappy lovey-dovey 'wait isn't that incest?' happy ending, you'll laugh, you'll cry (with laughter), and you'll learn all the quotes so by the time you go to the showing of Clueless quote-a-long and they ask if you need subtitles, you'd be like ''AS IF!The movie that made Paul Rudd look cute, Alicia Silverstone a star-ish and the song, Rolling with the Homies, a mini-cult classic, this movie paved the way for the other famous teen comedies sans angst. Who needs angst anyway, it was 1995!Right, I'm outtie! "}{"Title":"One of my favorite movies...","Date":"20 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I love this movie. I only saw it recently, which I think is strange because it's the kind of movie I love. I actually thought I had seen it and it was about a girl solving a mystery. But, as it turns out, it's not. It is a fantastic movie with a great storyline and excellent cast. Have I used all the adjectives yet? No, okay then, it's also marvelous and funny. This movie is about Cher, a high school student in Beverly Hills. She must get through high school whilst going through all of the normal ups and downs of adolescent life. She seems superficial at first, and that's what she wants people to think. But when it really comes down to it, she is a caring person. Target Audience TeensOverall, I give this movie a 10 out of 10, which in my ratings books is Freaking ridonkulous. "},{"Title":"Clueless is a very smart adaptation of Emma.","Date":"12 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I like how the film's less unknown actors makes the film appear more fresh-faced. I like who they casted to play Cher's father (Dan Hedaya). It was a good choice in casting because you as the audience are a little frightened of him and the other characters are but Cher giggles every remark her father gives and manipulates it to get her own way. I also like that they made Cher come across as childlike and innocent but at the same time glamorous and popular. The film started a lot of actors career's like Britney Murphy and Breckin Meyer. There are some known actors in the film like Paul Rudd and Alicia Silverstone. I also like how they changed the classic novel into the modern culture nowadays, like making the character Frank/Christian gay in the film instead of interested in another girl instead of Emma. "},{"Title":"In the same league as Fast Times","Date":"26 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Released in 1995, Clueless is a teen dramedy about, Cher (Alicia Silverstone), a rich Beverly Hills high school student who experiences the ups and downs of teen life in Southern California. Cher hangs with her best friend, Dionne (Stacey Dash), and they befriend a new girl who seems to need their help, Ty (Brittany Murphy). Beyond this, Cher looks for romance and finds it in an unexpected person. Justin Walker is on hand as Cher's potential beau, Christian, as is Jeremy Sisto; and Paul Rudd as her sometimes annoying, but always reliable ex-stepbrother, Josh.Like 1982's Fast Times at Ridgemont High, Clueless transcends the mediocrity and pitfalls of most teen dramedies and breaks the threshold of greatness. While it's honest about things like dating, sex and cussing, it refuses to overdo any of them and, instead, focuses on the real-life joys, low points and everything in between of a beautiful and goodhearted well-to-do Southern California girl.The film was a modest hit at the box office and justifiably so. It's hip, smart, honest and heartwarming. Silverstone is precious and lovable in the title role and easily carries the film. Rudd is equally effective as the ex-stepbrother. Dash is utterly stunning and both Walker and Murphy are competent. The film leaves you with a good feeling.The movie runs 97 minutes and was shot in the Beverly Hills and the Los Angeles area.GRADE A "},{"Title":"One of the best Teen movies ever Made and one of my favourite teen movies ever!","Date":"16 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The title has said just that. Clueless is undoubtedly a teen movie classic that is fantastic and one that you will enjoy watching again & again and it will never bore you Out! I have loved this movie ever since I first saw it and it quickly became one of my most favourite films. I love everything about this film from the characters to the amazing plot of the film that keeps you interested for the entirety of its run, the sharp and funny script and unforgettable & funny characters! The film revolves around Cher Horowitz (Alicia Silverstone) a blonde rich girl who is the most popular girl at Beverly Hills high school along with her best friend Dionne (Stacey Dash). She basically has control over everyone around her and able to keep her grades up by manipulating two teachers into falling in love and a real love matchmaker for her friends. This film is a flawless Gem with an amazing, enjoyable, fun plot & amazing characters, a witty sharp script that makes this one of the best teen movies of all time! 10/10 "},{"Title":"Not As Good As I Remember, But Dash Is Still Gorgeous","Date":"18 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Plot In A Paragraph Based VERY, VERY loosely on Jane Austen's novel 'Emma'. Amy Heckerling set it in modern day (modern day 90's when it was released) and aimed I solely at teenagers.Alicia Silverstone is Cher, the most popular girl at her school. With her best friend Dionne (The impossibly gorgeous Stacey Dash) they decide to help improve the social standing of the new girl at school Tia (The late Brittany Murphy) whilst helping two teachers find love.I really liked this movie when I saw this in 1995, however 19 years later it wasn't as enjoyable. One problem I had with it was Paul Rudd seemed far too old for the character he was playing, and Silverstone's love interest Justin Walker was really annoying as was Jeremy Sisto.On the plus side Silverstone and the gorgeous Dash (my God she is stunning) have amazing chemistry and Dan Hedaya is simply superb as Silverstone's no nonsense lawyer Dad. Donald Faison is a lot of fun as Marcus, Dash's boyfriend. I'm not sure what happened to Silverstone's career, I know Batman & Robin didn't help matters, but she was a likable leading lady who looked good (check out her bum in the scene when she is in her grey workout costume) and she could certainly act, so why she disappeared is a bit of a mystery. And it's a shame This was not a breakout role for Dash (Dear lord she is sexy) as I would have liked to have seen a lot more from her I decent roles. "},{"Title":"You don't have to be a girl to enjoy this!","Date":"11 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Where do I begin? This is a great teen (chick) flick, a real sleeper hit! I found this through Netflix and was satisfied from start to finish. We follow Cher, a spoiled young woman, who is popular and has her curiosity. She is likable and really smart. Curiosity kicks in as she figures out romance and fitting in to high school.The casting is really well-done, you'll recognize several familiar faces and everyone delivers superb performances. Donald Faison, Breckin Meyer, Paul Rudd, Brittany Murphy, the list goes on. I was surprised by how confident the material is approached here. I'm sure if someone else wrote the movie, it might have come across as pathetic and clichéd. Here, it's fresh and nearly flawless. Also, you don't have to be a girl to love this film. I'm a guy and I am a sucker for these kind of movies.Seriously, what can I say that everyone else hasn't said? This is excellent and anyone who is/was a teenager can easily relate to it. Highly recommended from a male perspective, watch it if you have 90 something minutes to spare! "},{"Title":"A movie about girls and boys","Date":"20 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I liked this movie. I watch it on cable whenever it is on TBS and other channels. This movie started tons of trends in the 90s and some movies are still emulating Clueless. The main characters are so snobby and funny. I also think it is good that the women are not mean spirited. They do look down their noses at people but then they feel bad about it and do something nice. This movie has so much fashion and as if jokes. The best scene is when Cher gets out of the car is trapped in a low income area. She gets robbed but nothing physically bad happens to her. I also liked Dione. She is Cher's BFF and she is just as vain as Cher is. Brittany Murphy's acting is great and everyone did a great job too. The men are funny in this movie too. "},{"Title":"Fun!","Date":"3 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This was a really fun movie. I just watched it again and I still really enjoyed it, almost as much as I did when it first came out (when I watched it oh probably like ten or twelve times, I used to love this movie when it first came out on video, never saw it when it was released in theaters though). Alicia Silverstone is great in the role which made her famous she is very funny and believable. The jokes are all kind of predictable but they are still funny because this movie has really fun characters that you will care about if they are the good guys or hate if they are the bad guys. If you haven't had a chance to see this movie I would say to check it out, it is worth watching at least once. It's not by any means a classic piece of cinema obviously but for a fun teen comedy you can't get much better than this and it even has a great soundtrack to boot! "},{"Title":"alicia","Date":"5 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I thought this was a wonderful teen h.s. movie.. yeah it's a lot of over the top material sure and some of the stuff that happens in the movie i'm sure actually goes on at high school. I thought that Ms. Silverstone did a really wonderful job with this and should have picked up at least a few awards for her work in the movie. she's funny intelligent, witty, and of course super sexy.. I liked all the different characters in the movie,, it made you kinda sorta wanna care about them in a way... Cher our character has many issues in this movie,, trying to take care of her dad,, finding a boyfriend,, playing miss i'm gonna save the world,, being the most popular girl at school,, doing makeover's for her friends and the like,, all in all I thought that this was a wonderful movie to watch. "},{"Title":"He does dress better than I do, what would I bring to the relationship?","Date":"24 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Clueless is almost a film about nothing. We follow the story of sixteen-year-old schoolgirl Cher who is popular, rich and beautiful, and has everybody around her at her fingertips. She's manipulative, selfish and a snob who seems to only have one other high school friend Dionne. Yet despite her major flaws that would generally have the audience hating her, we don't. Cher comes through as a character we really adore and care about due to one major reason, her childish innocence or as the title of the movie puts it her cluelessness.The general synopsis of the film follows Cher (Alicia Silverstone) as she attempts to con and manipulate her teachers into increasing her low grades. A feat her lawyer father encourages and praises her for. She soon gets a taste for meddling into peoples lives and takes in upon herself to give a new girl at the school Tai (Britney Murphy) a makeover and spring her into popularity. Much of the story then follows her naivety in controlling other people and the dynamics of her friendships with a loose love story coming into play towards the end. Despite the weak plot much of what makes Clueless work well as a film is the subtle humor and innocently naive characters you grow to appreciate. It's the film that propelled Alicia Silverstone into the Hollywood spotlight, and of course was also the late Britney Murphy's break through role. It's a high school movie classic that will cause you to laugh out loud many times and a must see for the 90s nostalgia. If you really enjoy the movie check out the 90s follow up TV series of Clueless which see's much of the cast from the movie reunited minus Miss Silverstone. "}{"Title":"This Friend of Dorothy Loves Cher and Cher","Date":"13 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" As if&#x85;you haven't seen this 1990s classic, you should now.Back in the mid to upper 1990s, I first saw Clueless and as much as I laughed hard and thoroughly enjoyed it, I knew right then, as fresh as it was, it was going to be a dated movie. Fast forward 18 years, and it's &#x96; totally! &#x96; still enjoyable, but I agree with my original thought.So, I can see someone saying that it's dated nowadays, especially kids, or anyone that missed it back then. Luckily, I caught it new and still love it just as much.Normally, I hate to be around or watch either bimbos or mimbos, but I had a feeling this movie wasn't glorifying them; instead, they were severely mocking them. But, when the very talented (at least for this role) Alicia Silverstone can play someone with less than half a brain and selfish and yet, contains a full heart, I admire the movie &#x96; and her performance &#x96; even more.Totally Valley Cher (Silverstone) and her pal, Dionne, spend their time using up their rich family's money by incessantly shopping, grouping fellow high school kids into segregations and occasionally caring about the lesser and unfortunate people, which, in real life, have more going for them than 3 of both Cher and Dionne combined. But, this is a slapstick kind of comedy, so let's try not to get too deep.The first half of the movie is just one example after the next of perky Cher and her high zest in life and an actual second movie appears when the ultrathin plot is revealed Cher's outward appearance doesn't match her insides. She wants companionship and the movie tries to convey that with little success, but enough to give the movie a slight spark of a conflict. It's the second half where the film, unfortunately, loses a little steam and overstays its welcome a bit.All of that doesn't matter; Clueless is not really just that. In a lot of ways, it's brilliant, absolutely hilarious, contains fantastic secondary characters and has both some enormously quotable lines and very funny scenes. Not to mention, the incredible soundtrack that I recall buying immediately following my first viewing. While I like practically every song on the album, Kids in America, the opening title song to the motion picture, is one of my all time movie favorite songs.Since I was part of the pack that saw this before it became passé, I believe it still holds up today and it was great to revisit a lot of the scenes, lines and songs I grew up loving. See it, gurl!Side Note Oh, and Paul (Rudd) I had a huge crush on you back then, and still today. You look so young here, at 26, even though you haven't seemed like you've aged much since. Many people credit this as your first movie, but I knew better &#x96; I first noticed, and fell head over heels for you, in the atrocious Halloween The Curse of Michael Myers. Wait&#x85;oh, that's why you want people to believe this is your first role. Good call.Side Note II As many lines in this I still quote today, this was my first introduction to the phrase A Friend of Dorothy, which means, um, Not a Fan of Hustler. I died laughing hearing that for the first time, even though it was obvious to whom they were referring to as such in the movie. Maybe, Cher was, in fact, Clueless. Um. Maybe? "},{"Title":"Clueless &#x97; A sweet rich girl in the midst of romance an love","Date":"20 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Clueless is about a sweet rich girl who is totally clueless about most things in life except for shopping. It sounds terrible, but actually, it's presented in an adorable way.You get attached to the main character very quickly and root her efforts to make the world a better place. It's all setup in the world of the very rich, yet you can't help yourself.Alicia Silverstone and Paul Rudd have excellent chemistry and are giving us very good acting. The rest of the ensemble is of lesser value, but nothing to detract our attention.The story is simple, elegant, and nice to embark upon. The only thing that I have to pick at? The phones are getting old. And that hat! (You'll see what I mean.)See it, it's sweet. "},{"Title":"The Vidiot Reviews...","Date":"8 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Clueless The worst part of being a teenager in the 1990s was that absentee parenting was 15 years away.Fortunately, the spoilt socialite in this comedy is on good terms with her single-father.When a severely un-hip chick, Tai (Brittany Murphy), transfers to their high school, Cher (Alicia Silverstone) and Dionne (Stacey Dash) attempt to turn the kindhearted new girl into a shallow shopaholic like them.On the home front, Cher's father (Dan Hedaya) has taken her ex-stepbrother (Paul Rudd) in, leading to constant bickering between the two.However, her home life doesn't stop Cher from using her matchmaking skills to pair Tai with Elton (Jeremy Sisto), who, unfortunately, has a big time crush on Cher.The quintessential deconstruction of affluent teenagers, this Jane Austin's Emma inspired coming-of-age tale is a witty and relevant representation of a naive generation.Incidentally, thanks to Wikipedia, at least today's young people can feign intelligence. (Green Light)vidiotreviews.blogspot.ca "},{"Title":"A modern version of Austen's 'Emma'","Date":"24 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" As a bit of an Austen purist, my copy of 'Clueless' has been left on the shelf for quite a while until I decided to watch it this week. I was pleasantly surprised by, despite the American high school setting, the faithfulness to the original novel.Emma Woodhouse becomes Cher (Alicia Silverstone), full of ego and a dumb blonde caricature, as insecure as those she aims to help, such as the geeky Tai = Harriet Smith (Brittany Murphy). She makes bad choices in love - throwing herself at the preening Christian (= Frank Churchill) while ignoring the steady Josh (= Mr Knightley), and this is as much a growing-up fable in the teen drama standard as it is an attempt to make a classic novel relevant to a new generation.Although 'Clueless' is a bit dumb and squarely aimed at a younger audience, it does have some pleasures for those familiar with the book it takes as inspiration - and for those who do not know their Austen and so are ignorant of the parallels. Silverstone makes an endearing heroine and Murphy is convincing in her depiction of a girl moving from geek to glamourpuss (shades of Grease and Sandy here as well).Like other adaptations it is worth a look simply to see how different directors and writers handle the subject. "},{"Title":"A Must Watch!","Date":"20 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I'm a teenager but I don't really fancy teen movies that much(shocker). But this one is definitely an exception. This movie is one of my favorite movies of all time.I honestly didn't expect much from this movie. I thought it was just another one of those stereotypical movies. Well, it is! )) But it's different though, in a way. Cher is the popular girl but she's different. She's not the usual mean girl. You wouldn't expect her to willingly be friends with the unpopular girl (Tai). I really enjoyed watching this. I have probably watched this five times and I still want to watch it again. The chemistry between Josh (Paul Rudd) and Cher is undeniable. I was just giggling throughout the whole movie. Even before I finished the whole movie, I knew they were gonna be lovers. The movie was a bit predictable but still very enjoyable. Would recommend it to anyone, regardless of age. "},{"Title":"Clueless, Profound on Multiple Levels","Date":"20 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Clueless was more than a simple 90's teen comedy; it was a generational transition from Generation X to Generation Y. It discarded the grungy culture that started with bands like Nirvana and Pearl Jam in 89, and it made an accurate predication about Generation Y's self absorbed cellphone culture. The only thing that is really missing is a prediction about the internet and social networking, but in 1995, the internet was something that we began hearing about in passing. Still the movie did an excellent job of predicting how a generation would act for the next 15 years.Btw, I hated the movie when I first saw it. My girlfriend at the time dragged me to see it. It is odd that it took getting older to understanding something so campy yet so profound. "},{"Title":"Funny but not a masterpiece","Date":"2 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Clueless (1995) stars Alicia Silverstone as Cher Horowitz. Like Emma, she is rich and lives with her single father (IIRC, her mother died during plastic surgery, but I may be wrong). Here she is only 15 and already has her own car (before she even has a license!) and spends most of her time with her best friend, Dionne (no book equivalent). The Mr. Knightley character is played by her ex step-brother, Josh, played by Paul Rudd. The movie loosely follows a lot of Emma's plot lines. Cher hooks up two of her teachers and from there gets it into her head to be a matchmaker. She decides to give this version's Harriet Smith, new girl Tai (Brittany Murphy), a makeover and to hook her up with Elton. She convinces Tai that her crush, stoner Travis, is no good. Things backfire for her when her matchmaking plans not only fail but Tai eclipses her as the most popular girl. She goes after Christian (Frank Churchill), and although he's not a cad like Frank in the book, he has other reasons for not going for Cher.Some people think Clueless is the best adaptation of Emma, but I'd have to disagree. I did quite enjoy it and even used to watch the TV spin off&#x85;I was in grade school, okay! I blame this movie for popularizing Valley Girl speak throughout the country, but that's another story. I really liked the characters of Cher and Josh and their sibling-esque rivalry that blossomed into love and a lot of the parallels with the book were funny, but this isn't one of my favorite movies or even adaptations. I found many of the characters just annoying and not charming at all. I also think this movie treated some inappropriate behaviors too lightly. Maybe I'm just too traditional, but all of the references to sex and pot smoking (Cher disapproves of Travis constantly being stoned but feels no qualms about occasionally smoking a joint at a party) made me a bit uncomfortable. Cher also seemed to think she was the last virgin left at her high school, and tried miserably to seduce Christian. Tai, despite being a loser, oddly has had plenty of sexual experience. The characters were only 15 years old, for Christ's sake! I suppose stuff like this is more realistic (or even not realistic enough!) but part of the reason I watch period films is to escape from reality. I suppose that's why this updated version bothered me a bit. "},{"Title":"Best high school chick flick ever!","Date":"29 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Clueless is by far one of the cheeriest, cutest, and funniest romantic comedies I have ever seen *squeal!* Based on Jane Austen's story Emma, this rambunctious chick flick centers around Cher Horowitz (Alicia Silverstone), a rich, spoiled high school popularity queen who concludes, after successfully setting up two teachers into romantic bliss to boost moods (and subsequently her GPA), that she is a born pro bono matchmaker, and sets off to meddle in everyone else's love affairs. When new girl Tai(RIP Brittany Murphy) arrives, she immediately gets her lotion-lathered nail-polished hands on her as her next project, and hilarity ensues. Unlike her British counterpart though, who's often been described by many as selfish and bossy, this modern-day shopaholic protagonist is just&#x85;well&#x85;clueless, but endearingly so. She may be manipulative and high-handed, but she really does believe she is doing the best for everyone.Thanks to the script and Alicia's acting chops, there is no flighty blonde I adore more than Cher. The script sparkles with comedy and wit, and from her words you can tell that beneath her airhead appearance is actually a smart girl, albeit misguided. I know it's hard to imagine that she's both smart and dumb at the same time, but she pulls it off. The other characters are just as funny and adorable Di with her insane fashion sense (bridesmaids in sailor suits, anyone?), and Tai, who frankly knows a lot more about love than Cher does, but isn't aware of it. Even her father is funny, and not in the nerdy wanna-be-hip manner that's been recycled in Hollywood a bajillion times, but as a fierce guy who doesn't take sh*t from others and encourages his daughter's scheming behavior. There's also great chemistry between Cher and her eventual love, and the happy romantic ending, which is a big plus, since I live my love life vicariously through movies *sighs* All in all, besides the fact that it leaves me craving for more, this movie is perfect! "},{"Title":"Nice movie","Date":"8 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" There was a time when I was obsessed with this movie. I viewed this nearly everyday during vacation. In fact, my vocabulary was nearly reduced to quotes of this movie! Today, I'm no longer that obsessed with Clueless. However, I still like it. I could describe my feelings about this movie as being like an ex you are no longer in love with, but are still friends with. It's still a nice movie. The script was excellent, especially the jokes. That probably explains why I used to be so obsessed with this movie with the same intensity of a 10-year old Justin Bieber fan. Overall, a nice bubblegum movie, but not for people expecting something deep and life-changing. "},{"Title":"Of its time,","Date":"16 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I first watched this movie in the late 90's and as a young teen it was like others have commented, light hearted stuff. This belongs to the age of preppy teen flicks like 10 things I hate about you and almost anything with Freddie Prince Jnr. When a pie was just for eating if you know what I mean) As a movie it has a good flow. Excellent early roles from Alicia Silverstone, Paul Rudd and Donald Faison. All of whom have gone on to bigger and better things. I cannot help thinking this film led to Donald Faison being type cast as a goofy token black guy in series such as Scurbs and indeed the TV series spin off of the movie, but he acts well in most roles if only as a support not as a lead.The overall corny cliché feel to movie may lead some to take the film less seriously than it should be, but it succeeds in entertaining without the swearing or nudity, and in this genre thats worth applauding. "}{"Title":"Suddenly a dark cloud settled over first period... I got a C in debate?","Date":"24 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Jane Austen's Emma gets a Bronson Alcott High School makeover......Much like Mean Girls that would follow nine years later, Clueless has a lot more beneath its pastel coloured surface than merely High School coming of age froth. Firmly cloaked in satirical winks, Amy Heckerling's Look Who's Talking film is a sharp parody of the wealthy whilst cunningly observing the life essentials such as friends, family and the four letter word that is love. Told from the perspective of Cher a delightful, pretty and breezy Alicia Silverstone, Clueless follows the Austen formula of a young girl who means to do well for others without realising she is sacrificing her own destiny. Cher is a wonderful jumble of contradictions, but in a good way. She's brainy but stupid, sophisticated but totally ignorant. She is a character that in the wrong hands could really have sank the movie's motives. So it's with great credit that Silverstone, guided by Heckerling's writing and direction, makes Cher utterly adorable in spite of her deficiencies. In fact it gives the film its strength. The ending for sure is never in doubt, but with the sharpness of tongue the sassy teen dialect is a metaphoric joy blending in with the air of sweetness throughout, Heckerling has crafted an alternative, modern day classic of her own.Backing up the fine work from Silverstone is the equally pretty Stacey Dash as best pal Dionne a 30 year old playing a 15 year old!, Brittany Murphy, Paul Rudd, Dan Hedaya joyous as Cher's father, Donald Faison and Breckin Meyer. A rocking sound track helps the movie flow, and Bill Pope's photography of the California locations looks pristine in High Definition. It's a warm and intelligent picture is Clueless, far from perfect, but in itself most definitely not clueless. 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Alicia Silverstone's best performance. Period.","Date":"19 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I don't really think Alicia Silverstone can act. I thought she was mild in The Crush, awful in Batman & Robin, and I can't think of anything else she is in. But she is great in Clueless. Clueless is her best film to date. Besides Ferris Bueller, it's the best teen comedy to date also. Clueless isn't like Superbad(Which I like also)where the whole film is foulmouthed. Clueless is girly and innocent, without the bad language. Listen, i'm not saying it's bad to cuss, because I cuss too. But some films should just lay low a bit on the cussing. Clueless is an awesome film with almost every likable characters. The character who I despise is Tai(Brittany Murphey) as this newcomer who becomes friends with the main characters and soon turns into this stuck up bitch. Perhaps i'm going a little out of the way, but Clueless is underrated. Clueless truly is funny and is one of the best teen comedies ever. If you haven't seen it before, than I think you sure should see it already.The Plot Cher and her best friend Deon are rich girls living in Beverly Hills. Cher has a step brother named Josh and does things to teachers to make them boost up her grades. Deon and Cher soon meet Tai, a new girl from New York. Cher and Deon try to get her hooked up and popular. While Cher is trying to look for love. "},{"Title":"A teenage movie that transcends a teenage audience","Date":"21 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I enjoy this movie on several levels - the music - the characters - the vocabulary. Amy Heckerling said that the movie actually introduced new slang into the American teenager vernacular. As If! Whatever! The main character, Cher, is a rather spoiled Beverly Hills 16 year old who always has a good heart trying to help others. You can't help but like her. Even scenes that normally shouldn't be funny are funny such as the time Cher is left in Simi Valley. I have watched this 5 times in the last week. You'll love Cher, De, Amber, Josh, & Travis. As you follow the characters you'll learn what Betties, Barnies, Monets are.... "},{"Title":"One of the Top Ten Makeover Movies...","Date":"23 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Clueless is one of the Best Makeover Movies of our times. BTW, I am a huge fan of makeover films. I love watching before and after type stuff in movies, TV shows...just about anything. In fact, I am kinda addicted to that stuff and seek it out. I even love shows like The Swan and Dr. 90210. My friends and I love Kim Kardashian (and NEVER miss KUWTK) because of how beautiful she is (even if she has never really actually done anything in movies). But she looks like what most of us aspire to, but don't...which BTW, DOES NOT MEAN THAT WE ARE UNHAPPY AT ALL. We just appreciate beautiful looking people like some others appreciate beautiful art or beautiful scenery. With that in mind, my friends and I have compiled a list of 10 BEST MAKEOVER MOVIES of recent times (after 1995). And here they are (in random order) 1) CLUELESS 2) PRETTY WOMAN 3) THE DEVIL WEARS PRADA 4) JOHN TUCKER MUST DIE 5) MAID IN MANHATTAN 6) MY BIG FAT Greek WEDDING 7) SHE'S ALL THAT 8) MISS CONGENIALITY 9) MEAN GIRLS 10) AMERICANIZING SHELLEY.I am also putting together a different list of 10 BEST MAKEOVER MOVIES of all times (prioe to 1995). Please do post me a message voting for your 10 BEST MAKEOVER MOVIES prior to 1995. And yes, I SO TOTALLY recommend this film (if you haven't already watched it)...whether you like makeover movies or not. "},{"Title":"a great parody on Jane Austen's Emma","Date":"27 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" In the last 3 decades several interpretations of the fabulous Jane Austen's work have been made, the most well-known being Bridget Jones' Diary. This one, a contemporary exploration of Emma, is however by far the best for succeeding in translating the 19th century social structures into the 1990's. Without adding extra morals or trying to create a new story it perfectly shows us social satire as ms. Austen would have loved to make it, if she had lived in our time. Without losing credibility, this film displays all the book's main characters in a logical contemporary context, adding a bit of humor and insight in our society. With great punchlines, I might add.Some will see this only as a high school comedy, and they ARE to be pitied. In that case this film isn't any better than most Hollywood products these days, and, however amusing, hardly making any lasting impression at all. It'll be just a nice way to pass a Sunday afternoon. Recommended by my nieces that's all I expected, but boy was I in for a nice surprise! A great movie giving you something to muse about afterwards. It's time I give my nieces my well-tattered copy of Emma to start with...I hope this movie will inspire a new generation into reading the classic books of ms Austen, and challenge other movie-makers to keep using classic themes as the base for many more great films. "},{"Title":"A fresh and funny twist on the teen angst comedy  As if!","Date":"11 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" CLUELESS is a breezy and entertaining teen comedy that follows a group of rich, spoiled California teenagers through their version of teen angst (we should all have had teen years this difficult). Alicia Silverstone delivers a star-making performance as Cher, the spoiled and self-absorbed daughter of a Beverly Hills attorney who bought his daughter a jeep before she got a license. Stacey Dash, plays Cher's best friend, Dionne. As Cher explains, This is my best friend, Dionne...we were both named after great singers of the past who now do infomercials. This is an endlessly entertaining film filled with great laughs that introduces an entire new facet of teenspeak which I won't spoil by getting into here. A wonderful supporting cast of fresh-scrubbed faces, some of whom would become stars later includes Brittany Murphy, Donald Faison (SCRUBS), Breckin Meyer, Paul Rudd, and Jeremy Sisto. There are also expert comic turns from Dan Hedaya, in one of his sharpest performances as Cher's father, Wallace Shawn as a stuffed shirt debate teacher and screenwriter Twink Caplan, who is very funny as the fellow faculty member Shawn falls for, Miss Giest. A delight from start to finish filled with laughs, all accompanied by a rocking music score. "},{"Title":"What a great film!","Date":"19 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Clueless is one of my favourite films ever, its funny and has a great cast. Alicia Silverstone is just amazing and plays the role of Cher very well. The story is great and its so nice just to chill and watch a funny and light hearted film. The characters are well developed and the storline is wonderful. You really get into the plot and like all the characters. Everyone i know loves this film including my boyfriend who really isn't into these kind of films at all. It is certainly worth a watch, you will not be disappointed. Also there is a really great soundtrack to the film, which is always enjoyable. A must for all movie lovers. "},{"Title":"Clueless, and still talking all that jazz","Date":"12 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I remember just barely 11 years ago when my cousin and I watched Clueless at least once a day for about a week straight. Needless to say, she'd had enough after four days but I still craved more of director Amy Heckerling's Beverly Hills 90210-Jane Austen's Emma cross-breed, this teen comedy from 1995.I'm a guy; I'll just leave that out there for you all to think about.There is something greatly charming about the beautiful, if not slightly air-headed Alicia Silverstone and her role as young Cher Horowitz. By the time she got this part, Silverstone was already the talk of the adolescent male world, and she had cut her teeth in music videos and 1993's The Crush.Just for your information, Cher is pretty well groomed, attractive, well-to-do, bright, and charitable. In a wasteland of teen movies, you would expect Clueless to be up to the rim with sex and drugs. But Heckerling's direction and writing is much, much smarter than that. Despite its teen allure, Heckerling does away with all that jazz and decides to just focus on girl world - Cher's Southern California world of parties, boys, shopping, cellphones, jeeps, and clothes - with her best friend Dionne (Stacey Dash), her litigator father (a world-weary, one-liner-spewing Dan Hedaya), and her uncool stepbrother Josh (Paul Rudd).The arrival of a new student named Tai (Brittany Murphy) inspires Cher and Dionne to give the poor fish-out-of-water a makeover, and thus become her friends in the process. The outcome is astounding, nonetheless, and Tai takes an immediate liking to skater Travis (Breckin Meyer), but Cher instead ops stud Elton (Jeremy Sisto) for her. This deed and others inspire Cher to attempt one more miracle bring together two lonely and mismatched teachers (Wallace Shawn and Twink Caplan).Cher is the atypical dizzy blonde we've grown accustomed to seeing in the movies over the years. But Silverstone gives her role a heart, and a lonely one at that. While she may seem great and beautiful on the outside, it's just a cover for her own insecurity and loneliness (who said that Clueless just had to be about girl world?) By the time Cher realizes that another hot, would-be beau (Justin Walker as cake boy Christian) isn't likely to return her sort of affection, she makes a startling discovery about who it is that does seem right for her.Clueless is just plain old fun. Similar territory was covered in Heckerling's equally entertaining Fast Times at Ridgemont High (1982), but that was 13 years earlier. Time has been necessarily good to this 1995 outing. I'm just glad to be able to write about it now, while I still can remember the good old days.10/10 "},{"Title":"Funny, upbeat and really sweet.","Date":"13 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Clueless is funny, upbeat and basically really sweet. I love each and every dress that Cher wears and I wish I could have clothes like that myself! It is hard to think that Brittany Murphy who starred as Tai grew up to be the star she is now. While it is more of a movie for girls than for guys, it is must-see movie for those girls who haven't seen it as yet. Cher's voice and the way she acts is really cute. The driving part is very funny. Cher's hair looks precious. The part where she sat with Josh watching TV and put pins and clips into her hair and tied it up into a half-pony got some fame. Maybe because Alicia did it really well. As for the guys, looks-wise the 1st guy is best but heart-wise Josh is best. "},{"Title":"A delightful movie that  closes the generation gap, and sets trends!!","Date":"4 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie is a teen movie, but without all the angst. Cher, a meddling teenager tries to set up two of her teachers to improve her grades, while discovering herself. She also tries to play matchmaker with her out of place friend, Tai, who falls for three different guys. The one that she really likes Cher tells her is not good enough for her. Cher then convinces her to like one of the popular boys who does not like Tai. Then Tai ends up liking Cher's stepbrother, and Cher does not approve, and then tries to talk Tai out of liking him. Who will Tai end up with? and what about Cher? shouldn't someone who is giving out love advice have a relationship? Don't worry everyone lives happily ever after. But, with whom? This is one of the best teen movies, and there have been few since that are this excellent. Even my 50 year old dad enjoyed this movie. "}{"Title":"Birthday gift when I was 11","Date":"27 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I received this movie 10 years ago, (I was 11) and I have probably watched it over 300 times! In fact it is so worn out that it has some sort of rattling noise inside. Anyway, every time I watch it I try to find a new *hidden message* or funny situation. The kitchen scene where Cher tries to talk dad into going to Malabu, Lucy (the maid) is hiding behind the door.My mom and I used to watch this movie together when I was a little girl. My 3 year old daughter even loves this movie (she watched it twice yesterday!) Of course she does not understand most of it, but in my opinion this movie is great for all ages! "},{"Title":"Bright and Classic Star Building Comedy","Date":"24 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This film is a bright, teen and young adult comedy. It is a strong and classic star building vehicle. A 19-year old Alicia Silverstone shines angelically playing the 15-year old top-of-her-class, popular school girl, heroine Cher. A good, at ease and apt supporting cast including an almost typecast awkward acting Brittany Murphy and a young Dr. Turkleton from Scrubs, help the feelgood factor.Very contrasting and neon, and to contrast that, stylish and fashionable. This is Beverly Hills High life, showing the cream of Earth's monetary crop as an inspiration and simple idolatry. Both Alicia and Breckin attended BHHS and this shows positively in their ease in the environment. The classic mix of modern late-C20 upper class American life acting the classic literature of Jane Austen's Emma make an intriguing aimiability. The excellent dialogue has Cher self-deprecatingly referencing Hamlet to Mel Gibson's version, whilst quoting Sonnet 18 via a pop culture icon, part of a verbal, intelligent and resourceful upcoming elite. Words are spoken like litigator, travesty and misogynistic. This (expensive) professional catered for world includes masseuses, tennis coaches, plastic surgeons and cell phones.The title is a parodic statement on the heroine's insular knowledge. Dear Cher states to Josh that she thinks Bosnia is in the Middle East, its a different climate. Cher shares her popularity. She expresses mature concepts; the defferment of sexual satisfaction, the risk of deprecation to further another, and the charitable donation of possessions. Her friend Elton also shows an instance of risk to help another and this throws the film slightly, enabling Cher to take a reflective moment, discovering another goal, to be important to one, from being important to all.Drug usage is filtered, cannabis appears in the heroine's social experience although not to any great level. Travis constantly excuses himself from study, whether to escape the possibility for learning, doubtful for one in his social position else possibly to self-intoxicate. The audience is shown Elton using Cher to provide him with drug money. Besides this he is so retro that he evokes the only social comment from Cher's dad. The student's social life is shown enjoying house parties, clubs, and adding superfluous adjectives to their speech such as way and totally.Amy Heckerling's direction of the camera is good, direction of the cast is very good and her professionalism is evident. The projection of Cher as a world figurehead is played very well. Often putting things in her mouth, including color-co-ordinated gum, and self-referencing this tactic. A note to how the smaller, more insignificant occurrences are remembered by the kids is made.The decision is made that happier teachers, as the wealthier teachers are, produce better grades. An interesting item of note is Cher refers humorously to college music as maudlin. Magdalen College in Oxford University, England, is pronounced Maudlin.The money is shown but the businesses bringing the money and the lawyers is not shown. The valley liquor store at night, boutiques, the mall, yet no computing, banking, or other big business.Nice houses, furniture, and clothes. The play of using contrasting colors, becoming fashion in mixed plaid and tartan, as the individuals themselves become subtler colored after social interaction, also Cher experiments with a nice black & white, and grey color scheme later in the film.This is a unique and classic avante guarde film.--- by Jerome, computer coder, author, and voter of 1,000 films. "},{"Title":"There is nothing Clueless about it.","Date":"22 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Clueless (1995) is a one-of-a-kind, mind-blowing, laugh out loud hilarious movie, which stars the cute and flashy Alicia Silverstone. Cher (Silverstone) is a popular, rich, beautiful 15 year old, who is Clueless over, well, most everything, except for, that is, shopping and having a brilliant time. This movie is one word amazing. I thought it looked kind of cheesy, I'll admit, I mean, Oh great, another movie about popularity. But, it was more than that. Maybe I liked it because Cher wasn't mean, she wanted to use her popularity for good as she says it. This movie totally beats 2004's motion picture Mean Girls, and I'll bet you'd agree with me, if you rented or bought this darling movie. So, got to your local Blockbuster, and check out Clueless. "},{"Title":"Everybody's clueless","Date":"11 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A chick flick I can dig. Teenager Cher Horowitz (Alicia Silverstone) selfishly matchmakes two lonely teachers (Wallace Shawn, Twink Caplan) to improve her grades and when that makes her feel good, she tries to transform a bad-dressing new student (Brittany Murphy) into a popular girl, only to have it backfire.What I like primarily is how relatable this is. Who hasn't tried to do something good only to have it backfire? We're all clueless and no matter how popular we might be, real losers.Alicia Silverstone is sweet and innocent as Cher. Stacey Dash and Donald Faison, however, provide the biggest laughs as Dionne and Murray, mismatched lovers who are friends of Cher's. Paul Rudd has a surprisingly small role as Josh, Cher's brainy and handsome ex-stepbrother, who helps Cher grow.The acting is adequate all around, but the best acting comes from minor players like Brittany Murphy and Breckin Meyer (as the druggie Travis). "},{"Title":"A Wonderfully Clueless Emma","Date":"5 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Who would have thought that the best screen adaptation of Jane Austen's Emma would emerge from an updated parody set in a Beverly Hills high school and directed by Amy Heckerling? But that's exactly what has happened with this film.Heckerling obviously gets that Austen's continuous appeal lies in the fact that her stories remain relevant and timely---so why not update it, make the character of Emma (Cher here, played by the adorable Alicia Silverstone) a daffy valley girl, and fill the movie to the brim with pop-culture references and one very funny vignette after another? After all, the spirit and tone of Emma emerges unscathed.Comedic performances are always underrated, maybe because they look so easy, but Silverstone really deserves a lot of praise for this movie. It would be nothing without her performance.Grade A "},{"Title":"Watching every girls dream on TV!!!","Date":"17 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie is by far the god of all teen movies!!! Alicia Silverstone does a wonderful job as Cher, the rich, popular, perfectly pretty, Beverly Hills princess. On behave of all pretty teen girls, Cher is definitely an inspiration. Overall the movie is great and very romantic. Who could forget all of the quotes that we still use today and those 90's outfits are enough to give the movie an excellent rating. I love this movie! Its like watching every girls dream on TV. Whoever gave this movie below an 8 is obviously jealous and bitter!!! How could anyone give this movie a 7 or below??? Its like the most perfect film ever! "},{"Title":"'Killer' Movie","Date":"12 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Clueless is a funny, well-detailed movie full of great one-liners and excellent acting. It is a fun, light-hearted movie about the pressure to be 'cool' and shows you can be yourself without changing your appearance, or attitude. It is perfect for people who just want a bit of light comedy. It is one of the movies of the '90s and even though I was 2 in 1995, I fully enjoyed this movie (now!) It is about Cher, a slightly ditzy but very confident 15 year-old who enjoys shopping, partying and having fun. She travels through the start of her teenage life being mean and 'popular' but after a fight with a friend, she realises that isn't what life is about. Although the movie focuses on many aspects of her life, I think it is her personal growth that makes this movie so classic. "},{"Title":"I love this move it's the best like totally!","Date":"16 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" THis is one of the greatest movies that i've seen, i love alicia silverstone i am not as valley girl but i like this movie their is something about this movie that is great she ends of getting to gather with her not real brother, step bro who is totally hot! he likes her totally hot guy!!! this movie rocks rocks rocks rocks, i love it, it's just great not only dialogue but a wedding and some mestery and some real fun that i love, it's silverstone vs. 80's classics in a modern twist, i think it's a great movie and i can't believe, that this movie isn't liked by people, it's just great, anyway theirs a party in the valley girl, advice is great, from anyone and everyone. I personally love this movie and wish everyone to love it to. "},{"Title":"It's Alicia's film,  but the rest of the cast deserves props!!!","Date":"9 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Especially Dan Hedaya, as Cher's crotchety litigator father. He's hilarious, warm, and extremely lovable!!! Watch his scenes with Cher and Josh and the invaluable scene with Justin Walker as Christian. What's with you??? You think the death of Sammy Davis Jr. left an opening in the Rat Pack???!!! As Cher would say, Classic!!! Another cast member, Brittany Murphy (before she somehow got caught in the Hollywood cookie cutter machine, lost weight, and subsequently lost her uniqueness as well) is a standout as Jersey Girl Tai, who, like Murphy herself, is convinced that being herself isn't good enough, and she must conform.It should be noted that although Cher is quite charismatic and of course beautiful to look at, her character is often condescending, hostile, inflexible and just plain snobby to those who don't think or look like she does. (She is terrible to Travis the Skater-boy (Breckin Meyer) and to Murray, the wanna be gangsta (Donald Faison.) That's a good thing, because, after all, she IS the one who is proved to be CLUELESS. She accuses her friend Elton (Jeremy Sisto) of being a snob and a half because he doesn't have any romantic interest in Tai, yet is totally oblivious to her own snobbishness.Paul Rudd is terrific (as usual) as Cher's ex-step-brother, who proves more than a match for her. She plans lots of schemes during the story, and he undermines her and infuriorates her with his refusal to be impressed or touched by her generosity.A lot more fun than the 1996 EMMA movie, and a lot funnier to boot.I give it an A+. It's the perfect way to spend an afternoon where you don't wanna watch depressing CNN or wallow in heaviness of any kind. "},{"Title":"Clueless","Date":"21 February 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I LOVED Clueless!! Alicia Silverstone was SO funny as Cher as well as the entire cast. The movie is SO funny and also has great romance scenes. I have every word of it memorized from watching it so many times. Everyone who I've shown the movie to (let's just say a LOT of people) have loved it too. It's so much fun to watch. If you haven't seen it, rent it at blockbuster. If you haven't seen it in a while, rent it at blockbuster. If you've seen it a couple times, buy it! It's worth the money. I watched it twice a day in summer break and still want to watch it on the weekends. I guarantee you will like it, especially if you like Legally Blonde and/or Legally Blonde 2 Red White and Blonde even the littlest bit. That's my promise to you. Feel Free to email me at AlwaysAllison@AOL.com if you have any questions about the movie or what I thought about it or whatever. Allison "}{"Title":"Sex...Clothes...Popularity...Whatever","Date":"15 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" My all-time favourite movie of this genre. Clueless is a fantastic film, carried by a great director (Amy Heckerling), and an awesome cast. Alicia Silverstone is perfect as the film's protagonist, Cher (perhaps her defining film role?), but others in the cast match her Stacey Dash is Dionne, Cher's best friend, Justin Walker is Christian, Cher's total-crush who is actually gay, and Elise Donovan as Amber, who although she doesn't get much screen time, her reactions to the other characters and situations are terrific, i often find myself watching her in the back ground rather than watching the focus. There are several teen stars in roles before they were famous, such Britany Murphy, Breckin Meyer and Nicole Bilderbeck.The story flows well, there are not really any slow moments, everyone seems to be having fun and the soundtrack is cool - plus Cher's wardrobe is awesome, i totally want one! I guess you could also say that this is one of the movies that spawned the language of a generation. Whatever.10/10 "},{"Title":"Too cute","Date":"25 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Clueless is not for the faint at heart. Anyone that has a dumb friend, rich friend, fat friend, ugly friend, or simply a friend who is trying to find themselves needs to see clueless. Your first viewing will not be everlasting. The big deal is not the movie itself. The big deal is the laughs shared between friends before, during, and after the film. If you don't catch yourself saying (at least once) OH, As if then you haven't had the clueless experience. If I had a dime for every inside joke my best friend and I share from clueless I could probably pay all of Cher's tickets. If you want a pick me up for you and your friend pick up a copy of clueless. Between Josh's dashing good looks and keen intelect and Cher's oh so charming wit, you are bound to find something to make you want to shop again. "},{"Title":"I love it!","Date":"23 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This bubbly, feel good movie is perfect for a girls night in. A must for sleepover as it provides laughs and can be quite touching at times. This movie is definitely on my top 5 all time favourites. Alicia Silverstone is adorable as Cher in the leading role and I'm surprised she didn't carry on to have a successful film career as this was definitely a role she did proud, even if she did look a little to old to be 15 years old. Another interesting role in this film is that of Brittany Murphy who is unrecognisable as Tai. All in all this is a lovely, fun way to spend an hour and a half and I really recommend this film. Girls will love it! 9/10 "},{"Title":"Like TOTALLY Rocked!!!","Date":"7 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Never has a female protagonist been a high school rich kid with blonde hair, loads of make up air in her head. Well though this movie may be almost ten years old, anyone watching it for the first time , will still have the same guilty pleasure any teenager would have experienced when it was first released.Alicia Silverstone is PEEEERRRRRFECT!!!!I am shocked she didn't come off with a golden globe nomination. Stacey Dash keeps going out of the limelight, Eliza Donavan....has anyone in my generation even heard of her? and Jeremy Sisto - who can forget him after his dark portrayals in 6 feet under and May?. Well the best in this movie is Alicia - who all had to do was to say yes to this role - and created such an Icon as Cher Horowitz- all teenage girl's wannabe then and maybe even now.  "},{"Title":"rich, stupid girl in a barbie world?","Date":"30 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Is she really so silly? In the first minutes I thought  Oh no, let's watch something else I thought she was a small, spoiled and totally clueless child. But then I found out she is more than that. She is a quite intelligent caring person. It's a typical Hollywood romance, with a happy end. It is a film which suits perfectly to teenage girls and their dreams of being pretty and popular.But my English teacher thinks it's a good film. Maybe he's right.  "},{"Title":"one of the best (the best?) adaptations of a Jane Austen novel","Date":"12 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Terrific movie -- one of the best (if not the best) screen adaptations of a Jane Austen novel.Great job by the actors Silverstone is surprisingly excellent, and Rudd is very appealing. Dan Hedaya is as great as always, and the supporting characters from her school are first rate.This movie is a far more faithful version of a Jane Austen novel than many other efforts. In particular the recent Mansfield Park was simply awful. Heckerling brilliantly captures the spirit, while transforming the setting.9/10 "},{"Title":"The best movie, like ever!","Date":"29 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film is more than a film- its a culture, way of life! Finally people have a chance to understand that those who they consider 'shallow' are not, and are quite often, smarter than they are so the lesson? Dont hate! I really like the fact that it portrays so-called 'shallow' teens as having ideas, opinions and smarts, because we do! Just because we dress well and look good doesnt make us any less credible. I love the wardrobe for this movie, its timeless! Cher is the best character ever, and the rest of the cast are excellent! Clueless is a time-less teen movie that even today, almost 10years on, is as relevant as it was then! "},{"Title":"Good Movie but bad acting","Date":"21 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is labeled as a classic of its genere. Its a really great teeny-bopper movie but it has the worst acting I've ever seen. I think Alicia Silverstone and alot of others were mis-cast. The only one who seemed right for her part was Tai. But if you look past the acting the movie is actually enjoyable. Most teen girls love it. "},{"Title":"what a great movie!","Date":"26 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  now after the whatevers and the fashion statements are imbedded in your head, the movie turns out to be funny and super. maybe there are kids that act like that, but who knows? i live in wisconsin... but anyways (**SPOILER**)  the guy that turns out to be homosexual that cher is trying to hook up with was cute as a button, and why on earth didnt cher just get with the guy that she was trying to hook tai up with? but oh well, it makes the movie interesting and wanting to know what happened to her and dionne and all the rest. the movie eventually gets to a moral which i found rather important, it doesnt matter what your clothes look like or how you wear your hair, but you can all just get along, even in Beverly Hills. (A A-) "},{"Title":"Emma goes to Beverly Hills","Date":"22 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I am a devoted Jane Austen admirer. I have read all of her books several times. I have seen all the adaptations of her books at least twice - and some like Emma - many times.When Clueless came out I did not go to see it. The very idea of Emma Goes to Beverly Hills and Becomes a Feckless Teenager appalling, to say the least. I read the favorable reviews and I still looked upon it with scorn.Then one day, lo and behold, there was nothing on TV but sports, junk or things I had already seen too many times, with one exception, Clueless.After the movie was over, I got out my copy of Emma and read it twice. Then I rented the Gwyneth Paltrow and the BBC versions and watched them twice. Then I rented Clueless and watched it twice. I realized that I owed Clueless a very large apology. Alicia Silverstone's Cher is Emma - gone to Beverly Hills - but no more feckless than Emma herself. Cher is pretty and rich and charming and smart. Like the original Emma, Cher has a father who dotes upon her and depends upon her to manage his household. Her early autonomy and her lack of real world experience leads her to the unfortunate conclusion that she is always right. And therein hangs the tale.So, if you love Jane Austen as I do, please do not be afraid to see Clueless. It is not a desecration of Emma; it is a migration of Emma's soul from the streets of an English village to the palm trees and glitz of Rodeo Drive. "}{"Title":"Cute","Date":"13 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I thought it was a smart, cute romantic comedy better than the ones we have today. I wish I was in that school it looked so cool and those outfits...I would steal that wardrobe that Cher was wearing. The thing I didn't like was Tai was getting a little bit annoying because Cher was right about everything and Tai took a little advantage of Cher and stole her spotlight. *** out of **** "},{"Title":"This movie will never age for me!","Date":"27 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I just wanted to say how great I really think this movie is. I brought it on video when I was about 15 and me and my friends at school would go round to each others house every night and watch it. We'd re-play scenes at school and quote lines daily. Now at 21 I still watch and love it.When I first watched it I thought Paul Rudd was so cute and I still do now. I think for me this is one of Alicia Silverstone's best films and I will continue to watch it for years to come. "},{"Title":"Rollin with da Homies","Date":"25 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  EHH, AS IF!! How many times was that line quoted??? I too am guilty of that.  I still love this movie, loved it when I saw it back in 1995 and it's still quirky and intelligent today. A great satire.  Every generation has their teen flicks; Clueless is a major one for those who grew up in the nineties. I can't quite relate to spoiled rich kids, but making fun of them is half the fun with this flick. Oh yeh and I can't forget the presence of some major cuties; Breckin Meyer, Jeremy Sisto and Paul Rudd!!! Perfect movie to watch with friends, and make fun of high school!!! And has some cool music too...Rollin with da homies... "},{"Title":"Classic","Date":"24 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Clueless is perhaps one of the only movies that women of all ages can enjoy. From the witty and insightful dialogue, to the adorableness of Paul Rudd, this movie is a winner.  It is a shame that many miss the brilliance of the script due to the fact that it is often looked upon as a Teen movie and not as a movie to be taken seriously.  I would suggest this movie to anyone, male or female. My friends and I quote this movie constantly and it has been a cherished member of my movie collection for years.  "},{"Title":"You try driving in platforms!","Date":"9 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  In Cher's world- Ren & Stimpy are way existential, everywhere you go has valet, and the mall is a place you go to gather your thoughts and regain your strength. She's a ditz. But she's got a very clever outlook on everything. When the grades on her report card are dragging down her average, she 'persuades' her teachers to lift them up by telling little pink lies. When new girl in town Tai is unknowing the ways of her High School, Cher and her best friend Dionne kindly offer to give her a makeover- complete with popular boyfriend, lean but husky-voice hunk Elton. Cher does it all.But, she's only human. And everybody messes up. The boyfriend she sets Tai up with happens to be interested in Cher, new sexy boy Christian who breezes into town who Cher falls head over heels for turns out to be gay, Cher fails her totally important driver's test, and Tai bites when Cher begrudges her a chance to go for her adorable ex-step brother Josh. It all boils down to one inevitable conclusion- Cher is totally CLUELESS.Clueless is through and through a good-hearted movie for real teenagers (unlike Legally Blonde). Authentic ones who curse, have social addictions with boundaries, smoke marijuana in responsible party-moderation with trusted friends, lie to get what they want sometimes, and have a good time without getting in anyone's way. The 94-95 soundtrack is chock full of bands we don't get to hear a lot on the radio anymore- Lightning Seeds, Cracker, Luscious Jackson, Lightning Seeds. It's a great nostalgic vacation to a time that rocked, in every way. Alicia Silverstone is completely enigmatic, her performance is youthful and carefree. Clueless is a totally great movie. ***1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"A delightfully ditzy comedy about a beverly hills girl.","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A delightfully ditzy comedy about a beverly hills girl. Cher(Silverstone) is a beautiful, popular, rich, spoiled, fashion plate living a mansion in Beverly hills. Cher tests her failed matchmaking abilities on her teachers and a dowdy clueless friend Tai(Murphy). In this comedy Cher experiences the ups and downs of popularity, sex, and of course cluelessness! "},{"Title":"a superb parody on teen flicks","Date":"14 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Alicia Silverstone is casted as Cher Horowitz, the all American teenager. Her best friend Dionne (Stacey Dash) is as popular as she is and together the girls give their opinions on boys, high-school lives, parents etc. When Cher finds out people may think she's selfish, she decides to play matchmaker for two lonely teachers. When a new student arrives (Tai - Brittany Murphy) Cher sees it as her ultimate good deed to transform her into a popular high-school girl. But when she realizes Tai might be getting more popular than herself and when she finds out her crush is in fact gay, she has to admit she's totally clueless.This is one of the best movies ever! Maybe this has to do with the fact that I'm European, but this parody on American teenagers is just great! It's not thigh-slapping and laughter-bursting humor, but it's sharp and sometimes even refined! Two thumbs up!! "},{"Title":"Hmmmmmmmmmm","Date":"7 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I wen´t to see this film in 1995 without having a clue about it. I was absaloutely clueless about what this film was about before I wen´t to see it in the theatre.After I had seen it I smiled. Now 8 years later has my opinion changed. Perhaps a little bit. I Was ten then I am 18 now but I still think Clueless is a pretty good film.Is it realistic. No. Does It have a strong message. No.However what Clueless provides is plenty of laugh and one of the most hilarious sentences ever said on moition picture. This film has now become a classic. It is not considered a good film or is it trying to be.It is about a rich girl named Cher who lives in a big house in Beverly Hills. She is popular, pretty and rich. Her best friend is called Dionne and they go to this High School in LA. One day a new girl comes to the school. She is pretty but her clothes and look don´t match Cher´s and Dionnes so they give her a make over and trie to find a boyfriend for her the story goes and suddenly Cher has found out that she has been helping Tai way to hard and has forgotten about her self. She falls in love with her ex - stepbrother etc.Clueless is a fun film. With laughs and some of the hillerious scenes. If you are going to see a film about teenage angst and problems look elsewhere , This isn´t a film for you.Also After Clueless was released. Over dozen of teenage films were released which had mixed sucess at the box office. Why. Well because they weren´t good. Clueless wasn´t perhaps a 5 star film but the filmakers did it right and were focusing on making a comedy not a a love story about Boy meets a girl and they fall in love but have to keep it a secret because He is popular and she´s not.my rating 8/10. "},{"Title":"A nice reworking of Jane Austen's Emma.","Date":"11 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Emma in the 20th Century.  Nicely done.  Everyone was well cast and the film was expertly directed.  Lots of topical, current references and humor to bolster the adaptation of the classic it was based on.  It's funny that a year or so later, Emma starring Gwyneth Paltrow was released and it charmed so many who'd never read the book and who also saw Clueless not realizing it was an adaptation. "},{"Title":"One of the better teenage oriented films in recent years","Date":"11 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Some genuinely amusing moments and good performances by a cast of then rising young stars save what is basically just another teenage oriented romantic comedy with the genre's standard plot and character predictaments. Alicia Silverstone moves on from her dreadful debut two years earlier in The Crush with her role here as Cher, a wealthy teenaged socialite who's obsessed with shopping and matchmaking. She gains a reputation for being able to set up dates for friends but is not so fortunate in being able to do so for herself. Several future stars including Paul Rudd, Brittany Murphy, Donald Adeosun Faison, Jeremy Sisto and Breckin Meyer appear among Cher's peer group. A fairly fitting return to form for director/screenwriter Amy Heckerling, creator of the popular Look Who's Talking film series. "}{"Title":"Very solid Jane Austen adaptation--thumbs up.","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  As a memeber of JASNA, i can affectionately and honestly say that this is a much better adaptation of EMMA than most things out there.  The Gwyneth version was pretty empty and trite, but this captures the complexities of Emma Woodhouse's character, and the transplantation to Beverly Hills works very well.  Both a good teen movie and a respectable literary adaptation.  Another big score for Amy Heckerling. "},{"Title":"Alright movie..not the best","Date":"1 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  i have seen this movie a few times, the first when i was 11 and its ok, its funny and cute and all that but i dont know theres something missing about it, it wasnt the best movie in the world but it was pretty good, if you havent seen it, go rent it and watch it!!! "},{"Title":"Most hilarious and intelligent mainstream teen comedy","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is great, all its offspring is not.  I still don't understand why this movie continues to be bashed for being stupid or cliched.  It is hysterical and poignant, and this comes from someone who hates pretty much 99.99999% of teen movies.  It never tires, and it is filled with timeless one-liners and witty observations.  Cher is truly in a league of her own, and many people overlook this, but she is actually very funny and quite smart.  The writing is top notch, and well, it's extremely entertaining, original, and just cool.  When I was younger it was great, but hilarious jokes flew over my head.  Now that I'm older, I can appreciate it even more.  Great satire, fun, albeit a little fluffy at the end.  A+ "},{"Title":"One of the best teenager movies ever!","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I loved this movie since the first time I saw it.  I ever since then, every time I've had a final or major test, afterwards, I would watch this movie to make me feel smart.  )  I've seen this movie at least 100 times and counting and it never gets old.Alicia was perfect for her part as Cher, the clueless, rich, popular girl. She did a great job of relating the many plotlines of this movie to the every day problems of a typical teenager.While the older generations might not understand the language of Clueless (i.e. 411, outie, stems, etc), its a great movie for teens and 20-somethings.Overall, whether you relate to them or laugh at them, this movie will definitely lift your spirits. "},{"Title":"Flawless","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Fasttimes at Ridgemont High and Clueless are perfect bookends to spoof highschool cretins.  Alicia/Cher will remain in my mind as well as the only good role Sean Penn will ever turn in as Spiccoli in Fasttimes.  Amy H. has a good eye for busting grins all over highschool chumps like the wigger-pants sliding off the buttheads types.  Outdated?  I don't think so, I still see chumps wearing wiggers in my 'hood! "},{"Title":"Fresh, witty, funny, and most of all, entertaining!","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  CLUELESS (1995) Rating 9/10Cher is a rich girl who may seem dumb. Whatever. She has cool clothes, a big house and everything money can buy. Her friend Dionne and her love to party, to shop and to talk about their lives. They also try to help people around them. They match two of their teachers together, they help a girl to increase her popularity... But Cher has some problems on her own. She has no trouble getting guys, but she doesn't have a boyfriend. She has a crush on a new dude named Christian, but there's one little problem... Anyway, this film contains a lot of substories like that. There's always something going on. But don't think that it's just another Teen movie. The film is smart and funny. It's a bit like the Wayne's World films. The characters are very self-absorbed and they talk in a way of their own. The dialogue is very fun. There are countless good lines. It's like Valley Girl for the nineties, cause these babes are Valley Girls. They're all gorgeous and superficial...man! It's just so funny, maybe because it might be truer to reality then you'd think. Amy Heckerling is a very good writer and director. The movie is always entertaining. There are no dull moments. The photography and the music (Radiohead, Counting Crows, Cranberries) are excellent. The cast is excellent. The young actors all have a cool attitude. There's the preps, the potheads, the black dudes... The adults are also real talented. I especially like Cher's father, a hard boiled lawyer, played by Dan Hedaya. Paul Rudd is great as Josh, Cher's post-adolescence idealistic college step brother. Stacey Dash (Dionne) is hot and funny, and Brittany Murphy (Tai) is real cute and cool. Alicia Silverstone is just awesome. She has great comic timing. The way she acts and talks in the film is unique. It's like in Wayne's World. Mike Myers is so cool in that film that every time he's on screen, the scene is great. Silverstone achieves the same thing in Clueless, one of the best comedies of the 90s. I mean, it's just so darn cool. It's fresh, witty, funny... As little as there is to care about the decade, she nails it to the barnyard, from the stuck-up babes to the dopey skaters. "},{"Title":"Funny Funny Movie","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I'm surprised that there are only 90 comments so far for this movie as funny as it was.  The movie is about 2 rich girls who take on a new transfer student and gives her a makeover.  After the makeover Cher realizes that she needs a boyfriend and a spiritiual makeover.  Brittney Murphey and Alicia Silverstone did a good job acting in this movie.  My husband likes the part where her boyfriends picks her up and says to her father, Nice pile of bricks.  I would recommend this movie to anybody who needs a funny movie to watch. "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I love this movie.  When I was in 8th grade I used to watch it everyday after I came home from school.  I could never be able to get tired of this movie.  Alicia was sooo perfect for the part.  I'm not saying it was a good part to play, but she definitely was the only one that could play Cher.  The only thing about this movie is that I don't like the Valley party scene.  It got a little boring after watching it fdor the 50th time.  Anyways, I love the language, the clothes, and the school.  Even though none of her problems or ideas I could ever relate to, it's still a good movie.  10/10..I know I'm a freak..but hey...I'm like addicted to it..I'm actually gonna go watch it right now! "},{"Title":"So much more than a chick flick","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I've just bought this on video, having seen the film a while ago on TV, and wishing I'd taped it! It is a terrific film - funny, bright, fast-moving, full of little gems of humour which come zinging back and make you chuckle to yourself a few days later!When I first heard that Clueless was basically Jane Austen's 'Emma' in a modern American setting, I cringed - and was very ready to be very critical! However, the film's light touch and clever characterisation soon disarmed me, and I realised I didn't need to leap to JA's defence! I love 'Emma' and this is certainly based on the theme of JA's book - bright popular girl tries to organise the lives of her less fortunate friends - but the American high school setting is (of course!) light years from JA's English village.Cher/Emma starts the film as an empty-headed 'ditz with a credit card' but she is always much more than that, as becomes clear through the film. I think Alicia Silverstone is excellent in the title role, and I loved her caustic litigator father (the only similarity between him and Mr Woodhouse in JA's book is that they both love their daughters - otherwise, from different planets!). The other supporting roles were good too - I particularly liked Paul Rudd, Breckin Meyer and Justin Walker.Certain scenes do stand out - I loved the PE lesson, and all the classroom 'debates' - oh, and the wedding (can't say whose!) All-in-all, a real feel-good, cheer-you-up film, good for watching on days when you want to see the happy shiny people and the California sunshine!! But it is more than just that, and I really recommend it. "},{"Title":"delightful","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Funny, witty, and good-natured teen comedy about an air-headed and fashionable Beverly Hills high schooler who strives to improve the lives of everyone around her, only to discover that hers may be the one which really needs improving. A perfect part for Silverstone, a likable supporting cast, and a sharply written script provide great entertainment. Some of the dialogue is hard not to find funny. 3/4 "}{"Title":"A modern day Emma","Date":"23 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Despite some peoples negative view of this film, I believe that it is a well thought out film. It offers a satirical view of the rich Beverly Hills teenagers, which was in its time, fresh and exciting. It paved the way for further film creations such as She's All That, 10 Things I Hate About You and Never Been Kissed. Amy Heckerling (who also directed Emma) exceeded herself when she created this film.  "},{"Title":"Only The Best Cult Movie Ever Made","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is awesome! I remember back in fifth grade when this came out we thougth we were going to be just like Cher and her friends. We had Clueless clubs and everything and decided to base our lives on that movie. I'm older now but I still love Clueless and for me it brings back great memories. Clueless, for those of you living under a rock who haven't seen it is about a beautiful young girl growing up and I can't really tell you much more without spoiling it. I know it sounds like a same old story line but this movie is funny, smart, packed with great acting and very different. Amy Heckerling is an awesome director and there is no one better to play the part of Cher than the gorgeous, talented Alicia Silverstone. A movie that spawned books, a tv show, and a cult status is definetly worth a look! The best teen movie you'll find. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Totally clueless","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is something that you can just watch and don't have to remember a single thing about it )Its funny and its fresh, it has no political/religous/moral over/undertones and you can watch it without feeling guilty for something that you did/didn't do today... This movie is just about having fun and also for taking the mick outta the kids in the states who have life easy so you can feel good about yourself.This movie however is totally fab and i love it, i love Cher and everyone else in this movie, if i knew somebody like this in real life i would probably hit them repeatly so that i could knock some sense into them, but they are nice enuff that they're online... Watch this and just feel good about yourself 0= Thats all you need to do really. "},{"Title":"Perhaps the greatest ever high school comedy!","Date":"26 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Yes, it is an adaption of Jane Austen's Emma, but this is no lightweight period piece.. Instead Clueless is set in a modern day Beverly Hills High School and it's a bucket load of fun!Alicia Silverstone is just adorable as Cher (the Emma type character.) The rest of the cast is brilliant too (which includes Paul Rudd, Stacey Dash, Jeremy Sisto and Brittany Murphy), not one weak link. My personal favourite is Breckin Meyer, whose Travis character pretty much steals this movie. "},{"Title":"Brainless fun","Date":"24 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Clueless is a carefree teen movie with an attitude. It spawned a whole new film vocabulary and helped Alicia Silverstone's star shine brighter, though for a while. It's an enjoyable journey into the life and mind of `typical' teen girl, with lots of money to spend and a to-die-for wardrobe, who sets out to make good deeds and find a mate for everyone besides herself. Paul Rudd provides welcome eye-candy and don't forget to check out a little-used Dan Hedaya as Cher's lawyer dad. Amy Heckerling's script and direction are reminiscent of Fast Times At Ridgemont High. The ending seems rushed and formulaic, but as a whole, it's a fun ride. "},{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I loved the book Emma, and this movie made me shudder when I heard it was an adaptation of the book. I wish it was never made. Every word that came out of Alicia Silverstone's mouth was idiotic and extremely annoying. Why does everyone think Alicia is a good actress? I think shes horrible, I'd like to see her getting her ass kicked in the ghetto - cuz thats entertainment. I recommend the Gweneth Paltrow version of Emma, thats good stuff. "},{"Title":"Clueless- the best film ever? Yes!","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  How often do modernisations work? Not very often, but Clueless does whilst still doing 'Emma' justice. From the start we are impressed by the slick production and acting of the cast.Alicia Silverstone takes the lead as Cher Horowitz (or Emma from Jane Austen's 'Emma'). Her impeccable timing and delivery of lines increases the hilarity of the film. Stacey Dash (Dione) is excellent as Cher's sidekick and shopping buddy.A variety of camera angles are used but the most frequent is the close-up. Whenever something happens the camera zooms in on Cher's face to see her reaction as she is the main character and the film is all about her.The film script is modernised to fit in to the time, often keeping the original script is distracting and seems wrong alongside modern styles and settings.The directing, by director Amy Heckerling, complements the script well. This is probably because she wrote it and has a better understanding of it.All in all a smart, well-scripted, well-acted film. Two thumbs up! "},{"Title":"A Brilliant Teen Movie.","Date":"9 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Clueless is one of those teen movies which delivers everything a teen movie should. It's a very funny, very witty and a very good film. The brilliant Alicia Silverstone is great as Cher Horowitz the star of the movie and Stacey Dash and Brittany Murphy are really cool as Cher's friends Dionne and Tai. Elisa Donovan is also great as Amber, the girl who you could say is jealous of Cher. Paul Rudd is also good as Cher's 'stepbrother' Josh. ***SPOILER ALERT***(Who Cher gets with at the end of the film.)***END OF SPOILER*** And, Breckin Meyer puts in a REALLY cute performance as the funny/dumb skateboarder Travis. Amy Heckerling does some brilliant directing in the film, which makes Clueless one of the best teen movies around and one you can never get bored of. See it, if you haven't seen it already. It's great. 10/10   "},{"Title":"as if!","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Though i do not really like Alicia Silverstone i have to say that 'Clueless' is one of my favourite movies. Alicia Silverstone plays Cher, the popular girl from high-school that usually knows everything better. She's stylish, pretty and looking for Mr.Right which leads not only her but also her friends in troublesome situations. This movie is fun, easygoing and absolutely worth watching it! "},{"Title":"Fun Every Time...","Date":"2 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Every time I watch this movie ( I think I am up to over 20x), it never fails that I pick up a line that I didn't get before.The script is fantastic and really reveals the best aspects of the cast.Alicia is a an absolute doll and delivers her lines like she's reading poetry... not that this a poetic movie per say. But the fluidity of the dialogue will definitely keep you coming back for more. Like... for sure! "}{"Title":"What can I say...","Date":"20 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" ...I liked it.  Not only did I like it, but it is one of the most watched movies in my collection and one of my all time favourite feel good flicks.When the movie first came out, I was dragged kicking and screaming by a friend into the theatre to see it.  I figured that it was just another teeny-bopper movie aimed at teenage girls or overly hormonal boys (of which, I was neither).  However, in spite of myself, I couldn't help but be taken in by the film's infectious charisma.  I thought the entire cast was simply charming - especially Ms. Silverstone.  Dan Hedaya was classic, as always.  And the one liners.... well they still get me chuckling after re-watching dozens of times. Granted, we're not mining any new territory here, or inspiring any earth shattering revelations, the subject matter is pretty mindless. But the film never tries to be anything more than it is...a parody of teenage life through rose coloured Beverly Hills glasses.  As far as teen flicks go, it's near the top of the list. A refreshing addition to the genre!   "},{"Title":"Girl movie!","Date":"29 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It's a great movie really, a cute girl movie that you must see. Alicia Silverstone suits great in the role as Cher! You really feel happy afterwards.. and Josh is real charmy!  "},{"Title":"As If!","Date":"29 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If you want to talk the 90's version of valley then this is the movie you have to see.  The slang used was hilarious and the portrayal of life in Beverly Hills is all the more amusing.Alicia Silverstone (Cher) did an excellent job playing a winey spoiled rich kid turned gracious spoiled rich kid in this movie will have you laughing throughout.  Stacey Dash (Dionne) also gets two snaps for her performance as well as New York tough girl turned Beverly Hills valley girl Brittany Murphy (Tai).I still find myself saying As If every so often....is that a good thing???? "},{"Title":"As Travis says in the movie itself, two very enthusiastic thumbs up, fine holiday fun!","Date":"11 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie for the first time when I was about Cher's age.  As `n girl, I loved it!  Most of the actors gave very credible performances, especially considering that it is a comedy.  The movie also makes you laugh every 2 min, and staying glued is not a problem.  I am a total movie freak, and even if Clueless is not a high calibre drama with a star-studded cast, it remains one of my top ten. "},{"Title":"Fashion at it's funniest!","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The movie that spoke to a generation....in a whole new way!Alicia Silverstone acts brilliantly as Cher, a gorgeous rich Beverly Hills resident with boys, beauty and credit cards on her mind.Cher and pal Dionne, decide to help ugly ducking Tai, a newcomer to their school, become just like them - beautiful. They introduce her to cool guys, wild parties, coke at school, and the latest shoes, as Tai becomes their new 'project'.And along the way, Cher must also find a boy for herself, and after finding out that one of them is gay, finds herself in a position, unable to argue her way out of. Meanwhile, Tai's brush with death in a mall, makes her the most popular girl in school, and becomes somewhat snobbish - labeling Cher a 'virgin who can't drive' and snubbing her long-time crush.However, alls well that ends well. Cher finally realizes her feelings for bookworm Josh, Tai get's it together with the dopehead, and the star-crossed teacher-lovers get married!!!All in all, I'd say this movie was absolutely awesome! Soon after this movie was released, 'As if!' and 'Whatever!' became the new cool playground catch-phrases. With hilariously funny jokes, this movie becomes a personal favourite. 9/10!! "},{"Title":"A Classic Movie","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Clueless is the best teen movie of all time. It delivers the goods. Its hip, funny, and intelligent. It has a great cast. Alicia Silverstone plays a popular fashionable teenage girl. She is superb. Paul Rudd (The Object of my Affection) also does a great job with his character Josh. It is about a popular 16 year old girl named Cher, who helps people (e.g. she helps the new girl, Tai to become popular) to satisfy her own needs, which back fires on her. She ends up falling in love and changing her self image and personality for the best. This is a must see movie for all. An instant classic. "},{"Title":"A Fun Movie to Watch","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is one of my favorite movies.  I always forget how funny it is.  I don't think this movie could've been much better considering the subject matter.  What makes it better than most teen films (which, honestly, I usually like) is that it doesn't suffer from a bad plot.  Instead, it doesn't really have a plot at all (which is actually good for a movie like this.)  It's just fun from start to finish. "},{"Title":"You just know everyone is going to live happily ever after","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  `Clueless'.  ****.  (1996, USA, PG-13, 97 min. Directed and written by Amy Heckerling with Alicia Silverstone, Stacey Dash, Brittany Murphy, Paul Rudd, Dan Hedaya, Wallace Shawn, Twink Caplan).  Let me begin with a confession, I wasn't a fan of Jane Austin.  I'd never read a Jane Austin novel. (I've read all her novel since I wrote this review.) Thus, I watched `Clueless' sans benefits of any knowledge of `Emma' or any other of Jane's stories or characters.  Yet `Clueless' which is based on Jane Austin's `Emma' is one of my favorite movies of 1996. The characters are all good looking.  They are smart, resourceful, individuals.  Cher (Silverstone) is a stereotypical Valley Girl high school student.  She lives with her widowed and divorced father (Hedaya).  He's a very successful lawyer, always working on the next big case.  Cher and her best friend Dionne (Dash) are majoring in everyone else's life.  Cher explains she and Dionne are best friends because they both know what it's like to have everyone jealous of them.  Grades? Cher isn't the best of students but she negotiates with her teacher's for better grades.  And when the charm doesn't work, Cher assumes it's because they (the teachers) aren't happy.  Everyone knows happy teachers give higher grades.  Two of the unmarried and unhappy teachers (Shawn and Caplan) become a Cher project. `Clueless' lets us watch Cher deal with all the stresses of matchmaking, helping the new girl (Murphy) with a make over, driving lessons, and taking care of her father and everyone else.  Through all this and much more Cher begins to realize that she's missing a Mr. Right in her life.  Reflecting on her life she wonders how she could be so clueless.  But Cher is smart beyond the airhead remarks that get her through a day at school.  And when she really needs someone to listen to her she can go to her dad.  (I really liked this part of the movie.  Parents don't need to be bumbling fools to be part of a teenage comedy.) Does it all sound a bit corny?  Yeah, but the humor is clever and smart like the characters.  The characters are in on most of the jokes and at story's end every girl has a boyfriend; every boy a girlfriend.  Mr. Hall and Miss Geist (the two lonely teachers) are getting married.  Dad's ready for the next big case.  Even Cher's found Mr. Right.  You just know everyone is going to live happily ever after.  And if they aren't, I don't want to hear about it.  I liked this movie just the way is; four stars worth.  "},{"Title":"I love this Movie!!!","Date":"15 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I didn't know this movie is an adaptation of Jane Austin's novel Emma.I don't know what the America High school life is. so when I watched this one for the first time, I thought some characters are kind of unrealistic. but it doesn't matter to me. I think its adaptation is great!! Unlike other movies, I never watched the time during the movie. it's inspiring, interesting, delightful to watch. watch this.- Minor spoiler alert -There's a scene that Cher attempts in vain to seduce male friend to have her first sex. but on the bed he watches Spartacus. we can see a few scenes that Laurence Olivier - who's plays a rich, powerful Roman senator - meets Tony curtis - a slave who's arrives as gift From Sicily-. Cher's boyfriend says that The next scene is his favorite. I guess that's indicating the bath scene between Laurence and Tony sharing together. we can see that He's a gay. I guess... ^_^..the actor(similar look with Jason Priesly) was so cute.  "},{"Title":"Believe, it's my favorite!","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  People laugh when they know it's my favorite movie, 'cause I'm a movie lover. But think! A fresh cast in their best moment. A great director/writer, who based this movie on 18xx's book by Jane Austin (Emma). A well-done production. And the charm and charisma from Alicia Silverstone, Paul Rudd, Stacey Dash and Brittany Murphy. It's not enough? So, hear each ironic and smart line of this film! It's perfect! Watch it again, hearing every word, and you'll agree! It's the smarter fun you'll ever find. "}{"Title":"While Clueless may not be the best film ever, it is also not mindless","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  First of all, I have to say that I am a fifteen-year-old girl that saw this movie when it originally came out.  However, I have read all seven of Jane Austen's novels (even the unfinished Lady Susan).  Emma is probably my second favorite of Jane Austen's novels (after Pride and Prejudice) and third favorite heroine (after Eleanor of Sense and Sensibility and the marvelous, witty, beautiful, intelligent Elizabeth of Pride and Prejudice). Jane Austen said that she thought that her readers would not like Emma but that she herself liked her best of all her characters.Emma, like all of Jane Austen's novels, is a comedy of manners, and it is, in my estimation, the most comedic of any of her novels.  While some have called Clueless stupid and fluffy, I think it adheres very closely to the spirit of Jane Austen's novel, much more so than Emma, the movie.`  Emma was not designed to address serious matters, and all of Jane Austen's novels deal with the well-to-do.  Cher, trying to raise her grades by arguing and help the world by donating her skis, is very much like air-brained yet intelligent Emma. As in Emma, Cher thinks that helping Tai become more popular, or initiated into society, and finding her a popular jerk of a boyfriend instead of a caring but uncool boy is her way of improving the world.  Cher, like Emma, does not realize her mistake until Tai becomes a monster and decides to go for the object of Cher's affection, her stepbrother. The movie and the novel address how we often think we're doing the best for others by making them conform to our notions of what's right for us.  They also address class snobbery, both in Jane Austen's England and in high school.  Although the attitudes and stereotypes in Cher's high school seem unrealistic, being in high school, I think the movie seems very true to life.  My main problem with Clueless is the other teen flicks it has spawned, but even they are better than teen favs such as Varsity Blues (football and sex, football and sex). While Clueless may not be the best film ever, it is also not mindless.  "},{"Title":"Delicious, smart, funny","Date":"11 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It is widely known that Clueless is an adaptation of Jane Austen's novel Emma -- moved from 1800s England to 1990s Beverly Hills.  And an excellent adaptation it is.  While it is very doubtful that any standard-length film could match the psychological complexity and character development of Austen's classic, Clueless captures the novelist's favorite theme of skewering social pretensions (albeit more gently than Austen did!).  Just like Emma, Clueless portrays a privileged young woman whose snobbery and arrogance blind her to many of life's realities and cause even her best intentions to go awry -- until she's taken a peg down and redeems herself.I don't especially care for teen flicks, but this is a smart, funny with a lot of really great lines in it.  Here's one that is not included in the IMDB movie quotes list.  Cher to the Division of Motor Vehicles worker who failed her on the driving test Isn't there someone else I can talk to?  Surely, you can't be the absolute and final word in drivers' licenses! DMV worker Girlie, as far as you're concerned, I'm the Messiah of the DMV!  By the way, the entire driving test scene was simply hilarious -- one of the best comedy moments in any recent movie.  An excellent, dead-on performance by Alicia Silverstone, with a very good supporting cast as well.****** POSSIBLE SPOILERS **************Just a couple of things that didn't work very well in the translation from novel to movie.(1) In Emma, Mr. Elton, the vicar Emma is trying to fix up with Harriet Smith, the counterpart of Tai in the movie, asks for a portrait of Harriet which Emma sketched -- as it turns out, not because he's in love with Harriet (as Emma thinks) but because he's courting Emma, and the sketch is her work.  In Clueless, the sketch is replaced by a photo of Tai taken by Cher, which Elton puts up in his locker.  It doesn't quite work because a photo (unless it's by a real artist) isn't really a personal expression of the author, in the same way that a sketch is.(2)  In the novel, the dashing Frank Churchill (the counterpart of the movie's Christian Stovitz) pretends to court Emma as a cover for his engagement to a governess whom his family would consider undesirable (because she's poor).  In the movie, Christian is gay (openly enough that Dee's boyfriend knows all about it).  Why is he acting, at least in the beginning, like he's attracted to Cher and not just interested in her a friend?  Why doesn't he tell her the truth when it becomes very clear that she's attracted to him?  Is he trying to conceal the fact that he's gay and use her as a cover?  I think that basically Amy Heckerling was just too nice to make Christian look unpleasantly manipulative, the way Frank is in the book.However, these are mere quibbles.  Overall, a minor but delightful work. "},{"Title":"A great comedy with many modern quips","Date":"14 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Clueless is a comedy that would appeal to everyone if they'd just give it a chance. By no means is a 'girlie' flick, but is funny for the whole family! Alicia Silverstone did a great job as Cher, the popular rich girl who just wants to have some fun. Comedy and modern quips are used constantly, which is what makes this movie so appealing. It's worth a look! "},{"Title":"AMAZING!","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  By far one of the best teen movies ever made.   It brought back the teen genre in full force.   I'll never tire of watching it.  It was instantly one of my favorite movies.  "},{"Title":"Enjoyable","Date":"27 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a cute piece of fluff from Amy Heckerling. The script is funny, the scenery is pretty, and the casting is great. Alicia Silverstone playes Cher in her best movie to date, and Dan Hedaya, Paul Rudd and Brittany Murphy are all fine in supporting roles. When I first saw it in the theater, I was surprised by how much I enjoyed it. "},{"Title":"Don't be scared away by the cover and its chick flick status","Date":"11 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I absolutely Love this movie. I can see it night after night. I must say that I am not one of those people that only see movies once if I like a movie I will see it at least 4 times. Now Clueless may not be for everyone but it is intelligent in an airheaded way. Now I must confess that I am a 14 year old girl but I do read and I am not satisfied by any old chick flick (and Clueless is the definition of chick flick). The acting is wonderful and the screenplay is amazing (those who say it is not witty need their head examined). I don't think that I know anyone who didn't like it. I can't decide which is better Emma or Clueless but I think Clueless is just a hair above Emma (Though Gwyneth Paltrow is the most talented actress of our days). Paul Rudd is absolutely adorable (I could watch the stair scene over and over). It is one of the most quotable movies ever and it is actually funny. It is hard to find an actually funny movie these days. All the movies that are supposed to be funny are just sick. Enough of my ramblings to put it in a nutshell see this movie "},{"Title":"Good time passer","Date":"25 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  10 Things I Hate About You was a take off from William Shakespeare's The Taming of the Shrew. More high school flicks using the Bard's work and throwing it into a time capsule for 2000 are on the way. Therefore, Clueless falls into the same category.Apart from choosing to go after Jane Austen's Emma, the movie is wiser than some of the insults to great Shakespeare. Amy Heckerling chose to write and direct this at least three years before the terrifying trends using every available beautiful teenager on the Hollywood market.Teenage romantic comedies are one of the few neglected genres on the market which has a below average scoring as far as decent entertainment goes, but are designed for the undemanding young crowds. Clueless is at least better than most of them. A generally funny, but silly script comprised with Beverley Hills setting and the aim of life directed towards the mall is a film that surprisingly works rather well. Most of the success is due in part to the performance of Alicia Silverstone, which remains her best performance to date. I can't say much about the silly T.V show, but this is good entertainment for teenagers. It's probably still too provocative to pick over Toy Story for the littlies. Rating 7/10 "},{"Title":"A lesson learned.","Date":"24 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  For a long while I flat refused to see this movie, out of disgust for those self-centered bimbos that head the cast. Amy Heckerling is an incredible director but I still didn't want to watch Clueless. My mother, of all people, LOVES this flick. So I swallowed my pride and watched it one day.I laughed. I laughed a lot. The movie was funny, witty, and completely stupid. I imagine it was meant to be that way. In the end I was surprised at the ability of the characters to show their responsible, mature side. Plus Paul Rudd is adorable.Anyway, if you see this flick, let is all slide. It's hilarious if not taken too seriously.  "},{"Title":"A Moment In Time Between the 80's and Gen-X","Date":"16 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Already painfully outdated, but still a must-see.  Each character is both obnoxious and cute.  The subplots are fantastic, and Cher's narration is what makes the whole thing.Technically a 90's movie, but the soundtrack proves that the 80's were close in the mind.  I thought everyone had forgotten about General Public & the song Tenderness.   "},{"Title":"Clueless?  Nah!","Date":"12 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Smart and enjoyable updating of Jane Austin's Emma.  Alicia Silverstone is the emotional center to this charming sleeper, which I enjoyed far more thouroughly to the recent Emma, starring Gwynneth Paltrow, which no doubt was inspired by the success of this film.  If you haven't seen it, give this a shot - you'll be pleasantly suprised! "}{"Title":"Wonderful blend of Beverly Hills and Jane Austen's Emma!","Date":"6 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Amy Heckerling did an excellent job recreating Jane Austen's renowned Emma in a '90s style that will appeal to all ages. Heckerling cleverly creates a story that parallels Emma while at the same time developing a unique twist on things. Highly recommended that you watch Clueless, if not for it's societal context then for the humor. "},{"Title":"Heckerling defines another decade of teens","Date":"1 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A rich daddy's girl takes on the challenge of matchmaking for the new girl in town, but alas finds love lacking for her own deserving self.  A tremendously pleasant surprise.  A very 90s film from the director who helped define teendom in the 80s as well.  Fans of Jane Austen's EMMA will boost this rating at least a half star, as they watch in awe as Heckerling (so faithfully somehow) updates the early 19th century novel.  Especially fine performance by Silverstone, and one of the best scripts of the decade. 2 1/2 of 4 stars on a tough scale. "},{"Title":"My favorite comedy ever!!","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  WONDERFUL movie making!!!!!!!!!!!!!This movie has to be the best comedy of the 90's! The movie is set in California, and is about love and how teenage kids living in Beverly Hills in 1995 handle it.It's like high school with attitude.On the cover it says,  'Sex. Clothes. Popularity. Whatever. Just to give you an idea of what the movie is really about, mostly kids saying words like, PHAT, DOPE, BETTY, and other words like 411, and other words that you don't understand.I know just about every line in this movie, to give you an idea of how many times you can watch this movie!!!Probably the best line in the whole movie is when Alicia Silverstone (Cher) and her co-star (Dee) are writing a love note to a teacher.Cher is writing the note which has a famous Shakespearean quote in it.Dee Phat! Did you write that? Cher Duh, it's like a famous quote! Dee Oh yea, from where? Cher Cliffsnotes.The whole movie is just hilarious! My favorite comedy of all time!!!!!!!!!You have to watch this movie!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"I have direction. Yeah, towards the mall","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The essential girls comedy!! I don't know anyone who didn't like this movie. Alicia Silverstone is hilarious as Cher, as well as her friends Dionne and Tai. Although she may look snobby and selfish, she has a big heart and wants to help those around her (sometimes to benefit hersef more than others, but it is still funny). Watch with your girlfriends and I dare you not to quote lines from the dialogue! Anything happens to my daughter, I got a .45 and a shovel, I doubt anybody would miss you. "},{"Title":"I could watch this film on a daily basis.","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I first saw Clueless at a preview showing in San Francisco. I loved the parody and humour of the movie. The casting is perfect and although I generally dislike sequels I feel if another classic novel was taken as the premise it could work well.This movie is complete brain candy, and in some places eye candy too. There are so many throw away lines it's easy to miss them (unless you have seen it a kabillion times like me) Do you like Billie Holiday? Asks Christian, I love him Cher responds.Two very enthusiatic thumbs up, fine holiday fun.(Those who've seen it know what I mean, but it sums up my sentiment about the movie)Rent it now "},{"Title":"Absolutely Wonderful!!","Date":"31 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is one of my all time favorites. I have probably watched it at least 25 times. It is absolutely positively wonderful! Now, for those of you looking for serious drama, go somewhere else. But for those of you who are looking for a good movie or a worthwhile way to spend your time, look no further than CLUELESS. It is downright funny. If you have girls from the ages of 11-19 in your family, this is their movie!! "},{"Title":"another teenage fan...","Date":"23 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I don't want to babble on or anything, I would just like to say that I found this movie absolutely GREAT!  It depicts the Beverly Hills airhead reputation perfectly (with a little exaggeration) to complete a funny, and entertaining story.  In fact, I was very disappointed in my parent's reaction (slightly negative), saying that it was for starters- stupid.  So it is not a dramatic, straight, Oscar-winning movie...so what?  I say that if you're looking for a laugh and a good time, alone or with friends, Clueless would be a good choice.   "},{"Title":"Darling!","Date":"3 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Hilarious film, much to the credit of Heckerling and her cast, who fit their parts like a second skin.  The sparkle blurs in a scene or two but is quickly recovered--the best that can be expected of even the finest motion pictures.  The well-written script aided Silverstone in stretching herself beyond the litmus tests in The Crush and all those Aerosmith videos. Nicely done. "},{"Title":"Tripe to glorify the rich and attractive.","Date":"17 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Wow! This movie makes my skin crawl every time I see it.Alicia Silverstone very deftly plays Cher, an airheaded high-school kid who lives in a world of designer clothes, parent-bought sportscars and marble-floored mansions. The film follows her vapidly philanthropic misadventures around Beverly Hills as she slowly realizes who she is in love with.Acting? Mediocre. Dialogue? Lame and contrived. See Silverstone self-consciously choke out her lines. Music? Decent. See The Mighty Mighty Bosstones when they were cool. Plot? Loosely based on Jane Austen's Emma (or so I've been told by every 16-year-old miniskirt princess who likes this film). All in all, a waste of time. Might be better for those who think the rich are interesting.Grade C-.Fun things to watch for MTV's Julie, good Cranberries b-side, incest, incest, incest. "},{"Title":"Utterly charming","Date":"18 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This was a great movie and even though it was a satire of Emma, Silverstone was very convincing in her role.  I could believe a Valley Girl can be like that and not be turned off by her ditziness.  Silverstone was utterly charming.Great fun for 2 hours and deserving of all the snaps.  Now I know how all the hip lingo came about and I can even marginally understand it too!  "}{"Title":"Like, totally awesome","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This downright hysterical modernization of Jane Austen's Emma had me rolling on the floor with laughter (it's a good thing I never saw it in the theaters). The screenplay was perfect, peppered with keen observations and terrific slapstick humor. Alicia Silverstone is perfect in the lead role (and gorgeous to boot). Not one moment in this movie failed to entertain me. Fantastic!  "},{"Title":"Clueless 10, Expectations 0","Date":"12 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  For almost 3 years, I refused to watch this film.  I mean, *refused*.  Even left parties and friends' apartments to avoid it.  I was certain I'd hate it, what with all the valley girl talk and attention to Versace.Finally, I was coerced into seeing it (don't ask how).  Much to my surprise (and, initially, shame), I loved it.  I must say that Amy Heckerling has done a fabulous job of capturing the lighthearted spirit of the novel (Emma), and the characterizations really aren't nearly as far off as the trailers made them seem.Now that I'm a fan, I've forced several friends to watch it with me, and the verdict is unanimous  Clueless is a quirky, cutesy, wholly appropriate adaptation of a wonderfully quirky and cutesy tale.  See it, see it, see it!  "},{"Title":"A Valley Girl we can all love","Date":"24 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  For about the first half hour of this film I thought it was a spoof on Valley Girl films.  Finally I realized it wasn't a spoof at all...it was the real thing!  Alicia Silverstone is the V.G.  Somehow it seems the role wasn't too much of a stretch for her.  She wears all the right clothes and knows all the right kids.  The good news  she's not as vacuous as you might think.  In fact, she's a downright nice person once you get to know her. One of those films that's infinitely more enjoyable than it should be. "},{"Title":"Like I'm totally too old for a flick I'd never be caught watching","Date":"5 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I'm a 40s male (oh god no). And I would never even think of watching these lame teen flicks. Just zap past them when they show on TV. But this time I was stuck on it 2 minutes in and so glad I stopped to glance. This is genuinely funny stuff with self-conscious actors doing the ridiculous things and clever dialogs many other types of films could use a real dose of. It's even worth renting to watch no matter how old you are. Or if you don't get it maybe you should just like blow yourself away to put the rest of us out of your misery. "},{"Title":"A brilliant modern day representation of the classic book Emma","Date":"1 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The movie takes the basic storyline of the Jane Austin's classic book Emma and locates it in Beverly Hills - California in the 1990's. Alicia Silverstone was brilliantly cast as the main character Cher Horwitz, which was the key to this movie's success. Nobody else could have played the role in such a believable way! The film was storylined in a Week in the life of a popular teenage girl fashion, which brings the movie a younger audience. However the movie is also enjoyable for a wider age group, due to the humour built on top of the book's storylines. In short, it's a great feelgood movie!  "},{"Title":"one of my all-time favorites","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This witty play off of Jane Austin's Emma is a hilarious look at the perfect Valley Girl's life, and her constant battle with fashion, friends, and love. With only a couple of jokes for the intellectually advanced, I think that most everyone will love this movie.  I give it two thumbs up "},{"Title":"Loved it!","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film, in my mind will always be a classic.  It's funny, it's cute, it's great entertainment.  The script is loaded with laughs in just about every moment and Alicia Silverstone carries the film wonderfully.  This is the kind of movie I can watch over and over again.  My score 10  "},{"Title":"Heavenly funny comedy","Date":"29 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film is one of my absolute favorites. Alicia Silverstone surprisingly looks even cuter than ever before, the excellent plot never takes itself too serious and is full of totally amusing dialogs and situations, and the kids in the story are all innocent and fastidious, but at the same time always sympathetical and goodwilling.The movie is for its kind of humor a little bit like two of my very favorite tv series, Sabrina the teenage witch and Married ... with children. However, this film does have far more sympathy for its characters than Married, and it is more realistic (but not at all less funny) than both series, especially in the scenes where the girls are trying to get a boyfriend. "},{"Title":"bopper flick","Date":"21 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is a classic for all the stuck up 13 year olds who are in love with Leonardo Decaprio and aqua. they all wish that they lived like the people in this movie which will never happen as it is one of the most insanely idiotic movies I have ever seen. it is full of actors in their 20's playing 15 year olds and everybody owns huge luxurius cars. Aside from all that the movie is not boring and I could sit through it. "},{"Title":"The Ultimate Lifestyle","Date":"30 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Clueless has been such a hit! Even three years later. The reason? Cher has the lifestyle of everyone's dreams!! I wish my school was like that! (Unfortunately we have to wear uniform!!) And those clothes! and to be able to get away with some of the things she does!! What can I say?! I'M YOUNG AND I'M HIP.........I'M GONNA BE A SUPERMODEL!!!!!!!! "}{"Title":"I WANT THAT LIFE!!","Date":"30 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  What an excellent movie! As a teen, the Clueless lifestyle is simply ideal! It's one of those movies that you can watch over and over again and still find it totally interesting! The only down side - it finishes and you realise you have to return to the dull life you have in comparison!! "},{"Title":"Genuinely fun and funny","Date":"28 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is overtly hilarious and condescending yet has some subtle tips on sex and drugs without being preachy.  For all her faults I think Cher makes a good role model for teens everywhere.  It's all in the attitude and I'll enjoy watching this movie for many years to come. "},{"Title":"Hilarious satire","Date":"19 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Hilarious adaptation of Jane Austen's Emma to the screen in the context of spoiled Beverly Hills girls, Cher and Dionne. This is the film that made Alicia Silverstone a star and it is easy to see why. Silverstone practically makes the character her own, which may be a worry considering its nature, and this could explain why the subsequent sitcom didn't rate nearly as highly. Amy Heckerling, writer and director, skilfully pokes fun at the various stereotypes evident in Beverly Hills culture, at the same  time as encouraging the audience to retain sympathy with the main characters, however spoiled they may appear to be. Like Emma, Cher is honest and reliable, despite her faults, and she is seen to have good intentions at heart. This is partly what makes us sympathetic to her boy and friend troubles. Using constant cultural references (Baldwins, Friends of Dorothy etc) Heckerling's script roots itself in its own generation, which may hamper its becoming a classic, but it is doubtful that that was ever the intention anyway. The film is backed up by a bright soundtrack, mirrored by the colourful mise en scene. It never, despite the high drama, seems to rain much in Cher's world. The colours and styles of the fashions, often an integral theme, seem to be burlesques of actual fashions although, in all likelihood, they are quite earnest. Silverstone is backed up by a truly talented support cast, including the always engaging Breckin Meyer and Stacey Dash, who's Dionne always perfectly complements Silverstone's Cher. Also featured is a superb performance by Justin Walker as Cher's would-be boyfriend and it's a bit surprising that he hasn't gone further based on his effort here. All in all, Clueless is an engaging and genuinely hilarious film, which, with Reality Bites and Empire Records could well become earmarked as a symbol of its decade. "},{"Title":"Ohmigosh! This movie is, like, way cool!","Date":"27 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie will stand out in history as the only movie Alicia Silverstone was good in. The dialogue is humorously trendy, the astute attention to popularity is clever, and the plot works! This movie is sooooo much better than the lame Tv series that followed it. "},{"Title":"What a dope movie!","Date":"19 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Clueless is one of my favourite movies! I just love it! It`s funny, witty, cool, stylish and sooo dope (means cool or great in Cher-speak). Cher is so cool, and the clothes are just fantastic! A definitely must-see movie. "},{"Title":"Probably not what you expect, which is a good thing","Date":"29 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I've seen this film a few times now and will no doubt watch it again in the future. I remember seeing the hype and trailers that accompanied the release of Clueless, and I probably made a mental note to avoid it like the plague, I was sure I'd hate it.I was very pleasantly surprised by Clueless, it mocks all those pathetic US teen/high school TV series where all the pretty people live in some kind of fantasy land. Those shows make me want to pull out what's left of my hair. Those shows are as fake as a politician's sincerity.Alicia Silverstone is at her best as Cher, a character you just have to love and hate at the same time, but the real star of the show is the script, the dialog is absolutely hilarious and I'd guess it's aimed at a slightly more mature audience than the characters in the film, I think many teens would miss some of the irony.If you've never seen it, avoided it, or thought you were too old for it, give it a chance. You too might be pleasantly surprised. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Hilarious,","Date":"5 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Clueless is a fantastic movie with a good story line,which is a common teen movie story,but the movies comedic cast and hilarious characters make it more fun for all ages.Alicia Silverstone plays the lead character,she is very funny in the movie and also extremely attractive.My favourite part of the movie is Paul Rudd's character Josh,I have never seen a movie with him in it that I didn't like,and his characters are always very funny and down to earth,like I imagine he is.I think the whole family can enjoy this movie and I was extremely surprised with how much I enjoyed it.Cher (Alicia Silverstone) lives a high-profile life living with her rich father,and spends most of her time with her friends and putting people together,but Cher realises its time for her to find a boyfriend of her own. "},{"Title":"A witty parody on life of high school kids from wealthy backgrounds","Date":"2 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Clueless is one of the classic teen movies from the 1990s. It is feel-good, hilarious and witty.A majority of teen movies tend to involve exaggerated characters, grotesque behaviour and bland dialogues. Not this one.The lead female character, Cher, is spoilt, arrogant, manipulative, good-looking, fashion-obsessed and a daughter of a rich lawyer. Her attempts to help the others improve their personal lives are either motived by her selfish interests or are helpful distractions from her own loneliness, which is mainly a side-effect of her arrogance. Despite all that, her character is in fact very likable, simply because there is no real malice in anything that she does. Plus, she is a genuinely caring daughter. Even her needling jokes at the expense of her a couple of years' older ex step-brother are in fact relatively benign reactions to his unjustifiably stereotypical opinion of her.The other characters are very entertaining and tend to end up looking a lot deeper than what a viewer might think of them when they are first introduced. This is actually quite a refreshing trait of this film.Anyway, what really sets this movie apart from much of the rest of the genre is an abundance of witty retorts. This is what makes you not feel like you can hardly wait for the predictable ending.In sum, Clueless is one of the very few movies from the teen comedy genre that I cannot fault. "},{"Title":"Fun nineties teen comedy","Date":"6 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Cher Horowitz, the protagonist and narrator, is a sixteen year old girl living in affluent Beverley Hills; her life appears to revolve around shopping, fashion and acting as matchmaker for those she thinks need her help. Early on she and her friend Dionne engineer a romance between two of their teachers; partially because she figures they are more likely to give good grades if they are happy and partially because 'Old people can be so sweet'. When new kid Tai Fraiser joins her class Cher has a new project; she must make the new girl fashionable and hook her up with one of the schools more eligible boys while steering her away from the wrong sort. Along the way she thinks she has found love too but she isn't quite what he is looking for in a relationship... mostly because she is a she! While all this is going on with her school friends her older step-brother is visiting and he clearly thinks she is rather shallow but as they get to know each other they inevitably get closer.A plot synopsis makes this sound like a cheesy rom-com but there is more com than rom and the comedy is genuinely funny. The 'valley speak' doesn't quite descend into parody so you believe the characters might actually talk like that. The situations provide lots of laughs and the film is packed with snappy, eminently quotable dialogue. The cast put is solid performances, especially Alicia Silverstone and Brittany Murphy who play Cher and Tai respectively; Dan Hedaya was also great as her father, I loved how he delivered the line' Anything happens to my daughter, I got a .45 and a shovel, I doubt anybody would miss you.' to a potential suitor! I'm no where near the target demographic but really enjoyed this film; I suspect most people it is actually aimed at will love it. "},{"Title":"Well Made and Well Acted but the Characters Were Annoying","Date":"7 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Clueless (1995) ** 1/2 (out of 4) A spoiled California teen (Alicia Silverstone) finally decides to do something that's not for herself and help a new girl get some style. Along the way she starts to realize that her matchmaking skills should apply to herself as she seeks a new boyfriend. I remember watching Amy Heckerling's film the Friday it was released into theaters and I remember going to school on Monday and every girl there was trying to copy the style and language of the lead character Cher. I strongly remember how annoying these people were trying to copy the movie but I also found the actual characters in the film to be annoying. Now I don't know how realistic this movie is. I'm not sure if teens in California were really acting this way back in 1995 but I certainly hope not. There's no denying that CLUELESS features great direction, great performances and it has a style all of its own but in the end the film added up to a big nothing. If people connect with these characters then I understand why they'd think the movie was great. For me, as much as I enjoy the technical side of the film, I just can't get over the fact that all of the characters here were annoying and I didn't care about any of their spoiled problems. There's no denying that Heckerling did a terrific job at putting this on the screen because she really brings this world to life. Everything from the fashion styles to the dialogue, the director really puts the story together. The performances are also another major plus as everyone fits their roles perfectly. Silverstone is pitch perfect in her role as Cher. She handles the dialogue perfectly and there's no question that she's very cute and charming in the part. Paul Rudd is also good in his role of the ex step brother. CLUELESS has all the style but to me it just lacks a certain substance that keeps it from being a complete winner in my book. "}{"Title":"A 90's classic","Date":"5 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" 'CLUELESS' is the type of movie, I'd have a hard time understanding how anyone could hate it (Well maybe i could understand if your a straight male!). Its just one of those movies. Its funny, stylish, cute, and entertaining. Alicia Silverstone is great as the main character 'Cher', a spoiled airhead, from Beverly Hills. Brittany Murphy, and Stacey Dash are great as well, as her two gal pals. All the characters are great in their own way. Dan Hedays is hilarious as Cher's dad. This is definitely one of the 90s teen comedies at its best, and it never gets old either. I saw this for the first time at around age 8, and at 21 I still love it. If you liked this, I'd also recommend 'Valley Girl'. I have not seen EMMA, the movie which this is slightly based on? I highly doubt i'd like it more than CLUELESS though. "},{"Title":"A light hearted comedy based on Jane Austin's Emma","Date":"18 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" When I first heard of this movie way back in the mists of time (okay only four years ago) I wasn't particularly interested, but then I decided that I would pop along to a screening that the Film Society at Adelaide University was showing it and I decided to go along and was pleasantly surprised. The critics loved this movie and I also think it was pretty good as well, good enough to hire it to see if it was worth purchasing. My conclusion I won't purchase it but I wouldn't stop anybody else from doing so. The reason I wouldn't buy it is because it comes out with relationships coming together and working out and it is a really happy ending type movie. This is not bad but it is not something that raises the emotions too much.Clueless is a movies of lines, and Ebert has fun quoting them. My two favourite are my dad's a litigator, that's the scariest type of lawyer, even our maid fears her, and is that Josh, isn't it amazing that when he comes to a party he finds the only Adult. It is as if he is trying to be boring. Clueless is a movie of smart lines with ironic twists and has a pretty good mix of satire, though it not scathing and there is no attack at the American society.When creating this movie, Amy Heckerling actually went into a Beverly Hills' high school to do some research of the language used and in general the way of life of the students. It is as if she is doing a remake of Fast Times at Ridgemont High, though this movie has very little similarities. She seems to have something against sex because her two main characters, Dionne and Cher, are only interested in sleeping with one person only, and that is the person that they plan to spend the rest of their lives with. In a way this movie is idealistic because in the end we are led to believe that the people whom the characters have joined up with will last forever.Like Fast Times, Heckerling focuses on the females. This is a movie through the eyes of a female and is about females. Not only to we follow her around, but we delve into her mind knowing everything that she is thinking. The voice over representing her thoughts is used very frequently in this movie and thus we know everything that Cher is thinking. We know what she thinks of other people, and what her plans are. We even follow her thoughts to the realisation of who she really loves.Ebert seems more interested in the realism and uniqueness of the characters. I agree with him that Cher's father is a well built character that loves his daughter and knows what is going on. They have a good relationship, yet he doesn't let her get away with everything, including driving the car without a license. Tai, the looser that comes to the school and is remade by Cher and Dionne, changes from being a dag who hangs around with druggies, to a high society girl that picks and chooses her friends. Josh (Paul Rudd) is also a very well made character who is intelligent and caring. Cher is simply superb for we know her thoughts and we see how she comes to understanding of things.This movie isn't a sex-romp comedy, it is simply a comedy and the comedy is very good. It contains some of the most wittiest dialogue I have ever heard (bar Clerks which is in a league of its own) though it is not the style of movie that I would delve into. I prefer dark movies and political criticism and satire (though my satire is far from being funny).Something that I did not know when I originally wrote this piece was that this movie is based upon the Jane Austin novel Emma. I have not read the novel (ergo I did not see the connection until after). Amy Heckerling is said to have replied, when asked to write a movie for teenagers, that she would write one based on Emma as that was a book she read as a teenager. Granted, I am not a big fan of Jane Austin, but that does not mean that she is not a good write. In fact, she did very well for the time in which she was writing (despite not being recognised until at least 150 years after her death). Based on the outline of Emma that I have read, this movie is actually quite faithful to the original, though my understanding is that Emma gets herself into a lot of trouble with her meddling in other people's affairs, whereas Cher does not seem to get into anywhere near as much trouble in this film. Further, one starts off finding Cher very annoying, but as we get to understand her more through the film (and her reasons for rejecting Elton) we actually begin to develop a soft spot for her character. As such, this does make for quite a good movie. "},{"Title":"Still fresh and funny","Date":"21 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Clueless is a romantic teen comedy and a sweet satire of the lives of the Beverly Hills teens. It is a comedy that does not take itself seriously, that does not pretend to be anything or send any message to the youth of the world, or be over the top, but it does get its parody of the rich and famous through without being insulting or pretentious.Clueless has a terrific script, great dialogs, and memorable characters despite the stereotypes. Most importantly, there are many funny, cheeky, sweet and naughty moments, so if you don't laugh or enjoy it, you are the problem.All the cast members are lovable and adorable in their respective roles. Paul Rudd is very charming as the sweet hard worker Josh. Alicia Silverstone has the role of a lifetime playing Cher Horowitz, and is extremely funny, as well as the almost unrecognizable Brittany Murphy as Tai; she still was herself and not a Hollywood minced product. Stacey Dash and Donald Faison are also terrific in their roles of the couple Dionne & Murray. Also very good is Elisa Donovan as Amber.Despite being filmed in 1995 the movie is still fresh, funny and very enjoyable, and only the fashion is a bit aged, but just a bit.A classic teen movie that is still fresh and funny. If you watch it for what it is, you'll have a blast. "},{"Title":"Wonderful character development with a good slice of comedy","Date":"9 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Cher (Silverstone) has everything. Cars, money, dresses but after doing a good deed for her teachers, she aims to do more good deeds for others and helps new girl Tai (Murphy) adjust to life at school.Perhaps its too easy to criticize high school or teenage comedies these days. If someone isn't sleeping with that person then that person is totally out of the picture.Depending on your outlook this will either have you laughing your head off or criticizing every single scene.Sadly I opted for the latter to begin with which ultimately caused me to miss out on the bigger picture of wonderful character development.Opening with a teenage slang talking socialite in Alicia Silverstone miss-matching her dress choice on an expensive computer system the tone is set for her protagonist. The pretentious highly classy and fashion orientated central person outlines the foundations of her existence in a few brief scenes. Her dad is a highly successful lawyer with her mum having passed away at her birth. She is not popular at school as such until good deeds with her match making abilities which include her grade reporting teachers send her on a journey of good will.This ideology initially is quite laughable as already outlined she is a self centred egotistical teenager but delightfully the script twists and turns through some wonderfully set up acts of heartache and happiness that really, like totally honestly, make this really cool, wicked or any other adjective, Alicia Silverstone would be hard pushed to be replaced. She is perfect at acting up her life in an exaggerated fashion that makes her an obvious target for others and her beautifully deft touch of slang might occasionally be interpretable for anyone over the age of 30 but there is no mistaking her facial expressions of contempt for her enemies and her delight when things go right for her friends.So, how does this compare to its rival Mean Girls? That 2004 picture revolved around high school and college groups, such as the Plastics and the art of stereotyping oneself to fit in. This, released in 1995 has a stronger base to the fact it is more clinical with its cementing of people and personas. Everything isn't drawn out but new things keep cropping up which ultimately make it stronger. Whereas Mean Girls is arguably a tad funnier this has a less conventional outcome and attack.This for me has wonderful character development. The plot outline of any romantic comedy drama shows character learning from their mistake and making amends but this is a carefully staged progression of teenager into adulthood, and with a great use of action comedy and twists and turns benefits because of it.There are faults in direction and exaggeration but ultimately this is, like, well worth it. "},{"Title":"Entertaining teen parody is ode to penetrating, clever use of American language","Date":"12 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Fact is, if one tries to put aside all preconceptions of idle-rich teenagers attending high school in Beverly Hills in 1995... one is going to be fighting a difficult internal battle. So don't even try. Accept that the universe Cher Horowitz (Alicia Silverstone) and her friends inhabit is tailored to superficial offspring of the Hollywood beautiful set preoccupied with far more style than substance. But then sit back and let a precocious writer/director (Amy Heckerling) breathe real life into these young people with a gentle satire that has you sympathizing with them.Plot is basic teen movie material, where boy&#x97;Paul Rudd plays Josh, Cher's ex-stepbrother from a former marriage of Cher's father&#x97;meets girl through a circuitous route in the Valley. But the theme of the movie is greater than the plot. The theme is an incisive yet kind exploration of the lives of three genuine center-of-the-universe Valley Girls Cher and her two friends, Dionne (Stacey Dash) and, later, Tai (Brittany Murphy). ...For my complete review of this movie and for other movie and book reviews, please visit my site TheCoffeeCoaster.com.Brian Wright Copyright 2009 "},{"Title":"Smarter than you would expect...","Date":"20 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Okay, so this is not exactly Jane Austen's Emma, but it never claims to be. To it's credit, it does maintain the wit and smarts of social satire that I think Jane Austen would smile at.I actually LOVED this movie. In a world where actresses like Lindsay Lohan and Cameron Diaz are constantly being thrown in our faces, I really wonder how Alicia Silverstone never had a bigger career. She made a brilliant performance as Cher, and it was refreshing to see a movie's heroine actually be innocent and convincingly genuine. I loved how all the characters had redeeming qualities, and the whole message of the movie was surprisingly deep.and not to mention mmmm the adorable Paul Rudd. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Few comedies deliver like Clueless; very funny, very intelligent amusement for all ages","Date":"3 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Cher (Alicia Silverstone) is a poor little rich girl. Rich, because daddy Mel (Dan Hedaya) is a hotshot lawyer and has a fabulous mansion in Beverly Hills. Poor, because she is having trouble with a certain high school teacher (Wallace Shawn) and is also plagued by a nagging stepbrother (Paul Rudd). Yet, whenever this gal has heartache, she heads to the galleria with her best buds and gleefully uses her plastic money. Convinced that she may improve her grades if she can get her single teachers matched, Cher hatches some strategies. Delighted with her subsequent success, this high school gal decides to befriend a newly-transferred student, Tai (Brittany Murphy) and get her matched up with a popular guy, Elton (Jeremy Sisto). But, Elton may have his eye on someone else. Now, into the secondary school comes an absolute dreamboat, Christian. Cher, who has always looked upon her fellow male students as immature brats, now wants to hook up with Christian in the worst way. Yet, all of her overtures to the young man seem to fail. Why doesn't he look her way? Could it be that he has his gaze on someone else, too? This is a classic, is Clueless, in films about high school. It is extremely funny, intelligent, and hip. The cast is great, with Silverstone giving a definitive turn as Cher. Rudd, Murphy, Breckin Meyer, Stacey Dash, Sisto, and all of the others are great, too. As for the costumes, they are supremely wonderful and the sunny California setting is lovely, too. Great applause should be extended to Amy Heckerling, who wrote and directed this gem, a with-it adaptation of Austen's Emma. You'll rue the day if you skip Clueless. It is funny indeed. "},{"Title":"To paraphrase Searching for a better female teen flick is as useless as searching for meaning in a Pauly Shore movie.","Date":"11 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" What happens when you take Jane Austen's Emma and turn her into a spoilt, but well-meaning, valley girl? Well, if you're director Amy Heckerling and you get a great cast with a sharp script you end up with this . . . one of the best teen movies ever made and a wonderful viewing for anyone who can see past the timely fads and lingo to appreciate the wit and social observations.Alicia Silverstone made her name in this movie, playing Cher (the equivalent of Emma), a teenage girl who decides that she can make herself feel better by doing good for others, whether that be makeovers for new girls at school or matchmaking teachers in the hope of improving their moods and getting better grades. Paul Rudd plays her annoying stepbrother, an older guy who starts to eventually see Cher's good heart and how her shallow exterior actually hides a thoughtful young woman struggling to find her place in a fast-moving whirlwind of social groups. As Cher helps others she starts to notice what is lacking in her own life and when she sees love around her she wonders if she will ever find it for herself.Just check out this cast Silverstone, Rudd, Dan Hedaya, Brittany Murphy, Donald Faison, Wallace Shawn, Breckin Meyer, Jeremy Sisto, Julie Brown and Stacey Dash (maybe not as prolific as she could have been but very memorable in this). Every one seems to fit into their roles as if they were hand-written for them. You may not like all of the characters but they are who they are. And director Heckerling gives each and every one of them moments to shine and chances to show more than just their clothing labels and social tags.Then we have the script, one of the sharpest and funniest teen scripts since the mighty Heathers. With a few additions to the American phrasebook such as Baldwin (a hot guy) and Monet (someone who looks good from far away but not that good close-up) to provide laughs we are not sold short on the genuinely funny, barbed lines either such as the reply of how about sterilisation? when Cher bemoans that she wants to do something good for humanity. It may be only the teen movie for a certain generation, but there's also the chance that it may remain one of the greatest teen movies ever made.See this if you like Fast Times At Ridgemont High, Mean Girls, Clueless (TV show). "},{"Title":"Typical 90's chick flick. Works only because of Mrs. Silverstone.","Date":"17 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Sexy, funny performance by Alicia Silverstone makes this movie watchable. This is the typical chick-flick that males watch just because of the hot sexy female characters.I watched it back in 1996 just because of my crush with Alicia. I didn't enjoy it at all because it does not have a strong plot in my opinion. But for teenage females it should work better.Watch it with low expectations in order to experience the 90's teenage film making. Or, watch it to witness how hot is Mrs. Silverstone.The best part of the movie is whenever Alicia wears micro, short mini skirts. "},{"Title":"Classic Teen Movie!","Date":"16 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is an awesome movie. If you compare Clueless to more recent teen movies, it definitely tops them all. Each character is hilarious and Alicia Silverstone is perfect as ditz Cher, who really doesn't have bad intentions. It's funny to see what a high school was like in the mid-90's, cause if you think about it, not much has changed. I loved the debate teacher, and his romance with another teacher was just so sweet. I also liked how Cher found love with someone she never expected, and accepted that her new friend wanted to be with that skater dude. There's a really young Paul Rudd in here and he's really good as the sarcastic older step-brother. Brittany Murphey is also brilliant and Dion's boyfriend provides laughter whenever he's on the screen. Overall, a great teen movie with some hilarious lines. Definitely a classic. "}{"Title":"What a little gem...","Date":"22 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Many years ago I was in search of the catchy ditty, Supermodel, but found that the single had been deleted. The only way to get the song was to buy a whole Jill Sobule CD or the soundtrack to what I imagined was a vacuous teen chick flick, Clueless. (discovering that the soundtrack CD also contained excellent covers of some all time favourites like Shake some action and All the Young Dudes, I settled on buying that) My attitude towards the film was shaped by the fact that all my grade 5/6 female students loved it so I assumed it was yet another case of great soundtrack, shame about the film! 10 years later I happened upon Clueless by accident when I got a subscription to cable movies and couldn't find anything else to watch!! What a little gem it was. I loved it, particularly the Jane Austen/Emma influence and, what was more surprising, so did my husband, who usually prefers films like Pulp Fiction or Fargo!! Great stuff... "},{"Title":"Charmless","Date":"27 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The American high-school movie is a well-defined genre, typically featuring lashings of money, beauty, bitchiness and hedonism. Such excess could be defended as satire, but so cleanly do so many films fit the pattern, and so remote from real life does it seem to be, that it is probably fairer to consider these movies a celebration of the worlds they depict; and there's always a stench of hypocrisy emanating from the stuck-on conservative endings (always urging the happy mean) that form the invariable conclusion (you know what I mean here the plain girl will always get a makeover, the pretty one will always develop some depth, everyone lives happily ever after). 'Clueless' is perfectly attuned to the template indeed, it may even have helped define it, with certain elements of the story familiar to me from many later movies; and the style of the film also fits the mould, with its incessant use of random pop music, and a narrative voice as well, just in case you can't follow exactly where the story is going. I found it charmless; and with no believable relationship to the lives of real American teens. "},{"Title":"Despite the name, is not so!","Date":"8 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Alicia Silverstone uses this perfect vehicle to turn in a pretty decent performance as a confused, witty and angst filled teenager. Others actors ably support Alicia in this venture.Jokes about teenagers hitting the malls at the ring of a cell phone, cranky gals during that time of the month, gays who are all supposed to read Oscar Wilde abound but the director manages to keep the pace slick.While expressions like As if and Not even will stay with you for a while after you are done with the movie, there are some toughies like riding the crimson, which make you go find a slang dictionary. All in all, Cluless is an enjoyable fare, though a bit silly at times. "},{"Title":"Just not the usual teen-movie","Date":"23 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie is not another boring and superficial teen movie. Based on Jane Austins works, it manages to bring some of Jane's charm. Alicia Silverstone (Cher) is excellent, as well as the rest of the cast. All together they successfully manage to present one of the strongest side of this movie - a rich gallery of various and very exciting characters. In addition the convincing but unobtrusive acting helps to create a trustfully atmosphere. Also, the classic love story seems to be just one of many perspectives and themes around this movie. We get a pretty good glimpse of the Beverly Hills High world, and their fractions. But the real thing is the surprisingly free-flowing dialog, the fast and quite unpredictable plot and the funny but not overdone gags.It is a movie worth watching more then once... "},{"Title":"Very Fun Movie.","Date":"22 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I personally thought this movie was very fun. It's a very cute movie and if you are a teenager, you should love it because it should relate to all of us. A preppy girl who's obsessed with money and clothes and popularity, and then average people and so on so forth. It's actually MUCH funnier than I had expected.I LOVE Alicia Silverstone, and I thought she fit the role perfectly. If you don't like the typical plot of A life of a teenager do NOT see this movie. I suggest seeing this movie for several reasons. It's not just a teenage movie, parents love this movie too. I would say this movie is for ages 13+. Also, it has a few good/funny twists in it that should have you anxious to see the end of the movie. "},{"Title":"This, like, totally defined a generation... whatever","Date":"5 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Perhaps more than any other movie, Clueless defined an entire generation of teenagers.At once satirical and sincere, Clueless stars Alicia Silverstone and Stacey Dash as best friends growing up in Beverly Hills. They have giant mansions, swimming pools, hired help, cars, cute little outfits, and they parade around school trying to solve such existential problems as how to fix two teachers up to boost their report card grades, or whether their outfits match their shoes. Along the way, the characters - through their shallowness - mix and mingle and find romance in all the wrong places.But Clueless isn't about the plot, or the acting. It's a comedy where everything is exaggerated and yet nothing is taken for granted. More lines from this movie have made it into everyday vocabulary than perhaps any other in recent memory. If Beverly Hills has its own zip code, then Clueless invented its own social code. And for every satirical reference, there is a kind of morbid truth. For every joke, a reflection on the reality of being a teenager in the 90s. For every... well, OK, let's stop trying to make this more than it was.If you're expecting depth or wisdom, or even the meanings behind the book on which this is based (Jane Austen's Emma), then forget it. But Clueless is funny, quirky, and fun. Enjoy the ride! "},{"Title":"Fun, but it has a darker, disturbing side","Date":"27 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I've seen this a good few times now and I still find it enjoyable. It's funny and there are plenty of laughs. Silverstone is great as Cher and the plot borrowed from Jane Austen's 'Emma' is successfully reworked for modern audiences.But, and it's a big but, I find it disturbing how grown up these kids are. Cher is supposed to be fifteen and she's going on about how much she wants to see her friend Elton 'settled already'. Not to mention the fact that she's out in an unsafe neighbourhood late at night. Plus these girls, especially Tai, go on about what attributes they prefer in their lovers. I mean come on, where's the innocence in that? Someone please tell me children, because that's technically what they are, do not behave like that. Heaven help us if they do, that's all I can say.Let's not forget that this movie came out in 1995. No one I know behaved that way as teenagers and I think it sets a bad example for Hollywood to portray this kind of behaviour. I realise what I sound like but trust me, I'm not old enough to be anyone's mother. But I was shocked by the lack of innocence I saw here. I think it's wrong to say that Cher is innocent because if you ask me she's far too aware of the mysteries of life. "},{"Title":"Sometimes Less Is More.","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A surprisingly enjoyable and highly funny movie that has rich L.A. high schooler Alicia Silverstone living life to the fullest and trying to help others do the same. She and best friend Stacey Dash try to help out-cast Brittany Murphy to become the most popular girl at school. Silverstone's father (Dan Hedaya) and her step-brother (Paul Rudd) try to figure Silverstone out, but are minimally successful. She falls in love with a gay student (Justin Walker), but soon realizes that Rudd is the one she really has the hots for. Breckin Meyer is a genuine scene-stealer as one of Silverstone's pot-smoking surfer friends. Not a masterpiece, but a near perfect accomplishment for the usually weak genre. 3.5 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Great comedy, not for everyone (males)","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  *Clueless*I think Clueless has gotten a lot of undeserved heat.  Despite the fact it was based in a high school and follows the daily life of a rich Southern California blonde, it's surprisingly good.  And probably the last good teen movie.  When I say it's funny, I mean it.  It's filled with pop cultural references and no pathetic gross-out scenes.  That's the problem with most teen comedies today.  They can't be plot based and whenever there is something lacking in the plot, have a scene where a guy glues his hand to his privates.  What's sad is that people find that humorous.Alicia Silverstone is very good in this.  Maybe a little too convincing.  Too bad this was her last successful movie.  The rest of the cast hands in pretty good performances, but this wasn't a performance driven movie.  It's amazing Brittany Murphay, who has a smaller part, has a strong career in Hollywood and Silverstone is nowhere.  After its release it was quoted and copied by every teen girl in America.  Pretty much.  Now, it's jokes are still humorous.  Mainly because they talk about celebrities and movies (Cher calling Spartacus, Sporticus, lol) and other things we are familiar with in our every day life.  Like I said, this was the last good teen movie, I'm sure one day it may even be considered The Breakfast Club of the 90's.  Don't think so?  Whatever!*8/10* "},{"Title":"Clueless is a surprisingly delightful comedy","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Would you believe that this bright, colorful, artfully costumed confection about a spoiled Hill girl, who has a computer program to help plan her daily outfits, borrows from Jane Austen's Emma? If you responded, no you'd be way wrong. Writer/director Amy Heckerling, who had a winner with Fast Times At Ridgemont High in 1982, has done it again with some classic inspiration. Alicia Silverstone plays pampered Cher, a pretty high-schooler who lost her mother in a tragic accident during a routine liposuction. Cher's best friend is Dionne. Both were named for great singers of the past who now do infomercials, and they share an intense interest in boys, shopping and clothes. They never go anywhere without their cellular phones and wouldn't be caught dead in the Valley. Well, unless it was for a great party. Cher wants to use her popularity to make the world a better place, and she starts by doing a total makeover on a needy transfer student. She also proves adept at matchmaking. Clueless remains light on its feet throughout and seldom lags. You must listen carefully to catch all the lingo, but the good humor is impossible to miss. "}{"Title":"Old and Corny '90s teen film","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is soooo 1995/1996 it hurts.  It's so old and corny it's nauseating.  I guess some of the older people here that were teens back in the 1990s, like old school '90s teen movies like this.  But I think this film is incredibly outdated and stupid.  The fashions are old, the music is old, everything about this movie is so freaking old.Look at the size of those cell phones the girls carry!!  They're beastly! So big and ugly.  They act like it's a big deal that they have cell phones, I guess back in the '90s it was a new and incredible technology.  It's so corny watching that in todays modern times.    "},{"Title":"Another star studded performance for Alicia Silverstone!","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie, to say the least, totally shocked me.  I went into the theatre, expecting another boring, meladramatic teenage flic, with no real story or acting involved.  When I left the theatre, I could barely comprehend what I had just seen.  Not only was there brilliant acting, but the story was adapted so wonderfully.  I feel the script at times was kind of tripe, but it was covered up by the wonderfull feelings you received during the movie.Being the Alicia Silverstone fanatic that I am, It was nice to see her and this type of movie, she was really made for the role.I give this movie 7 stars, and definately reccomend owning the movie and watching it!Figureboy99 "},{"Title":"A pleasant, uncomplicated ride","Date":"11 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Ah! to be young, rich, and clueless. As a parody of teen culture, Clueless works extremely well. The brats of Beverly Hills think that everyone would be happier if they were just like them. But superficiality is only for those who are truly capable of handling it.I liked Silverstone as a whiny brat, trying to talk a mugger out of making her lie on the ground because her dress would be damaged. It didn't work quite as well when she was being sincere and thoughtful, however, which gives you some idea about what this movie is like. I also liked Dan Hedaya as her grumpy father - he isn't given much to work with, but he makes the most of it.This isn't nearly as good as Amy Heckerling's previous high school flick Fast Times At Ridgemont High, which was more raw and serious. But it's a pleasant, uncomplicated ride. "},{"Title":"Not As Good as Fast Times At Ridgemont High(1982)","Date":"9 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is a sweet natured comedy without anything interesting. Clueless(1995) was done as an updating of Jane Austin's Emma.  Although the movie was funny, I find it not as enjoyable to watch as the director's debut Fast Times at Ridgemont High(1982) for a couple of reasons.  First, it isn't daring the way that FTARH was.  Second, the film dealt with situations that could occur anytime in high school.  Alicia Silverstone did a very good job in the role of Cher.  It is a film that is fine to watch but is in no way a great comedy. "},{"Title":"","Date":"16 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I was really surprised by this movie. I saw it expecting it to be another dumb film trying to seduce teenagers into watching a movie that expresses a lifestyle that is just the opposite of the way it is. While Clueless was not on the mark, it was by no means a total miss either. It's very funny and cleverly satirical. Whether you're an adult or a teen, chances are good you'll be charmed by this movie. B+ "},{"Title":"A pleasant surprise","Date":"8 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When my sister recommended me to watch this movie I was very sceptic about  it. I thought that this was again one of those Can't buy me love teenage  dream stuff. I was very positively surprised. Silverstone's acting was very  good and Paul Rudd was just fabulous. Especially self-irony and sparkling  dialogs between Silverstone and Rudd are things to remember of this movie.  "},{"Title":"Not just for teens","Date":"1 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie was about a self-absorbed, spoiled, rich girl who's greatest joys are shopping and playing matchmaker albeit for her own selfish reasons. Kind of like Emma minus the shopping part. What makes Cher likable is her heart. She has a big one.I read the reviews of those who hated this movie and it seems they all took it too seriously. This movie made fun of Cher and her friends, it wasn't glorifying them. The only character they made real was Josh (Mr. Knightly). This is not like the insipid BevHills9whatever that took itself too seriously.I loved this move and oh BTW, I'm a 58 year old woman who also loves Jane Austin. I laughed at Cher's warped logic and silly situations. Alicia Silverstone does a great job and so do the other actors. I watch this movie every time I surf into it. "},{"Title":"Clueless is a classic","Date":"6 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" What a treasure this movie is. Every time we watch it we roar, and after seeing it at least 10 times, it never gets stale. The cast is fabulous and the script is so clever. It is as much a classic as Emma.Just learned where the name of the high school came from. Bronson Alcott High School....director Amy Heckerling was dating actor Bronson Pinchot (Beverley Hills Cop) at the time. According to IMDb trivia, Alcott is his middle name.Dozens & dozens of quotable lines in this gem. Love the line from Cher (referring to Mr. Hall and Miss Geist) old people can be so cute. Love the Dan Hedaya character. Even though he is tough and gruff, he is warm and caring with his children.I would recommend this movie to anyone, although not everyone will appreciate it in the same way. "},{"Title":"Huge amount of fun.","Date":"4 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie was made in 1995 and still remains the greatest teen comedy ever.Alicia Silverstone is terrific as the spoilt Beverly Hills brat.This film also boasts a hugely recognisable young cast in supporting roles(the standout being Brittany Murphy as the hilariously Clueles Tai)The film begins with Cher(Silverstone)the most popular girl in school.She has a rich dad,equally rich friends and the ability to change her grades by promising her teachers better quality work.One hilarious scene has her in a debate class comparing one subject to a garden party she had for her father-(hello it was his 50th birthday) Then the arrival of Ditzy redhead Tai(Murphy)has Cher taking over her social and love life before realizing that it is in fact herself that is clueless.This movie is full of killer quotes,cool music and a great script.I advice you watch the film before you dismiss it as another teen movie.This one is the king of them all. "},{"Title":"Alicia, you rock!","Date":"23 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A lot of people ask why Clueless was so popular or how people could enjoy this, for me I think because you can tell that the cast had so much fun doing this film! They made such a memorable team and a must see movie from the 90's. This movie could have everything you could possibly want shopping, clothes, catchy lines, sex, and teens! OK, I'm kidding, but Clueless is such a fun film.Alicia Silverstone in her best movie role as Cher Horweitz. A rich and extremely popular teenage girl who has it all. She has friends, money, a car, a line of admirers, setting two teachers up to fall madly in love with each other, good grades, an awesome best friend(D), and a crazy but loving father who would do anything for her. She has the world at her fingertips, but when her college step brother tells her that she should do something more in her life and calls her selfish, she finds a very young Britney Murphy or her role as Tai Frasier and wants to make her into her own clan of clueless friends. But when Tai gets out of hand and becomes the most popular girl in school, Cher starts to loose it and discovers herself that she is clueless. The reason why Cher is so lovable though is because she wasn't your typical stereo type of a teen, she had friends of a different race, background, click, and homosexuals. She's just so cute and lovable as a person, how could you not love her? This movie has every memorable quote you could imagine from As If! to Whatever!, yes, this is Valley. But it's just a lot of fun movie that everyone would love and enjoy. This is a must see movie if you want the best flicks from the 90's! 8/10 "}{"Title":"Is Emma Clueless? Is it true to the original book?","Date":"6 April 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Is Emma Clueless?(Or are they completely different)Clueless is a modernized movie version of the book Emma by Jane Austen. The two stories share much of the same plot, and characters, yet manages to be a completely different story. I believe that a lot of this can be is represented by one small difference; the difference in titles. Unlike, the other film versions of the book, Clueless does not share a title with it. I believe titles to hold large importance over the general meaning of whatever they have labeled, and the difference in title makes it quite obvious that the two works have different meanings. A book entitled Emma is clearly about Emma, whereas a movie entitled Clueless is clearly more about the main character's cluelessness than the main character herself.There are a few things that make this clear. The movie version is, first of all, in a more modern society, and most importantly, in a school environment. By being surrounded by professors, and other students, her cluelessness is much more exaggerated. The scenes where she is giving lectures to her peers really show this quite well, as most of the students laugh at her, the teacher clearly thinks she's an idiot, and that one rival girl looks like she wants to kill her. Her lack of driving ability, a skill that even the most average of people are expected to have, is clearly a nod towards her vapidness. Some characters, or at least their personalities, seem to be put in just to show how clueless she is. Her father, for instance, is an important lawyer; clearly quite competent and wildly different from Emma's father. His constant yelling for her to do better, (even in his misguided way) makes it clear that she isn't doing all that well, academically. Even the gay friend that she originally had a crush on had dressed better than she did, a skill she had always been the best at in the past. Cher's character is clearly developed to be a girl who has almost nothing except her beauty and good heart; her influence comes from others' love for her, and not from anything she's accomplished. Emma may not have been the most beautiful girl in the world, but at least she had some abilities in painting or on the piano, and her lack of knowledge was not nearly as apparent in a world where education wasn't standardized. Furthermore, Emma's weak and needy father make for many scenes that show off Emma's independence and use as a daughter. A final issue that can be raised on this topic is the goal of both stories. Obviously the titles of a story reflect a lot on the goals of the author, and it is not different for these two mediums. Clueless, unlike Emma, seems to be about the main character getting over her cluelessness. She realizes at the end of the movie, when she falls in love with her step-brother Josh, that she doesn't want to be liked only for her beauty. She starts watching the news and participating (and even organizing) in charity work in an attempt to better herself as a person, and to show people &#x96; especially Josh &#x96; that she's not just a ditz with a credit card. Emma was not so much about Emma getting over her cluelessness, but about Emma herself, and all of the events related to her that transpire. Jane Austen never makes it clear that Emma needed to make herself over, and start doing charity work or any kind of studying to be a better person. Jane Austen did not make Emma a character who made mistakes because she was too dumb, she just made Emma a character who was too strong minded to see that she was making a mistake. Mr. Knightley's quote Better to be without sense than to misapply it as you do, shows this pretty well. Emma is a book about Emma realizing her strong mindedness and changing out of her own will for fear of hurting further people. Mr. Knightley's marriage proposal happened to be a nice side effect, but nothing more. Clueless is a movie about Cher slowly coming to the realization that she has very little in the way of useful skills, and that if she were to ever impress Josh enough to like her, she had to wise up, or get a clue. The two characters' motives were completely different, and therefore I think the stories were completely different.While it is true that both stories had very similar plot points, uneventful structure, and settings, the main characters, themselves, were fundamentally different in a few ways, as this essay has shown, and therefore shows that that is really all that they had in common. Their titles, which are both very fitting to the respective book or movie, show that they were about completely different people, with different motives, and personalities. Though both main characters were kind hearted and good natured, Emma had some form of underlying morality that guided her later self-discovery, while Cher had nothing more than her selfish desires to feel better about herself and impress a boy. If Josh had been unintelligent but instead wildly interested in lawn mowing, Cher would have just as easily dedicated her self-discovering moments towards learning new things about lawn mowing. Emma would have become the Emma at the end of the book knowing Mr. Knightley would not fall for her, and in fact did do just that. "},{"Title":"I am totally but crazy, in love with Clueless!","Date":"12 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Definitely one of the best teen movies of the 1990's, and of all time! This movie is so delightful, and well done! It's also quite hilarious! I first watched it when I was only seven or eight years old, and I still love it! I've seen this movie so many times, that I practically know all of the lines!! It has a great script, witty and funny. Cher is a great lead character, although she is a bit clueless, she is smart and lovable. She cares for so many people and things it's just hard not to love her! Alicia Silverstone (Cher) does such a great cast, but she's supported by a stellar cast including Stacey Dash, Britney Murphy, Becton Meyers, and Paul Rudd (among many others)! If you have not seen this movie-you must! It's good for anyone all ages, sexes, etc! "},{"Title":"Really Good Movie!","Date":"26 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" So okay, your probably thinking is this like a noxemia commercial or what? But seriously I actually have a way normal life for a teenage girl, i mean i get up, brush my teeth and pick out my school clothes. My Daddy's a litigator, those are the scariest kind of lawyers even Lucy our maid, is terrified of him, and daddy's so good, he gets 500 dollars an hour to fight with people. But he fights with me for free because i'm his daughter.....I could go on, but i'm sure we've all watched this movie enough! This is a really good movie, even still. I honestly was in love with this movie when it came out, we watched it so much the tape recked, and we had to go buy another one! Great Movie! "},{"Title":"I'm Clueless About Why This Film Was Made","Date":"12 August 2012","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" So, what was this movie about? I mean, I just watched it, and I still don't know. I was TOLD that it was a rich snob who took a loser girl and turned her pretty and cool. Now, it was easy to tell where it would go, and end up, but I still thought it would be a nice waste of time. Boy was I wrong. Firstly, the acting was so terrible. It really made me feel ill. Every time the lead role opened her annoying lopsided mouth I wanted to go over to 1995, and shut her trap with duct tape. Everything she had to say was so 'every note in the scale'. Her voice went up and down in a way that made you want to rip her voice box out. Not to mention she was as stupid as all get out. How do you relate to a character who if you looked at her at the right moment you would probably catch drooling on the desk. The only good actors were Paul Rudd (as always) and the lead's dad, (for some reason. He barely had any lines, he was just the only other convincing role)The second thing was their god awful clothing. If you haven't seen this film, I literally cannot describe the clothing. Whether they look really rich or not, their clothing is just..... I don't know. It's like they're all dressed up for Halloween or something? It's truly mental! Then, there was the plasters. There are people with plastic surgery bandages on their faces everywhere. Eventually you think to yourself, 'Okay, I get that their in California, but not EVERYONE is as fake as the hideous main character!'And of course, we now come to the worst part. The plot. Or plots. Or, string of random events (if you can call them that) stuck together into an hour and a half composition of boredom. So, first she fixes this girl up, then she disappears, then she goes to a party where they all do drugs, then she gets sexually harassed, then held at gunpoint (something which she never notifies her dad or the police about for some bizarre reason which we aren't told) and then she goes to a disco, with a guy who turns out to be gay, then her ex-stepbrother starts to love her (SERIOUSLY, this ACTUALLY HAPPENS. I mean, if this were brought to court it would probably be listed of incest of SOME description, right? I mean, even if they aren't anymore, one would still 'always think of him as a brother' yeah? It's so.... creepy). Then her friends are all screaming because they drove onto a freeway (you're probably wondering 'why are they screaming?' I will ask myself that question every day until I die. WHY WERE THEY SCREAMING? THEY WERE DRIVING!) So then she can't believe she failed her driver's test, after crashing the car into another car... And then the girl from the beginning shows up, and she's popular, (oh, and we're expected to believe that this main character girl was popular too - even though she had... one.....two friends at the beginning of the movie!) and for some reason she thinks that this other girl doesn't deserve to be popular and she tries to drop herself into conversation by going all 'Well when I was held at gun point-' and being all offended when people ignore her. I'M SORRY LADY, YOU JUST SAT DOWN AND PEOPLE ARE LISTENING TO SOMEONE ELSE FOR JUST ONE SECOND! And then she thinks for some reason she needs to change the 'error of her ways' (?) and gives all her stuff to charity.... yet I still feel she's just as twisted, spoilt and arrogant as she was when the movie began. Mostly because she thinks that everyone would give their left arm to have HER of all people, to attend their lowly skateboard tournament. WHAT AN HONOUR QUEEN MAIN CHARACTER (I can't be bothered to hit the back button and learn her name)Then there's the whole thing about the entire cast is in their twenties and they're playing fifteen year olds (who act like anything BUT fifteen. I've never seen people my age look, dress or act ANYTHING LIKE THAT). And none of the characters were believable. They all seemed to develop a boring one dimensional character for the full movie (I say full, with so many random plot lines, most characters probably got 2 minutes collectively on screen.) But then suddenly they'd say or do something totally out of character, which was weird. Probably some failure of a technique they used to try and make everyone a little 'deep'er. And there was this thing (which I think may have been something they tried to make the 'special' kind of thing with the main character where she 'can argue her way out of anything' - though this talent isn't explored at all. I think she says something along the lines of it twice and then she talks about it as if it's her catchphrase. OH and of course, how could I forget? We get to see the 'fantastic' lead french her ex-stepbrother right at the end. Trust me, it's french. I could go on for so much longer about it's many travesties against the film community but I'm bored of thinking about it. Oh, and one last complaint. Are we really expected to believe people would go to the new girl for sex advice? She'd obviously never slept with anyone, I don't care what the movie said. Why did lead girl drag her around to so many guys if she wasn't a virgin? She can obviously do it herself! "},{"Title":"Better than Goodfellas, plain and violent.","Date":"3 February 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I guarantee, gentle reader, that you will like this movie more than Goodfellas.OH MAN!!! What can I say? It's really really good. Alicia Silverstone has never looked hotter. Paul Rudd? are you kidding me? he didn't get an Oscar??? The greatness of this movie is so hard to translate in mere words. It is MUCH better than Goodfellas. Goodfellas- are you kidding me??? complete rubbish. Paul Rudd is twice the man that Ray Liotta is. If I could rate this on a scale of 1-10, 1 being the worst, and 10 being the best- I'd give it a 9. It's THAT good (Goodfellas gets a 2). This is a great coming of age story. It's inspirational and moving. It has reached me in places that I thought were dead. "},{"Title":"An awful version of Emma","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Amy Heckerling knows how to make movies for teens. Clueless was not only a hit with teenagers but it launched fashions and a new vocabulary for teens to use. Its loosely based on Jane Austen's Emma but its  vulgar sensuality and profanity will offend many. We see the wealthy Cher transform from spoiled to a down to earth character. That's all, there's no message except to being a better person.However the movie is a silly little piece of fluff. I wouldn't reccomend it. If you want to see a great film that's more true to Jane Austen's Emma, check out the 1996 film of Emma with Gwyneth Paltrow.Or if you're a teenager you might want to check out Legally Blonde with Reese Witherspoon. Its a much better movie than Clueless.  "},{"Title":"Somewhat interesting","Date":"24 September 2000","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I find that this movie is like an experience I like to call going to the mall.  It is quite interesting to view these people in action and observation and you almost feel as if you want to be them.  That is, until you see the ridiculous amounts of clothes they own and bimbo minded intelects they have.  SO, in respects, I found this movie funny, in parts (and as a satire), but it is nothing new.  The plot (inspired in part by Jane Austen's Emma) involves a very upper-middle class girl named Cher Horowitz played by Alicia Silverstone in her breakthrough (Jewish with a touch of Cher nameness) who wants to find the right kind of man, but is left with a bunch of slobs (duh), wants to do anything she can to get good grades, and try to keep an empty head while trying to drive.  Sometimes hilarious, sometimes annoying, overall, it's good, just as long as you don't take it too seriously.  My favorite character is played by Breckin Meyer who has 37 tardies (right on, like whatever).  B+ "},{"Title":"Is Clueless all it's cracked up to be? As if!","Date":"29 June 2003","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I recently taped and watched Clueless when it was on the USA channel. The TV Now gave it 3 out of 4 stars. Friends and classmates have been raving about it since third grade. The general plot of a spoiled, popular valley girl making over a loser sounded like it had potential. I was excited and looking forward to some high-quality comedy, along the lines of Austin Powers or Superstar. I could not have been more disappointed if I had watched a Mary-Kate and Ashley Olsen movie. At least the twins act their age. Let me just say this If Clueless had been a 5-minute skit on Saturday Night Live, it might have made it. Fashion dilemmas and that '90s valley girl dialect get old after ten minutes, let alone after over an hour. And the ending! Blech! It doesn't get much sappier than that! Unless you adore teen movies, I'd, like, totally avoid Clueless. "},{"Title":"Great Film","Date":"13 October 2004","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Simply put it is a very good funny film with an adorable lead in Alicia Silverstone. I wouldn't believe anyone who watches this and claims not to have liked it because its undoable as its just one of those films you have to like.There actually isn't much of a plot, the plot claims to be that they try to turn Tai (Played perfectly by Brittany Murphy) popular but that really isn't the plot as they do that within the first half hour. The film really just follows Cher (Silverstone) as she goes about her high school life.I can't really pick out any stand out moments of the film as it was full of small stuff but I did enjoy the mugging and Murray shaving his head.The only things I didn't particularly like in the film where the parts with Dionne. They where okay but I just didn't particularly like her, When Murray (Faison) was there with her the scenes where much better though.All in all great film, has a lot of re-watch value.Rating 8/10 Entry onto Movie List 116th of 341 (Better than Dogville, Worse than Me, Myself and Irene) Entry onto 1995 Year List 8th (Better than Heat, Worse than Bad Boys) "},{"Title":"Poor acting, weak story.","Date":"22 August 2003","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I had seen the TV series of 'Clueless' before watching this movie, but  it didn't prepare me for how truly awful this movie was. At least the series was only 30 minutes long. Sitting through this movie was horrible. This is the only movie I remember where I have found nothing funny. Beyond that, there was no drama, no action, no real emotion whatsoever. The acting was poor at best, although there's not much anyone could do with a story like this. How such a horrible movie ever became a TV show is beyond me. Do yourself a favor and spend your money on something more entertaining. "}{"Title":"'Clueless' Is Correct","Date":"31 August 2007","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This was cute for a while and then became too teener-bopper oriented for me. I guess if you are a 13-16-year-old female, you'd relate and like this film.Sad to say, it's another film which gives poor messages to teens. Hey, kids....want to have casual sex? No problem....go for it! Nice. Leave it the ultra--Liberal and moral bankrupt world of film making. Clueless is a good title for people who make films like this, not just the lead character in the movie.According to Hollywood, being a teen - as shown in this movie -- revolves only around your social life, plastic surgery, cellphones, drugs and sex. It's all made nice and surgery by having the pretty and sweet-looking Alice Silverstone in the lead. She plays the not-so-- sweet Cher, an apt name for materialistic, spoiled brat. When the messages are, for example, virginity is bad, but drugs are okay, even fun to experiment.This tale of teen matchmaking and other topics that will make an adult want to puke, does have a decent cast with always-interesting guys like Dan Hedeya and Wallace Shawn and another young hottie in Brittany Murphy. However, you wouldn't want your kids to watch this garbage, believe me.Overall, the title says is all. "},{"Title":"Awful to the power of 85 000","Date":"2 March 2004","Score":"13 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  You know what I hate?L.A, stupid blonde bimbos, rich people, and humour that isn't funny no matter how frickin' hard it tries.That and a criminal waste of half-decent actors in what is really an act of puerile pantomime that has no right to be recorded on celluloid.This film throws all of those truly awful ingredients together in a steaming cocktail of really, really, bad stuff.It expects us to give empathy and sympathy to a stupid blonde biatch who thinks she is, like, really smart and falls in love with, in the following order, a moron, a gay guy, and her step-brother.But in all case this is outweighed by her love for herself.This film encourages blonde halfwits with walk-in wardrobes around the world to believe they have the power and right to do what they want and that they are superior.To countermand this I reccomend a mass-culling of all things blonde and teeny-boppy.Right now. "},{"Title":"As If.","Date":"26 December 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Cher Horowitz (Alicia Silverstone) is a Beverly Hills teen. Her father (Dan Hedaya) is a tough defense lawyer. Her stepbrother Josh (Paul Rudd) is coming to stay with them. Her best friend is Dionne (Stacey Dash) who keeps fighting with boyfriend Murray (Donald Faison). She loves to meddle. In a scheme to raise her grades, she puts two teachers together. Tai (Brittany Murphy) is a new student. Cher sees her as adorably clueless and makes her the next project. Tai likes slacker Travis (Breckin Meyer) but Cher disapproves. Cher tries to put Tai together with Elton (Jeremy Sisto).Writer/director Amy Heckerling loosely based this on Jane Austen's Emma. It's loads of fun with a charming young cast. It is a clever light satire on the modern materialistic teen world. It's full of fun catch phrases and hilarity. The future star power is brilliant. Silverstone is perfect and Murphy is a shooting star. It rises above a simple teen movie. "},{"Title":"Cher is my role model.","Date":"16 September 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Cher isn't perfect. That's what makes her likable to some and not others. I like her because she's herself and she doesn't think it's fair that she's not taken seriously based on what's important to her. Josh sees her in a different light, for all her good and her bad, but in a good way. That, to me, is what this film is about. And that's why I love it.Cher goes shopping when she needs cheering up, balances Buns of Steel with learning a new word everyday and looks out for her father, her teachers, her friends and charities. She betters herself whilst staying true to herself, a 15 year old girl, learning to live in a society that doesn't take pretty girls seriously. Josh and also Travis represent the male gender seeing the girls as strong idols to love and share with, compared to characters like Ethan who get angry when they get the get the wrong end of the stick to whether a girl is into them or not. Cher meddles, as in all comedies, which is frustrating but it's the foundation for comedy capers and also understanding for a girl in high school.I adore the whole aesthetic of this 90s classic. That teamed with the strong female character and themes of self, sexuality, friendship, family and love make it one of my favourites. "},{"Title":"I'm Clueless as to Why this is Not More Popular than Mean Girls","Date":"23 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Ever wondered what the 90s looked like? Watch Clueless, a movie about rich teens on Beverly Hills, and their first world high school problems. Cher is a blonde girl in high school who gets two of her teachers together in order to get better grades, and decides she likes doing good deeds. So when the new girl enters the school she decides to help her become popular. Cher and her friends go through relationships and breakups with all kinds of men. Gay, straight, druggies, sexual harassers, and more. Cher learns a lot about herself throughout this time, the main thing being she is in love with her college going, pretentious, ex-stepbrother (weird, gross, but funny). This comedy had me laughing quite a bit, the jokes hit well. The acting was mediocre at best, but the nature of the characters made up for that. I especially enjoyed the performance for the character of Cher's dad. His angry, random, and hilarious nature was well done, and quite entertaining. Altogether a fun, hilarious 90s comedy. A good time with your friends as well.6/10 "},{"Title":"A perennial classic satirical comedy","Date":"24 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" As Christmas is here, a season of Good Cheer (as well as perhaps of good 'Cher'), I thought I would treat myself to seeing CLUELESS again for the fourth or fifth time. It was just as hilarious as ever, and I am convinced that it 'will never die'. The casting is so perfect, every moment is so perfectly judged, that it is a film essentially without flaw. Anyone seeing it now for the first time should really get the DVD known as the 'Whatever! edition' of 2005, because it contains interesting extra features and interviews. One of the most remarkable aspects of this film is its fantasy fashion parade. The star of the film, the amazing Alicia Silverstone, who plays the character Cher, wears 56 different knock-out designer costumes during the course of the film. There is an extra on the DVD called 'Fashion 101' which tells all about this. Anyone interested in design or fashion needs to see it. The film's emphasis on costume for all of its characters had a ripple effect and caused a heightened awareness of fashion amongst the girls of America in the midst of the boring 'grunge' phase of the nineties, helping to make girls pretty once again and re-introducing that one essential which can never be replaced TRUE STYLE. After all, why should girls try to look ugly just in order to prove their equality with men? (Men can't help being ugly, but girls really have to work at it, so why bother.) They should instead try to be as pretty as can be in order to demonstrate their superiority. And hence the importance in the story of the hilarious 'makeovers' and attempts by the girls to out-trump each other by acts of style. This is the most wonderful satire of spoilt affluent Beverly Hills kids and their absurd class stratifications based upon money and 'popularity', that vague will o' the wisp which can vanish as the mist when the sunrise of real life takes place. Alicia Silverstone's cheerful and innocent personality, trapped as she is in a fantasy Beverly Bubble without even knowing it, really makes the film. She is simply irresistible and a natural comedienne. Never has shallowness been deeper! The satire is very pointed throughout the film, but is always laid on with affectionate and gentle mirth. After all, these deluded kids are not bad people, they are just helpless victims of their own vanity, stupidity, vapidity, and parents. One of the most hilarious characters in the film is Silverstone's father ('My daddy is a litigator, which is the most terrifying kind of lawyer.') Anyone who has known how ferocious litigators can be must have a good giggle seeing one at home who is out-witted at every turn not by an opponent in court, but by a smiling and teasing daughter. The satire on the appalling American school system is also so hilarious. All the kids sit texting and paying no attention to the teachers at all. The film is even more relevant now than when it was released in pre-history, or should I say the Pleistocene Era, meaning 1995. The film is brilliantly written and directed by Amy Heckerling, who has recently written and directed a new feature film starring Alicia Silverstone called VAMPS (2012) which I have not seen. Previously she wrote and directed a feature called I COULD NEVER BE YOUR WOMAN (2007) featuring Michelle Pfeiffer and Paul Rudd and Stacey Dash, who are both so brilliant in CLUELESS. So as a result of CLUELESS, a great deal of bonding evidently took place and there is now a Heckerling Family. Wallace Shawn, who hilariously plays Mr. Hall in CLUELESS was already her intimate friend and has worked with her at various times. How can anyone who has seen CLUELESS ever forget the romance between Shawn and Twink Caplan as Miss Geist? Silverstone's match-making between those two hopeless and gawky individuals was inspired by Jane Austen's EMMA, apparently. But Amy Heckerling needs no inspiration, she IS inspiration. This film is such a classic that I wonder if there is anyone with a sense of humour and fun who has not seen it by now. Merry Christmas and also Happy Hannukah and every variety of Seasons's Greetings to all clueless people, and may Santa slip the DVD of this wonderful gem into your stocking, just in case you are one of the unlucky ones who has never seen it before, or perhaps have lost your old copy and need a quick replacement, so that your holiday will not be incomplete and you will not suffer from lack of hilarity. "},{"Title":"Clueless based on...!!!","Date":"6 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" It's a nice movie, a decent romantic comedy set in a high school. But what almost shocked me was the fact that storyline was essentially based on Emma (by Jane Austin),albeit set in modern era; without naming the original author! Though I don't remember Emma being as superficial as Cher(leading character in this movie), as she really is clueless! I didn't particularly like Alicia Silverstone in the aforementioned leading role, but found Paul Rudd to be a nice updated dorky version of Mr. Knightly; Brittany Morphy was effective and almost unrecognizable in the role of another clueless new student, whom Cher takes the responsibility of saving (Harriet in the original story)! "},{"Title":"'Mean Girls' of the 95's","Date":"9 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This film really had a 'Mean Girls' vibe around it, even if the characters were much more likable.This film stepped away from all high school movie clichés. Instead of having a loser who's trying to climb her way up on the social ladder, as our protagonist, we have Cher- the most popular girl in school- as our main character and surprisingly, she wasn't a total bitch. She did appear too spoiled, but the humor added into the film, softened the blow and made me like her. She had good values even from the starting of the film. You could tell that she was a good person.Alicia Silverstone was a good Cher. They could have chosen better, but Silverstone did a good job. I just didn't like her voice. There were so many countless times when I just wanted her to stop commentating since her voice was annoying. Sorry. I loved Donald Faison who played Murray! Even though, I didn't like Stacey Dash as Dionne. Brittany Murphy did a great job as Tai! So did Paul Rudd (Josh), Breckin Meyer (Travis) and Justin Walker (Christian).The love stories were unpredictable. I didn't know who Cher would end up with! (SPOILERS) But gosh, when I finally realized who it was, I found myself rewinding the movie just to check if Josh and Cher were related. I asked myself several times, Wait. Aren't they brother and sister? I never would have expected that there was a relationship waiting to bloom! I would have preferred more development to be put in their relationship, though. I didn't even know it was going to happen until it did! I mean, they never showed signs of even liking each other! (/SPOILERS) Totally unexpected.This film is good if you're looking for something laid-back and fun. I actually found this on the recommendations for a good teenage flick to watch. It wasn't too deep. Something great for a casual afternoon. "},{"Title":"a favorite film","Date":"16 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" this isn't really a review. it is actually a real love story. the woman its for, her favorite movie is cluelessThe Season for Giving Hey. I was hoping you could help. Please. For some good karma and the feeling that you helped someone out. I entered this competition to win a bike and I'm a finalist. I'm currently in second place! I need votes. If I win I'm giving the bike to a beautiful woman I really like so I can go riding with her.the competition is at http//vivabicycles.com/My entry is The Gears of LoveIt's on the homepage. It will only take 2 seconds. 2 clicks Please could you help it would mean soooo much!! All you would get is good karma. But I really need this. I don't have any money. I just want to get her a bike so I can share my passion with her. Thanks for your help... you should go check out their bikes anyways... their sick!!! "},{"Title":"Elegantly loquacious in its own sorta way","Date":"7 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" In the 90s there was this sort of subgenre of Hollywood filmmaking that regarded the powers and potentials of the vapid blonde mindset. With movies like Romy and Michelle's High School Reunion, Buffy the Vampire Slayer, and Clueless, filmmakers set about showing that there's more to blondes than meets the fashion-frenzied eye, though typically you have to know the language of fashion to understand it. I feel like Clueless is probably just about the best execution of this theme.Story follows Cher, overprivileged 16 year old rich kid Ms. Popularity extraordinaire, whose passion for involving herself in other people's affairs self-argued as helping others belies her own selfishness and inability to understand things outside her own values. However, with a combination of a no-nonsense lawyer father, a droll step-brother, and some silly mishaps, Cher comes to the stunning realization over not only what she really wants, but how selfish she's been trying to get it.This movie is an adaptation of Emma the way 10 Things I Hate about You is an adaptation of The Taming of the Shrew--you needn't really know the original text to understand it and it really operates less comparatively to the original text than the Paltrow-featured Emma. What you get instead is a rather funny modern screwball comedy, as Cher basically twists all the messages being sent to her to her own ends, only to be left all on her own in terms of understanding the messages. Indeed, early in the movie she says, This is Ren and Stimpy. It's way existential but later in the movie she actually comes to an existential crisis. I find it funny. I tend to find existentialists are not quite so amused.Nevertheless, Clueless is quite clearly satire and I find it amazing how well it was able to pull it off, particularly because Alicia Silverstone's loquacious cuteness in character makes her all the more endearable than the somewhat annoying tongue-in-cheek vapidness of movies like Legally Blonde. It is, indeed, easier to see what Josh sees in her.I don't really think that this subgenre has a whole lot of room, really, for more interpretation. Other movies on the power of pop culture, especially in the high school level, like Never Been Kissed at most end up feeling cute and at worst are, frankly, unbearable. Clueless is something I'd not mind watching again, even though I'm typically not very interested in the genre itself.--PolarisDiB "}{"Title":"At the feet of the ultimate range, version 1.11","Date":"5 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Reactions to features are a very personal sort of thing.To me the ultimate movies include such as Lindsay's Mean Girls and Confessions Of A Teenage Whatever, the question of what sort of movie culture led to these happening in the way that they do is a sensible question to me. In some important ways I do find these Ultimates to follow in the footsteps of Clueless, I have to honour this feature.Minor pinnacles close to the heights of these two, such as Lindsay's Get A Clue. Ditto.Even a movie that I found a bit too scary to rate as in that range, Mini's First Time of 2006, seemed to follow in the footsteps, too. These are all more recent than 1995 and if the change in style is to reflect changes in actual girl culture then the flow of history is in big trouble.Those more in tune with recent features should find a lot more with a family resemblance. I do not place American Pie in this particular family. To me that is male and a different sort of thing. Himalaya sort of thing.Reading the IMDb user comments for Girl Interrupted I noticed a lot of adulation for Brittany Murphy, I could not understand it at all. This tells me why. It tells me that the adulation is reasonable. Looking to the actor details pages at IMDb tells me that the three main actresses suddenly got noticed in a big way after they appeared in this feature. This is an influential feature.Earlier stuff? Grease then Girls Just Want To Have Fun then Heathers feel to be among those clearly leading to Clueless.* A schoolgirrrl story about 15s played by 18s. To that I have to scream Get A Clue, which appears to have its roots in this feature.First viewing I did think that they were actual 15s. The IMDb details came as a surprise. Now, most of them do look a lot older, but Brittany Murphy can still stand out as a 15 if I avoid Get A Clue. As a kitten too, she is as someone tied up to be an easy to lead little lamb.So, a schoolgirrrl story that is fun to watch even after a few viewings during the first week of purchase. Lovers of traditional good or traditional Jane Austen might prefer to bin this one, maybe, maybe not, but some find this to be a disk that gets a lot of playing hours.* September 2009, I get the Whatever edition for its lots of background detail. This does appease my qualms, it is not made by fly on the wall as with Ridgemont but by what I can accept as okay ways. The Whatever background videos seemed to go out of their way to make that point and I had needed that.For me, this has to be one of the major pinnacles of DVDs. I also got the Paltrow version of Emma and switched off after 30 minutes, even though that has high appeal, a major pinnacle, to some. "},{"Title":"Pretty good","Date":"4 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Rated PG-13 for sex related dialogue and some teen use of alcohol and drugs.Clueless is a 90's teen comedy from the director of Fast Times At Ridgemont High which in my opinion is one of the greatest teen films of all time.I watched this film last weekend and I was fairly entertained.I usually enjoy the teen film genre so I liked this movie.It basically shows the life of a rich valley girl(Alicia Silverstone in the role that made her famous) helping out this new girl(Brittany Murphy) become popular and trying to find love herself.Paul Rudd(from 40 Year Old Virgin and Knocked Up) is in this film as well and does a good job.If you like teen films then I suggest watching Clueless.It wont be the best teen film you have ever seen but its pretty funny and good. "},{"Title":"Delightful","Date":"25 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Of all the teen flicks of the last 20 years this is perhaps the classiest, charmingiest (my word, no you can't use it) and most delightful of all. Superb, faultless performances along with a clever script and direction, this movie relies on quality - not jokes or grossities (another one of my words, and you can't use it either ) for it's entertainment and comedic value.Normally I'd be gushing about how wonderful Brittany Murphy is - and indeed she is, in this her movie breakthrough. She is, along with Reese Witherspoon, the finest comedic female actor alive. So who could upstage even a fledgling Murphy exhibition? Well Alicia Silverstone can, in perhaps the most restrained, mature and polished performance you'll see from a teenager.It's not going to tire your brain, but it should leave you feeling good and properly entertained, and if you don't laugh out loud at least 10 times then you must be in a coma!UPDATE Following the sad passing of the young lady who since I wrote the above, went on to become my favourite actress ever, I urge you to watch this movie if you haven't already. Brittany Murphy is simply irreplaceable as a person and as an actress. She never got the credits she deserved in life, so I hope Heaven treats her well. There will never be another like her. "},{"Title":"Good teen comedy that's very hip","Date":"20 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" CLUELESS, in my opinion, is an good teen comedy that's very hip. If you ask me, Cher (Alicia Silverstone) and Dionne (Stacey Dash) did a very good job giving Tai (Brittany Murphy) her makeover. Throughout the whole time I saw Tai, I was reminded of someone I attended middle school with. Also, when Murray (Donald Adeoseun Faison) got his head shaved, I was a little grossed out. You'll have to see the movie if you want to know why. However, I thought his teeth looked nice with the braces on them. There is a moral to this story, and that is, Be true to yourself. I also advise you to take whatever grade you earn, that is, if it's good. Now, in conclusion, I recommend this good teen comedy that's very hip to every Alicia Silverstone fan who hasn't seen it. "},{"Title":"Witty and smart","Date":"9 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie is yet another of those myriad recent movies that takes a classic story (in this case, Jane Austen's Emma) and transposes it to a modern high school. We saw it with Shakespeare's Taming of the Shrew in 10 Things I hate About You, Othello in O, Twelfth Night in She's the Man, and George Bernard Shaw's Pygmalion in She's All That (if I remember correctly).What sets Clueless apart from all of the following is the fact that, whereas the other movies did little more than take the main premises of the classic material and let the rest of the story morph into a generic high school flick (for example, 10 Things transports only the first half of the play into the movie and ends in a much different way), Clueless sticks to Austen's story, and the satiric tone of Austen's story (as translated to Beverly Hills) all the way through. Emma is perhaps an easier story to stick through to the end, and its tone is much more easily transposed to film, and book geeks will love ticking off every beat of Austen's story as it occurs on screen.Add to this some great acting, several sweet (but not saccharine) love story subplots, and some zany humour (Cher's mother died in a freak accident during a routine liposuction...) and you've got possibly the greatest high school film ever made. "},{"Title":"Not for kids!","Date":"29 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I LOVE this movie, but I never thought this movie was for kids.It promotes sex, and drugs in a cute way So cute that you do not think of it. This is more dangerous than the movie LESS THAN ZERO because at least children knew not to do the sex and drugs in the movie.Cher It's one thing if you strike up a doobie at parties... Dionne  ... my man is SA-TIS-FIED, but technically , I am a virgin.If you believe that since children see this stuff anyway , then it's okay, then okay let your kids see it.If you try to keep your kids away from stuff that goes against your beliefs then stay away from this movie. "},{"Title":"Oh. My. Gawd. I'm in love with ... this movie!","Date":"16 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Wow, what can I say? This is the most fun I've had while watching a movie in years and years. Adopted VERY loosely from Pride and Prejudice, Clueless is the story of Cher Horowitz, a 16 year old virgin who can't drive from Beverly Hills, CA. A nice girl, but often without a clue about other people's feelings, or even her own, she has the usual anxieties and problems of an upper-middle-class girl of her time and place. She lives with her divorced father, a litigator, and her ex-step-brother (son of her father's second wife, now divorced from him). Cher attends a high-class high school with her friends, and is trying to learn how to drive a car and to navigate through life and love. She falls in love first with Christian, who dresses well, also had divorced parents, is very cute, and is brave and loves old movies and shopping. But that doesn't go as planned.... He's gay. After failing her driver's test, losing one of her best friends, fighting with her ex-step-brother, and drinking too many cappuccinos, she realizes, perhaps too late, that (1) college guys don't like high school girls, because they wear too much make-up, (2) doing a deposition digest for litigation is very difficult, and (3) she's not that good a person as she thought. She tries to become a better person by doing good deeds, like donating her skis to flood victims, match-making two of her teachers, getting a friend off pot, and helping her father with a difficult case. Will Cher get her true love? How many more laughs can I take? Will they all live happily ever after? This is a very funny movie. It's not just another teen comedy. "},{"Title":"Very cute","Date":"23 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I just saw this movie and I found it to be so cute! ))) Cher Horowitz was played amazingly by Alicia Silverstone. It is very romantic and very sweet! I realized from the beginning that Cher will end up with Josh... They where perfect for each other! So cute!!! And of course, Tai had to be with that skater boy, Travis, he was cute to, but a bit numb...Dionne obviously remained with her boyfriend and they where such a... weird pair... ) Clueless is a good movie for all kind of ages. ) ***I love Cher's fashion style, perfect for the years she was living in... She had a really big house, like a castle and she was living like a princess.You have to love Alicia Silverstone, she has a huge potential. ) "},{"Title":"clueless mistake","Date":"29 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" any 1 notice that mistake in the movie---when shes waiting for the big black phone to ring, she makes a little noise that doesn't come out of her mouth! listen carefully----classic mistake any 1 notice that mistake in the movie---when shes waiting for the big black phone to ring, she makes a little noise that doesn't come out of her mouth! listen carefully----classic mistake any 1 notice that mistake in the movie---when shes waiting for the big black phone to ring, she makes a little noise that doesn't come out of her mouth! listen carefully----classic mistake any 1 notice that mistake in the movie---when shes waiting for the big black phone to ring, she makes a little noise that doesn't come out of her mouth! listen carefully----classic mistake "},{"Title":"Awesome!","Date":"15 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Clueless is an awesome movie, I think that Alicia Silverstone did a great job acting like a rich teen pre-madonna. It is also a GREAT TV show, i love the character Dionn, she is really funny. It is a mix of humorous dialogue, great acting jobs, and an insanely fantastic wardrobe selection. I am annoyed by having to write so much, but I guess there is not really much left to say about this very awesome cool great super cool awesome cool super fun awesome insane great happy purple movie. Thanks for having the time to read my glorious comment which happens to be ten lines long (which is awesommmme) Love, XO Kaylie M. "}{"Title":"Very funny","Date":"10 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This film is definitely a keeper. Starring gorgeous Alicia Silversone as Cher, it centers around teen life. The dialog is perfectly written (sort of morphed valley speak). Cher is the epitome of Cluelessness and the film takes advantage of it. Silverstone's performance is spot-on. There is one scene, which I won't spoil here, at the Driver's Licence Office, that is an absolute gas! I rated this film an 8, which is a high score from me. Alicia Silverstone can look back on her work on this film with pride - she's absolutely great in it. I haven't seen any other films directed by Amy Heckerling but I will check out some of her other work. I've seen Ms. Silverstone in a couple other films and have also enjoyed them. I found the film extremely entertaining, being well-written and well acted. "},{"Title":"Just like all the other 'funny' teen movies.","Date":"20 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Honestly, I did not like this movie. Alicia was very boring and the only twists it had was what guy Tai would settle with.  The whole plot was obvious, and being that not backed up by much comedy, at least for me anyways. I am a brit murphy fan and perhaps thats the only reason I watched the whole movie. "},{"Title":"Kind of funny but also kind of boring!","Date":"2 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Sure this movie was kind of funny but it was also kind of boring. It begins with a woman named Cher and her friends are at some kind of festival. These guys are pushing each other into a waterfall. Cher has a best friend named Dionne they ride to School together. When Cher woke up one morning her father had something to tell her Cher's stepmother and her son are visiting. At school Cher and Dionne both get a C- in class from their teacher. But Cher and Dionne talk to their teachers into changing their grades. Cher's father is proud that she talked her teacher into changing her grades. When Cher tries to call Dionne her father says no because he plans to have it just the family for the night. When Cher goes to a party she gets a phone call from her father telling her she better be home in 20 minutes she gets a ride from a friend.Six Stars  "},{"Title":"Why the heck did this movie recieve two thumbs up????","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  What a let down! This is a very boring, no-point movie with a few laughs but all around bad. Can you beleive that someone actually gave this movie good reviews! I can't! The story-line is missing charm, the charecters need acting lessons and the jokes are cheesy!! Try again next time, Alicia, and maybe Braceface will make up for your mistakes in this movie "},{"Title":"smart, funny, and on target","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Smart, good-natured and insightful teen flick is a look at a couple of rich, fashionable teenage girls who live in Beverly Hills and dedicate their lives to shopping and looking glamorous. Born the daughter of a cutthroat criminal litigator, Cher (Silverstone) devotes her life to helping her father, friends, teachers, and all those around her though she can't quite seem to help herself. Hip, laugh-out loud funny film from director Amy Heckerling is a definite upgrade from the run-of-the-mill teen genre, with believable characters and situations, and witty, colorful dialogue. Silverstone is a true delight in the lead, and she's surrounded by a likable supporting cast. *** "},{"Title":"Hilarious and Great!!!","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"    Clueless is a great movie that is very funny. Alicia Silverstone is great as is Brittany Murphy. This is a great and funny film, and is completely hilarious!!!                        *****SPOILER ALERT*****                     I also like the ending when Cher (Alicia Silverstone) finds that her stepbrother isn't really her brother, and then they get together.                           *****END OF SPOILER*****            All in all, I give Clueless a 10 out of 10!!!!                             "},{"Title":"A lot of fun!","Date":"18 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I love this movie, it's breezy and charming and original, even thoughit's based on a classic book, sort of. From the director of Fast Timesat Ridgemont High, one of my all time favorites, this is another storyof teenage girls searching for meaning in their lives. Spoiled girlswith big hearts. It's well shot and edited, has a great soundtrack, andgreat performances. Rent it!   "},{"Title":"Slow Times At 1990's High","Date":"10 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This feature was a sweet natured film, but in my opinion was not as good as Fast Times at Ridgemont High(1982).  First, FTARH contained characters that many teens or people who were in their teens could relate to.  Second, the people that the film fully focused on were fully developed and more complex like the character played by Jennifer Jason Leigh.  Third, Clueless(1995) is a film that wants to deal with serious issues but is afraid to drive deep into them, while FTARH deals with issues head on without regret or second thought.  To summarize it all up, I believe that Clueless(1995) is like a fluffy teddy bear, its nice to look at but not to hold any interest on.   "},{"Title":"Cher Shows Us How","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is a laugh riot and is worth a place in your collection. Alicia has the part of a lifetime (were her subsequent choices as smart.....) and is way good, along with Paul Rudd and especially Dan Hedaya.  I've never read Emma or seen the movie, but I bet Jane Austen would have thought this movie was 'da bomb'. "},{"Title":"Clueless","Date":"22 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Quirky comedy about a Beverly hills teen who plays matchmaker for teachers, transforms a bad dresser and examines her own life. Much like director Heckerling's Fast Times At Ridgemont High, this film is a great film of its time. Full of fun humor and great catch phrases; here's a film that truly has fun with itself.  "}{"Title":"Just give it a chance...","Date":"11 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I was probably one of the few people who actually thought that this movie would be good...but I never thought that it would be as great as it was. The laughs are quick and frequent, the characters are generally likable, and there is a genuine and believable sweetness to this film, a characteristic that is sadly lacking in most other youth-oriented comedies.  And then there's Silverstone, who is perfectly cast in the lead, and does a terrific job.  SO, get any pre-conceived notions out of your head, watch this movie, and you'll likely find that like so many people you will be surprised when it exceeds your expectations. "},{"Title":"CLUELESS remains the most original, well made teen comedy movie ever made.","Date":"23 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I allegedly tried hard to bash this one more than three years ago because I admitted that anything Barbie-esque would not have worked at all for Hollywood (well, it did!). Nor would Amy Heckerling, who gave me and millions plenty enough to be sick and bored about in the Look Who's Talking movies. Nor Alicia Silverstone, who at the time was queen of the Aerosmith music videos on MTV before realizing she'd star in a film that looked like it would be too much sugar and spice to keep audiences from being too nice about it! After viewing CLUELESS (the film, that is), I was real surprised. The casting is brilliant from start to finish and the humor is very practical most of the time, which bodes well provided that 97% of all comedy movies really stale at being funny! Cher goes down to being one of the most memorable characters in numerous motion pictures, and you'll discover why Silverstone perfected that role that made it classic (c'mon Ms. Blanchard!). In fact, she often reminded me of Melissa Joan Hart (as Clarissa). As a comedy, CLUELESS easily ranks near the very top of my list. As a teen movie, it's the best one yet. This may have set a trend in recent teen girl acts, including SABRINA THE TEENAGE WITCH and BUFFY THE VAMPIRE SLAYER, all of which have been a commercial success due to their appeal among teenagers. Highly recommended!   "},{"Title":"Interesting if you don't have seen the other.","Date":"18 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I have seen almost all the teen movie and i just missed one! that was clueless.Clueless is a pretty much good movie for the 90's, Cher is THE girl, fashionable with trendy and hip friends, she has everything in her life except a boyfriend... when a new girl arrives in the high school, she decides ton be a good girl learning her how to be the perfect girl but she finally realizes that she loses everything even her close friends.Alicia Silverstone is the perfect lazy and foolish little girl, all in this movie is sarcastic and stereotyped but that's so good to laugh when she drives or when she tells us what's happened.There is only a bad thing and ridiculous thing in this movie.. the end, a crappy end which is totally impossible like all the movie but this end really sucks... "},{"Title":"God Awful!","Date":"14 June 2003","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The only thing worse than the movie are the people who like it.  Every time I meet someone who loves this movie, I mention that it was based on Jane Austin's Emma.  Then they usually reply with either No it wasn't! (in a high pitched Valley Girl squeal), or Who's Jane Austin?.  One lady thought that Jane Austin was a comic book artist. Now, this doesn't really suprise me, after looking at the main character, Cher (who doesn't doubt that Alicia Silverstone is actually like this is real life?)  She spends all her time worrying about clothes and boys, instead of school or maybe getting a decent job.  That also sums up most of America, now that I think about it. "},{"Title":"Watch only if you like sexism.","Date":"31 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Disappointed in this movie. The heroine was portrayed in a very sexist way. She was really ditsy and only spent money while men did real work. Well I have big news, women in the 20th century generally do not act like this. I know that the movie was supposed to be based on Emma by Jane Austen, but I was hard pressed to find much resemblance. Why couldn't Cher have been a smart sassy young lady? I think that would have been a modern Emma. This title evidence of modern suppression of women.Also it was full of stereotypes and borderline racist insinuations. I would have liked to have heard a few of the girls plans for the future. I enjoyed the novel Emma as a historical piece of literature not as a representation of today's young women. "},{"Title":"This is probably the best Clueless comment EVER","Date":"16 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" First of all, we Roll with the homies. The vernacular from this genius film is now in my daily vocabulary. Because I like totally paused. Also I became a man because of Cher and she is my girl fo' life. Cher, if you're out there, MARRY ME. If you won't marry me, because you may be with Joshie pie (that bastard) then tell Dion I'm in to her goodness too. And if she has moved on tell Tai I dig her style. She is not nearly as ugly as everybody thinks she is, I mean did you see how she looked when she moved to Detroit and dated that white freestyle rapper. I mean she is freakin hot. I would totes suck face with her in 2 seconds flat. "},{"Title":"Not cute","Date":"5 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A 'mirror-movie' where dressed-up teenage (or younger) wannabes try to imagine ('keeping it real') or worse, outsmart, how their imaginary friends will behave thereby pre-judging thin air, each other, and ultimately themselves.Cannot tell whether 'assigned partners' are naive, possessive, mutually willing, or socially enforced through 'overlaps'.Persons using oneselves as test subjects derides point of evolution and worse, when they use one another for experimentation, 'retribution' and 'respect' is merely retaliation (not so much revenge unless animals get hurt who can tell? and what can you do about it?). There is some sense of characters knowingly wasting time or 'sacrificing their wisdom' on the brink of satisfying 'teach a lesson' mentality it is one thing for a person to ask for advice, quite another for social cornering a person to deliver something they do not want, do not need or find harmful/hurtful.Very much over-aged persons playing 'mummy and daddy' and telling of their own derogation from innocence, which every individual owns in abundance but knows is useless in abandance. "},{"Title":"No brains, no problem.","Date":"8 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Cher is a spoiled rich brat who lives in a mansion with her father. She manipulates the teachers into giving her good grades and she helps her friends find love. There is no really good plot to this movie. It's about a stupid rich girl who makes everything go her way. Then she has a crush on her stepbrother and denies it and then snap! It was like Mean Girls but I actually liked Cady in Mean Girls. At least Mean Girls had a moral to the story at the end. No one in this movie really does anything worthy. So Cher finds love for her two teachers. Who cares because I sure didn't care at all. I was hoping for a good moral to the story but it was just about the dumbest blonde in any movie possible. The only part I liked was the stepbrother until he started to like Cher. Then he got really dumb. Paul Rudd could have done a lot better. "},{"Title":"Fun satirical chick flick, loosely based on Emma.","Date":"10 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I really enjoyed Clueless... I found it fun, charming and easy to like. It is loosely based on Emma, and while some of the book's issues are put across here, like social standing, the story was updated to make it appealing for teenagers, and it ticks almost all of the right boxes. A perfectly cast Alicia Silverstone positively sparkles in the title role of Cher, and she is further advantaged by a funny well-written script, a classic heart felt story, and very good performances from her co-stars, such as Brekin Meyer and Brittany Murphy. The direction by Amy Heckerling was also spirited. The film looks lovely, with very nice costumes and locations. My only two criticisms are that the film is a little long, and once or twice only when the story almost falls into predictability. Overall, a fun, engaging and well acted film, that I would definitely watch again. 8/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Am I the only one who hates this movie?","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I loathe Clueless.I'll concede that it does have a sprinkling of humorous one-liners...but other than that, this movie makes my skin crawl.I hate the characters.  After about 20 minutes, I already hoped Cher would crash that Jeep right into their 90210 high school for a John Woo style pyrotechnics display.Alas, it was not to be.  I have no idea how anyone can sympathize with ANY of the characters...and the message of the movie is revolting.  Make sure you change yourself to be accepted, kids!ugh.   "}{"Title":"Cluelessly Remarkable","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Clueless is about a beautiful rich, smart and popular girl named cher(Alicia Silverstone). Along with her best friend dionne(Stacey Dash) cher notices a clumsy but cute new girl Tai(Brittany Murphy) and decides to give her a makeover and show her what it's like to be popular and be loved by everybody. But while Cher tries to give Tai a new life, she notices that all the things that were once important to her, don't matter that much and that Cher is the one that needs a makeover. Alicia Silverstone does a great job and Brittany Murphy gave a very funny performance. Clueless is one of those movies that you can watch over and over again and still enjoy it. I would give Clueless 10/10 "},{"Title":"Dumb, Dumber & Beverly Hills (sic)","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I usually don't write comments. But to see that this is a Funny, cute and charming movie just was the necessary incentive.This, among many other, is the perfect example of a decerebrated movie for teenagers. Even then, I am sure few black teens would appreciate it. It's SO Hollywoody-American (and meant to be) that I really can't go any higher than 5.Keep your brain in shape, see something else.  "},{"Title":"hot girls is the only thing good about this movie","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie never goes anywhere. Almost everybody likes this movie,and I really truly don't know why. Hot girls in this movie,and that's it. Theres maybe 1 or 2 things that are entertaining in this movie besides the girls,but only 1 or 2. The movie is 90 minutes of almost never funny,and entertaining stuff. It doesn't really have a plot it's just stuff bunched up that's supposed to be fun,but almost never is. Maybe the most overrated teen movie ever! You can't really care for the people in this movie because most of them just say dumb things that are not funny. I really wanted to like this movie,but it was barely ok. I give this movie barely ** out of **** "},{"Title":"I HATE THIS MOVIE!!!","Date":"30 July 1998","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I HATE THIS MOVIE!!!  This movie made me nauseous!  I actually lost sexual attraction to Alicia Silverstone after watching this piece of garbage.  Anyone who liked this movie (especially guys) whould have their heads examined!  (No stars) "},{"Title":"Clueless","Date":"26 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Apparently a remake of Jane Austen's Emma for the modern world, from writer/director Amy Heckerling (Fast Times at Ridgemont High). Basically Cher Horowitz (Batman & Robin's Alicia Silverstone) is the rich, pretty, blonde and popular girl who knows how to talk anyone into doing almost anything, and also the narrator. When Cher can't get a better grade from her teacher Mr. Wendell Hall (Toy Story's Wallace Shawn), she and her friend Dionne (Stacey Dash, who played the same character in the Clueless TV series) match him up with Miss Toby Geist (Twink Caplan) to them happier, and maybe boost their expectations. Cher is happy doing good deeds, and when new girl Tai (Brittany Murphy) shows up, Cher and Dionne give her a makeover and try to get her a boyfriend. Cher realises doing this she wants a boyfriend as well, but she can't find the right guy. As she continues a spiritual makeover, she realises theirs more to life than clothes and popularity, and the guy of her dreams is the guy she has spent most time with as a friend, Josh (Paul Rudd). She should have also realised Tai was infatuated with Travis (Road Trip's Breckin Meyer), and vice versa, not the guy she expected to like her, Elton (Jeremy Sisto), and also the guy she originally wanted as a boyfriend, Christian (Justin Walker) was gay, it was obvious. Also starring Donald Faison as Murray, Elisa Donovan as Amber and Dan Hedaya as Mel Horowitz. It is in my book of 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die, I'd have to see it more to agree with that, but it is a good film. Very good! "},{"Title":"Slow Times","Date":"8 March 2001","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Jane would be saddened to see what has been done to her Emma. Emma was deeply selfish and exploited an entrenched social structure. Cher is lovably daft and surfs capricious fads -- the story just does not transport.Alicia does well enough for a career start. But then see her in Branagh's experiment and one can see that there's not much growth.I prepared for this by reseeing `Fast Times at Ridgemont High,' which at least had Sean Penn. Here you can amuse yourself by watching Wallace Shawn. But not much else. "},{"Title":"Boring movie with no real action","Date":"8 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is an AWFUL movie with bad characters. Tried to be funny at the cost of the viewers. Had a hard time not to sleep. Why make a movie like these. A terrible chick flick, I don't know why girls like these film. She fells in love with her step brother, what is that?I wouldn't recommend this movie to any normal human being. One film i would like to recommend is Eurotrip. There you can actually See a film with funny characters, and with a lot of sex, drugs and alcohol. The perfect movie.Another thing with this movie is the annoying Alicia Silverstone, that playes cher. I know she can do better, then why, WHY for the love of god, did she accept this role? "}]