[{"Title":"An astounding film","Date":"17 December 2003","Score":"107 out of 116 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  I was dragged to this film by my girlfriend (now wife) when it first came out in fall of 1995. I had zero interest in what seemed to me nothing more than a kids movie. I recall sitting in the theater before the movie commenced, looking at my watch and estimating the time it would end, when my life could begin again after this rude 90 minute interruption.Then the film began. The moment Babe said a tearful goodbye to his mother as she was being led off to the slaughter house (Pig Paradise, the narrator says), I was hooked. What stood out to me was not the tearful Goodbye Mom, but the fact that after we see Babe's mom loaded into the truck, the camera goes back to Babe, siting in the corner of his industrial pen, sobbing profusely. This moment, maybe 90 seconds into the movie, is filmed so well, so perfect, that instead of coming off as melodramatic, it is heartrending. I know that word is used often to describe this film, but I do not know how else to describe it. This is one of many heartrending moments in this beautiful film.This is by far the best childrens film I have ever seen, but it really is a mistake to even call it a childrens film. It is simply a great film. A film that shows how wondrous things can happen as a result of common decency; how any individual can triumph if they believe in themselves; how vital is the help of family and friends in life's arduous journey.This a film not to be missed. It should have beaten Braveheart. "},{"Title":"Fantastic, a true piece of art","Date":"14 July 2004","Score":"83 out of 86 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Babe is one of my favorite movies.A lot of people laugh at me when I say that. But I know that this film is one of the best ones ever made. It's simple, beautiful, positive and original.The story is about a farm pig who wants to become a sheep dog. Pretty strange considering a pig's place is in people's plates. But Babe has something the sheep dogs don't have gallantry. His kindness, determination and good intentions will make him a truly unique individual, one that stands out from his peers, proving that no matter who you are, you can make a difference.I love the way the story is made. It is cut into chapters with a bit of narration, giving us the warm grandfather story or old school feeling. It's a very comfortable ambiance, and every animal brings its personality into making an awesome story.Now I am sure you've all seen talking animal movies before, with voice-overs. Babe took it one step further with the animals' lips being in sync with their lines! Talk about realism! The sets are very friendly to the eyes and contribute into making this movie a classic.Babe is one great movie for everyone to see, it's magical and enchanting!The Master T Score ***** out of 5 Stars "},{"Title":"This Is About As Good As It Gets For A Family Movie","Date":"19 March 2006","Score":"67 out of 72 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" When this came out -- years ago, I thought, Wow, this is pretty amazing and since then movie audiences have been amazed at a number of camera tricks, computer-enhanced people, animals, monsters, and who knows what....so this kind of story with fun special effects is no longer is unique.However, it's so charming, so nice a story that it should hold up as solid entertainment for a long, long time. It has proved to be anything but a flash-in-the-pan. This movie will endure. It's also a beautiful film on DVD with brilliant colors and some very rich visuals. Filmed in rural Australia, the scenery is magnificent and so is the house that is featured in the film. It looks like some old-fashioned gingerbread house. The animals are entertaining, talking to one another like humans but not looking hokey in the process. In other words, the dubbing is well done.The main character, Babe, the little pig, is the nicest, most innocent character you could ever hope to find. Listening to him talk is heart-warming most of the time and sometimes it's heart-breaking. The best comic relief is provided by the goose who wants to be a rooster. That may sound like it's geared toward little kids, but it isn't. I haven't found an adult friend yet who didn't like this film.It also was good to see James Cromwell play a nice guy, too. Most other times he seems to play profane and corrupt cops or government officials. Here, he's just a nice old farmer who blends in perfectly with the surroundings. His wife is a bit annoying, but not too bad.This is a wonderful, sweet-hearted comedy-drama with a nice ending, too, guaranteed to leave you with a smile or a tear, or both. This is one of the best family movies of all time. "},{"Title":"Positively Sublime","Date":"5 June 2005","Score":"55 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" An extremely quirky film that you won't mind watching with the kids. Not full of sappy platitudes, this strange little tale of a pig that wants to be a sheep dog is extremely effective in it's message without hitting you in the head with it. No doubt because it wasn't made in Hollywood... we Americans have never been good at telling children's stories without being condescending and heavy-handed with the moral message.The story takes place in some fairy tale amalgam of all the rural cultures of the English-speaking world - Sometimes it seems like England, other times Kansas, Australia, New Zealand, it's really never anywhere particular. The acting is superb, the animatronics are unrecognizable as such, and James Cromwell is superb as the taciturn farmer willing to give the little pig a chance. "},{"Title":"Blew me away!","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"41 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  I was one of the biggest detractors of this film when I initially found out it was nominated for an academy award back in 1995.  A talking pig?  You gotta be kiddin' me!  Then, months after Braveheart walked with the award, I finally saw the infamous Babe.  Wow!  Was I ever wrong.  This movie not only deserved the nomination, but was a close, close second out of the five nominees in my book (Braveheart rightfully won, but I would have had no trouble had Babe won).  I love this film because it has a sweet lining, yet tells a deep story about resolve, goodness, and the struggles of life in a very large sense.  It makes you think, but more importantly, it makes you WANT to think about how all our lives are interconnected and what can be done by each seemingly insignificant individual to make the world a better place.  That's saying a lot, when a guy who loves stuff like True Romance digs on a piggy movie.  If you haven't seen this, buy it immediately. "},{"Title":"Disarmingly charming and wonderful","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"31 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Babe is separated from his family and becomes friends with some of the animals on his new farm.  He learns that each animal has a role to play and that both he and Ferdinand the duck are fated to be lunch!  Both take new roles to escape their fate and Babe tries to become a sheepdog.  As Farmer Hoggett begins to notice the unusual way Babe can work with the sheep he begins to groom him for that role &#150; much to the worry of his wife and the other farm animals.Written by the guy who wrote the Mad Max films &#150; that's what kills me.  I know it's adapted but how can the Mad Max writer manage to deliver such a sweet film that is unassuming and comic and heart warming.  The plot is great as it is adapted from `The Sheeppig' but Miller's script adds so many comic touches that it's funny throughout.  The characters are all well written so that we care about them and get easily drawn in.It's directed well and again feels fresh and different &#150; whether it's the chapter set up or the use of the narrator or the way that the singing mice make the links it all works well.  Because it is gentle and unassuming I found myself involved in it so easily and the themes of finding your own path and friendship are not rammed down your throat but just sit there if you want to get them.  I've seen this several times and the silent, wonderful climax to the sheepdog trials makes me choke everytime (even if it is predictable).All the voices are good and the use of animals is faultless.  The use of animatronics is a little ropey at times but the sense of goodwill the film gave me extended to overlooking these minor complaints.  James Cromwell is just superb as the human face in this drama &#150; everytime I see him now I can only hear him say `that'll do pig'.  Babe is a great hero and you feel for him from the start to the end &#150; when he gives a little satisfied sigh it's difficult not to feel warm inside.Overall this is one of the best children's films I've seen &#150; it's light and unassuming and not a classic but it is comic, gentle and ultimately heart warming &#150; what more do you want? "},{"Title":"Genuinely sweet and wonderful","Date":"1 February 2000","Score":"32 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  This is one of the sweetest movies I have ever seen.  Not preachy, but yet extends a message of love and harmony.Just loved the pig, and James Cromwell was terrific as the somewhat befuddled but good-hearted farmer.  The climax is a wonderfully quiet and touching scene.  It's a movie about friendship and trust, you should see it, no matter how old you are.   "},{"Title":"Simple, likable feel-gooder","Date":"22 March 2004","Score":"29 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" A simple, likable feel-gooder. In lesser hands, 'Babe' might easily have risked excruciating death by treacle, or by camp. It does have a couple weak spots (those non-sequitur mouse songs, for instance, do nothing for me, and I always wonder why they used fake American accents for the idiomatically British dialogue). But for the most part the inventive direction and sense of genuine whimsy (not unlike those of 'Le fabuleux destin d'Amélie Poulain') steer it away from the most dangerous pitfalls. The blend of CGI, puppetry, and real animals is subtle and wonderfully believable, with the 'performances' of Fly and Rex standing out in their eloquence and realism. Much has been made, of course, of James Cromwell's acting here, and he certainly is an authentic, very charming presence throughout. But Magda Szubanski's work shouldn't be overshadowed either--even her walk is rich in comic detail. In the end, there's not a whole lot to this film, but the good things outweigh the bad, the dark edges keep it all from getting too sappy, and some of the more expressive moments truly achieve a kind of magic. 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Family Classic","Date":"26 August 2007","Score":"23 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" This is a family film in the classic sense of the word, and it'd be hard to find a more charming and heartfelt tale. Ideally for children, but it can be enjoyed by adults too. It is a fantasy world where animals speak just like humans do.....albeit not in Australian accents, which is where the film is meant to be set.The hero of this tale is a young pig named Babe, who is transfered from the pig pen, to the village fête, to the hands of Farmer Hoggett who wins the little fellow in a prize raffle(James Cromwell). It is on the farm he meets the locals, and is taken under the wing by a kind sheepdog named Fly, who has been characterised as the warm and motherly type. Not so warm is Rex (voiced by Hugo Weaving of Agent Smith fame), her growling no nonsense other half, who believes pigs do not belong with sheepdogs.Babe is portrayed as the personification of innocence, and his gleeful and inquisitive nature brings him into contact with a host of farmyard animals. Not too sure why they felt he needed a furry little toupee between his ears, but each to his own. As Babe gets closer to Fly and the sheepdog role, he even begins to assume this role, much to Rex's dismay. But Babe has an awful lot of ambition for a little animal, and his heart is set on being a sheep-pig.There are moments of sadness in this film, such as loss and death, but it is mainly sweet natured and enchanting. It is one of the few Universal rated films I enjoy watching, and that is saying something for me! "},{"Title":"A Pig's Fascinating Tale","Date":"8 July 2008","Score":"20 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Remember the times when a parent or a grandparent would read to a child in bed, so that the child can visualize the story and comfortably sink into his/her dreamworld? Well, 'Babe' feels like such a story. It is a heartwarming tale about a Pig (called Babe by her 'Mom') and her friends at the farm. Chris Noonan executes it in such a wonderful way. The film is broken into chapters (just like in a book) and the lovable talking animals appear like very real and humanistic characters. the lip-syncing is impeccable. Also, I liked that the film doesn't completely refrain from reality as it does show that pigs are killed for meat or that puppies are given away or sold to others. It stays honest. The voice-acting is very well done. Christine Cavanaugh's childlike voice remarkably fits Babe. Miriam Margolyes, Danny Mann, Hugo Weaving and Miriam Flynn are all pleasing. James Cromwell is wonderfully restrained. The setting is a make-belief story-book farm. I found myself wondering, 'Is this an English farm?' and at the same time being confused that the people were speaking with an American accent but there's really no need to pick on that because it simply doesn't matter. Just enjoy the beautiful farm and the lovely characters. 'Babe' is one of the finest family films. Kids will surely love it. Heck, even I loved it when I saw it during my late teens...and I still love it as an adult. "}{"Title":"That'll do, filmmakers","Date":"2 May 2008","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" I was privileged to see this in the cinema in Melbourne years ago when it first came out and the buzz was just starting. A young-ish, single man at the time, I was dragged along oozing skepticism - but came out loving it unreservedly. I just watched it again with my two kids, aged seven and five, and watched them lap up the magic. It was wonderful to re-visit the film through their eyes. When The Boss takes the shotgun to the barn thinking Babe has savaged the sheep, they were genuinely fearful. They hated the laughter of the crowd at the sheepdog trials when Fogget appears with a pig. They cried when that derisive laughter turns to cheers (though not as much as me...).There are two kinds of people in the world. Those who love Babe. And the lost. Stay away from the latter. "},{"Title":"The Little Pig Who Could","Date":"7 October 2007","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Some films are so enjoyable that it is nearly impossible not to smile through them as they teach subtle lessons, and Babe is one of the best. It is the odd being that can't laugh at the antics of the animals of Farmer Hoggit's farm as Ferdinand, a duck tries to usurp the role of the rooster, three literate and musical mice read title cards aloud for younger audience members, and best of all, Babe, a Hoy piglet, learns the job of the brilliant herding dogs Rex and Fly, to win the annual sheep herding competition. Clever animation, well done animatronic creature-doubles, and a menagerie of superbly trained farm animals makes the story of the little pig who could be more than just bacon for breakfast a film for the entire family. A simple story that underscores that hard work and tolerance for those different from oneself is to be respected in the kingdom of all animals, Babe certainly brings to the screen through comedy and drama, lessons all ages can understand. As Babe grows bigger through the great job of fattening up by Mrs. Hoggit, he makes friends with a sheep who conveys much wisdom about the rules of farm life where Rex is the dominant working dog, and the sheep are considered ignorant. However, Farmer Hoggit and Babe share a special relationship that confounds his wife, the sheep dogs, and the sheep. Hoggit trains Babe how to herd sheep and he's a mighty smart and fast learner, ultimately changing the rules that dominated the pecking order of the barnyard - because that's the way it's always been with good manners and friendship.James Cromwell as Farmer Arthur Hoggit gives an understated and superb performance as the patient farmer who is willing to give a young pig a chance. This is one of the most delightful family films which is perfect for seasonal get-togethers or just because its a nice change to see a film devoid of car chases, explosions, and four letter words, yet adult in its message as well. Every library should have its own copy of little Babe, a Pig of Destiny. "},{"Title":"Adorable Movie","Date":"10 November 2005","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Babe is one of the cutest movies already made! It's the story of a little pig, who starts living in the farm of the farmer Arthur Hoggettt and Esme Hoggett.There,he meets many new animals,like the Sheepdogs Fly and Rex,their puppies,Maa the Ewe and Ferdinand the duck,among other animals.Winning the respect of his new owner Arthur,Babe needs to prove that he is more than an ordinary pig, who was born to be human's food he enters the competition for the sheepdogs and wins of all the pedigree-winning animals. His trick is to be polite with the other animals, different from the sheepdogs, that only achieve their tasks being rude to the ewes. Babe is a cute movie, not only for kids,but also for adults. It has a powerful message about being polite and helping others and also to never let anyone put you down, saying that you were not capable to do something. "},{"Title":"A beautiful film teaching the importance of cultural tolerance and support..","Date":"14 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" This is a great film. It should have been awarded the Oscar over the film that won that year. At a time in the world when the importance of understanding and practicing cultural tolerance was needed desperately, Babe came along and gave the world a brilliant guide. Although it is billed as a children's film, and the message is portrayed via farm animals who can talk, people of all ages should be able to connect with, and appreciate the coming together of different cultures to achieve a common good. In fact, the message is even more poignant and penetrating due to the obvious differences between a duck and a rooster, and a pig and a man. And when natural antagonists unite, the power of the film's message is overwhelming. "},{"Title":"Che Bella!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"12 November 1999","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Along with The Usual Suspects, Braveheart, and the Spanish Prisoner, this is the cream of the crop of 90's movies.  I think that the late Joseph Campbell would agree that Babe's struggle to overcome the label pasted upon him by society, his fight to claim his own identity was no less magnificent than Luke Skywalker's struggle in Star Wars.  There has never been a hero whose story better embodies the Monomyth better than this little pig.  "},{"Title":"This little piggy went to the Oscars.","Date":"27 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" My Take The CITIZEN KANE of talking animal movies.For many years, BABE has been on the same line as THE WIZARD OF OZ and E.T., as a classic family film. It even made a runaway success in the box-office, charming audiences around the world in theaters back at 1995. It even made quite an impression in the Oscars being nominated even for Best Picture and 6 other Oscars (winning one for Best Special Effects, winning it fair-and-square from APOLLO 13). So with all the buzz that's still going on with BABE, is it really that great! For most parts, BABE still lives up to its title, The little film that could.While it ain't quite as perfect as the films I've mentioned above, BABE still deserves its place as a classic family film choice. It's painted with creative storyline, interesting characters and simply delightful moments of joy, fear, sadness and sweet triumph. Sure, it's only an Animals-can-talk movie, but this is the smartest one to date, and still is. Before being bogged down into terribly mediocre films like RACING STRIPES, talking animal movies can actually potentially achieving as this one. The characters, both human and animals, are given a surprising depth. In the animals, of course, there's Babe (voiced by Christine Cavanaugh), a curious and benevolent piglet with a lot of kindness in his heart, yet must go through depression and sadness a the same. His life leaves little less value to humans, who doesn't see him more than just another feast for the Holiday season. That is, except for the compassionate farmer Arthur Hoggett (James Cromwell), the most valuable human character in the movie, who sees his talents as a pig who actually knows how to herd sheep (by talking to them respectively, no less).BABE maybe a straightforward children's film, but it no doubt still has power to charm any adult audience out there, thanks to its adult script, thankfully co-written by George MAD MAX Miller adapted from a novel by Dick King-Smith, and an especially endearing performance by the underrated James Cromwell as the farmer. The special effects too are worth mentioning, as they are a convincing alternation between animatronic creations and real, trained animals. But BABE will be best remembered, not as a technical marvel, but a clever and imaginative story. That'll do. says the farmer. Enough said.Rating ***** out of 5. "},{"Title":"Ah","Date":"27 April 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" - I remember first seeing this when I was younger - eight or nine, around there, and it hasn't been until recently that I've revisited it. Up till' then, the most I could remember of the film were scant snippets from that moment when the young niece is screaming about her Christmas present.I'd watched the sequel Babe Pig in the City, over and over again, many a time, and I don't think I'm really alone in believing it to be the superior film, but, that being said, this film is great in it's own right - Noonan directed this about as much as Steven Spielberg directed A.I.; this is very much George Miller's film, from the trademark cinematography, to the screenplay (although, admittedly based on a book published a decade prior, he manages to imbue his own style into it).Everyone, from James Cromwell to Mrs. Szubenski, does a great job here, but the standout performance has to be Hugo Weaving as Rex, the sheepdog - apart from his voice which, even as a man myself, gives me the shivers, his vocal performance is nuanced, and just my favorite out of the entire cast.The one annoying thing about this film - and really, this brings down Pig in the City a peg too, because they both fall victim - are the 'Chapter Mice.' Oh, how I loathe them. But, that's just me.Miller is one of those directors that I don't think is ever going to really get his due recognition. Frequently, I see his films on best of lists - This and The Road Warrior are a favorite, and Happy Feet is up for a spot on AFI's top fifty animated films of all time - but rarely do I ever see his name mentioned. It's an odd paradox, because he's by and large a better filmmaker than Lucas and Weir (both filmmakers whom I respect immensely - Weir in particular for Fearless,). Alternatively, I could just say 'give it a few decades,' as has been the case with quite a few directors.Well, enough of my ranting. See this film. "},{"Title":"Babe is a joy to watch","Date":"29 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" I bought this movie for my girls when they were quite young and always enjoy watching it with them. I think it has a wonderful message of optimism and acceptance. Visually it is beautiful and the soundtrack contains some fabulous music. Quite charming for everyone to watch. My girls are teens now and still enjoy watching it, although not on a daily basis like when they were 5. The animal trainers really had their hands full with this one and should be proud of their accomplishments. The personalities of all the animal actors made you forget that you are watching animals perform. This is a story that could be done (and probably has been under some other title) with all humans of various races and cultures and still have the same effect of teaching tolerance of those that are different and giving everyone a chance to succeed. "},{"Title":"even family films can be well done","Date":"2 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Babe seems like the sort of movie that could come out mind-numbingly sappy. But they did a very good job with it. Portraying a pig becoming a sheep herder, one gets a look into the world as seen by farm animals. Probably the most perceptive aspect was the part about why sheep think that all dogs are wolves. As someone who usually takes no stock in movies like this, I definitely recommend this movie. And above all, this movie showed what a great actor James Cromwell is. Also featuring the voice of Hugo Weaving (of The Matrix and V for Vendetta fame). Check it out.Bah-ram everyone! "},{"Title":"fantastic","Date":"3 July 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  I absolutely love babe, i think it's a wonderful, a fantastic children's movie to watch with the whole family, the movie is about a pig that is separated from it's mother, brothers and sisters. The pig is won by a farmer who says at the carnival that he doesn't keep pigs, the farmer gets a phone call saying that he is the pig winner. The pig is brought home to the farm, a dog and it's pups find that there is someone new, the pig cries for it's mother and the dog comforts the pig. The pig is brought up by the mother (Fly) and is trined to become a sheep pig (Which really is known as sheepdog, but instead a pig is trained to do the same job as what a dog does) At the end of the movie the judges give babe an excellent score 10 out of 10 for doing the job of leading the sheep back to the fence box. I give Babe 10 out of 10 because it's a wonderful movie. "}{"Title":"That'll Do Pig!!","Date":"24 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" I don't know about anyone else, but this movie was SO cute!! The story is rich and maintained throughout the entire film. The narration and dialogue are wonderful, filled with humor, pathos and other emotional nuances. The acting and character development are superb in every respect from the humans to the fowl, field and domestic critters. The cinematography is opulent. The special effects are delightful and never interfered with the story--well, I will concede, when this movie first came out, it was eye-popping seeing the animal lips in sync with the dialogue. But, once you got over the initial shock, you forgot about it and just basked in the story.Personally, because I am such a prolific reader, I really enjoyed the storybook format with the chapter headings. It felt like being curled up on the sofa with my faithful companions (which, in my case, are three cats) safely tucked around me in front of a crackling fire with a nice warm afghan, a good mug of hot chocolate and my favorite book.No matter how many times I see this movie, I always walk away with warm fuzzies knowing I've been treated to a rare delight. Thanks for proving that it is still possible to provide someone like me--who just wants to see a good tale done well--with a quality movie experience. "},{"Title":"That'll do, Pig. That'll do.","Date":"15 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Babe is one of the cutest movies of all time. A kids' movie that's enjoyable for audiences from 8 to 80 years old, with a smart script/direction, great characters (human and animal beings!) and an unforgettable climax. Along with Edward Scissorhands, Stand by Me and Home Alone, it's one of the movies I grew up watching on TV and that marked my childhood the most (and helped my love for movies to blossom). The Greek choir of mice often steals the show (their interpretation of Édith Piaf's Non, Je Ne Regrette Rien is classic), but it's Babe's, Hoggett's (the brilliant James Cromwell) and Maa's humanity that makes this story so special. As for those who are ashamed of admitting they love Babe because it's just a kids movie, Babe would say Move along there, ya... big buttheads! Almost 13 years later, you still rock my world, Pig. 10/10. "},{"Title":"Animal movie for the whole family","Date":"12 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" A fun, heart-warming movie with a quirky twist. I really enjoyed this movie as a light-hearted look at life on a farm. It is suitable for all ages. It does not contain any bad language, sex or strong violence. The basic story premise speaks to the child in all of us and in my opinion is far superior than the sequel (Babe - Pig in the City). The performances by the artists and puppeteers from Jim Henson Creature Shop, the Animatronics robotic animals and the real animals are seamless. A big plus that the film was shot on location in Australia and used a lot of local talent. A movie one could see again and again and find new things to enjoy each time. "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"15 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" I liked Babe and Babe in the Pig City. How can I order both of them on VHS? They were OK movies. It was a funny movie and great for kids. My husbands niece would like to see them. I like the pig he was wonderful in the movie. I recommend this movie with family your kids will love this movie. It's the best. I wish I owned them so that I could show her the movies. I do own a lot of movies but not those 2. This is a movie that adults and children will love to watch over and over again. I liked them I know you will too. Can't wait to see them again for it's been a long time since I have seen these movies. These are the best movies I have seen and would tell anyone who's a child at hart to watch these movies with you. It's great fun. I don't have any kids but I would still watch them. I think they are cute movies that people would love with or without kids. I hope I find these movies Michele "},{"Title":"Very impressed with this","Date":"3 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" My grandma got this as a Christmas present for me and my brother soon as it came out. i was 5 at the time and i was impressed with it. The idea of the animal's mouth moving was probably a first in this movie. i hadn't seen it before, not in Milo and Otis, or napoleon.anyway, Babe is a runt who is separated from his brothers and sisters when his mother is taken away to be slaughtered. he's taken to a fun fair where farmer hoggett wins him by guessing his weight. he goes to live with the sheepdogs and decides to try what they do; herding sheep. and thus beginning his adventure with sheep.This was a very good G-rated movie, right down to the humor. Ferdinand the duck makes his voice so funny, he's half the reason you'd see this movie twice. there's minimal toilet humor (Babe calls a sheep a butt-head, if you want to consider that offensive or toilet humor) and lot of great voice acting.it's 9/10. "},{"Title":"Wonderful movie!","Date":"30 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" I recall first watching this movie in August 1995(I've seen it again no fewer than twice since) with minimal expectations,figuring it was at least better than the poorly planned Gordy,which was released earlier that year(if I recall correctly),and wondering if they could pull off the talking pig film for kids. What I found simply blew me away.The simple story of a piglet(voiced by Christine CAvanaugh) who is adopted by eccentric and kindly FArmer Hogget(JAmes Cromwell,kick-starts his career here and deservedly so),and slowly but surely earns his destiny as something more than being merely food by becoming a herding or sheep pig. He becomes this through the gentle guidance of Fly,the lady sheepdog(voiced by Miriam MArgoyles) who becomes the surrogate mom for the initially lost pig.Despite the reluctance of the confused male,alpha sheepdog(voiced by Hugo Weaving,well before become a celebrated mythic character actor in future films) and the skepticism of practically everyone on the farm,Babe goes about this unusual endeavor with positive results,to the amazement of--among others--Hogget's wife(Magda Szubrski,who would get much more work in the sequel).With additional voicing by(among others) Danny MAnn(as the loopy Ferdinand the Duck,who comes to believe BAbe is his lucky pig),Russi Taylor(as the ostensible villain,Duchess,the spoiled house cat)and the narration of Roscoe Lee Browne,for whom in my opinion makes the difference between this being a thoughtful,intelligent movie for all ages and merely something elementary,this movie--a treatment of a Dick KIng-Smith novel and a George Miller screenplay--is a true treat. Director Chris Noonan is able to capture that certain something that makes this neither treacly nor banal. The choice of blending classical music with old doo-wop standards(sung by the field mice!)is also a trait that makes this unique and priceless. When the thought or memory of a movie can drive you to emotions,the film must've worked,and Babe did just that for me. A great film library addition. "},{"Title":"A Children't Story with a Hard Edge","Date":"24 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" This is a masterful story of a little pig, who, like the one in Charlotte's Web, is one step away from the Hormel plant. The reason the movie works so well, is that we see the musings of Babe about the everyday events that take place on the farm. Each of the animals has a set of human qualities, pride, stubbornness, stupidity, you name it. The farmer is that. He doesn't see the animals in any particular way; they are farm animals. What they do in the scheme of things determines their value. When Babe shows an aptitude for rounding up sheep, he becomes of greater value. Even his name is the name that all the little pigs in his litter were called. Things develop as a result of a jealous dog who sees his role threatened. James Cromwell is wonderful as the farmer. He uses that wonderful long face to show expressions, so subtle. He is a serious man, which is probably about par for the course among farmers. But he has a joyous side he doesn't show often. There are some scenes of genuine affection toward the little pig. Maybe it's just that we are all God's creatures and entitled to a little kindness along the way. My kids loved this movie when they were small. We loved it too. "},{"Title":"Magical Fantasy for audiences of all ages","Date":"17 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Reminiscent of Charlotte's Web, this wonderful piece of Cinema Magic combines live action with state of the art technical tricks that will leave any viewer spellbound throughout the film.The story of a farmer and his attachment to a small pig he won at a Carnival develops into a special relationship of mutual respect and affection. Initial plans to have a good meal once the pig is nice and fat are discarded when the pig shows a talent for herding sheep. The humans are unaware of the secret language that allows two and four-legged farm animals to communicate amongst themselves, all scheming to escape the ax, but most of all mentoring little Babe, the pig.Aside from the efforts by the farm animals not to end up on the dinner table, there is a deeper message Life is better when everyone is nice to each other. Kindness, generosity and a cheerful disposition are worth more than any material treasures. Babe is telling viewers that a smile brightens any day, and it's contagious! Look for a trio of field mice giving little musical interludes at scene changes. This Best Picture Oscar Nominee is a gem of a feel-good movie. Don't let this one get away! "},{"Title":"Unlike most family films, it really is fun for the whole family.","Date":"16 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" I usually tend to avoid kid, or so-called family, movies since they are usually mindless, poorly executed drivel. Sometimes, some shine out as actually quite good and can indeed be entertaining to thinking, mature people and not just infants.Babe is one of the greatest examples of a family (i.e., child-oriented) film that excels so well in almost every respect, that it transcends the apparent goal of family entertainment and is a great movie.To start, the film is, of course, a very sweet, heart-warming tale. This probably goes without saying, but, as with everything else, the film excels in this regard.In addition, the story is actually somewhat fresh, unlike the thoroughly worn-out themes that usually are the basis for kid films. It contains the usual themes, talking animals, and sweetness, but one must admit that the whole idea of a sheep pig is really quite different and obviously possesses possibilities for amusement.The film also develops very well. It builds tension and emotion, as well as humour, in strategic spots. There is also actually some character development, even if much of it (except for Farmer Hoggett)is confined to the animals.Critical to appealing to thinking audiences, the film also is very good at making one care about the characters and events. The sweetness is handled so well that one doesn't simply feel smothered in moronic sappiness.The acting is also good. James Cromwell, in particular, is simply great.To top it off, this film is very artistic, and this is one of its strongest points. The whole thing is quite obviously a little surreal, with a feeling very different from the usual family film. Although they are hardly comparable, the surreal atmosphere is somewhat reminiscent, say, of a Caro & Jeunet film (though not to the same degree or in the same sense). Closely tied into this, the cinematography, lighting, use of sound, etc., are very artistic and skillful, creating some beautiful and effective images. This simply is not done in family films, which tend to use the most base and simple cinematography and visuals. The makers of Babe, on the other hand, seem to have put much effort into this aspect of the film and it is a key to its success.Ultimately, what makes this film stand out as so excellent is how artistic and well-crafted it is. Had it not been handled so well, the story alone could hardly have saved it and it could have been resigned to the trash heap with so many other family films. Instead, it is a beautiful and highly effective film that I could watch it over and over, which says a lot considering this type of film. "},{"Title":"Near-perfect","Date":"29 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  For all of its magic, enchantment, and uncorrupted feel-goodness, I am always taken back to the first lines of narration whenever I think of this unmitigated cinematic masterpiece, Babe. This is the tale of an unprejudiced heart, pronounces the sonorous narrator, and how it changed life in our valley forever. Now come on, has any movie ever had a pitch as emotionally loaded, as uncynical, and as singularly immaculate as that? Culled from an original fable, but reminiscent of the most fanciful writings of Aesop, Potter, and Orwell, Babe is indeed a talking-pig movie, but only in the most superficial terms. Seen through the eyes of a small white piglet who embodies the purest of existential ambitions, the film is a perfect metaphor for societal prejudice, individual aspiration to achieve, and the grim realities of animal life. And although it has its cheerless, manufactured moments, it is never preachy (saying more with two words--That'll do--than most movies say altogether), and extends its message of love and harmony without a drop of sentimentalism. Won by a Farmer (James Cromwell) at a state fair for use as a future Christmas ham, Babe the pig is taken in by his surrogate mother Fly, a sheepdog. Immediately the pig wants to be a sheepdog as well, and--being completely unaware of the rigid social dynamic of the farm--sees no viable reason why he shouldn't be one.One of the most lovable aspects of little Babe is that oftentimes we do doubt his intelligence--pigs are indicated as being the stupidest creatures on the farm, and there are occasions when Babe's bumbling disposition suggests exactly that. But what saves Babe is his sincerely good heart. The tenderness and benevolence in his sweet voice manages to affect every living thing on the farm--including the Farmer. While special credit goes to the combination of computer animation, live animals, and puppets that make up the expressionistic barnyard posse, a very unique mention should go to Cromwell too, so humbly transcendent and human as the Farmer, and making for one-half of the most memorable screen friendship of the decade. The role is almost speechless throughout, but it climaxes with his singing of the lullaby If I Had Words to Make a Day For You to the frail and gloomy Babe, a scene that might be second to none in terms of its emotional punch. Babe and his friends were seen again in a sequel, Babe Pig in the City, which was a terrible financial disappointment but actually equals its predecessor in many respects, tackling even darker issues. Both movies exist as if the medium was invented exactly for this--to tell the tale of an unprejudiced heart. "}{"Title":"The Best Film of 1995","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Years from now, film critics will wonder why this film didn't win the Best Picture Award for 1995 (instead of the violent epic Braveheart). The movie had everything. It had a wonderful story, great acting, both by the humans and the animals, and some of the most visually stunning effects ever seen on screen.And we didn't have to see anyone chopped to pieces, we just had to see animals. getting threatened with being chopped to pieces. "},{"Title":"Family Entertainment at it's best","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Babe is a very heartwarming story about the little pig that could.  Babe is a pig who thinks he is a sheepdog.  He struggles to fit in and prove his sheepherding merit.  Adults and children will love this movie that has some unforgettable characters including Ferdinand the Duck, and who can resist the charm of the singing rats?  A movie like Babe will stand the test of time .  Second Rate childrens movies like the Power Rangers will be gone before you can say, MightY Morphin!  **** OUT OF **** "},{"Title":"An instant classic.","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  I have to admit that I reluctant ly saw Babe during an eventless Tuesday night in college, and expected no more than a mild disappointment.  As it turns out, this is one of my favorite movies, and I fell in love with it before the opening credits had finished ( as the camera pans the pictures mounted on the wall, the picture of the pig opens to reveal it's innards. A brilliant piece of black humor which remained a constant theme throughout the film).  Since that first viewing, I bought the film on video, and am very displeased to say that my loose in the hips ex-girlfriend is now in possession of it.  In any case, this is one of the best films EVER made. I do not use that term lightly.  Watch it.  It's a masterpiece. "},{"Title":"It's so much more than a children's movie!","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  A brilliant fairy tale about a very special farm and a very special pig. Funny at some points and dark at others.Little Babe tries to find out what is this world around him and what's his place in it. Being a sheep dog seems to him like a good plan!Beautifully done with tons of style and excellent special effects and musical score, this movie is CLASSIC.I love Babe!Kids will enjoy it too, but it's so much more than a children's movie. "},{"Title":"A wonderful film...","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Babe is a heart-felt film that is funny, beautiful, and dramatic.  The plot was well-thought up and is made for a kind of family film like this.  The characters are a strong part of this story.  Ranging from Babe, to Ferdinand, to Fly.  It showed the kindling of different subplots and mishaps that you do not find in a normal family film.  All I have to say is...wow...***1/2 "},{"Title":"...more than a kids movie","Date":"5 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Looking at the cover, you'd conclude that this is some nonsensical juvenile movie, and that the only adults who'll scrutinize it are those who run a day care. Well, this movie shows the signs of ascendancy and prosperousness as much as Forrest Gump does, but with only a brief more for the child in you. Babe is the protagonist, and the unique who ceaselessly had it in him but just at no time knew it. And Farmer Hogget is the one who needs to be saved, on account of all of his life he has been the one who never was listened to, so he learned to say nothing. But the way this pig came into his life and showed his love for Hogget changed his life, Babe's and everyone else on that farm. "},{"Title":"Great movie for everyone","Date":"11 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  I went to see the movie because critics were praising it, but with some mixed expectations. I mean, on the one hand, it got very good reviews and it was from Australia, but on the other hand, it was a movie about a pig that ends up working as a sheep dog! In the end I was very pleased with this movie rather unique capability to be equally interesting for the children as well as for the adults. On the children level the story is rather simple little polite orphan, pig Babe, lives happily on the farm with his various animal friends and a good master, does a valuable job and makes his master and all of his friends proud. Talking animals and singing mice are hardly an innovating idea, and this all sounds, more or less, like any other infantile children's cartoon that's interesting only if you're under 6. On the adult level things are rather different. It's a black comedy that raises serious questions. I cannot believe how many people describe this movie as magical or even innocent! From the beginning of the movie, when Babe thinks his mother and all of his brothers and sisters are going to Pig's heaven, as everyone says, when in fact they are taken to be slaughtered, move is full of such black humour, including Mrs. Hoggett calling Babe my little pork-chop, and farmer Hoggett wanting to kill Babe because he thinks that Babe is so much like a sheep dog that he could kill a sheep! And the fact that our beloved Christmas is a question of life or death for our little friend Babe, decision depending on this dilemma Pork-chops or duck d'orange? Don't you get the irony? Well, I haven't seen Babe PINC yet, but I intend to do so, as soon as it starts playing. And if it were darker than first Babe is, and everyone says so, I would think it's only natural. I mean, if idyllic life on the farm gave place for so much black humour, one can only imagine things that could happen in a big city. "},{"Title":"A magical movie","Date":"3 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  I just have to say that I love this movie.  It is truly enchanting and magical and if you think about it more deeply, it carries an extremely valuable message.  I think this is a movie that is worthy for both kids and adults.  I wish more movies made me feel as good as this one does. "},{"Title":"Magical!","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Very good movie about that little pig who gets to live on the Haggett's farm. Warm, touching story. The way the narrator tells the story, it's just like an illustrated fable.Reminded me of Chicken Run that I also really liked.James Cromwell is just fabulous in the role of farmer Arthur Haggett.Rent this one, even though you don't have any kid!Out of 100, I gave it 83. That's *** on a **** stars rating system.Seen at home in Welland, June 30th, 2001. Marko Roy. "},{"Title":"WOW","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Boy was this a good movie. This is one of my favorite movies. Everything about it was perfect. Anyone and everyone will love this movie. I don't have anything bad to say about this movie. I recommend this movie to anyone who loves a good childrens movie. Tell you the truth, this isn't just a childrens movie. Everyone will fall in love with Babe.  "}{"Title":"!","Date":"20 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" I thought the story of pig that we people are eating on a daily basis is rare. Animals who are involved with Babe is very interesting and unique. In particular, Fly that a sheep dog deep relationship with Arthur is a key dog in this story. Fly supported Babe got dark to deep sadness that became Babe separated him from his parents. Babe is a stranger to Fly, but Fly loved like child of his. Even if different type of animal, I was impressed that Fly gave all love to Babe.Unforgettable scene the bast is that Babe was suspected by Arthur as criminal that killed May. Fly draw out sheeps the truth, and told to Arthur. If there is Fly, Babe would have been shot dead definitely. I was impressed many times the strength of the bond of Babe and Fly. I felt it is not only human support each other and trust each other. I thought having support each other all the animals. "},{"Title":"It is just impossible to dislike this film","Date":"19 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" There. I said it. If you can't find it within yourself to be entertained and even touched by this film, you have no soul. Is it a corny, silly family film? Absolutely, but not since perhaps the Muppets has anyone been able to own that realm with such charm and grace, a grace which is as skilled as any Oscar winning film throughout film history and a charm that is stunningly unique.This film really made me take notice of James Cromwell, and how absolutely brilliant he is at choosing roles for himself. This performance is just a treat to behold, and though even the most open minded of us were skeptical at the beginning, of seeing him and these voice actors, in their respective roles, as well as this style as being valid, it's not long into the film that it has complete won over even the most cynical viewer.You want to hate it for being so simple & childish, but it's just impossible "},{"Title":"This movie is for family and children","Date":"2 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" This movie is for family and children but it is enough for adults to enjoy watching the movie. One day, a pig is received by a old man as a prize. At first, the man think the pig will for a dinner on Christmas day. The pig is raised by sheepdogs and the old man at a stock farm. The scene is calm. There are many animals with the pig. The pig, named Babe is very clever so I was fascinated with Babe. The old man is kind so he loves the pig gradually. The pig succeed in many things and he get to be trusted by other animals. What I liked in this movie is that all animals can speak fluently like people, it was nice and very interesting. The expressions are just like animals have real feelings. The musics witch are used in the movie are also nice. After watching this movie, I thought each animal has their heats and feeling. Animals also have their society and classes. We should be friendly with animals more even mice. Since I watched this movie at only 5 years old for the first time, I watched this movie many times. If you watch this movie, you must think animals are so lovely. You will also be fascinated with Babe and other animals. "},{"Title":"Review","Date":"27 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" One day, a farmer won a contest guessing the weight of a pig and he brings the pig to his farm. This film is about the growth of the pig. The pig is called Babe by other animals and he is very cute, honest and moderate, so everyone loves him. I like his smile because his smile makes me warm emotion. As I said, this story describes the growth of Babe. He tries to become like a shepherd dog though he is a pig. I think that this story describes that it is important to pursue dreams even if it seems to be impossible or difficult and also tells us the importance of holding a pure but steady and firm mind for our own dreams. I recommend everyone to watch the film because not only Babe is cute but also this film tells us the very important things in our life. "},{"Title":"Fun and Harmless Family Entertainment,","Date":"25 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Babe is a great movie with a really sweet storyline,a great voice cast as well as an inspired performance by James Cromwell and some very likable and memorable characters.The movie is a great movie for the whole famly,it has enough in it to entertain both younger and older audiences.I certainly don't think that is a Best Picture nominee,although it did definitely deserve the Academy Award Best Visual Effects as the movie is very well made.These talking animal films are usually only fun for children,but Babe has enough in it for the entire family to enjoy and I would highly recommend it as a film for the whole family to watch.Farmer Hoggett (James Cromwell) trains a pig who was taken away from his mother and grew up with sheepdogs,to herd sheep himself. "},{"Title":"Films like this make the world a better place...","Date":"17 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" An inspiring, wonderful, sad, funny, poetic film which is nothing less than No.4 in my all time list. Pork is my favourite meat, and I almost gave it up over this... until common sense kicked in. There is no more charming and humble hero than the title porker, and with the aid of a bit of blue screen technology which creates the illusion that they can talk, him and his farmyard buddies create a cast that put 99.999999% of human casts to shame with their wit and intelligence.It's just one of those magical movies where everything works... Even James Cromwell's cheesy impromptu dance to help cheer a sick Babe up is a splendid, life-affirming moment. But it doesn't shy away from the darker side either, as the sight of abattoir slaughter and a sheep being ripped apart by dogs remind us that life is not all sunshine and lollypops. I could fill an encyclopedia on all the thing I adore about this lovely, lovely film, but the fact I'm not ending the review with a sarcastic quip should be a good indicator that this truly is, something very special indeed. 10/10 "},{"Title":"A New Reality Wins Applause!","Date":"26 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" This is a film that is Art. I held back from seeing it because I hate jumping on bandwagons or going along with the crowd about anything, but I was surprised when I found myself welling up with tears even before the beginning credits completely rolled past. Something was coming that was completely disarming and I could already sense that. A story that could not be confronted behind a social mask or cultural pose of any kind. It went past all the carefully constructed chains of reason and straight for the heart.Before I saw this film, I never understood what people meant by the '- end of childhood innocence -'. After this film, I realized it had something to do with other living beings dying so that you could thrive in your survival. This being an unalterable Fact of Life. It also has to do with slaughterhouses, wringing chickens' necks, cracking eggs open and frying their contents before these fully develop into chicks and pickled pigs feet and bacon. In other words, Life and Death are inextricably bound up in the warp and woof of existence on this planet. 'Babe' is about those precious childhood moments where everything that benefits us seems to be bestowed upon us by the magic of our parents and there is no death. No awareness that ears of corn and cabbages sacrifice themselves for us at the fullest flowering of their development so that we can have popcorn and coleslaw.Set it out that way and you have the angst of adolescence. The realization that even the best intentions and the most wholesome living does not exempt us from facing the vicissitudes that lead to the Grim Reaper eventually paying us a call. It takes the punch out of the joke and the life out of the party.I remember in a film called 'The Misfits' Marilyn Monroe got all upset because Clark Gable was roping Mustangs out on the open plains to be turned into dog food. She would rant and have tantrums about it, but it all seemed so very childish. Like someone or some teacher never sat her down and explained to her about the Food Chain. The point being of course that she was not protesting about the Mustangs at all, but about some universe where Mustangs rope humans and turn them into food for some kind of pets they are harboring. After all, what goes around comes around, doesn't it? She just didn't want to end up someone's favorite recipe in a cookbook somewhere. She was wondering, as children often do without being fully able to articulate it, why we can't all just get along without killing and eating each other?But what if there was a way out of all this killing and eating that's so lip smacking good?'Babe' lightly and gently explores this question. While holding back the answer that the adults keep to themselves. That bacon will still fry even as Babe lives. "},{"Title":"An inspirational lesson of self-acceptance and gentleness for both children and adults ...","Date":"18 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Babe resurrects a kind of magic we thought to have disappeared since the glorious age of Walt Disney classics. It's an animal-centered movie but through its inspirational story and endearing sweetness, remains closer to Bambi and Dumbo than The Jungle Book or even The Lion King.Babe is the name of a little pig that grew up in an Australian farm owned by Arthur Hogget (James Cromwell) and dreamed of becoming a sheep dog. But there's a time to get to that dream, and the director Chris Noonan starts by immersing us into the farm, it's in Australia, but as a matter of fact, it can be any farm, as imagined by any child from any place in the world. Farm in Babe is not just a beautiful dream-like setting, it happens to be a codified universe where each species has a specific place depending on its utility. The rooster wakes up the farmer, the hens make eggs, cows give milk, dogs herd the sheep, cat chase mice, horses transport etc. In this hierarchy, pigs are in the bottom, their only purpose being to grow up, to get fat so they can be eaten and go to Paradise, a place so beautiful no pig ever came back from. The film deals with pigs' fate with a gravity that mirrors the dramatic death of Bambi's mother, but also through comedy with the unforgettable Ferdinand the Duck who tries to replace the rooster to be spared from being eaten. Babe is an outcast, but like Dumbo and in a lesser measure Pinocchio, in the gentle sense of the word. Indeed, he wants to be useful, to be part of the farm's collective effort. The charm of Babe is to create a character to which any kid can identify with; inspired by the idea of following their dreams no matter how silly they sound. But nothing is silly when handled in a smooth and sensitive way. Babe respects the order and the leadership of Rex, the male sheepdog, he plays with Rex and his female Fly's puppies, but they have the right to be in home, along with the cat, but he can't. This feeling of rejection is the cement of kids' personalities because it's a way for children to determine what they can bring to the others.The story goes on, punctuated by the songs of three little mice, with a high-pitched voice that make anything they say irresistible to the ears. The film is an extraordinary achievement as it really focuses on animals' feelings more than their actions. In a sad scene where Rex and Fly's puppies are sold, you could see the sadness in the two parent's eyes, and ironically, Rex, the hard-nosed and grouchy one seemed to be most devastated, we'd learn later than he'd already experience loss. The 'puppies' scene isn't shot in an overly dramatic way because its main purpose is to show that even the sheepdogs must deal with some aspects of their lives they don't necessary like. The second purpose is to build the relationship between Babe and Fly.As a new adoptive mother, Fly believes that Babe can make a good replacement for Rex, who never won a championship since the day he lost sheep during a pouring rain and became almost deaf. The farm owner, Hogget, sees the same potential in Babe and decides to give him a chance. Why? As the narrator says These little ideas that tickled and nagged and refused to go away should never be ignored for in them lie the seeds of destiny, that's the kind of movie quotes that takes you by surprise and displays a level of smartness that can appeal to both kids and adults. Also, it starts off the core of the story, which is less the coming-of-age of Babe than the beautiful relationship between the little pig and his master.James Cromwell, was rightfully Oscar-nominated for Best Supporting Actor because this is the kind of role you can't cheat on. It might be easy to pretend to talk to a pig, but there are emotions that cannot be feigned, and the look on Cromwell's eyes in some scenes betrayed a genuine attachment. But again, it's not that easy to make out of a pig, a believable sheep dog. In a key scene, Fly orders Babe to shout at the sheep, to be more aggressive. After all, he's still a pig, his master might change his mind it's still a life-and-death situation. That was the make it or break it part of the script, had Babe commanded the sheep through violence, the film would have lost me. Naturally, Babe respects both the children and the adult's intelligence by not operating a 180° turn on its character. Babe is first mocked but it's by talking to the sheep gently, by explaining what he wants to Maa, the older one, that he gets what he wants. The point is not to teach that being nice might open every door, but that sometimes you get to better results by getting things your way. It's about respecting the others, and not assuming someone's silly or wouldn't understand because he or she's different. The dogs are constantly insulting sheep but a very clever twist reveals at the end, that the sheep doesn't think much of the dogs either, both prejudices being due to some ancestral conditioning. If anything, Babe is a lesson of humility, gentleness and perseverance.The ending can come as predictable but there's more in the film than a simple plot. it's about self-acceptance, respect before inspiring the recognition and the love of people that count in our lives, something powerfully conveyed by the Cromwell's face with his That'll do, pig. That'll do.And from a man of few words, each one carried the same magical resonance than the moment where Pinocchio became a real boy and Dumbo started flying in the circus. "},{"Title":"Not my favourite, but that'll do pig! That'll do!","Date":"7 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" This film was one of the very first film I ever saw and probably one of the most emotional. I did not just find it too sweet and cuddly with the farmer snuggling up the little pig in the blanket and feeding it from a baby's bottle, (Awwww/WTF?!) but I also thought it was rather dark, I mean, talking about a piglet trying to avoid the slaughter house and having two sheep dogs fighting, Maa the sheep being killed by a pack of wolves (small dogs more like) and having a duck slaughtered for Christmas dinner. The only two other nitpicks I have with this film is the mice which I do find interesting but also rather annoying and the unnecessary Password joke. That film used to make me cry as a kid, but still none of the less, if you are looking for a family film to pull at the heartstrings than go ahead and check it out. It needs to be seen to be believed, and I highly recommend it! (You may even become a vegetarian afterwards!) My rating for Babe is an eight out of ten cats! (I mean stars!) "},{"Title":"One of the Best Family Movies Out There","Date":"20 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" I recently rediscovered Babe awhile ago and vaguely remembered it from my childhood. I decided to re-watch it and was amazed at how great it really is. The story follows a young pig who is simply named Babe by his original mother. He is taken away from his family to take part in the fair. He's put in a measuring contest where an eccentric farmer named Arthur Hoggett weighs him correctly and wins him. He takes him to his farm where Babe befriends a trouble-making duck named Ferdinand, an old ewe named Maa, and is adopted by one of the sheepdogs, Fly. Babe's good relationship with the sheep makes them listen to him without being forced to which the farmer soon takes notice of. Babe is soon entered in the sheepdog trials and has to convince others things aren't always as they seem.I don't want to give much away since Babe is a movie better experienced not told. It's a movie with talking animals but it's handled in a very mature matter that doesn't talk down to its younger audience. It's also not boring or childish for older audiences which is a rare mix nowadays. This movie is just a great family film. It's good for kids since there aren't too many things they won't understand and it's good for adults since it doesn't rely on a lot of childish humor and treats its story with respect. I definitely give Babe a recommendation to anyone, young or old. "}{"Title":"Heart warming and heart breaking.","Date":"11 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Wow. Masterful cinematography, excellent story and voice acting. And the art direction are incredible. This truly is a masterpiece that will stand the test of time. There is no doubt there.I just don't know what to say about it. It was a very moving film that made me rethink my own personal stature in the world.From a technical standpoint, from the CGI for the animals' mouths, to the lighting and shot design, this film is really unsurpassed. The fact that it has us looking at ourselves makes it even more of a standout of a film. Incredible stuff.Enjoy. "},{"Title":"Amazing!! Defiantly worth the watch!!!","Date":"30 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Babe Is one of my favourite movie's.This movie is so good, the voice overs, The animals in this movie are so lovable, the scenery & the plot, I am surprised this is a Australian/American movie, everything about this movie I enjoyed.I honestly don't know how people can say time waster or  Should have used rent cost on meat instead of this, Only people that don't like this are arrogant, and are too one sided to see that this is truly a masterpiece.The voice over on the animals are better then some of the ones you see today!!I viewed a comment before saying would have been nice to see in 3D, Honestly I think viewing this in 3D would take something away, something that you can never take back from this classic movie.Defiantly worth seeing 10/10 for me.P.S Ignore the comments from people saying how bad this movie is, They are idiots. "},{"Title":"Terrific music","Date":"11 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" I'm surprised that none of the reviews I read of Babe (there are 146 of them) mentioned the music. How can you watch this and not be moved by the terrific use of music? Well, quite simply, you can't I think. Still it seems that no one is consciously aware enough of the music to even mention in their reviews. Just today, I heard the 4th movement of Camille Saen Sans 3rd Symphony, the organ symphony, and immediately I was reminded of the movie.Yes, the movie was very good. Good story, good actors, great use of animals to portray the main characters. But if you look at the IMDb listing for the movie, way, way, down at the very bottom, there's a link to the soundtrack. I suggest you check it out to see what else makes this movie so good. They didn't have to hire John Williams to compose great new music. They were smart enough to intelligently use some great old music.http//www.imdb.com/title/tt0112431/soundtrack "},{"Title":"LOVED IT!!1! This movie rocks.","Date":"23 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Babe is the perfect family film. How can you not love a film with a talking pig who wants to be a sheepdog? I know someone who does! This guy right here!I have four young kids and I force them to watch this masterpiece every week so they get a grip from an early age on how to appreciate a truly flawless piece of cinema. I rarely allow them to watch any other modern, post-Babe, computer fakery crap, so they usually shut up and thank their cool dad for putting Babe on again. Plus it's British (right?) so it's filled with beautiful English scenery and visual style that will take your breath away. Not only that, to make sure you don't get too distracted watching the amazing landscape being presented right before your eyes, the filmmakers make sure to grip you with funny, endearing dialogue that will make you cry like a child one minute and laugh like a crazy old lady the next.A complete package. If you love animals and pigs you'll love this. Plus, the old man is played by James Cromwell and frankly, if that guy isn't a total badass, then I don't know who is.Watch it! This is the real deal right here! "},{"Title":"Enchanting classic for the whole family to enjoy","Date":"11 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Babe is such a charming and enchanting film, that even the fussiest adult can't help finding it easy to like. Babe himself, voiced by Christine Cavanaugh(Darkwing Duck and Dexter's Laboratory) is an adorable character, and one scene in particular when his mother is taken away is a genuine tearjerker. The other animals are also just as engaging, including Ferdinand, and are well voiced by the likes of Miriam Margoyles and Hugo Weaving. The human characters were very warm and likable, and James Cromwell and Magda Szubanski were both wonderful. The film looks lovely, there is a nice story and the music is just superb, with Saint Saens' Organ Symphony and Delibes' Pizzicato. And I loved the singing mice, they were really sweet and funny. All in all, a true classic. 10/10 Bethnay Cox "},{"Title":"A Pig of an Adventure","Date":"13 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" BABE is a fantastic story of a pig with an adventure. I was just blowing away with it the first time I saw it! In the movie Babe the pig is bought to Farmer Hoggett's (James Cromwell) farm and taken under the care of Fly the Sheepdog. Soon he meets other farm animals including Ferdinane the Duck who wants to be a rooster and gets BABE into trouble while trying to sneak into the farmhouse! Babe also makes friends with Maa the sheep who sees BABE as a nice pig. Soon BABE goes to the sheep field and becomes a good sheep pig due to his kindness. Farmer Hoggett soon sees this and enters BABE in the sheepdog trial where they are at first laughed at but then applauded and winning first place with Farmer Hoggett saying That'll do pig! That'll do! Filled with wonderful characters and adventure beyond imagination BABE is a true family movie the whole family can enjoy! Me and my family sure have enjoyed it over the years! 10 out of 10! "},{"Title":"Babe","Date":"22 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" My favorite movie is Babe. It's heart-warming movie. This movie's main character is pig named Babe. He lives in farm with owner and many animals such as sheep, cattle, ducks, goats, dogs, cats and so on. The Babe's owner raise them very preciously and he is very kind for Babe and the others. They live peacefully and calmly everyday. One day, thieves come to the farm,and steel the sheep!! So,Babe and some animal friends try to help them. The owner is surprised at Babe's action,and praise Babe for the help. He think What a clever and brave pig he is!!! So, he decide that I bleed the babe who can treat the sheep. And then, he can treat them as he want. So, his owner decide to take part in the contest which choose who can treat the sheep. Can he get the championship!?? Check the ending!!! I recommend this movie. I think it's very heart-warming movie. And this movie's characters are very cute. So it makes me happy. I think animal lover must like this movie!!! In addition, this movie has another story of Babe. The title is Babe-Pig in the City-. It funny and a little excited movie. I also like and recommend it!!! I think Babe-Pig in the City- is more excite than Babe. So if you like excite movie, I recommend Pig in the City. "},{"Title":"Clever, Cute, Funny and Moving","Date":"4 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Clever, cute, funny and even occasionally moving is this tale of a little pig who wants to be a sheepdog. Animal wranglers and Jim Henson's creature shop both outdo themselves with some fantastic work. All the critters on farmer Hoggatt's property are expertly handled, while Henson creates amazingly lifelike puppets for the utterly convincing close up shots.Producer George Miller's decade long struggle to bring Dick King-Smith's novel The Sheep-Pig to the screen ended in the hands of director Chris Noonan. A first time feature director, Noonan's film is entertaining though a trifle drawn out, making it a fraction over long for the little ones. Perhaps Noonan and Miller (co-screenwriters for Babe) were guilty of a small amount of over indulgence, or maybe some astute editing was required. Also, a few scenes, especially one involving a vicious dog fight, may prove too upsetting for very young children.Noonan has done a good job at the helm over all, and has been sure to give his movie a very realistic look. The script is amiable and simple, with much incisive, appreciable humour that is really geared for adult viewers. The finale, though predictable, is still a rousing and most effective one.As I've mentioned, all the technical support is outstanding, especially animal expert Karl Lewis Miller's handling of the hundreds of farm creatures, and Jim Henson and co's creative genius in bringing to life some of the most incredible computer animatronics.On camera actors James Cromwell and Magda Szubanski definitely take second billing behind the real stars of the show. As farmer Hoggatt, Cromwell is likable, but has little (apart from a lively jig) to do. Magda, as his dutiful wife, is merely background. Off camera acting is performed by an array of popular thesps who all do very well. Christine Cavanaugh gives voice to Babe, Miriam Margoyles is his adoptive mum Fly and Hugo Weaving provides vocals for champion sheep dog Rex. Miriam Flynn (as Maa) and Russie Taylor (Cat) also chip in, while Roscoe Lee Brown narrates.Babe has swept the world in an unprecedented wave of popularity, breaking box office records and picking up several awards (including seven Academy Award nominations). In the U.K. it has been named among the Top Ten films of 1995, while in the good ole U.S. of A. it has caused a massive drop in pork sales, with people quoted as saying No, we don't eat Babe! An enjoyable oddity.Tuesday, December 26, 1995 - Greater Union Melbourne "},{"Title":"Superfluid Editing","Date":"21 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" The theme of this film is supported through its use of editing Placing yourself in new and sometimes uncomfortable situations has the potential to increase your growth at exponential rates. Although these situations will seem dark, fearful and sometimes confusing, there are great rewards of success for those that are willing to take the risks.In the beginning when Babe is separated from his family, there is a great use of continuity and parallel editing that heightens the story's theme. Factory workers are shown stuffing Babe into a black sack while he squeals with terror. The diegetic sounds of the squeals fluidly blend to the next shot which is of a group of children screaming with terror on a carnival ride. Both instances reflect a sense of newness and its accompaniment of fear. Babe is fearful of his current and uncomfortable situation&#151;being placed into a black sack. The children are fearful of their current and fearful situation&#151;being on a potentially dangerous carnival ride. Both will end up growing as a result of these situations Babe will travel to a farm where the friends he meets there will change his life for the better; the children will receive an increase in their satisfaction in having overcome the fearful ride.The story of the film is told through the use of chapters and voice-over narrations. In fact, it's told in the style of a children's book. This editing choice helps the viewer understand the newness of each scene, where the plot is heading, the risks involved with the characters, and cues that support the story's main theme. There is great use of cross-cutting that helps heighten the suspense in one particular sketch titled, Crime and Punishment. In this scene, Babe takes the risk of sneaking into the Hoggett home while they are away at church. His purpose is to steal an alarm clock to help out a friend, Ferdinand the duck (one who thinks he's a rooster). Cross-cuts are shown between Babe inside the house attempting not to wake the sleeping guard cat, and Ferdinand outside the window shaking with terror in hopes that he will succeed. The editing here is very fast-paced and almost meticulously acrobatic. With the yarn and paint Babe inevitably knocks over, the suspended edits drawn up to that point are very nerve-racking. The spatial and temporal setting of the shots between where Babe is, compared to where Ferdinand is helps support this anxiety for the viewer&#151;thus drawing them further into the story. This scene helps demonstrate not only the risks Babe undertakes as well as the uncomfortable situation he is in, but also represents the success he achieves in making a new friend.Minimal ellipsis is used throughout the film's entirety to help keep the pacing alive and flowing. In one particular scene where farmer Hoggett is rebuilding a broken fence, he begins by picking up the busted rail and the shot immediately cuts to him hammering it down into the ground as he wipes the sweat from his brow (a cue to the viewer that not only time has passed, but also that he is tired from his efforts). The greatest use of suspended editing is in the very last scene. As Babe overcomes his fears and demonstrates his abilities to be a successful sheep-pig amongst hundreds of spectators, the music completely dissipates&#151;leaving the viewer with no sounds other than the ambiance. The temporal and spatial setting is exploited through a variety of scenes to heighten the suspense the crowd, Babe and the sheep, farmer Hoggett, and Mrs. Hoggett watching on TV. When the gate closes behind Babe and the sheep, the crowd immediately cheers with ecstasy. The way this scene is edited through its use of silence and then intense noise helps kill the anticipation and brings a sense of success and satisfaction to the viewer as well as the characters in the story. "},{"Title":"Babe 1995","Date":"8 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" I was wondering if anyone else had been bothered by the whole incongruity of American voices over what is obviously shot in another country. It wasn't so bad for the animals but the people were bad and something I continually bumped into as I watched the movie. I just saw it again on cable with my 5 year old daughter. I am happy to see I am not the only person who noticed this problem in an otherwise charming little movie. It is a great little story for younger kids and those of us with a farming background. I must say I would like to visit that little farm and hang out for a week or so. LOL Wanted one charming little farm with charming little farmer and talking animals for rent or for lease with option to buy.lol "}{"Title":"Oink.","Date":"14 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" I love Babe. It's such a sweet, unassuming movie. By that I mean, what are you expecting from a movie about a talking pig who excels in sheepherding? The plot of this story is simple, which is good for the kiddies, and the adults will enjoy this too as it has many life lessons demonstrated by the animals on display.The special effects here are great for the time, although there have been advances (just watch almost any cat/dog food commercial nowadays). They don't overwhelm the plot, which is nice for such a movie as this.Although this movie won't change your world I think (although some people have converted to vegetarianism just by watching this movie), this will surely put a warmth in your heart. "},{"Title":"This little pig is big on charm","Date":"9 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" This along with The Wizzard of Oz and The Neverending Story are my favorite movies for kids that adults can love too. This is a charming original film from director Chris Noonan who really hasn't put much on the screen in his career but is currently working on three new films including Mrs. Potter starring Renée Zellweger as children's author Beatrix Potter which will bring his name back into prominence. Noonan co-wrote this script along with the film's producer George Miller based on the Dick King Smith novel. Babe was nominated for seven Academy Awards for Best Picture, Best Director, Best Actor, Art Direction, film editing, Effects and Screenplay and took home the Oscar for Best Effects. Jim Henson's Creature Shop creators did the animatronics for this. Andrew Lesnie who would go on to do the Lord of the Rings trilogy of films is the cinematographer. James Cromwell in his Academy Award nominated role as Best Actor is Farmer Hoggett and Magda Szubanski is great as his wife Mrs. Hoggett. Christine Cavanaugh who has done voices for animated TV shows The Rugrats, Dexter's Laboratory and The Critic among others is the voice of Babe the pig. This is a clever and sweet movie with lots of laughs too. I would give this a 9.0 on a scale of 10 and highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Cute Movie","Date":"28 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" This a is very cute movie. I was confused, though, why the movie makers used a girl to do Babe's voice, when it was clear at the beginning that Babe was a boy.Christine Cavanaugh did a very good job, however. Until very recently, I never knew the voice of Rex was Hugo Weaving, who played Elrond in the LOTR trilogy. The voice of Fly was Miriam Margoyles.In the middle of the film, the family celebrates Christmas. But's it's summer! I didn't know when I first watched it that this story took place in Australia, which is in the Southern Hemisphere. I knew then that it was no mistake.The story is really good. I think James Cromwell did a great job. I really enjoyed his little dance, and the animals watching him. That was really funny.If you like puppies, you'll like the puppies in this film. Although they're in the film only briefly, it's worth every minute.My Score 8/10. "},{"Title":"You got me,Babe.","Date":"14 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" When I first sawBabe I didn't go home and empty my fridge of meat.I still eat bacon sandwiches,I did not become a vegetarian - Hitler was a vegetarian for heaven's sake.I do not believe that animals have equal rights with human beings - do we give out of work guide dogs Unemployment Benefit?I do not inhabit some anthropomorphic fantasy world where we romp with our four legged friends by sparkling mountain streams - in short,I am a relatively normal well-balanced person not particularly susceptible to having my emotions tweaked by a film about a piglet that takes over the duties of an ageing sheep dog in order to avoid being slaughtered. Why then,do the three words That'll do pig cause a not unpleasant tingling sensation at the top of my nose and my vision to mist over?An effect not dissimilar to crying,dammit? That of course is the magic of the movies.The reason we go to the pictures in the first place,the reason we send posts to this site. Regardless of your eating habits Babeeither gets to you or it doesn't. From the scene in the darkened barn where a gleaming black lorry takes Babe's mother to the slaughterhouse to the moment of his final triumph at the sheepdog trial I was enthralled.I found the Greek Chorus of mice quite charming,but they're too small to be fully appreciated on TV. James Cromwell is outstanding as Farmer Hoggett,there is no sense that he is appearing in a film about a talking pig,he is dead serious about his role and consequently totally believable.One smirk,one half;closed eyelid directed towards the camera and it would all come crashing down. "},{"Title":"He's ten times more charming than that Arnold from 'Green Acres', know what I'm saying?","Date":"31 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Sorry, that's an in-joke there &#150; anyone familiar with Jules' anti-bacon speech in 'Pulp Fiction' will understand me. But then again, it would probably be true &#150; I'm not familiar with this Arnold from 'Green Acres' myself, but it would amaze me if he could manage to out-charm Babe, undoubtedly one of the most endearing title characters I've ever come across. Civil, well-intentioned and blissfully naive, this swine doesn't have an ounce of malice within him; even the (very brief) couple of moments where he shows a somewhat darker nature &#150; chomping on a sheep's leg and head-butting a dog &#150; are done, essentially, in good faith.First off, I want to establish that 'Babe' is a seriously special film to me personally. Hopefully there's no shame in admitting that it's had an emotional impact on my life like few others I've seen. I was completely mesmerised by it back in 1996 &#150; I saw it three times in the cinema, and it's probably no coincidence that I first became a vegetarian in the same year. Well, to be honest I was pretty much on the road to giving up meat beforehand, but 'Babe' definitely accelerated the process. It made me seriously consider the aspects of animal welfare which, up until then, I had been refusing to acknowledge. That said, I would hate for anyone to think of 'Babe' as being essentially just pro-vegetarian propaganda, and will stress that while they're not exactly praised for it, none of the human characters are ever demonised for eating meat. Even Mrs Hogget, who never sees Babe as anything more than a potential Christmas dinner, is far too upbeat and bubbly to be disliked. What 'Babe' does do, however, that very few family flicks set on barnyards have the guts to do, is actually make that connection between the animals themselves and the cuisine that most of them are destined to become &#150; nothing is sugar-coated in that sense, and that' s one of the things I find so striking about it.For all its colourful and picturesque glory, Hogget Farm hides that darker reality, which the animal residents are well-aware of. Some (like Rex, Fly and Duchess) are exempt and know they personally have nothing to worry about, others (like the cow) have grimly accepted the situation &#150; the only way you'll find happiness is to accept that the way things are, are the way things are &#150; while others (like Ferdinand) are driven to desperation by it. What separates Babe from the rest of his compatriots is his simple ignorance about the whole deal, and maybe that's what in itself makes him so disarming &#150; his cheery presence is like a sweet breath of fresh air round this place, and there's something very alluring about seeing such wholesome innocence survive for so long against such a backdrop. Really, it's just impossible to resist him.With a hero like that, you know you're at a great starting point for an inspirational feel-good fable about friendship, determination and overcoming prejudice, which effectively avoids being patronising or excessively sentimental. Added to which, the blend of real animals, animatronics and Jim Henson puppetry is extremely well done &#150; most people could probably work out where they're using an inorganic alternative in many scenes, but it's convincing enough, and doesn't clash as violently with the real animal actors as it does in later 'talking animal' films like 'Cats and Dogs'. So, while it might not be completely seamless, I've still yet to see anything since which truly rivals it! One aspect of 'Babe' which I've definitely come to appreciate more over the years is James Cromwell's performance as Farmer Hogget &#150; a challenging role which he tackles very nicely, considering that his character gets so much screen time and yet so little dialogue. Cromwell does a flawless job of conveying, through a series of subtle gestures and facial expressions, a shy man who is, nevertheless, as deep and thoughtful as they come; in some ways almost as alluring as Babe himself (the animals are great, but this is equally worth watching for the humans). Amongst the four-legged crowd, the tittering of those three singing mice may admittedly wear a little thin for some (though their rendition of 'Blue Moon' is delightful), but Fly, Rex, Maa and Ferdinand are certainly all good supporting characters, each presenting Babe with different outlooks on life and the world around them. As much as I love the original Dick King-Smith novel upon which this was based ('the Sheep Pig'), I definitely feel that the screenwriters here did a great job in fleshing the story and characters out even further, giving us a deeper and more intricate picture along the theme of seeing eye-to-eye with others.Almost ten years on, 'Babe' still remains one of the most rewarding and thoroughly heart-warming family films you're ever going to see - well-made and lovable, it works a real treat. You can skip the outrageously unnecessary sequel though.Grade A+ "},{"Title":"How an adapation should be done","Date":"30 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" This is one of the most heart-warming films you are ever likely to see. Taken from the book by Dick King-Smith, it follows the adventures of a little piglet called Babe. It is beautifully shot, Australia substituted for England, and has a cast of human actors who feel like they have just popped out of the book itself. The animals are a clever mixture of real live dogs, pigs, sheep etc. and puppet performers. With some characters that you will just fall in love with, Babe is a true family film and will entertain you again and again. Nominated for Best Picture and unfortunately losing to Braveheart, this small film in comparison to all others nominated that year, is tale that will have you smiling (and perhaps a little bit of crying now and then) from start to finish. It has been kept close to the award-winning book and is how a film based on a book should be. "},{"Title":" --- believe me, sooner or later, all pigs get eaten --- ","Date":"24 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Babe's setting is an Australian sheep ranch of conservative folk with traditional work ethics, where on-site animals are either livestock (becoming, or producing, a marketable commodity) or they work along side their masters to earn their keep. No animal is wasted, nor is it carried as extra baggage -- predatory animals and vermin are killed. These animal divisions reflect domestic history and influences of the creation account in Genesis for the fifth and sixth days. Duchess, the Hoggett's cat - Babe's antagonist and maybe the film's only pet - is probably kept to contain vermin.The film opens at a breeding facility, where newborn Babe is suckling with his piglet brothers and sisters. A scant few frames later, his mother is taken to slaughter and replaced by a mechanical feeder -- no sentiment, no morality, no time lost in the food production cycle. Yet, Babe's life is altered -- from imminent slaughter to lottery prize at a local country fair -- as he goes to Farmer Hoggett's (James Cromwell) sheep ranch. However, the inevitable may be only delayed -- Mrs. Hoggett (Magda Szubanski) is planning to serve roast pig for Christmas dinner. But the narrator has promised us -- as the harbinger of presumed glad tidings -- that Babe and Farmer Hoggett will share a common destiny.Saddened at the loss of his mother -- but unaware of her true fate -- Babe is comforted, adopted and nurtured by Fly, a border collie, who has just had a litter. She and her mate, Rex, shepherd the flocks for Farmer Hoggett. Although befriended by all farm animals, Babe learns the organizational pyramid, where the border collie sits at the top; and sheep, pigs, chickens, ducks - all stupid livestock to be eaten - sit at the base. Although sometimes disadvantaged and often less fortunate,every creature has a designated place and role in farm society (that seems eerily similar to how some people see human society). Filmed in the Southern Highlands of New South Wales and directed by Chris Noonan, Babe, with six Academy nominations, has been a positive influence for innovative cinema. All animals can talk on Hoggett's ranch (though not always intelligibly nor to humans); but this film is considerably more in all categories of film arts and crafts than an Academy Award for special visual effects. Babe's voice (Christine Cavanaugh), however, with its innocent, gentle and diplomatic tones is particularly endearing, maybe enchanting -- you will be won over too, and find yourself standing with literally thousands (including my mother), cheering loudly for the little pig.Babe's sojourn with the Hoggetts is a test of conventional ways and accepted notions, by both the farmer and the pig. If, as Duchess says (in a tone that reminds us of Cinderella's stepsisters),  --- believe me, sooner or later, all pigs get eaten, can Babe look forward to becoming anything more than pork chops, bacon, or sausage? When Fly confirms that the Boss (Farmer Hoggett) probably sees a pig's fate in the same way (as the cat does), Babe's heart nearly breaks -- isn't the Boss a trusted friend? Whether or not you consider this film to be a parody of larger social issues, or questions of humanity's ordained relationship to animals, it is must see FAMILY ENTERTAINMENT, with bright humor and comedy, despite our serious discussion -- and very likely, THE BEST animal film ever! "},{"Title":"A Magical Mystery tour (Mildest of the mild SPOILERS maybe!)","Date":"29 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" In my opinion, this is an excellent and very touching movie for the whole family, children and adults alike, to watch. But more than a movie, it's a video book. At least, that's how I felt while watching it.The storyline of Babe is decent, the acting of the human cast is quite good and adequate, the cast is excellent (and dedicated to their work, as I gathered later), and the animation superb. And above that, there are the mice and their excellently cute song (I played their song at the end of the movie God knows how many time!), and the very likable chemistry of the Hoggett couple. There are many interesting sequences the ridiculous 'dance' of the farmer to humor the ill Babe, the clandenstine operation by the duck to get rid of the mechanical device, the quid pro quo of the sheep password vis-a-vis the willy-nilly promises of Rex, and then the climax.As far as the cast goes I liked James Cromwell in L.A. Confidential (where he was busy shooting his own officers in a bid to control the cocaine market, 'Boyo'); so there's no way I could have disliked him in Babe, as the silent yet affectionate farmer Hoggett. Magda Szubanski did justice to the role of Mrs. Hoggett; while watching Babe, I could never guess that she was just a young woman of 34! Babe rocks! "},{"Title":"That'll do pig","Date":"20 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  This was one of those films that grew on me more and more as time went by.  It's not so much that there are talking pigs and sheep and dogs and a duck that wants to be a cockerel (arf!)  There's real tragedy in the character of Rex, a sheepdog voiced by Agent Smith who's too proud to admit his encroaching deafness.  Then there's the care Farmer Hoggett takes over his beloved Pig when ill, that ridiculous dance and the climactic sheep-pig trial.  The moment when silence is broken by a barely audible click, then the audience goes mad and Hoggett says...well, you know the rest.  "},{"Title":"What could have been","Date":"9 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  This should have been the start of a fabulous series.  The sequel is even better than the first.  Alas, the fates (and the lack of intelligence of the critics and audience) did not recognize the latter as being the adult masterpiece that it is.  There will be no more Babes.  What a gorgeous film. "}{"Title":"Cool Movie!","Date":"7 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Babe is my ALL TIME FAVORITE MOVIE!  My favorite Sheepdog is Fly.  She is lovely and easy-going, whereas Rex looks creepy and always ticked and might as well be the father of Demon from Snow Dogs!  If they make a 3rd Babe, they should give the sheepdogs nicknames like Tracy and Calvin had in Like Mike.  Like say R-Time for Rex or F-Dog for Fly.  They should also get Fly to sing Sk8er Boi by Avril Lavigne and Rex to rap Without Me by Eminem with beeping sounds at each curse word.  They should also have outtakes from all 3 Babes like the fight scene from the first Babe between Fly & Rex being held at a hockey rink and Hoggett, now in a ref's outfit, says 5 Minutes for Fighting! and then Babe trying to put things right again, and when Rex starts growling, Babe hits a button on his watch that makes him go faster and Rex says How is he doing that?  What better way to quote Like Mike than from a Border Collie?  "},{"Title":"Enchanting tale","Date":"16 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  This film was so enchanting i really enjoyed it, i really want to know where it was filmed, idd get on a coach and go there tomorrow, is it a guest house. The set was perfect, and the story was beautifully told, and the animals didn't annoy me like i thought they would, its very hard im sure in a film to make the talking animals not to appear to human, and to give them right of space to say hey ya know were still animals, that was great, also there was no animal violence, the only creatures that did badly out of this film was us, constantly reminded that we are killing little pigs and eating them, i suppose i felt guilty for a second, but not for long, a very enchanting tale full of wonder. "},{"Title":"Great Family Entertainment!","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS       Our story opens in a large warehouse where pigs are born and raised and when the mother pigs are fat enough, they're taken away to meat factories. One little piglet, Babe, was sad to see his mother go. Just then, two men grabbed him and took him away for a special project. The project was he would be won at a carnival if someone correctly guessed his weight. Babe was soon won by Arthur Hoggett, a quiet farmer. He and his wife, Esme, lived on a farm in the country. They had all sorts of animals cows, horses, sheepdogs Rex and Fly, sheep and more! Fly had puppies and when she noticed that Babe was lonley, took him under her wing. Gruff Rex took an immediate dislike to him.       Every morning on the Hoggett farm, just as the rooster is getting ready to crow, a bumbling duck, Ferdinand, beat him to the punch; Fly taught Babe the rules of the farm the dogs are allowed in the house, pigs are not. The dogs go with the master on sheep herding trips, pigs do not. Next morning, just as the rooster and Ferdinand were getting ready to crow, the Hoggetts' new alarm clock beat them both to the punch! So while the Hoggetts were at church, Ferdinand recruited gullible Babe to help him get that alarm clock. They venture into the house and cause quite a mess! Rex laid down the law for Babe. And as if that wasn't bad enough, Christmas was approaching and the Hoggetts had to decide what would be for dinner pork or duck? The next day, the Hoggetts' yuppie children and grandchildren arrived! Fly's puppies had to be sold, leaving her lonely until Babe began calling her Mom. The decision about dinner had been made duck. But it wasn't Ferdinand! It was a friend of his which made him very upset so he ran away.        Next morning, while Babe ran off into the fields where sheep are herded, the Hoggetts opened their Christmas presents. Arthur and Esme got a fax machine and took a dislike to it because they had no clue how to work one; Babe began herding sheep like a pro, because he found out all he had to do was ask them. Rex was very angry and humiliated and lashed out at Fly for no reason. In light of Babe's herding, Arthur decided to enter him in the National Sheepdog Championship. After all, there was no rule that stated a pig couldn't enter. So he did and at the area, everybody laughed at Arthur. Also, the sheep here were strange and didn't know Babe, so Rex, suddenly turned nice, went back to the sheep at the farm to get help. They told him a password that he told to Babe and the strange sheep obeyed and Babe herded them. The audience never cheered so hard and Arthur Hoggett won!        A pretty good film! Cute. James Cromwell was good, well everybody was good too! This film boosted Cromwell's career! Voices Christine Cavanaugh (Dexter, Chuckie from Rugrats) is Babe; Miriam Margolyes (James and the Giant Peach) is Fly; Danny Mann is Ferdinand; and Hugo Weaving is Rex; Was followed by a sequel Babe Pig in the City, which was pretty good too. So if you haven't already seen it, I recommend Babe!-          "},{"Title":"A truly magical film for both adults and children...","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  I first saw this film when I was 19 years old, and it so captivated me with its magic that I felt like a kid again. A truly great story, with some excellent performances by the cast both human and animal, this is a great tale of courage in the face or adversity, and how the desire to fulfill your dreams can make anything possible. The greatest finale of any movie I've EVER seen. Ten out of ten! "},{"Title":"A Perfect film","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Yes, it is a perfect film. First, it is entertaining - it has a wonderful, gentle sense of humor and an adorable protagonist. Second, it is dramatic. There are scenes of peril and scenes of uncertainty that are engaging enough for adults but not too scary for children (unlike the sequel, which along with some very intense scenes, gets much of its laughs from humiliating Mrs. Hogget). Third, it has a moral that it builds up to without being preachy or saccharine. Finally, it manages to do all of these things without a single false moment.  There is nothing to explain and no moments that will make you reconsider showing this film to children (for instance, The Indian in the Cupboard, which is an otherwise good, serious and moral film has a scene where a child is flipping through the channels. For a brief moment he flips to MTV which is showing a video of a bikini-clad woman dancing around. I watched this video with a group of 4th and 5th graders and as soon as the image of the woman came on screen, at least two of the girls looked away. If you?re a film maker, why would you include this???!!!).This is a sweet, moral, entertaining fairy tale that will have you swept away and cheering at the end. In case you're skeptical of this review, my other favorite film is Magnolia, which, though quite different in tone, is also about morality. "},{"Title":"A most human film","Date":"27 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  This film, which was robbed of the Oscar by Mel Gibson's bloated, boring Bravehart, does what every great film does create magic. I remember the promotion for the original Superman, You will believe a man can fly. For Babe they could have said, You will believe animals can talk. The voice work is extraordinary. It's too bad films with superstar actors aren't as well cast. In an era where being obnoxious is considered funny and true-to-life, Babe shows that treating others with respect and kindness can work miracles. It is a very sweet-natured film that probably has made vegetarians out of countless thousands.  "},{"Title":"Christmas Means Carnage!!!","Date":"13 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Babe is supposedly not as dark as it's follow-up, Pig in the City.  Which is a strange thing to say when the entire plot of the first film has a lot to do with whether our trusty hero will end up as Christmas dinner.And that's why Babe is better than any talking animal movie has any business being.  It doesn't shy away from the gruesome truths about the animals' world.  At the same time, it remains charming and contains more subversive humor than most R-rated comedies (check out the Hoggit's unappreciative little punk of a granddaughter for example). "},{"Title":"THE BEST MOVIE FEATURING ANIMALS...","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" ...ever!When I first heard about Babe, I said to myself  Oh no, not another animal-can-talk type of movie, such as crappy Beethoven or Look who's talking 2. But after I saw it, I was speechless. I haven't seen something so sweet and touchy (without being corny) coming from this kind of movies for a long time. Or ...never.What makes  movie a masterpiece deserving mark 10 out of 10? A great story? Actors devoted to their roles? Scenography? Directing?All that, I guess. And beside outstanding acting from James Cromwell, Babe could be just one of the million movies playing with the people emotions. But luckily it isn't. It got something inside that made me looking at the pigs differently, after watching it. And this is the ability of true masterpieces. So that's why a... ...10 out of 10   "},{"Title":"Everyone should watch this film","Date":"3 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Babe is a terrific story filled with great characters and strong morals.Excellent script, effects, characters, acting, directing...I cannot recommend this film enough - watch it at least once! "},{"Title":"ust three wordsfilm is classic","Date":"19 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  I must confess i have seldom seen such beautiful and sweet film in todays world which is filled with violense,gore and slash.Although iam a horror fan yet i still liked the message this film sent,The message of love,truth,honesty,friendship,belief in your self,and of love to the animals.Sad that the people failed to realize the message of the second one,it was also good.If films are judged upon the message they sent than this one is in the top five and its sequel in top15.I loved this film and when babe is seperated from his mother who is taken to be eaten you cant help but feel sad for the little guy.A great film,do watch it.10 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Wonderfully written, wonderfully directed, and that's one cute pig","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  I've never been one for cute things. Normally, I'd rather have my eyes gouged out with a spoon at the mere mention of something being oh so cute, but this movie puts a bit of a different spin on that.I don't bother with the heart warming or wholesome or any other words used to describe something with talking animals.  I look at direction and style when looking at a movie like this, and I must say, this movie is top quality in both categories.  Very effective use of conversation and the many variations on the If I Had Words song provide a nice flow throughout the movie.But what I really liked about this flick are the characters.  From the farmer and his wife to the pig to the duck and the dogs, sheep, and everyone else, they all provide a certain element to the story and all add to the unique flavor of the movie.Yes, I know it didn't follow the book, but I (and many other people I've talked to) didn't even know there was a book, so I consider that to be a moot point. Yes, this is the movie responsible for talking dogs, frog, and all other manner of animals on commercials (which will one day drive me to the top of the Golden Gate bridge with a shotgun and a bag of Cheetos), but this is the only example of talking animals where it looks real, and it works.All in all, I think this a very underrated movie, espcially in light of the lack of creativity coming out of Hollywood these days.  It should've been nominated for Best Picture of '95, and if not, it's at least one of the Top 250 of all time.///@\\\ "},{"Title":"Top movie for every age","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  This, partly animated, movie is so sweet, that you will probably not want to eat pork for some time, if you want to do so at all, after having seen Babe. The idea is very original. The pig Babe, who is intelligent (which pigs really seem to be, by the way) achieves everything he wants by being extremely polite. An example he goes to the rooster and asks Excuse me sir, would it be possible for you to crow a few minute early today?. Brilliant! The main plot (the pig wins a sheep dog trial) is not only well worked out and original, but also touching. And how about Babe, the pig, who suddenly feels that he should sing a few lines of Blue Moon. This really is a scene I can't forget easily. Finally, all parts are well-casted, with a top choice for the voice of Babe. See this movie again and again (I appreciated it much more the second time) and regard pigs as more than just meat afterwards!  "},{"Title":"A real family movie","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  This movie is a true family movie. It's cute, nice and cheers you up. ) For young and old, I think this is a real nice movie to watch, preferably at a special occasion, like Christmas or something. Babe's real cute and I'm sure kids will like it. ) Just be sure not to give into the dad I want a pig too! thing ;) "},{"Title":"fantastic","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  got to love this film, it's touching and the sweetest film I've ever seen.Too bad that it takes animal character to see the sweetness of humanBest movie I've ever seen in its genre. I give it 100 out of 10! "},{"Title":"Truly a movie for ALL ages...","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Anyone of any age could love this movie. Babe has a great quality of humor that is very hard to come by in these days. It maanges to maintain that innocent tone throughout the movie, without becoming too cute. "},{"Title":"Glorious","Date":"10 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Well, when you've seen a movie, part animated, part not, about a pig that acts like a sheepdog, you really have seen it all. This is a beautiful piece of work - cute story, wonderful photography, wholly appropriate music. It's difficult to comment on the acting as the human characters are really part of the backdrop, but they perform that function very well. A couple of years back, I was in England for Christmas, staying with relatives. They have children who were then aged three and one, and BBC1 aired this in the late afternoon on Christmas Day - an inspired piece of scheduling. The kids couldn't have gone to bed in happier mood. The adults liked it too! Rating 8/10 "},{"Title":"incredible movie!!!","Date":"21 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  babe is one of those movies that just makes you feel all warm and nice. its a wonderful plot and brilliantly delivered. none of the lewd humor of dr.dolittle, this is one heck of a good family movie.babe is a story of a pig that doesnt quite fit in. dont go expecting an orwellian animal farm, these characters are simply adorable. the technical brilliance is simply mind-blowing. once you have kind of gotten over ur awe of it, its time to sit back and enjoy a fairytale story thats wonderfully told. this is a movie that walt disney himself would have been proud of.a must for kids of all ages. this is one of the best family movies of all-time.a terrific 9!! "},{"Title":"Simple and Outrageously Funny","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  There are images from this film that will stay in my mind forever.  Particularly, the ending--perfectly executed, cinematically elegant, outrageously funny, and simple.  It has the message of thinking outside the lines written all over it.  The first few times I saw it I teared up near the end.  What a great movie.  Don't let it's G rating deter you--this is a masterpiece of comedy, of fable, of modern special effects-driven to simplicity.  A miracle film. "},{"Title":"One of the greats.","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  This is a kids movie that is really for entire families, and I loved it.It's got a great message at the middle of a terrific story well told.Beautifully acted and directed, and the talking animals worksperfectly. I've seen this movie at least 4 times and would gladlywatch it again, it's really that good.          "},{"Title":"Wonderful movie for all","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  As it has been said before, this is a wonderful movie, and one that isn't *just* for children, though I am sure it does appeal to children. This film has a wonderful message of equality, love and all that fun stuff.I generally don't like those cutsie talking animal movies, but this is the exception. Be warned though, that while this movie is super it DOES have a darker side to it, and I feel that it addresses *some* of the issues regarding the meat industry and meat eating in general. I didn't eat any meat for a week afterwards. Anyway, this is a great movie that I think a number of people will enjoy. Besides, ya gotta love the singing mousies! "}{"Title":"Not Just for Kids!","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  I recommend this film for adults, but especially for parents of small children.  I am very glad my daughter likes this as it allows me to escape some nearly intolerable children's programming.  Amazingly my daughter has never tired of this (she has probably seen it more than 1000 times) and I've seen it several 100 times to be sure. Although she likes it more than me, I sometimes enjoy seeing it.Babe is an adaptation of an extremely well written tale by Dick King-Smith (an ex-farmer and retired elementary school teacher) geared for children.  The story shows a real depth of understanding interpersonal relationships and does NOT pander to the audience (children understand about death, murder, theft, prejudice and selfish behavior at a very early age).  Finally the acting, special effects and presentation were sensitively done (and not intrusive).Babe is a young pig who has a great desire to do the right thing. James Cromwell plays Arthur Hoggett, a farmer who has a profound quiet sense of dignity (although he can get confused, and relies on his wife and pig for occasional guidance).  Babe overcomes prejudice by both treating the underclass of sheep with dignity, and by overcoming his own underclass status by assuming the duties of the upper class sheep dogs.  Although I don't want to give spoilers, the I think the climax of this movie occurs BEFORE the end, when Hoggett reaffirms his love and respect for Babe. "},{"Title":"not just for kids!","Date":"25 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Sweet, funny, lacking the saccharine of Disney.  Do see this, it is beautifully crafted and written.  Babe challenges you to forget prejudice and shows that you can be whatever you want to be, no matter what anyone says or thinks.  Hang up your preconceptions at the door and you will be pleasantly surprised, no matter your age.  And don't miss the singing mice! "},{"Title":"Delightful Movie","Date":"1 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Because it appeared to be a child movie, I almost missed this one. But Siskel and Ebert so raved about it, I saw the movie and found it to be outstanding. So outstanding I bought a video version, something I rarely do except for classics. I was reminded of it recently when having to baby sit for my barely 2 year old grandson, I played the video tape and he just went bonkers over it, never becoming bored with it, with many laughs. I enjoyed the rerun too. Siskel and Ebert felt this movie should have been nominated for a Best Picture Oscar. I do to. It should have gotten one. "},{"Title":"A movie with a message","Date":"6 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  This is not just a children's movie. I saw it in my junior year of high school and fell in love with it. It's more than a story of a pig, it's about overcoming stereotypes and prejudice. Not only is the message important, but the movie is beautifully done. The cinematography is beautiful, and the acting as well. Though I was disappointed that it did not win the Oscar, I think it has the ability to touch people for years to come. "},{"Title":"Multilayered and magnificent","Date":"19 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Babe is brilliant film making. From the musical scoring to the excellent characterizations to the story itself, this is a film everyone can watch. My daughter loves it, and I can watch it with her without getting bored, even though she can watch it 100 times when the mood hits her.Technically, the film is superb. The animatronics are almost flawless, and I remember scratching my head in wonder when I first saw it, asking, How DID they do that? The only noticeably fake creature was the cat, but that can be forgiven. And listen closely to the dialogue to catch subtle jokes and details that fill the scenes like that extra brushstroke on the masterpiece painting.Cromwell is perfect as Farmer Hoggett. The voice acting was genius. Every detail in the film was executed with exacting care.Then, there's the story. The theme and moral are not righteously cracked over the audience's skull like they are in many children's movies, so these elements reveal themselves at a palatable pace. It's also why the film can be viewed over and over again.The only reason I did not give it a 10 was because the Hoggett daughter's family was plain annoying, and the time it took for Babe to get the sheep at the end of the movie to win the championship did not match what would be a perfect time. Otherwise, this is a fantastic keeper and one that must be seen. "},{"Title":"A pig becomes a sheepherder in this heartwarmer","Date":"22 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Babe is a sweet heartwarming movie about a pig who eventually becomes a sheepherder with a little assistance from his farmer..Wonderful performances by all performers especially the pig! and a great film for all ages...on a scale from one to ten..8 "},{"Title":"A Fun Likeable Flick.","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Babe is one of those films were you really enjoy it the first time you see it, but after a while it sort of gets annoying. But, nevertheless, you can't stop really dislike it that much because the story is just so original and the characters are so likeable and memorable. Also, don't go thinking Babe is just another one of those stupid kids movie, it will entertain all ages, even teenagers and mature adults will have lots of fun watching this movie.I don't think this movie deserved a Best Picture nomination in 1996, but it is a recommendable flick all the same.Rating 7  "},{"Title":"Just plain sweet!","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Babe, although targeted at the younger audiences, is an enjoyable feature for the whole family.The little ones will giggle and smile at the cute animal characters, while the older audiences will enjoy the movie's creative little plot and the CGI.Who would have thought? A novel and movie about a pig herding sheep?The only part which I hated very much though were those singing mice!*** out of ***** "},{"Title":"Endearing, well-crafted, enjoyable","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  I didn't see this movie until I was about 17, but that didn't stop me from enjoying it. It's a unique sort of film where animals can talk, and taken one step further where the voices synchronise with the lips. Interestingly, Babe is voiced by a female whereas the cow is voiced by a male!The voices are just the start. All the main characters are farm animals, bar Farmer Hoggett who is a likeable chap and has a special understanding of the pig. My favourite character was probably Maa, the border-leceister sheep. The drake Ferdinand is a proper imp with a good heart. The cat is evil 'beware the BAD CAT'! You don't see much of the chooks but they are funny. There are elements of comedy - the field mice & Hoggett's impromptu dance - and tragedy.The funniest part for me was near the end when Babe was trying to talk to the sheep he had to herd (who wouldn't talk), resulting in exchanges such as How are you? Beeehhhh Along those lines, I'll bring up a peculiarity that's all too common in animal stories how come the animals can understand and talk to each other, and the animals can understand the humans, but the humans can't understand the animals? It doesn't take a scientist to conclude that such a case doesn't make sense. In reality, of course, animals are dumb in terms of both speech and (usually) intelligence, but it would have made more sense here for the animals to be unable to understand humans. Anyway...There is a general feeling of peacefulness and ease in the film which makes it very suitable for children. As a viewer, one gets to be as one with the animals. This is a good movie that all children and many older people should enjoy. 8/10 "},{"Title":"The charming film that encouraged vegetarianism - and you can see why.","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  When I first heard the premise, I was not instantly attracted. I decided to wait for it to appear on the main TV network - and I realised that I was close to missing a suberb movie.It sets itself up to be a typical kid's film - one that has children everywhere dragging uninterested adults to see it. It could so easily have been this way - but there is something about it that makes it even more enjoyable than... (trying to think of another great family movie)... dare I say it... even more enjoyable than The Wizard of Oz.Quite what makes it so is a mystery. The animals are cute and all, but there are a ton of other movies with furry critters everyone loves. Perhaps it's the perfect character voices that accompany these creatures, or the lush and colourful scene locations.But what really puts Babe apart from other movies is its sharp script. It gets dangerously close to becoming sentimental nonsense at times - but usually just remains sentimental. The characters are instantly adorable, even the wicked cat, who delightfully devious.Quite simply, this is not just a film for children. I am 28, and I watched it on my own - I loved every second. There were even moments when, if I weren't the heartless cynic I am (!), the tears would have poured down my cheeks.This film did surprisingly well worldwide, and spawned an equally enjoyable yet not as successful sequel. Muriel's Wedding aside, it is the best film to come from Australia in a long time. I urge you to rent it out and open your heart to these wonderful animals. I can guarantee that you'll think twice before eating bacon, pork, lamb or duck after this movie!  "}{"Title":"One of 1995's best","Date":"14 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Don't bother looking--you won't find a more creative film in 1995 than this immensely charming sleeper about a pig that thinks he's a sheepdog. It sounds goofy, all right, and I rolled my eyes right along with everyone else when I heard about it, but who knew that this movie would turn out to be so good? Babe oozes originality and emotion, as that little pig proves that it really does pay to have a kind heart and a determined mind. James Cromwell is marvelous as the farmer who is just eccentric enough to take the pig under his wing; he gives what is probably the year's most undervalued performance. Some movies ennoble your mind; some tug at your heart. It did both, but more than anything, Babe made me happy to be a movie lover, and there's probably nothing better you can say about a film if you really think about it.  "},{"Title":"an all-time favorite","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Don't be turned off by some kid's movie about a pig.This is a great film, rich in characters, scenery, story, and meaning.  Seldom have I seen a story-book world transposed so beautifully to the screen.  The animatronics are seemless and the actors are superb.The episodic progression of the film adds to the story-book magic.  Gradually, it builds to the silent and breathless last scene--one of the most powerful I've ever seen.Take time to see this film.  It is a feel-good movie, and never fails to brighten my day. "},{"Title":"An absolute delight! Funny, uplifting, wonderful!!!","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  I LOVE this movie! It's terrific fun to watch, and it completely engaged my emotions from the first frame to the last. It's SO cathartic; impossible not to care for these characters, and to fervently want them to be happy. Whenever I watch Babe, I cannot refrain from spending most of the movie with both hands clasped, going OH HOW CUUUUUTE!!! OH HOW SWEEEET!! This is one of the best feel good movies I have ever seen.  I don't know one single person who didn't like this flick. It's PERFECT!! When Farmer Hoggett sings to Babe, and when he does his little dance, I literally get goosebumps, because it's such a heart-stirring, beautifully touching sight to behold. Mr. and Mrs. Hoggett are such lovable, memorable and completely sympathetic characters! I was so taken with Farmer Hoggett, that upon seeing James Cromwell in L.A. Confidential, the first thing that popped into my mind was Wait a minute! No, no, this is all wrong! That's Farmer Hoggett, he can't be BAD!! For real! EVERYONE should see this movie. It truly fills the heart with joy. Instant classic! If I were a psychiatrist, I would prescribe this movie, rather than Prozac, as an anti-depressant. It's THAT wonderful!  "},{"Title":"A movie the whole family can love.","Date":"10 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  It is not too often when our whole family can go a  movie and all of us end up loving it. When we saw Babe four years ago.We all came out of the movie smiling. Babe is one of the best family movies I have seen. A movie about a sweet pig who lives on a farm. He makes friends with the other farm animals and ends up wanting to be a sheep herder.My favorite scene is when Ferdinand talks Babe in to going in the house and getting the electric rooster. We bought the movie on video as soon as it came out and still watch it to this day. "},{"Title":"The Best Talking Pig Movie Ever","Date":"28 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  He's just sooooo cute.  You can't avoid this conclusion.  The animation is enchanting and realistic.  The songs are good. The commentary from talking mice is greco-chorus-like.  And it has a lovely moral too the weak outsider can triumph against convention. Maybe if some of the teen gunmen in the world could absorb this message, the world would be a better place. "},{"Title":"A terrific character portrayal with good social lessons.","Date":"4 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Few films address the issues of coping and dealing with everyday issues. Even fewer try to make a social statement about a social order and status of different characters.  This film took these issues and transferred them to a barnyard setting and applied the characters to animals and gave each animal the gift of speech, expression and reasoning.  The core issues centered around a pig who wanted to know what his/her place was in society.  The lessons learned were dramatized well and simple to grasp. Even thought this was a childs' film, it had some excellent social statements and entertainment value for parents as well.  The climax of the film was completely entertaining and splendid.  I felt a rare joy when I laughed at final scene during the final moments of the competition.The direction and puppet work was the best I have ever seen. The creativity used in this film was excellent.  I have only the best respect for the participants who made this film. It had much of the classic Disney Charm used in children's films of the past. This film will have a place in 1990's film Americana.  "},{"Title":"i thought it couldn't be done","Date":"11 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  this movie is great.  why is it great? because it's different! it's not about sex, it's not about violence, it doesn't attack any religion, race, or gender.  it's just a sweet movie with a wonderful moral.  it's like animal farm without that evil communist allegory..well, not really, but close. Although it's intended for children, i think it has very broad appeal. I liked it because it's a breath of fresh air!  it's not another stupid, worthless, thoughtless Disney cartoon.  it's a great, timeless story. what's not to love?! "},{"Title":"Delicious!","Date":"18 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  This film really revived James Cromwell's career.  At least he seems to be receiving a lot more attention, and has starred prominently in a number of successful films, such as Star Trek Insurrection and LA Confidential. The social commentary of this film was nicely done.  It encourages diversity with the various animals overcoming negative views of each other(all sheep are stupid) and cooperating(sort of a more optimistic version of Animal Farm).  But this film made me hungry more than anything else.  While watching the film's star, I couldn't help but picture how juicy and delicious he would look as a roasted ham or a strip of bacon.  By the time the film was over, my mouth was watering.  Afterwards, I had a ham sandwich and then had a bacon omelette the next morning.  Don't watch this film on a empty stomach unless your refrigerator is full of meat products.    "},{"Title":"An absolute classic.........","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  and the best family film ever made. The last scene in this movie, when the farmer finally acknowledges the pig's skill with a laconic That'll do pig...that'll do and the pig reacts, animatronic or not, with a facial expression that would put most human actors to shame, ranks among the best single scenes in movie history "},{"Title":"fascinating and absorbing","Date":"27 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  What a great movie. It made me laugh out loud. Very convincingly acted by humans, and animals! I'll never eat ham again. "}{"Title":"Why Einstein Would Have Loved This Movie","Date":"3 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Einstein said Peace can not be kept by force.  It can only be achieved through understanding.  (Or words to that effect.)  That's my personal philosophy, and it's also the philosophy of Babe, my 4th-favourite movie of all time.  The movie has a pig try to become a sheepdog by working WITH the sheep, not against them.  (Incidentally, this is the undisputed best sheep dog trial flick ever made.)The message is lovely, but this is also a major artistic and technical achievement.  The talking-animal effects are so perfectly executed that you stop noticing!  Ie., you start to find it perfectly natural that the animals are talking, and you forget it's even an effect!  Now THAT'S visual wizardry...forget the White House blowing up (recent news items aside). Aesthetically, the movie is sublime every frame is suffused with beauty & (dare I say it?) magic.  The voice acting is great; the screenplay is top-notch; the comedy is uproarious; the drama is gripping (never thought you'd be rooting for a trans-specied pig?).Most importantly, the characters have taken on an existence for me outside of the movie itself.  I find myself thinking kind thoughts about them, wishing them well, wondering what new adventures they've cooked up (although I REFUSE to see the sequel...it looks horrible).  It's a little disturbing that I'm feeling this way about barnyard animals, but hey, that's the power of Babe.Suitable for all audiences, specifically those looking for movies with non-violent climaxes. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good!","Date":"29 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  I was surprised at how good this movie was. It's not just for kids,either. It leaves you with a good feeling. "},{"Title":"A great film; not just for kids","Date":"31 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie. James Cromwell sits near the top of my list of favorite actors, and his performance in this movie only reaffirms my position. If anyone disses this movie in any form, I will be glad to argue with them about its high points, of which there are many. "},{"Title":"Not just a silly kids' movie","Date":"29 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  I'll admit that I didn't want to see Babe because I didn't want to see some stupid kids'movie.  I resisted and finally gave in after some serious needling by a friend who had seen it (and after I lost a bet to her).I walked into the theater fully expecting to not like this movie.  You have to believe this.  I was so sure it would be something utterly reprehensible and devoid of any merit.  I knew I would hate it.  I was seeing this movie pretty much against my will just to keep my word.  I actively resented being in the theater.  I'm just trying to give you some insight into my mindset when I walked into the theater. I hope I've been clear that I would rather have been practically anywhere else but there.  We sat and the movie started.  I was completely wrong.I mean it.  I was so totally and completely wrong about this movie it took me by surprise.  It is completely perfect.  I walked out of the theater with a huge silly grin on my face, the music from the movie trapped in my mind along with images of the competition at the end (with sheep marching about in perfect formation behind Farmer Hoggett).This is not just a kids' movie.  I love it.  It is clear that it is a fantasy and that kids will love it but it doesn't condescend.  The use of words in the screenplay is extremely different from what you usually find (not only in movies aimed at children but in many comedies as well).  The effects are pretty seemless and you find that you can actually read the animals' lips as they talk.The story is simple and charming.  A young pig is won in a contest by a farmer and tried to settle into life on the farm.  He kind of has a hard start at first but eventually finds a talent for herding sheep simply by being polite and gentle.  That is pretty much it and yet it's not.  The filmmaking is beautiful, James Cromwell is perfect as Farmer Hoggett (giving off an air if complete dignity towards the end).It was released on video not long after I saw it.  I was with my friend in the video store when we both saw the floor display selling the video.  I immediately bought two copies one for me and one for my niece.I have made several friends watch 'Babe.  They all approach it with trepidation and end up with the the same silly grin I had when I watched it. They loved it.Basically the movie is beautiful and definitely worth seeing.  I cannot see how anyone could be disappointed in it.  It's phenomenal.  Check it out. "},{"Title":"Flawless, works for every age level, heart wrenching and heart warming","Date":"15 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Babe (1995)This is an adult movie for kids, as well as the other way around. The story is so charmed and charming, the construction and editing so brilliant and intuitively fluid, the acting so storybook and perfect, and the special effects so special they don't quite seem like effects, you might call the movie flawless.The star is a pig, yes. The voices of all the animals are cute, and come on so reasonably you might have to remind yourself that animals don't talk. The heros are flawed and the bad people aren't so terrible. The light is golden when it needs to be and gloomy when it needs to be. The lead farmer, Mr. Hoggett, played by James Cromwell, is a model of reticence and folksy wisdom, and he really does lead the movie, whatever the title role of Babe, who remains, after all, a pig. But there are so many small pieces that make this larger production special it's hard to know where to begin, though the three mice acting as a kind of Greek theater choir between acts is totally funny and brilliant, cutting through the sentiment and drama to remind everyone this is a play, a fable. Throw in some clever ideas like the duck who thinks he's a rooster, or the way the wife watches the final events from a television, or the gloom of the beginning which hangs over the heads of the animals all the way through, and you have a relentlessly engaging movie.Okay, it's a kids movie, it is, at heart. But it's a kids movie like Monsters Inc., which is so clever and fast and convincing it can be admired for its great movie-making. And enjoyed, too, for the adult and child in us all.Some curiosities. The setting for Babe seems to be some sheep culture like Scotland, even though the actors have mostly American accents. In fact, the movie is Australian at heart, shot there (with a very old world charm added, like the fanciful farmhouse) and employing mostly Aussie actors, whose voices were overdubbed so the movie would sell better in its larger market (the U.S.). Cromwell, however, is completely American, and a devoted vegetarian (becoming a vegan, it seems, during the filming of Babe). Unfortunately, there are many DVD copies of Babe out there that are not in the normal theatrical release format, but have the edges cropped for older television formats. Even the two disc release that includes the sequel movie has the sequel properly widescreen and the first movie still full screen (cropped, pan and scan, bad). It's so nicely filmed, you should see it the way it was intended. And be prepared to shed a happy tear or two. What a joy! "},{"Title":"Good movie!","Date":"28 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Babe is a very good film that has a good cast which includes Christine Cavanaugh, Miriam Margolyes, Danny Mann, Hugo Weaving, Miriam Flynn, Russi Taylor, Evelyn Krape, Michael Edward-Stevens, Charles Bartlett, Paul Livingston, Roscoe Lee Browne, and James Cromwell. The acting by all of these actors is very good. The thrills is really good and some of it is surprising. The movie is filmed very good. The music is good. The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end. This is a very good and thrilling film. If you like Christine Cavanaugh, Miriam Margolyes, Danny Mann, Hugo Weaving, Miriam Flynn, Russi Taylor, Evelyn Krape, Michael Edward-Stevens, Charles Bartlett, Paul Livingston, Roscoe Lee Browne, and James Cromwell, the rest of the cast in the film, Adventure, Drama, Family, Comedy and interesting Animal films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today! "},{"Title":"That will do George, That will do","Date":"31 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" George Miller is my favorite Aussie film maker. He started his career with Mad Max (the road warrior for the Yanks). To do that he quit being a doctor and started Australia's most successful independent production company.Through lots of twists and turns he finds himself writing the screen play for a children's movie called babe also produced by his production company.So here we have the story of a little pig who ends up on a small farm where there are no pigs. So she has to find a place for himself. Due to mostly dumb luck and being very friendly Babe becomes a sheep pig (much to the ire of the sheep dog).Well this is the favourite children's story theme. Give it a go, you never know what you can be. But there is also a dark element here. Life on a farm for a pig means death and being eaten by humans. But of course the gallant pig will endear herself to everyone and not be eaten so a sequel can be made.To get this movie made in Australia George had to convince the yanks that Aussies can do the sort of technical production this movie needed. He succeeded and probably paved the way for movies such as the Matrix to be made in Australia.Enough of the trivia, it is a feel good movie which doesn't shy from brutal truth of farm life. You may never eat pork again (Certainly Thai restaurant owners complained bitterly that the sales of suckling pig dropped sharply when this movie was released in Thailand). "},{"Title":"a great tale for all ages","Date":"16 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Sweet, funny, and good-natured fable is a real treat for all ages. A young, orphaned pig is adopted by a kindhearted farmer and brought to live amongst a zany group of farm animals, including a duck who thinks he's a rooster, a herd of talkative ewes, a trio of singing mice, and a group of the town's most talented sheep dogs. Despite the tradition that pigs are made to be eaten, the naive and intrepid Babe startles all those around him&#x97;both human and animal&#x97;when he develops a knack for herding sheep! Witty, charming, and laugh-out loud funny, with great effects, colorful characters, memorable voices, and lots of heart. An engaging film the whole family can enjoy. ***½ "},{"Title":"an enchanting fable...Babe is one sweet porker","Date":"24 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Babe is a charming, subtle sleeper that's filled with suspense, humor, and genuinely touching drama...in other words, it has all the elements mainstream movies seldom deliver.  The fact that the movie's central characters are barnyard animals makes it even more of a fascinating achievement.  ExamplesAn early scene in which Babe, the orphaned piglet on Hoggett's farm, cries I want my mom is more emotionally effective than all of the sappy melodrama squeezed into three hours of Titanic. The scene in which Farmer Hoggett (James Cromwell), despondent over a sick Babe, does an Irish jig to cheer the porker up, is funnier than anything I saw in There's Something About Mary.And finally, the climactic sequence, in which Babe participates in a sheep-herding competition (reserved for dogs), is more suspenseful and exciting than anything you'll find within The Matrix.And everything in between these moments is sensational, as well.7/10 "},{"Title":"An allegorical Fantasy","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" I walked into this film with my eyes shut, that is I mean to say that I had no idea of where this one was going. On the face of it, animal life on a farm made for kids. The first few minutes soon got my intellectual capacities stirred up, and the strident tones of Saint-Saëns' `Organ' Symphony soon stirred up my red and white blood globules, such that my attention was unwavering.`This is a film for kids' is simply an understatement; children will love it. However, for those of us with a few more years/quite a lot of years loaded on top, this story is a rather clever inspiring allegorical fantasy with just the right touch of `human' values and moral-making, such that no preachiness comes out of this tale. No, this is not an updated version of Orwell's `Animal Farm' and far from being a cinematographic creation of Richard Adam's masterpiece `Watership Down'.Another thing which threw me off course was that on seeing genuine Border Collie sheep-dogs, my mind went rushing over to my sister's farm in Yorkshire where I spent last summer, and I can assure you that `Fly' (the feminine sheep-dog) is the double of her Border Collie `Holly'. So thinking we were somewhere in lovely Yorkshire (`nine months winter and three months bad weather' so the locals say), I took advantage in the first advert. break to crank up IMDb &#150; and lo, and behold! we are in my much loved Southern Highlands, New South Wales! Effectively, one of the very few (too few) panoramic views in the film gave us a slightly misty shot lasting a bare 3.8 seconds over to the Burragorang Lake, looking in a northerly direction, taken from somewhere a little north of Bowral and Mittagong, possibly Balmoral Village or from farther west near High Range on the Wombeyan Caves dirt-road.Splendid photography. Even more interesting was Nigel Westlake's music, which at times was his own, but mostly were his variations on a varied selection of classical pieces. I immediately recognised the Saint-Saëns Symphony, but it is worth mentioning a little of Ponchielli's `Dance of the Hours' (in no way should rooster-calls be done away with by new-fangled alarm-clocks) and the Song of the Toreador from Bizet's `Carmen'. There were also variations interwoven rather cleverly on `Jingle Bells' and other carols, as well as other pieces I was not able to put an exact name to.All in all, a nicely-constructed warming fable, with some very human &#150; oops! sorry &#150; animal values, such that children of all ages can get different levels of interpretation from it.  "}{"Title":"The Citizen Kane of Talking Pig Films.","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Babe is one of those films that is so warm, wholesome, funny, and dramatic that it is near impossible to dislike. All the animals on Farmer Hargett's land (played quietly by Oscar-nominated James Cromwell) are as real and vulnerable as regular people. One animal, the titled pig, has a heart of gold that will forever alter all the beings in the film for the better. Chris Noonan's direction (Oscar-nominated) and the amazing special effects, which were done primarily by Jim Henson's creature shop, give the film a genuine feel to it. There was no over- indulgence either as the film runs a crisp 92 minutes minutes. Stands very tall with Braveheart and other notable pictures of 1995. 5 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Great movie for everyone","Date":"6 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  I went to see the movie because critics were phrasing it, but with some mixed expectations. I mean, on the one hand, it got very good reviews and it was from Australia, but on the other hand, it was a movie about a pig that ends up working as a sheep dog! In the end I was very pleased with this movie's rather unique capability to be equally interesting for the children as well as for the adults. On the children level the story is rather simple little polite orphan, pig Babe, lives happily on the farm with his various animal friends and a good master, does a valuable job and makes his master and all of his friends proud. Talking animals and singing mice are hardly an innovative idea, and this all sounds, more or less, like any other infantile children's cartoon that's interesting only if you're under 6. On the adult level things are rather different. It's a black comedy that raises serious questions. I cannot believe how many people describe this movie as magical or even innocent! From the beginning of the movie, when Babe thinks his mother and all of his brothers and sisters are going to Pig's heaven, as everyone says, when in fact they are taken to be slaughtered, move is full of such black humour, including Mrs. Hoggett calling Babe my little pork-chop, and farmer Hoggett wanting to kill Babe because he thinks that Babe is so much like a sheep dog that he could kill a sheep! And the fact that our beloved Christmas is a question of life or death for our little friend Babe, decision depending on this dilemma Pork-chops or duck d'orange? Don't you get the irony? Well, I haven't seen Babe PINC yet, but I intend to do so, as soon as it starts playing. And if it were darker than first Babe is, and everyone says so, I would think it's only natural. I mean, if idyllic life on the farm gave place for so much black humour, one can only imagine things that could happen in a big city. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable fun from a time of lost innocence.","Date":"20 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  There will be much to talk about on the BABE sequel! With all the furor I'm hearing over anti-G-rated material, it sounds like a sad-but-true disappointment. I haven't seen it yet, so I'm dying to wait for a video release whenever it comes! Stay tuned!!!Stick to the original BABE movie. This is arguably the best in family-oriented entertainment, and the best family movie I've seen. A modern touch gives way to a classic farm tale brilliantly told. All of the animals cast here act as if humans could do the exact same thing. You can tell in how they actually speak out some vocabulary! Some 3-D computer graphics would've been great, though, but the farm scenery is fully breathtaking. Tense moments are here including a sheep who gets bitten and dies, but it's Babe who goes through a series of trials and triumphs along the way. No need for a plot, it's like a series of chapters in a storybook, which was based upon, but it has the delightful purpose. Possibly no other family movie I've seen could out-do the excellent quality and production values of BABE, making this my strongest recommendation for those in the desperate search for good clean fun. Well, close.  "},{"Title":"A Modern Fairy Tale","Date":"6 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  This movie is a wondrous rendering of a modern fairy tale.  The pig is sweet, brave, and pure of heart.  He battles prejudice and his own limitations to great effect.  Perfect for anyone who needs a little magic in their lives. "},{"Title":"MMMMmmm....bacon!","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  BABE (1995) *** James Cromwell, Magda Szubanski, (Voices Christine Cavanaugh, Miriam Margoyles).   Amusing and charming family fare about a talking pig who becomes a sheepdog after being adopted by the farmer's canines.  Oscar-winning state-of-the-art visuals combining computer mimicry and Jim Henson's creations blend seamlessly to full effect.  Directed by Chris Noonan (Best Director nominee).  Nominated for Best Picture. "},{"Title":"heartwarming","Date":"21 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Little Babe is a piglet in a farm, owned by Mr.Hoggett. Though he is a newcomer, animals in the farm including sheep and sheepdog accept him as a family as they get to know his kind and polite attitude to others. After Mr.Hoggett realizes that Babe is different from normal pigs, he makes Babe participate in the sheep dog competition as 'sheep pig'. Even though the sheep refuge to obey the sheep dogs, as they are too afraid of sheep dogs, they decide to go after Babe, and Babe win the competition in the end. This film used to be one of my favorite when I was a kid. Beautiful sceneries and lovely animals made me dream of life in the countryside. As I learned to love animals and be kind to others from this film, this is definitely one of the most heartwarming film that I would recommend to my kids someday "},{"Title":"A cute and wonderful story.","Date":"21 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" This movie is about one little pig. He makes a lot of friends at a farm whose owner is Arthur, an old and quite farmer. Arthur lets Babe, the little pig,to participate in a sheepdog contest even though he is not a dog. Babe mentions many problems but friendship between him and his friends and Arthur makes Babe strong.The most interesting point of this movie, in my opinion, is that friends around Babe, including Arthur, respects and loves him. I am moved when Rex, who has hated Babe at first, changes.The message of this story I thought is that prejudice of appearance should be seen as a very bad thing. Even though the first appearance is not really good, the person, the animal in this movie, might be a great one or he or she might has a wonderful skill of something.In conclusion, this movie is a story of a pig who is good at leading sheep. The most attracting thing of the movie is that Babe has a special skill and character which make him very popular. The main idea is that you should not evaluate people only by their appearance. This is a great movie which I recommend. "},{"Title":"Acceptance","Date":"25 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Babe is a film based on the children's Nobel The Sheep-Pig that wrote by Dick King-Smith's in 1983. Even though it's a comedy film made 20 years ago, wonderful VFX are used. Real animals and computer graphics are well matched, so we can enjoy the fantastic world without feeling strange. I think this film is about acceptance. Babe, A piglet left orphaned after his mother is slaughtered, is brought for Arthur's farm. Firstly, Border collie named Fly take care Babe instead of his mother. Dog and pig are difference species, but Fly accept Babe as her family. Also, Babe admire her and her job, sheep herding. After that, with warm, and pure heart of Baby built the trust from other animals. Sometimes, Babe shocked about what he is. However, he don't give up. Acceptance of himself, and other animals as mate work many miracles. "},{"Title":"Amusing Kid Film","Date":"20 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Babe (Christine Cavanaugh), a pig raised by sheepdogs, learns to herd sheep with a little help from Farmer Hoggett (James Cromwell).Is this the best film about talking farm animals since Animal Farm? Probably, although Animal Farm is still better. At least this is more wholesome, and full of more cuteness, so the kids like that. For the rest of us, we get Cromwell and Hugo Weaving.Most interesting (and maybe not well known), the script was written by George Miller. Do you know who that is? The creator of Mad Max. What the heck? The same guy who brought us the most essential Australian cult film of all time (and launched Mel Gibson's career) also brings us a tale of a pig who hangs out with sheep? Sure, why not? "},{"Title":"Like you are watching a fairy tale","Date":"7 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Each character is beautifully brought to life. From farmer Hoggett to Dutchess the cat, no matter how little is said, how little they are on screen they are pleasure to watch. Nothing is over stated or over explained. And it's all there before you the beauty and the horror that is life. Now before I scare you thinking you will get some type of lecture shoved down your throat, let me say again it is like a fairy tale. You are welcomed into both worlds of humans and animals and the story of what happens when their paths cross and you mix in a little love, patience and that belief that your dreams have a right to come true. "}{"Title":"A Family Film at It's Finest!","Date":"4 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" For a movie about a talking pig, I never thought Babe would come close to being a great movie, especially after watching that catastrophe in Gordy. But here we are watching a film that was nominated for seven Oscars including Best Picture, which is especially great for a children's film. I like how this film is mature, especially for a kids film. It may be rated G, but some of the dialogue had me thinking it was an adult-friendly drama. But I really liked the film because it's a pleasing family-friendly film that features a dynamic story, great acting, and just very cute animals.Chris Noonan's film tells the story of Babe and his life at Farmer Hoggett's farm. When he first got Babe, of course he Babe was going to be used for ham, bacon, and pork. But Hoggett, along with his adoptive mother Fly (a dog), begins to realize his potential as a sheepherder and decides to enlist him in a sheepherding contest.The film does have great acting, believe it or not. James Cromwell is excellent as the simple, seemingly hare-brained farmer. Magda Szubanski is reliable as Farmer Hoggett's wife. We also get some good voice acting from the likes of Hugo Weaving and Christine Cavanaugh, who recently passed away, as the titular character of Babe.Overall, Babe is a timeless classic and a film that generations of people will be able to enjoy. It is much smarter than the average children film. The animation is very good, hence the visual effects win. The film manages to be cute, but also funny as well. I just love that wacky duck who constantly fears he will be eaten. On the whole, this is one of the better family films out there. It's much better than Gordy, so watch this film instead. I rate this film 9/10. "},{"Title":"An Enchanting Film That Both Children and Adults Will Cherish.","Date":"4 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" I am really not a big fan of these kiddie movies that are coming these days. I did like Wreck It Ralph and Turbo, but hated Brave and Epic and thought Frozen was mediocre. I miss movies like Babe that didn't subject kids to any sort of stupidity and still gave a great sense of imagination and innocence. After giving Babe a watch, I was hooked and blown away at it. It is one of the best children movies I have ever seen. I am an adult with no learning disability, and I still have my creativity, imagination and sense of wonder that I had when I was a child. I can relate to children and understand them. My compatibility with the target audience is what made me love this like a kid would.Jim Henson's creature shop, along with well-trained animals and great special effects made the animals themselves a wonder to see. Aside from the animals, the sets, and general filming made Babe a wonder to see. In fact, because everything is so nice to see, the story seems less important. In any movie, the story is important, but the animals and sets, you could say, are distracting. They are so glorious to see that you aren't paying much attention to the story. Babe is full of lovely animals that could easily be real people. In fact, the whole movie could be just as good if it was about real people and not barnyard animals. The animals are quirky, funny, and well developed. Aside from the animals being well-trained, Jim Henson making great puppets, and the special effects being uncanny, they are written very well too. There's a cute duck, some fun dogs, nice sheep, among others. Babe himself is written very well and realistic as a pig that is won at a carnival by a farmer (James Cromwell) and tries to find himself at his new farm. He becomes well-liked at the farm, then decides he wants to replace an injured dog at a sheep-dog competition. In the process, Babe realizes he can be anything he wants. That's the story. It is unoriginal and kind of slow, but as I said earlier, it's a treat for your eyes. Children will love this as it challenges the imagination and will love to see how real the talking animals are. Adults will love it for the same reasons. "},{"Title":"Sincere feel good charmer","Date":"27 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Babe is the runt of the litter who was born in a factory farm. He gets picked as the worthless prize in a country fair. Farmer Hoggett (James Cromwell) who doesn't keep pigs, wins him in a guess the weight contest. Babe ends up being raised by the sheep dog mother Fly. He befriends the various animals. With the help of Ferdinand the Duck, he gets into trouble and slowly learns the way of the farm. He is doomed to be Christmas dinner for Esme Hoggett but Farmer Hoggett convinces her to save his life. Then Farmer Hoggett notices something strange about the pig.There is a great sense of wonderment and joy in this movie. It plays like one of those kids books and it's so terrific for it. Roscoe Lee Browne's narration is the perfect tone. It doesn't use any modern references or knowing sarcasm. It is a sincere old fashion melodrama and part modern feel good charmer. "},{"Title":"A feel-good and heartfelt animal movie!","Date":"12 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" This is a feel-good animal film based on the children's novel, Babe, a story about Farmer Hoggett (James Cromwell) winning a runty piglet named Babe at the local fair. The pig befriends the other animals on Mr. Hoggett's farm and learns and takes on the job of sheep-herding.Though a children's story, this film can be enjoyed by adults as well, as it is heartfelt and charming that is perfect for the entire family. It brings a message of friendship, courage and teamwork and the lessons of growing up. The special effects team did a great job in making the real life animals talk, so you have to suspend reality for several minutes and imagine a world where animals can interact with each other like humans can.This film reminds me of Charlotte's Web, where the pig of that film has an innocent personality whose inquisitive nature eventually brought the farm animals closer, much like the characters in this film. There are also sad moments in the film (which can, I suppose, teaches children how complicated life can be), but much of the film is filled with innocence, joy and zany characters (both human and animals).I did, however, found that some of the plot points to be a tad slow and not as adventurous as some other animal movies like Charlotte's Web, but overall, the film is a real treat for the entire family.Grade B "},{"Title":"As good as family entertainment gets","Date":"20 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" I've watched this flick many times now and can find nothing negative about the script, characters, narration, story-book sets or production. The contrast between Mother Hoggett and farmer Hoggett, as well as the dog's take on the order of things vs sheep's take, is utterly delightful. The development of the principal animals is electric with the frustrated duck, as the common man, being brilliant. Warning, PETA adherents and cat lovers, of which I can not number myself, might be offended. There is plenty of action and suspense to keep you riveted to the screen, yet everything falls within the bounds of talking-animal reality. The Director doesn't beat you over the head with the subtle morals (loyalty, pitfalls of tribalism (species-ism?), having the courage-of-your-own-convictions) that underline this story. A workmate of mine, the most oppressively cynical man on the face of the earth, was jumping around for days after seeing this film - it was as if he had been reborn. Any film that can have such a profound positive effect on a person is truly special. This film ranks up there with Ratatouille, The Gods Must be Crazy, It's a Wonderful Life and Waking Ned Devine as the cream of the crop. "},{"Title":"Hooray For Babe!","Date":"10 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Chris Noonan directed this total surprise about a young piglet named Babe, who is separated from its mother, and is befriended by a sheepdog named Fly on the farm of kindly Arthur Hogget(played by James Cromwell) Fly teaches him how to be a proper sheepdog/pig through understanding and cooperation, though her mate Rex doesn't approve, at first. Meanwhile, Babe learns about the eventual fate of pigs and geese, though his friend Ferdinand the goose perseveres, and even Hogget finds faith in Babe's sheep-herding skill, which he puts to use in the annual county competition, much to everyone's astonishment... What could have been a standard slang-talking animal picture that quickly dates, instead is a complete triumph, filled with remarkable wit, warmth, and intelligence, with delightful characters and story, and a perfectly realized ending that puts the viewing audience in the place of the competition audience, with the exact same reactions stand-up and cheer amazement at the little pig who could. Deeply moving, this is a masterpiece that will withstand the test of time. Love the closing song! "},{"Title":"babe is cute","Date":"3 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" A pig baby, babe, was taken charge by Mr.Arthur who was a reticent old farmer. He met a lot of animals in the farm. One day Mr.Arthur found out the ability as sheep pig in him. Then he began training babe in earnest for participation in the sheep dog contest.I love this film because this describes the world of animals speaking words. babe is cute. And the animals can not hate him. Even Rex who hated babe at first, helps him at last.This movie as used CG images. It makes animals speak like a human speak with mouth. I am very excited to see that.This movie will tell everyone the importance of effort and fellows. And we can understand that there is such an animal world. "},{"Title":"Fantastic Babe","Date":"2 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Babe, a baby pig is taken cares by the farmer, Hogget. There are many sheep, and a sheepdog named Fly in the pasture. Babe interests Fly's work, and wants to become a sheep-pig.Babe is very cute. His voice, appearance, and moving picture are really charming. I always aid Babe, like his mother. Because, he is always interested in the news what happens in his surrounds. However, he sometimes makes small problems, so I become to worry about Babe. For the more, I would like to cheer him in the mind.I really love this film, so recommend you to watch it. It carries out dimly. Therefore, I watched it several times. It is cured me because of the beautiful picture and story. "},{"Title":"The best animal movie","Date":"1 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" A pig, Babe is adopted into a reticent farmer as a prize of a contest. There are a lot of animals in the farm, and there are various rules among the animals. A sheepdog teaches the rules to Babe, and the sheepdog treats Babe as a real child. One day, the farmer makes Babe serve as a sheepdog. This movie is not an ordinary animal movie. This movie is drawn from the point of view of animals, and this movie tells people that animals have minds like people. Moreover, this movie draws a bond between animals and people. Therefore, the scene that the farmer sings a song and dances to cheer up Babe is very moving. Of course, the last scene of this movie is also very wonderful. I think this movie is the best movie of all animal movies. I want many people watch this movie, and feel a bond of them. "},{"Title":"Kind Babe","Date":"1 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" This is a touching movie. Main character is the white rose of virginity Babe, a pig baby, who dreams to become a nice shepherd's pig as shepherd's dog. The animals which are the union of special effects and more than 500 real animals perform admirably. One day a taciturn grower takes Babe into care because of the prize of the harvest festival's guessing weight contest. In the firm, there are many kinds of rules and animals, he gets friends who teach him the rules and some important information. A small thing led to think a taciturn grower wants Babe to lookout for sheep. He is completely at a loss about it, because he is coward, and also he has a soft heart. However, he carry out it excellently in place of shepherd's dog by asking sheep. In the course of the time the day for the contest of shepherd, the master suggests Babe participate in it at all casts, but some happening occur on the way to do it. Usually movies make people to cry at the end of the story, also this movie has a touching story. But it does not fan your emotion with music and an emotive speech, just using pictures in a few minutes. I have a impression that the first half of the movie is for children, because of the scene of many cute animals are talking, singing and dancing. However, I think this brave story move adults at the end of the movie. "}{"Title":"they trust each other","Date":"1 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" I've seen this film many times. fantastic story. This is story about a farmer Hogget and a piglet called Babe try to take part in a shepherd competition together. Babe is not brave enough to control sheep, but he learns how to manage to lead sheep not by barking like dogs do but by making sheep listen to himself.What most interesting in this movie was Hogget's look. When he looks at babe, he in the beginning doesn't look warmly, but as story goes on it changes gradually. I could read that they trust and rely on each other. And another good point is the friendship between babe and other animals such as Fly, horses, a duck. They are all good friends of Babe giving advice and taking care of Babe.I haven't seen the movie Babe in the city (Babe2), so I wasn't to watch it immediately. "},{"Title":"Babe is cute","Date":"1 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" One piglet which was taken over as a premium of the festivals by a farming family. It normally was going to be just cooked. However, farmer Arthur decides to let the pig keep watch on the sheep. It is the fantasy story of a pig, Babe.It is a really heartwarming story. Anyway, the piglet, Babe is so cute. Not only Babe but also the other animals are drawn very well. The movement of the mouth of the animal is natural as if they really talk. Of course it was interesting when I watched it in childhood. But I also enjoy it and can watch from the different viewpoint. I think this is the masterpiece of the entertainment and family movie. I recommended to the parson who want calmness of mind. "},{"Title":"worth watching","Date":"1 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" This story is mainly about a little pig named babe. He is taken by Arthur as a premium. Then Babe starts to live in Arthur's farm. Through staying at the farm, Babe comes to make a lot of friends like dogs, and cats. Babe is to be taken part in sheepdog contest though he is not a dog. However, he has some problems to achieve it, because as I said, he is not a dog. At first, Arthur does not like Babe, so he wanted to eat him. In the end how will Arthur change and how is the ending like? This film tells us a lot about prejudice. I thought people should not evaluate only just by seeing their appearance and looking. Also I thought that creatures are supported by other ones, so it is good to help each other to make or achieve something! I think this film is worth watching, so this is one of my favorite films. Lastly, this is awarded for Academy Award For Visual Effects, so I am glad to see such a good film! "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"30 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" A piglet, Babe which is got by a shepherd to eat, takes part in a competition of sheepdogs. The animals is kind to him, and he learns many thing from them. One day the sheepherder let him go after the sheep, and he does well, so he decides an entry of Babe for the competition.Babe doesn't know his mother was killed by human, and he is too pure. When he knows about mother, he gets shock, but does'nt run away, and entries the competition for the sheepherder. But I think if he lose it, he is killed to eat, because that's is a fate of pig. It's sad to be decided live or not by human.I love animal so enjoyed the movie. "},{"Title":"This is a story of a little pig.","Date":"27 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" This is a story of a little pig. His name is Babe. Arthur who is a famer got Babe in Harvest festival and he takes care of him. His farm has so many animals. The life of Babe with many animals in farm starts.I like this movie so much. All animals are so pretty. We can hear that the animals talk. Of course, the human in the movie cannot hear the voice of animals. Babe is kind to everyone, he is really pure and he tackles everything with all his efforts. Therefor I like Babe so much. And I love his friends in farm too. When Babe is in trouble, his friends do them best to help him. That made me happy. This movie tells me the importance of friends.This is a heart-warming film. I recommend you to watch this movie. This story will make you smile and feel happy. "},{"Title":"Pig and human","Date":"8 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" A pig, Babe, is taken to a farm and is taken care of by the farmers for eating. There, there are various animals which have great originality. The husband comes to like Babe and he tries to take part in sheepdog contest with Babe. Of course, everyone make a fool of them, but the husband believes Babe's ability. I love pig! Their bottom is cute! I felt interesting that a human and a pig feel their destiny. The combination that a pig and a dog, or a pig and a duck is amusing. The animals get terrified that they are eaten by farmers. Certainly, eating is killing for animals. I got to feel that that action is cruel. Babe is a obedient and good pig, therefore everyone come to love him. His character is wonderful. The husband is also nice because he cheers Babe hard. I could know that how he cherishes his animals. This is a heart warming story. You can have happy feelings. "},{"Title":"its a pig with adventure what a masterpiece","Date":"16 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" I love this movie when it come out on video I watch it so many times science a video player was getting old and we where getting DVD player I thought it would be nice to have this film on DVD because it is a wonderful film about a pig who gets sold to a farm and became quit a sheep pig the characters where really cute sweet and funny they where not a annoying okay I giving this movie a good rating because it was just outstanding and it has to be one of the best movies of 1995 so if you are feeling dawn this movie will make you feel happy it is very charming sad and wonderful and funny the story is about Babe a little pig who gets taken away from his family and his sold to a farm where the farmer try ed to kill him but he finds out he was not any pig but he could tell the sheep where he wanted them to go this movie is just great I think I midget watch this movie again it had good back ground music very good CGI effects and a very good story. I love this movie its one of my favorite movies ho yes it is ho yes it is any way Babe gets 10 out of 10 very good. "},{"Title":"Great Animal Movie for your pets","Date":"3 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" My wife and I adopted a two and a half year old Samoyed, and we noticed that he likes certain types of movies. Well after living with us for a month, I am playing Babe for him, and guess what? He loves it! Tasha sits in front of the TV and he is absorbed by this movie. Why you ask, well I will tell you.Babe covers all of the farm animals voices and dubs them with human voices when they are having discussions with each other. The duck, voiced by Danny Mann, gets Babe (the pig) into trouble right off in the beginning.For some reason the old farmer (played by James Cromwell)takes a liking to the little pig after the pig helps save him his sheep from poachers. Even though Rex the lead dog (voiced by Hugo Weaving) doesn't trust the pig, Fly the mother dog (voiced by Miriam Margolyes) takes Babe under her protection. James Cromwell plays a very self reliant Australian Farmer who can fix everything by himself.Magda Szubanski plays farmer Hoggett's wife who has visions of cooking Babe for the Easter Banquet competition. Magda thinks that her husband is starting to act a little strange with the pig when he starts to have the pig work with the sheep.This movie has a few moments that are scary for little ones, but otherwise it is a perfect movie for the whole family to sit down and watch together.You will love the ending of this movie with Babe at the Sheep Dog National Finals, it makes you feel very good. "},{"Title":"Big dream a little pig","Date":"29 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Excellent movie for the whole family - on the one hand a sweet and childish, on the other hand a very deep and wise. In childhood, after watching this film, I understood much of the world around me. I realized that dobitsya in this life can be just what you want, as long as it will; realized that to save the honor of close and his own, even if you pig and, of course, and put in front of big plans, despite those who do not believe to you.This painting is for James Kromuela has become one of the best in his illustrious career as an actor. He played a reasonable person, and one side believes in its strength and power cheteveronogo baby. He put his credibility at risk in order to not only win but also to prove to himself that he was not mistaken in this little pig. This is not such a simple man, as we see it early in the film. The viewer sees not the usual derevenschinu, but closer to the middle, he opens his new side. In his heart he was a child and believes in fairy tales, and this move at the end of the movie is something amazing.This movie seems ridiculous to doubt both children and adults well, perhaps that will want to smile a couple of scenes. The film is very bright and has been nominated for several Oscars - the right to pleasure that he was so highly valued, as he so well deserves. The film sometimes sad, funny, so where is almost a philosophical idea of the equality of all beings, whoever they are. This is a very life-affirming movie at Forest Gump and Groundhog Day "},{"Title":"Babe is the most likable character in movie history.","Date":"6 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" This film is very high on my list of favorite movies of all time. Off course, the most important reason for this is the main character. Babe is the most likable character in movie history. He doesn't judge anybody. He is kind to every creature. He is such a sweet little pig.If this was all he was, he would be very irritating. He would be too cute. What makes him likable is that he combines all this goodness with one character trait with an edge he is a true rebel. He refuses to accept the status quo. He is a free thinker.The other characters and the storyline all function to pronounce the character of babe. When babe arrives at the farm, most animals are very conservative. Things are just the way they are. You just have to accept this. There is only 1 character who is different. He is a very funny, but loud and selfish duck. He inspires babe to be a rebel himself, but with his kindness, babe becomes a completely different and much more influential rebel.Babe should be an example to us all. Be kind to everybody, but at the same time free your mind. "}{"Title":"A rare children's story as appealing to grown-ups as to children.","Date":"12 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" I've seen nothing like Babe for sustained invention. A pig raised by sheepdogs learns to herd their flock, with a little help from the farmer.It's a magical children's film which could hardly be bettered, achieving the double feat of making animals look like they're talking and giving them entirely apt things to say. Babe must be one of the most straightforwardly charming motion pictures of its kind ever made. In 2006, the American Film Institute named the film #80 on its list of America's Most Inspiring Movies. It was also a box office success, grossing $254,134,910 worldwide. "},{"Title":"Best family movie ever made","Date":"7 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" I remember in the summer of 1995, I wanted to see the movie The Rock and my girlfriend at the time would only go see it with me if I saw some pig movie called Babe. Whatever, I thought, I'll suffer through it, as long as I get to see my movie. I am happy to admit that Babe absolutely blew me away. Fantastic story, wonderful special effects, and an absolutely brilliant performance by James Cromwell. Never has an actor conveyed so much feeling and emotion with so little to say. As much as I love Braveheart, this was truly the best film of 1995, and one of the best of the entire 90s. I remember that day I first saw it I wanted to stand up and cheer at the end. I'm 31 years old now and I still watch this movie every single time I see it on TV. And I still tear up at the end. My 5 year old niece and nephew adore this movie as well. If you haven't seen it, believe me, you will love this movie. It's impossible not to. "},{"Title":"Absolutely precious...","Date":"9 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" All too often, children's movies are simply insipid for adults who get suckered taking the kids. The kids are happy but the parents are continually checking their watches to see when the film ends! BABE is a rare family film in that it has appeal to all ages. I know when I took my then five year-old to come see it, we both enjoyed it and now 14 years later, we still adore this film as much as ever.There have already been a ton of reviews for this film and trivia on IMDb explains the complicated process by which the film was made, so I really don't want to get into this. Just suffice to say that by using very realistic puppets from the Henson Workshop and lots of live creatures, they managed to convincingly tell a story where the audience is pulled into it--and actually can accept that the animals talk and do other extraordinary things.What I love about the film is its tremendous sense of style. Not only does it have a wonderful idea, but the combination of great music, amazing cinematography, storybook farms that look like David Winter cottages, the best voice actors you can imagine and those wonderful mice all work together to make a film that is a truly unique viewing experience.Overall, what's not to like? I know some have actually seen this as a PETA or vegetarian plot, but I cannot imagine anyone not loving this film. And, if anyone you know doesn't like it, you should get some new friends! By the way, as excited and in love with this film as I was and am, I feel almost 180 degrees different about the abomination that was the sequel, BABE PIG IN THE CITY. Lost is all the charm and grace that made BABE one of the best family films in history. In its place is a cruel and dark film with nothing at all to recommend it. How could they have missed the boat so badly with the sequel? "},{"Title":"Simply one of the best movies ever","Date":"10 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" When I watch a movie, I want to be engrossed and entertained. I don't want to be profaned, violated, insulted or lied to. I want a solid, clean story that doesn't rely on stupid, senseless humor that is vulgar or cheapened by coarse innuendos or outright flagrant sexuality. I want the language to be rich, the dialogue stimulating and intelligent and I especially resent any form of blasphemy. And, let's not talk about political agendas or environmental consciousness or any of the myriad of other issues we get beaten over the head with. Oh, and don't get me started on revisionist history. IMHO, you don't need any of this to tell a good story. It may be I'm the only one who thinks this way 'cause it sure seems like that's about all we get these days.Which brings me to why I love Babe.The story is rich and maintained throughout the entire film. The narration and dialogue are wonderful, filled with humor, pathos and other emotional nuances. The acting and character development are superb in every respect from the humans to the fowl, field and domestic critters. The cinematography is opulent. The special effects are delightful and never interfered with the story--well, I will concede, when this movie first came out, it was eye-popping seeing the animal lips in sync with the dialogue. But, once you got over the initial shock, you forgot about it and just basked in the story.Personally, because I am such a prolific reader, I really enjoyed the storybook format with the chapter headings. It felt like being curled up on the sofa with my faithful companions (which, in my case, are three cats) safely tucked around me in front of a crackling fire with a nice warm afghan, a good mug of hot chocolate and my favorite book.No matter how many times I see this movie, I always walk away with warm fuzzies knowing I've been treated to a rare delight. Thanks for proving that it is still possible to provide someone like me--who just wants to see a good tale done well--with a quality movie experience.That'll do. "},{"Title":"More than a family film; classic.","Date":"27 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" This film has something amidst its talking animals and silly jokes that most other films do not; it has a great heart. Our hero Babe, the pig who thinks he is a sheep pig, is the ideal hero. He has moments where he doubts the ability to do what he loves, but ultimately he overcomes and realizes that simply being a different species cannot relinquish his dream. As a simple children's story, this film does succeed. But, as a film that touches on human elements of love and chasing dreams, it succeeds even more. The special effects deserved the Oscar it received, and the story itself is touching, heartwarming, and powerful. The final scene will leave you speechless with tears in your eyes. This is a great film, intended for children, but strikes better with adults. A true classic of the modern era. "},{"Title":"Fun  and  moving","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  BABE  is  a  really  well-done  family  film,  suitable  for  all  who  are  fond  of  animals.  The  characters  are  lovable  and  credible,  and  the  dialogue  is  really  good.  Babe  is  so  friendly  and  polite  that  any  of  the  animals  can't  help  liking  him,  and  Fly  gives  him  good  advice.  I  also  understand  why  Rex  is  cross  when  Fly  tells  Babe  about  the  flood  accident.  It's  also  good  that  even  Babe  can  be  furious  when  he  needs  to  defend  the  sheep  against  the  wolves.  And  it's  quite  incredible  that  Babe - a  pig! - wins  the  great  sheepdog  competition!  A  really  good  film,  no  doubt! "},{"Title":"Babe, the Other White Meat","Date":"8 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Cute little movie with an animal rights message that came out of nowhere in 1995 and managed to be taken seriously enough to score 7 Academy Award nominations, including one for Best Picture.If this film were made today, special effects artists would use computer animation to create all of the animals, but the film makers opted instead to use real animals and animatronic effects to manipulate their mouths, so that they all look like they're actually talking. The effects work quite well, and the whole movie is original and inventive.James Cromwell is virtually the only human in the film, and he gives an absolutely delightful performance as a reticent farmer with a fondness for a certain little pig.Grade A "},{"Title":"That'll do pig, that'll do.","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  I first saw this movie a few years back.  I am so glad I own this movie so I can watch it whenever I please.  Babe is the sweetest little pig, and I just wish he was mine!!  *SPOILERS* This movie begins with Babe losing his Mother to pig heaven.  Perhaps he was vulnerable, perhaps not, but he is picked up by some mysterious men.  He's then taken to the county fair where a man named Farmer Hoggett tries to guess his weight.  Guess what?? The farmer wins Babe.  He takes him back to the farm, and Babe misses his Mommy dearly.  Fly, the sheep dog tries to comfort him, and treats him as one of her own.  Babe has lots of fun, including getting into trouble with Ferdinand, the duck who thinks he is a rooster...LoL.  However, then Rex, the male sheep dog loses his temper and thinks that Babe should not be sleeping in the barn with the dogs, but sleeping where a pig is supposed to sleep.  Rex is jealous because Babe saved the sheep herd a few times, and that is a sheep dog's job. Babe almost gets himself in trouble, because the farmer thinks he killed Maa the old ewe.  Babe would never do that!! (Dogs killed her) In the end, Farmer Hoggett decides to put Babe into a sheep dog competition.  He is almost laughed off the field, but he doesn't care.  And do you know what??  Babe won the competition just by asking the sheep nicely and not yelling and barking at them. The farmer always knew what to say to Babe.  He always says That'll do pig, that'll do  and Babe knows he's done right. This movie will be enjoyed by all.  No matter what your age, you have to see this!!  Everything about this movie is excellent. I give a 10 out of 10!! "},{"Title":"I'm a sick man, and this thing made me cry","Date":"1 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  I'll admit it, that'll do Pig, that'll do makes me cry every damn time.  I'm misting up right now for the love of god.  I dont know why either, but Babe has to be one of the best movies Ive ever seen.  I have to give this movie a 10 just because this is the only movie with a happy ending that has EVER made me teary eyed.  When I say Im a sick man by the way, I am, I laughed all the way through I Spit On Your Grave and and of the Faces of Death movies.  Never the less, Babe is downright amazing and should have won the academy award.  "},{"Title":"A masterpiece of storytelling.","Date":"8 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  When I first saw the trailers for Babe, I was skeptical that it would be any good. It looked too similar to Gordy, a LOUSY talking pig film that was released earlier that same year. (I didn't actually see Gordy, but the trailer told me everything I needed to know.) But after I heard favorable reviews from Siskel & Ebert, along with other local film critics, I decided to give it a try.I'm very glad I did. Prejudging Babe on the basis of Gordy is like deciding Jaws isn't any good based on Anaconda. Chris Noonan does an outstanding job establishing character and pacing the action accordingly. (That's one of the reasons why George Miller's sequel isn't as good--you don't care much about the city animals and the action sequences look too rushed and disjointed.) What impresses me throughout this film is how Noonan effectively uses editing to build suspense--in the alarm clock sequence, the scene where Farmer Hoggett almost shoots Babe, and the finale at the sheepherding contest.It's rare to see an adult drama made this well and Babe is a film that should have won Best Picture. Unfortunately, the Academy's long standing prejudice against animated features also extends to live-action children films. (After all, The Wizard of Oz is a much better film than GWTW.) Thirty years from now will people still remember Mel Gibson's overrated epic, or this masterpiece? If there's any justice, Babe will become a modern classic like Miracle on 34th Street while Braveheart will be forgotten.ONE FINAL NOTE While it was nice to see that Babe won at least one Academy award, it won the wrong one. Babe should have received the Best Editing award won by Apollo 13 and Apollo 13 should have received the Best Visual Effects award won by Babe. "}{"Title":"It'll do","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  This is a modern classic children's film, and as with all classic children's films, Babe will charm adults too. I'm a sucker for a play with a Greek chorus&#133;especially if the chorus is composed of singing mice. I was hooked when Babe surmised that the trucks were taking his mother and the other big pigs to Heaven. (It must be a wonderful place, because, after all, nobody ever comes back.) That'll do pig.  "},{"Title":"A little pig has miles to go","Date":"13 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Its story of a baby pig who changed the history of pigs- by making impossible possible. Its cute film with nice voice over. Its fun to watch Babe & his fellow animal mates- Dog family, a duck who want to be a cock, a cunning cat, sentimental sheep mom & others. The character of Duck is really fantastic & has a loads of fun. The movie has only two human characters- Mr. Hogget (James Cromwell as the master) & his fatty wife. The movie is not special treat but an OK entertainer if you want to have a break for an hour or so from usual Hollywood routine. The climax of the film is really heart touching as Rex &#150; the dog who hate Babe initially, helped him in the need of time to win a sheepdog competition.It's a cute film teaching the message of love, peace & harmony. "},{"Title":"Good for the whole family....","Date":"15 November 2004","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" I have to say I'm not a fan of the whole 'sappy happy kids movie', but when given the chance to watch one, I don't turn it down. Babe is a good movie, with generous effects and a whimsical story to entertain the kids. the story sets up simply enough - a small piglet, befriended by the sheepdog mother on the farm, begins to learn what life is like through a series of conflicts. The movie is colorful, playful, and friendly, with lots of cute little things to amuse you. The life lessons are also very effective - those little things, like how to triumph over the odds stacked against you. I recommend this movie for every one in the family. Even if you're a sullen teenager who thinks talking animals is stupid, you'll certainly be able to identify with the characters and their various struggles. "},{"Title":"A GOOD FILM, BUT NOT BEST PICTURE MATERIAL","Date":"27 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  I'm not going to waste time by telling the plot of the film BABE. Most of the world will probably have seen the film about, say...1000 times. It's a good film, no doubt about that, but I really don't think it deserved a OSCAR nomination for best picture. A truly great film of the year 1995 was The Usual Suspects. Great acting and a brilliant script made this crime drama a film to remember. At the OSCARS, it was nominated for and won two well deserved awards (Best supporting actor-Kevin Spacey, and Best Original Screenplay-Christopher McQuarrie). However, there is much more to this film than that. I think the film also deserved nominations for best director, best film editing, and BEST PICTURE and maybe even some more acting nominations. And what annoys me is that BABE beat SUSPECTS to the Best Picture Nomination. Watch THE USUAL SUSPECTS, and you will wonder why it didn't get a best picture OSCAR nod. The talking pig isn't so good after all. "},{"Title":"Not Best Pigture","Date":"3 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" An innocent pig learns the hard lessons of life, including the truth about ham, after he is taken in by a kindly farmer, well played by Cromwell. The pig is cute, and the special effects used to make it look like the animals are talking is pretty good. The script is somewhat unsatisfying, especially with the episodic nature of the story, broken into chapters. The overuse of gimmicky fade-outs and the three little pigs becomes rather tiresome. The fact that this received an Oscar nomination for Best Picture indicates that 1995 was a weak year for movies. Nevertheless, this is a pleasant little film that the whole family can enjoy, although there is a death that may be disturbing for pre-teens. "},{"Title":"Babe","Date":"4 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" When I thought about it before I just thought, corny farm story similar to Charlotte's Web, and I was curious why it was in my book of 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die, and seeing it again, I can agree with that, from Oscar nominated director Chris Noonan (Miss Potter). Basically a runt pig named - just like all his brothers and sisters - Babe (Rugrats' Chuckie, Christine Cavanaugh) is taken from his mother to live on Hoggett Farm, run by the kind Farmer Arthur Hoggett (Oscar nominated James Cromwell). The pig forms a bond with Fly the Female Sheepdog (Miriam Margolyes), and as he grows he tries to find his purpose for being there, as well as making a few friends, like Ferdinand the Duck (Danny Mann) and Maa the Very Old Ewe (Miriam Flynn). Soon Babe tries to prove himself as a sheep-pig, after watching Fly and Rex (Hugo Weaving), and Farmer Hoggett is amazed, his wife by the way, Esme (Magda Szubanski) is more interested (for a while) in turning Babe into a dinner, e.g. bacon or roast pork. Babe obviously does find out what pigs can become, and goes quiet for a long while, but her Farmer has no desire to let him come to that. Farmer Hoggett decides to see if his faithful pig can compete in a sheep herding competition, and it is a joy when Babe wins with the highest scores, and his only remark is That'll do pig. That'll do. Also starring Russi Taylor as Dutchess the Cat, Michael Edward-Stevens as Horse, Charles Bartlett as Cow, and narrated by Roscoe Lee Browne. It is an entertaining film everyone of all ages can enjoy, the talking animal voices and the effects to make their mouths move are both fantastic and charming, the jokes for children and adults alike are funny, and overall it is just a nice simple story, I can now agree with the critics opinion that it is a great family fantasy comedy. It won the Oscar for Best Visual Effects, and it was nominated for Best Art Direction - Set Decoration, Best Film Editing, Best Writing, Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium (from the book by Dick King-Smith) and Best Picture, it was nominated the BAFTAs for Best Special Effects, Best Editing, Best Adapted Screenplay and Best Film, it won The British Comedy Award for Best Comedy Film, and it won the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Comedy/Musical. It was number 80 on 100 Years, 100 Cheers, and it was number 50 on The 100 Greatest Family Films. Very good! "},{"Title":"Not Even Good Enough for Your Baby","Date":"23 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" There is not one redeeming quality about this film. From the beginning we are supposed to care for a character we don't even know yet. The movie kills off this pig's mother 90 seconds into the film and already expects us to care. Then, the real plot starts. Babe ends up in a farm with many animals who all seem to have a hierarchy with many heavy-handed symbols to racism. They shove racism down your throats and will not let you come up for air at any point. Anyway, Babe falls in line with his new mother; a sheepdog. Babe quickly becomes a sheepdog himself due to the fact that he is not racist. Then he wont be turned into bacon. Then something about a sheep herding competition, a grumpy dog, and learning to not be racist everywhere, THE END. This movie does not care about you, and seems to have made a movie with many plot holes and design flaws and heavy-handed symbolism because the creators must've thought that it can be gotten away with in a kids film. But no. Kids films should not be equivalent to laziness. That's wrong, and this movie-goer will not stand for it! Do not see this film. It is a waste of time.1/10 "},{"Title":"0_o?","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  People nominate this film all over the world as Best Children's Film ever? What the........?Babe is really un-original and really annoying! Worst yet, I've seen the Cantonese dubbed version of this film and I *still* wanted to make som Pork Chops outta Babe! By the end of this film, I was crying, but not for obvious reasons, but for my idiot cousin for subjudgating me to this torture! BTW, was Babe sponsored by PeTa by any chance, because it does a great job at teaching kids on How to become vegans.If you want GOOD movies on barnyard animals, watch Charlotte's Web or Adventures of Chataran instead. They are more worth your time! "},{"Title":"No batteries on this farm","Date":"13 April 2003","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  This charming, talking-animals comedy was a bit hit in its day, but more recent work like Toy Story or, most relevantly, Chicken Run, has moved the genre of films for children that can also appeal to adults forward.  Babe, a straightforwardly sweet story, is not loaded with cleverness like those films; and the voices of the animals are relatively dull.  But the special effects work nicely, and it's honest enough to make no bones about what happens to animals in the end.  Best of all is the climax, hilarious for all ages. "},{"Title":"Huh?","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Famous film critics think this should have been nominated for best picture.  People rave about how this movie is another one of those children/adult movies that appeals on double levels.  Even though the plot seemed trite (anyone ever hear of another story about a pig that communicates with other farm animals and impresses humans with unorthodox conduct in order to save itself--a little story called Charlotte's Web?) I thought there must be something there in order to justify all the praise.  I thought wrong.  It's simply another kids flick with animals made endearing via personification.  I think Ebert was on cold medicine when he went all out over this one (and it's evident he never gave up bacon because of it).  The bottom line is that it is simply an okay movie that doesn't pass the ultimate test for movie likability; that is that I would never watch it again.  It did make me hungry for pork chops however. "}{"Title":"AAARRRGGGHHHH!!!!!!!","Date":"20 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Don't we have laws about Cruel And Unusual Punishment in the U.S.A?If you ever want to torture spies to get State Secrets out of them, just threaten them with this movie. If you are dying of an incurable disease, then watch this movie It'll make every minute seem like an ETERNITY!!!I know, I know .... it was a nice film made for kids.... NO! NO ! NO!!!This is sadism with bacon!!Who allowed the maniacs responsible for this garbage out of the Funny-Farm? Why did they do it? Is it too late to put them back?Can we make sandwiches out of the star?Okay; so see the film, read the book, eat the cast, then get into therapy.If for no other reason, then watch this movie to get your appetite going.There was ONE good bit in this movie .... the bit where it said The End.Unfortunately, by the time that happy moment had arrived, I was already out prowling around farms, hunting people who talk to their breakfast!This movie had a veteran cast of awesome ability .... but even they were overshadowed by the walking commercial for Jimmy Dean.For a feel-good movie, I guess it was okay .... but it came at a time when feel-good movies were more common than bad hair in a John Houston flick.Overall, this movie should be condemned to Cinema-Hell and everyone in it treated with the contempt the General Public were by the over-paid, short-on-ideas bozos who delivered this train-wreck.If ya want nice films, go watch Bambi, or Dumbo, or the host of other really great films that were ripped-off to make this cinematographic grafitti.In fact, watch them and it will save you watching this.It's almost like they let Michael Bolton write with the script, huh? "},{"Title":"Enjoyable in parts, baaaaaaaad in others.","Date":"27 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Since Babe is based on one of my favourite books, I was not entirely happy with the results. They altered scenes. They even changed the password that Babe gives to the sheep. I realize that it had to be extended for film and I enjoyed the addition of Ferdinand & the Cat. Less welcome was Rex. And the horrible relatives should have be left on the cutting room floor.Farmer Hoggett was the star. He was just like the warm-hearted character in the book. His wife was spot on too. Babe, Fly & Maa also came across and the lip sync was amazing.But I'd just like to say that1 Babe does not follow Fly's advice & is polite to the sheep at once. He DOES NOT BITE ANYONE.2 In the book Babe stops the sheep rustlers by standing on the ramp leading into the truck and asking them not to go further. None of them enter and all of them are saved. 3 The book does not promote vegetarianism.Watch the film but read the book also.  7/10  "},{"Title":"Good family movie, but not that great of a movie.","Date":"31 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Babe, I guess, is a good family movie about talking animals. Oh but there is so much more. Not. It's a kid's film, a cute one about a talking pig and James Cromwell. Perhaps I am being too harsh about this movie. I don't even know why I am reviewing this movie. Oh yeah... now I remember.I was at a flea market a few months ago. While I was walking, I saw BabePig in the city on one of the shelves and thoughtWow, what a stupid movie that was. So I pick it up, and notice that it got huge critical acclaim. Gene Siskel called it the best movie of that year. Roger Ebert called it a masterpiece. I was disgusted by this. In my opinion, if no one agrees with me, they are idiots. Sorry. So here I am. Writing a review for Babe. I wouldn't be doing this sort of thing if I wasn't bored. Babe isn't that good of a film. I suppose it's not that bad of one either. I just think that talking animals in a live-action movie is silly. That is why I liked 101 Dalmations. It wasn't like that.Babe**1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"I didn't think it was that great","Date":"8 September 2004","Score":"5 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Although better than most talking animal films, I couldn't get into Babe. I know there is a huge fan base for this movie. But in some ways I found it disturbing. You have to admit that a talking pig can freak you out a little bit. Babe is a pig who wants to become a sheep herder. So his friends around the farm help train him to become one. Big woop. I'm not sure how the film got a 7.4. It's one of those mysteries of life I guess.For kids, the movie is great. But for adults, the pig just freaked me out too much. Stick to the cartoons if you want talking animals. This is just too disturbing for me.5/10  "},{"Title":"Stunting the growth of humankind","Date":"7 June 2010","Score":"5 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" This movie is pathetic vegetarian fanservice. I don't even want to think how many children were corrupted to an unnatural and unhealthy lifestyle by this complete nonsense. There are no words for how wrong this movie is and how harmful it is to society. In fact every copy of it should be tracked down and destroyed.As to the actual movie, the story is juvenile and unbelievable. That a pig is used for a dog is another complete corruption of the laws of nature. Like forcing humans to abstain from the same foodstuffs that initially allowed prehistoric men to develop bigger brains and thus intelligent thought. Apparently certain minorities are degenerating back to a monkey-like status. Even so, spare the sane part of humanity from your retardation and stop trying to corrupt gullible children with your anti-evolutionary bullcrap. Your days are numbered, vegetarians. "},{"Title":"Mawkish, sentimental, unwatchable claptrap","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"6 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  When Babe premiered in the UK, apparently bacon sales fell by quite a large amount, except in Yorkshire in Northern England.  In Yorkshire bacon and pork sales increased by 15%.This shows that Yorkshire people have excellent taste in films.  Babe in my view is a disgustingly sentimental piece of rubbish, totally value-free and simply calculated to push the aah button.  It's probably sponsored by the vegetarian lobby.  Even the voice chosen for the character is enough to make me scream.  I stood 30 minutes of this rubbish before I gave up and went to make a bacon sandwich.   "},{"Title":"a roll in the mud","Date":"13 November 2005","Score":"4 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Somehow, a little movie about a piglet topped the movie charts and sent a crazy wave of fandom throughout the general population for a few months in the mid-1990s. I ask 'why did people love this film?' I am not sure about the answer, but it must have something to do with a 'cute' baby animal. I, on the other hand, did not understand the popularity of this movie. I still don't. The movie was so dull and bad that I could not even watch the whole thing. Scenes changed too quickly, and I found the general experience to be very dull and frustrating. (I can honestly say that this is the only film I've ever walked out on.) Besides remembering how frustrating the constant scene changes and characters made me, the only other thing I remember about this film is during one of these infamous scene changes, there were some ducks out on the pond being naughty, if you know what I mean. Choosing between a roll in the mud and watching this film again, I'd choose the former. "},{"Title":"Bacon & Eggs","Date":"13 November 1998","Score":"6 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Not much to say except this was one of the worst films I've ever seen. This pig won't survive in the city! "},{"Title":"The WORST movie ever made!","Date":"20 December 1998","Score":"6 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  There is so much wrong with this misguided piece of @%*! One thing that disturbed me was the fact that a pig wants be a dog and that the pig is the film's hero. If a human wanted to be a dog, we would say he is insane but if a pig wants to be a dog, it's supposed to be cute. Come ON! The film is billed as a comedy but I wasn't laughing. The idea that it won over Apollo 13 for Best Visual Effects still amazes me to this day.Personally, I want to strangle this hog! "},{"Title":"A Very Terrible Film","Date":"7 January 1999","Score":"4 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  I don't know why everyone was so excited about this film. It is terrible. If you have not seen it yet, consider yourself lucky, it is an awful film. I think that it was 88 minutes of my life that was wasted. I won't be seeing it again and I definitely won't be going to see Babe II.I also believe that, even though it was aimed at younger kids, the story line was not suitable for kids.I recommend that you don't waste your time watching it. "}]