[{"Title":"Amusing, or diverting...not such fun","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"62 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I simply adore this movie!  From beginning to end it shines with wit and hilarious depravity.  Having read the book, I think it safe to say that this is one of the best transitions from page to screen.  Everyone is perfectly cast in this - particularly Kate Beckinsale as Flora, Joanna Lumley as Mrs. Smiling, Eileen Atkins as Judith and Ian McKellen as Amos.  Rufus Sewell makes for great eye-candy as Seth, and the virtually unknown Maria Miles is adorable as Elfine.  Aunt Ada Doom, played by Sheila Burrell, constantly reminds us that There have always been Starkadders at Cold Comfort Farm, and although it's probably best to keep it that way, she's in for a few surprises.  Flora's dealings with Mr. Mybug, hysterically portrayed by Stephen Fry, are alone worth the price of renting this movie. Flora's decision to go to Cold Comfort Farm after her parents die sets the tone for the rest of the movie; it sounds Interesting and appalling...the others just sound appalling!  If you want a good chuckle, or just love good British humor, by all means, see this movie! "},{"Title":"Delightfully funny and gorgeously imaginative!","Date":"2 September 2003","Score":"49 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Cold Comfort Farm has been and remains one of my favorite movies of all time. Why? Simple it is hilarious, has a star-studded and perfect ensemble cast, and is a beautiful adaptation of an equally, if not more hilarious, book. When one thinks about this movie, one always returns to the cast and how well-suited they were for their roles. Kate Beckinsale fits perfectly in the role of London débutante Flora Poste who, like Jane Austen, could not endure a mess. Ian McKellen plays his role to fire and brimstone perfection. Rufus Sewell is remarkably well suited as the smoldering Seth with his brooding eyes and husky, outdoors-y sentiments. Eileen Atkins plays the extremely depressed, reverse-Oedipal mother of Seth in all her exceptional oddness. This is but naming a few of the fabulous cast members that fills this film. The film itself is beautifully filmed and beautifully acted. I would highly recommend it to anyone who 1)enjoys subtle British humor and 2)just enjoys an all-around excellent film. "},{"Title":"I'd take the old woman as well -- but she's so gloomy!","Date":"6 September 2004","Score":"45 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film was produced for BBC television but had a theatrical release the next year -- probably to take advantage of the popularity of all those Jane Austen movies (Emma, Persuasion, et. al.) It is not a Jane Austen story, but it is a sort of genial romance/comedy of manners (set in the early 1930's?) with a plucky, bright, but penniless heroine. The book it was based on was actually a parody of Gothic romance fiction. Even though this movie is played for laughs (and has many), it still manages to make you care for the characters. Everything works here and (editing, cinematography, performances) and you really appreciate what the director, John Schlesinger, managed to do on a probably skimpy budget.This movie was the first I ever saw of Kate Beckinsale and I thought she was fantastic in it. I remained a fan for a long while, even though her subsequent movie performances (and choices) have been awful. She finally lost me with her recent laughable turn in Van Helsing. Nevertheless, she WAS good in Cold Comfort Farm, so if you're no fan of Beckinsale don't let that dissuade you from seeing this movie.Other standouts in the cast are Eileen Atkins, Rufus Sewell, and Ian McKellen who is screamingly funny as a fire and brimstone preacher.This film is definitely worth having on video or DVD in that it bears up very well to repeated viewings. I've seen it at least 5 times since its release, and my estimation of it rises with each viewing.  "},{"Title":"There Is No Butter in Hell but we find Comfort in Sussex","Date":"22 June 2000","Score":"38 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Praise is the only thing I can give this comedic gem of a film! Gibbon's characters come vividly to life in this perfect adaptation of her retro-Austin book.  Kate Beckinsale give the best performance of her gifted career as Robert Poste's Child,Flora who take up an invitation to Cold Comfort Farm with the motive of changing her extended family,the Starkadders, who reside there (there have always been Starkadders at Cold Comfort Farm),and find out what the great wrong was that they had done her father,a wrong that they are most repentant of. By film's end she has accomplished one of these goals. The cast is sheer perfection.Beckinsale is vivacious,perky,gutsy and completly charming,Sheila Burrell is a riot as family matriarch Ada Doom who keeps a tight leash on her family and hardly leaves her room since she saw somthing nasty in the woodshed.  Sir Ian McKellen is dynamic and utterly hysterical as Cousin Amo Starkadder who preaches fire and brimstone sermons warning all that in hell there is no butter to sooth the burns.  Eileen Atkins as Amos wife,cousin Judith and  Freddy Jones as their hired hand are also standouts,but with such a perfect cast there are no weak links,so take sit back and take a journey to the far regions of Sussex with Flora Poste and investigate the quirky Starkadder family, with secrets aplenty at Cold Comfort Farm..once there you will want to make many more visits "},{"Title":"Read the book","Date":"1 February 1999","Score":"26 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Most movie versions of books are disappointing because a good book is always a far richer experience, but this one doesn't shame its source. In fact it's an amusing romp, largely because all the actors are letter perfect -- not easy with a broadly satiric story like this one. Flora Poste's romantic notions actually produce positive results with the loutish Starkadders, such as matching the etiolated Elfine with her true love and sending the smoldering Seth off to become an American film star, while Flora herself ends the movie linked to her own very suitable suitor. Dialogue and motion picture scenery cannot reproduce the exquisitely sly writing of Stella Gibbons, however, so if you liked this movie, by all means read the 1932 book. It's a classic parody of rustic melodrama.  "},{"Title":"Absolutely hilarious but give it time to grow on you","Date":"23 December 2003","Score":"27 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The first time I saw CCF I walked out of the theater wondering whether or not I liked it.  The more I thought about it and a couple rentals later and I love this movie.  It's funny on so many different levels you've really got to dedicate a few viewings before passing final judgment.This is one of the few movies I'd put in the same category as Rozencrantz and Guildenstern are Dead - movies that get funnier the more times you watch them. "},{"Title":"Plenty of comfort and humor on this farm","Date":"24 September 2000","Score":"22 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Humorous film involving a spirited young woman by the name of Flora, who brings her stylish views of living, to the oppressed residents of a country farm. The humor at times is very dark and cutting, and oft times hilarious. They'll be plenty of good, quotable material from this well-crafted film, to go around. My favorite ...Drain the well, there's a neighbor missing... The script is very slick, and the performances are even better. If you enjoy offbeat humor mixed with a really sweet story, you'll like this movie. "},{"Title":"This is the perfect movie.","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"24 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Period, end of statement.There are a few films that are so incredibly well done, so seamless, that they could be watched daily. Well, that *I* could watch daily.This is one!It never lags, it never sags.It is funny, it is real.It is touching, it is hopeful.Kate Beckinsale started her career on such a high note with this early work!The rest of the actors are simply perfect in their roles. Sim-ply perfect! "},{"Title":"Austen meets Shakespeare","Date":"9 November 1998","Score":"21 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film has to be one of the most enjoyable films I have ever seen. The sincerity and wittiness of Jane Austen combined with the ridicule of a Shakespearean play, Cold Comfort Farm tells a clever, little story about a young, determined London-girl who is set on lifting the curse of the Starkadder family. Kate Beckinsale's Flora Poste is as unshaken and well-spoken as Austen's Emma (who Beckinsale has also starred as) but in a more cheerful and less hypocritical manner.The names in the film do their best to describe the utter depravity of the Starkadder's The horse Viper, the cows Aimless, Senseless, Heedless and Desireless and aunt Ada Doom. The acting in the film is flawless and Stephen Fry is just the icing on the cake. "},{"Title":"extremely funny","Date":"30 May 2005","Score":"18 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Absolutely terrific movie is an interesting take on the popular theme of people who come into a mess of unhappiness and create joy. Often these movies rely on a central character who is magical, or has great charm and a love for life, but Flora achieves her ends through pure English practicality, and it is very amusing to see someone approaching misery as a mess to be cleaned up. Flora, excellently portrayed by Beckinsdale, is pretentious and rather smug but also well-meaning and likable. In a way she seems to be the personification of British imperialism, although that's probably a bit of a stretch.Much of the fun of the movie is the ridiculous level of misery and squalor represented by Cold Comfort Farm, which is a parody of the sort of grim worlds one can find from writers like Dickens. Eileen Atkins does a great job, but then they all do. The only real weak point in the movie is Mybug, who seems completely unnecessary. Perhaps he was a significant character who served some purpose in the novel, but here he is just this annoying peripheral character, and had he been cut entirely out of the movie it would have been all the better for it (although I generally like Stephen Fry). In spite of that, an excellent film. "}{"Title":"Laughter, Soaked in Nature's Fecund Blessing","Date":"14 May 2007","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Child, child. If you come to this doomed 'ouse, what is there to save you?- Judith Starkadder in COLD COMFORT FARM.The child in question is the lone offspring of one Robert Poste (deceased) and, as we are soon to discover, Poste's progeny, Flora, is hardly one in need of saving. Orphaned in her budding womanhood, nettled by the golden orb of an unrealized literary career, Flora strikes out from the discerning (or snobbish) urban sophistication of London ( leaving behind her good friend Mary and Mary's invaluable manservant, Sneller) and heads for the bucolic splendor of the Sussex countryside to lodge with her relatives, the Starkadders, and find herself.She finds instead a muck-begrimed tumbledown estate wherein resides a ready-for- Hollywood womanizer (Cousin Seth), an estate-coveting farmer (Cousin Reuben), a daffy romantic (Cousin Elfine), a too-loving mother (Cousin Judith), a 'vengeful god', proselytizing father (Cousin Amos), and an iron-willed matriarch (Greataunt Ada Doom). There's also a smattering of Lambsbreath (Adam) and a smidgen of Hawk-Monitor (Dick).Inside the Starkadder fold Flora encounters a resistance to dish washing modernity (the twig versus the hand mop); the rumor of an unmentionable misdeed once perpetrated against her father; the oft-cited permanence of the Starkadders on their environs; and the matriarch's frequently mentioned trauma after having witnessed a particularly odious occurrence inside the outdoor log pile storage facility (...something nasty in the woodshed). Undaunted, Flora presents a cool brow and an almost impervious demeanor plus an extremely persuasive power to influence. Within COLD COMFORT FARM, where high fashion and applied scientific reasoning smash headlong into arrested sociological development and stunted personal/ familial growth, tear-inducing laughter is the order of the day.As mentioned in the comments of others, Ms. Beckinsale, clad in her natty period togs and radiating a winsome, unflappable aura (while also projecting a strangely prepubescent vibe), hasn't had as good a role since Flora. Meanwhile, those master thespians, Freddie Jones, Ian McKellan, and the inimitable Eileen Atkins nearly go mad with delight as they burrow gleefully into their characters. Rufus Sewell's Seth smolders hilariously while Stephen Fry's Mybug, soaked in nature's fecund blessing, blusters uproariously. This sort of comedy of manners and cultural collision required an intelligent, perceptive and witty director. John Schlesinger (DARLING, 1965) fit the bill gloriously. "},{"Title":"A zany, random and hilarious movie","Date":"1 August 2005","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Cold Comfort Farm is one of those movies that, as others have said, grows on you each time you watch it, and after it has done so, you want to pass it around to all your friends. It's great fun to see how Flora Poste's (Kate Beckinsale) arrival at Cold Comfort Farm brightens this dreary, incredibly odd family's life and how she sets about making everybody's life there better. Ian McKellan is excellent (as usual) in his role as the head of the Starkadder household, and the fiery preacher at the local church. If you let it, this movie will be one that you take out and watch over again with great enjoyment, and whose quotable lines become part of your family's lingo for all time. "},{"Title":"Something Nasty in the Woodshed","Date":"21 July 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" If you are searching for comparisons to help you decide whether to watch Cold Comfort Farm imagine a slightly older Pollyanna going to live on a rundown version of Babe's English farm with a strange and bleak collection of her country cousins. This is an excellent and very earthy adaptation of Stella Gibbon's 1932 satirical novel (which itself is an odd marriage of Hardy and Wodehouse). Where the village pub is named The Condemned Man and the cows are named Aimless, Feckless, Graceless, and Pointless. Both the novel and its adaptation are joyfully depressing and packed with literary eccentricity and subtle humor. If you like Faulty Towers then you can expect to get off on the humor. But if you prefer Hot Shots! Part Deux, you should probably pass on Cold Comfort Farm. There are three possible viewer reactions It's not funny. I didn't figure out it was a comedy until halfway through but then I found it hilarious. I couldn't stop laughing. Kate Beckinsale plays Flora Poste (always referred to by her relatives as Robert Poste's daughter), a recently orphaned 19 year old who chooses to live with relatives (the Starkadders) she has never met, at gloomy Cold Comfort Farm in Sussex. Beckinsale, even more radiant than usual, pulls off a nice characterization of the resourceful yet snobbish heroine. Like Pollyanna, she is a catalyst for positive change, but they are calculated changes. Her instinctive snobbishness (Beckinsale has a real talent for this) is played for laughs since everyone would feel a bit superior and distanced from this eccentric collection of misfits.The adaptation nicely incorporates Gibbons's subtle parody of Jane Austen romantic clichés, from the controlling madwoman in the attic to wood nymph poetess, to the quivering parishioners. Even the production design is a funny send-up of the standard BBC mini-series look. This is really a terrific production, doubly so for Beckinsale fans.Then again, what do I know? I'm only a child. "},{"Title":"A wonderfully different comedy","Date":"25 July 1999","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I first saw Cold Comfort Farm way back in the early 70's on TV, but this latest version is so much funnier.  Kate Beckinsale makes a wonderful bossy take charge Flora, and everyone else in the cast is just hilarious. Eileen Atkins' scenery chewing when her son, played by Rufus Sewell, was leaving home to become a Hollywood film star, just about had me in hysterics.  The dread menacing atmosphere, the dark hints about something seen in the woodshed, and the general squalor of a once prosperous family gone to ruin are all conveyed in a humourous but not slapstick or farcical way. The Starkadders mooch about muttering threateningly until Flora eventually sets them all on the right path to recovering prosperity. Flora is the kind of upbeat heroine who would take a hot cup of cocoa to Dracula because he is probably cold after all  that time in the tomb.  A very enjoyable film for those who like something different.  "},{"Title":"There Is No Butter in Hell but we find Comfort in Sussex","Date":"22 June 2000","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Praise is the only thing I can give this comedic gem of a film! Gibbon's characters come vividly to life in this perfect adaptation of her retro-Austin book.  Kate Beckinsale give the best performance of her gifted career as Robert Poste's Child,Flora who take up an invitation to Cold Comfort Farm with the motive of changing her extended family,the Starkadders, who reside there (there have always been Starkadders at Cold Comfort Farm),and find out what the great wrong was that they had done her father,a wrong that they are most repentant of. By film's end she has accomplished one of these goals. The cast is sheer perfection.Beckinsale is vivacious,perky,gutsy and completly charming,Sheila Burrell is a riot as family matriarch Ada Doom who keeps a tight leash on her family and hardly leaves her room since she saw somthing nasty in the woodshed.  Sir Ian McKellen is dynamic and utterly hysterical as Cousin Amo Starkadder who preaches fire and brimstone sermons warning all that in hell there is no butter to sooth the burns.  Eileen Atkins as Amos wife,cousin Judith and  Freddy Jones as their hired hand are also standouts,but with such a perfect cast there are no weak links,so take sit back and take a journey to the far regions of Sussex with Flora Poste and investigate the quirky Starkadder family, with secrets aplenty at Cold Comfort Farm..once there you will want to make many more visits "},{"Title":"A comfortable roll in the hay","Date":"10 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" First part of a twin bill I watched featuring Ian McKellen (X-Men, Lord of the Rings). He played a fire and brimstone country preacher that reminded me of the 17th Century Puritan Minister Cotton Mather.The movie starred Eileen Atkins (Cold Mountain) and Kate Beckinsale (Underworld). Beckansale played a girl in 1930s England who went to the rural farm property after the death of her father. In a period comedy she proceeds to change the lives of her extended family in a way that gives each of them what they want and free them from their bondage to the seemingly crazy matriarch (Sheila Burrell).It was a very cute piece and to see Ian McKellen preach his sermon was an experience not to be forgotten. "},{"Title":"One of My Favorite Movies","Date":"22 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is Kate Beckinsale back when she acted instead of did action movies for big bucks. Although I wish they hadn't left out some of the characters and changed some things around from the original book, this movie kept the whacky spirit of Stella Gibbon's novel.For instance, in the novel there were a host of other Starkadders being mistreated by Aunt Ada Doom who Flora helps, Rinnit marries the author Mr. Mybug (Myerburg!) played by Stephen Frye, not Ruben, and the farm isn't actually in bad shape. Ruben has been cooking the books he shows to Aunt Ada so that he can use the money to improve the farm.I have only been able to get my hands on one of the two sequel novels that Stella Gibbons wrote about these same characters, Conference at Cold Comfort Farm and it is not quite as good. But you do get to find out what happened to some of the characters after WWII. Someday I hope to get a copy of Christmas at cold comfort farm to read.Whacky good fun and I like the message that people should follow their own dream (even nutjob religious maniac Cousin Amos, brilliantly played by Sir Ian McKellan) rather than be a slave to a tyrant. It is unrealistic that Aunt Ada can be redeemed so easily but I like the way she was played, as having an epiphany when the American film Czar Mr. Neck asks her if the nasty thing in the woodshed saw her.Excellent movie all around. "},{"Title":"cold and warm at the same time","Date":"23 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Cold Comfort Farm has a familiar plot, but is very well done. Portraying young Flora Poste (Kate Beckinsale) moving in with her backwards relatives in 1930s England and trying to change everything, the movie has the perfect pacing. It's the sort of situation where her relatives sort of irk you, but you can't help but admire them (mainly due to Flora's snobbish attitude about everything). It just goes to show what a great director John Schlesinger (Midnight Cowboy, The Day of the Locust, Pacific Heights) was. He will definitely be missed. Also starring Eileen Atkins, Stephen Fry, Joanna Lumley, Ian McKellen, Miriam Margoyles and Rufus Sewell. "},{"Title":"A great little gem of a movie","Date":"4 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is one of those little gems you'll be lucky to find in a video store if you're on the lookout for such an item, or, like me, are likely to find on movie channels such as IFC or Sundance, which is where I saw it. Kate Beckinsale plays a young lady among a decidedly strange group of relatives on an obscure English country farm and, while ostensibly there to write her first novel, brings change to the lives of everyone involved. All the players are delightfully involved in their characters and all seem genuinely committed to this quirky little piece which is both lighthearted and eminently watchable. A young Kate Beckinsale is captivating in her loveliness and expressiveness which is totally controlled and shows her to be a born actress. Definitely one to capture on DVD! "},{"Title":"This movie is absolutely enchanting","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When I first watched this movie, I wasn't sure if I would like it, but as the story unfolded, I grew to love it more and more.  This movie features a stellar cast which includes Kate Beckinsale, Sir Ian McKellan, Rufus Sewall, and Dame Eileen Atkins.  The dry, witty, and very subtle humor in this film makes it all the more enchanting to watch and to quote.  I sincerely recommend this movie to anyone who enjoys thinking about what they are laughing at, and who just loves British film-making, this movie is certainly one of the best!  All praise to John Schlesinger for making such a wonderful masterpiece. "}{"Title":"A delightful comic romp","Date":"18 May 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Oh how I loved this movie. It's movie heaven to me. It's funny, romantic, escapist, and has a happy ending. It left me feeling happy and energized. I just got the DVD and hadn't seen the movie before, and I was delighted. This is the sort of movie the Brits excel at it's subtle, not violent, has superb performances, has a wry, intelligent script, the cinematography is visually beautiful shots of the British countryside, and the score is lovely and sets and matches the tone of the movie. It's low key and humanistic as opposed to Hollywood mainstream blockbusters with their explosive special effects. Farm doesn't have any special effects but is a delight because of the witty, intelligent script, superb acting, and visually gorgeous cinematography.I recommend turning the subtitles on if you're watching the DVD because the British accents and slang make it easy to miss words and lines without the subtitles. "},{"Title":"A totally charming comedy  which can be enjoyed repeatedly.","Date":"29 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Set in the late 1920s, this totally charming comedy alludes to many other films, sometimes subtly and sometimes obviously. A Gilbert and Sullivan mood is set up quickly and the film proceeds to a typical Gilbert and Sullivan ending. A young English lady, Flora Poste (Kate Beckinsale), was recently orphaned. Having an allowance of only £156 per year and no interest in work, she moves in with poor, depressed relatives. The family are convinced that there is a curse on them and their belief is self-fulfilling. The dwellers on the farm are similar to the Addams family without the humour. Flora's manipulations and positive thinking, change all of their lives for the better. This is a very charming and funny movie, with the fun being driven by exaggeration and positive change. It is good for many delightful viewings. PS Look for allusions to Pollyanna, Gone with the Wind, Wuthering Heights, Great Expectations etc. Every time I see it I notice more. "},{"Title":"My favorite comedy","Date":"19 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Full of wonderful one-liners; my friends and I exchange quotes regularly. (See some of the Quotes elsewhere at this IMDb website.) We went to see the movie on a whim, and hadn't heard anything about it. At first, we didn't know it was a comedy. Then Ian McKellen's character gave his oft-quoted line about draining the well. The accent is a little difficult at times, and each time we watch the movie we find new humor. I'm still trying to determine the words to the song that the parishioners sing before Amos's sermon. The characters are wonderfully portrayed, and I've been a fan of Kate Beckinsale and Rufus Sewell ever since. This is the best performance given by Eileen Atkins. "},{"Title":"Bloody Amazing","Date":"27 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Based on a thoroughly excellent novel of the same name by Stella Gibbons, this movie is grand. Kate does a lovely job as the Austen-esquire heroine who plunges herself into an uncivilized world for the benefit of its inhabitants. I cannot think of one poorly developed character in this movie. Mr. Mybug (Stephen Fry) does a grand job of 'that creep everyone's met at least once', and cousin Amos (Ian McKellan) is the best English spitfire I've seen on screen. Seth (Rufus Sewell) is an especially favorite character, and this is one of the most quotable movies in the house. While very tongue-in-cheek throughout most of the movie, the ending is exceedingly feel-good. If you enjoy British humor, or just listening to the accents, definitely check this out. There'll be no butter in HELL!!! "},{"Title":"Personal Growth at its Best","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A sensational movie.Poor (literally) orphan Flora Poste goes to live with her cousins the Starkadders in Sussex. She finds them Interesting but appalling... as opposed to merely Appalling... like the rest of her relatives. The reason that they are interesting concerns mysterious references to a wrong done to her now deceased father in boyhood by one of the Starkadders. The Starkadders, one and all, assume that because of this debt they will be obliged to hand over the farm.Cold Comfort Farm turns out to be a cesspool of irrationality. Every last one of the Starkadders would rather be doing something else with someone else somewhere else but none wants Flora to get the farm nor do they believe her when she says she does not want it.She transforms the situation by encouraging each in turn to reach for their dreams. One by one they do and in the end everyone gets the life that they want. Tony Robbins & Joseph Campbell would be proud.An excellent movie, Simon Sez check it out! "},{"Title":"A satisfying response to the novel with Sheila Burrel taking the honours.","Date":"22 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  So often satire works in the narrative part of a novel and it was never more so than in Stella Gibbons pastiche of the cosy country novels which proliferated in her day. This isn't often one-liner comedy, its more a Beverly Hillbillies for thinking people.  City sophisticates meet with inbred country cousins and produce wry, often dark humour. Honours go to Sheila Burrell, a veteran actress who looks like the Red Queen from Tenniel's pictures for Alice in Wonderland, and has a voice and tongue to match.  Great Aunt Ada Doom is at the core of their lives even when not present.Kate Beckinsale's Flora Poste is possibly too wordly wise and unflappable, which tends to blunt the sharpness of the impact of the story, causing many subtleties of the original to be lost. Too much has been done to make it into Sunday teatime TV viewing.  It might be useful to compare it with earlier versions if they can be found.  There was a very good version in which Alistair Sim played Amos which was much bleaker in tone than this one. This being said, the production values here are more appropriate to film and the general casting is excellent. I thought it was worth staying in to watch. "},{"Title":"Emma gets it right this time!","Date":"11 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The more I view this film - the more I chuckle. It is well written, clever, delightful and downright fun. Strangely enough, it wasn't until a 5th or 6th viewing that it finally dawned on me. I had seen this story before - Jane Austen's Emma. Only this time Flora(Kate Beckinsale seems made for these Emma roles)  gets it right with her meddling and matchmaking. 20th Century Austen. And the entire cast is stellar!! Need some cheering up. Then visit Cold Comfort Farm. There is nothing chilling about this rural route. "},{"Title":"Emma gets it right this time!","Date":"11 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The more I view this film - the more I chuckle. It is well written, clever, delightful and downright fun. Strangely enough, it wasn't until a 5th or 6th viewing that it finally dawned on me. I had seen this story before - Jane Austen's Emma. Only this time Flora(Kate Beckinsale seems made for these Emma roles)  gets it right with her meddling and matchmaking. 20th Century Austen. And the entire cast is stellar!! Need some cheering up. Then visit Cold Comfort Farm. There is nothing chilling about this rural route. "},{"Title":"The best conversion from book to screen","Date":"30 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Cold Comfort Farm is one of the most skillfully made film in existence. The essence of the book was captured by the film, which seems to be extremely rare. While there were some aspects of the book that could not possibly have been brought to the screen,(including a good deal of witty narrative), there are many classic moments in the film that never appeared or were not used to their full advantage in the book. An example of this was Flora's marvellous conversation with Mr Mybug (Myerburg) in the coffee shop (especially regarding D.H. Lawrence and Branwell Bronte). While many films spoil a book, I believe this film makes the book even more enjoyable to read as Kate Beckinsale's depiction of Flora (as well as the performances of the remainder of the flawless cast) add texture to the already colourful characters. If you have read the book and enjoyed it, watch the film. If you have seen the film, I would strongly recommend the book. The essence is the same but they both add to the story in ways that the other can't. "},{"Title":"Cute British comedy","Date":"16 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Kate Beckinsale is charming and Ian McKellen is hilarious in Cold Comfort Farm, a comedy about a young aristocrat shaking up a morbid farm family sometime shortly after World War I.  Beckinsale's character steals from Emma a bit, arranging everyone else's love lives and making dreams come true, while remaining a bit on the spoiled-brat side.  McKellen plays Amos Starkadder, and gives some gut-busting fire and brimstone speeches in a local church.  Freddie Jones also has some great lines as the doom-and-gloom Adam Lambsbreath.  This is light comedy at its most featherweight, but the talented ensemble makes it come out fairly well.  The lush photography provides a beautiful landscape. "}{"Title":"Delightful satire","Date":"20 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  While we Americans(I say we, since I'm American even though I'm landed in Canada) tend to think of Monty Python when we think of British humor, there's also a satirical type of humor that seems to be unique to Britain. It can get rather dry, so dry that it's simply not funny(like the novel LUCKY JIM), but when it works, it's great to watch, and it works here.  A friend of mine said while the book may have been a parody of Dickens, this film can be seen as a parody of Merchant/Ivory, and I think he's right.  A couple of people who have commented have compared Flora Poste to Emma, and I'll have to admit that never occurred to me, but it seems apt.I see I'm getting literary here.  Well, yes, this movie is literary(after all, Flora aspires to be a writer), but never in a condescending or precious way.  Instead, it's funny and witty(which went out in American humor a long time ago), full of great characters and flawless performances.  Huge kudos, of course, go out to Kate Beckinsale, who had little to do as Hero in MUCH ADO ABOUT NOTHING, but shows herself to be quite a comedienne here.  But the supporting cast, including Joanna Lumley as Flora's friend Mary Smiling, Sheila Burrell as Aunt Ada Doom, Ian McKellen as Amos, and Rufus Sewell as Seth(also Stephen Fry and Eileen Atkins) are all perfect as well.  One more thing; There'll always be Starkadders at Cold Comfort Farm! "},{"Title":"A Significant transformation Occurs!","Date":"20 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film is so enjoyable and significant that the right words seem to be absent in describing this tale. Unique characters that are in direct opposition to one another seem to relate and offer possibilities previously unknown, which forsters real change for the first time. The main character, Flora Post becomes the catalyst for change in all of the characters and finally impacts herself in this saga. Films do not get any better than this one! First rate acting, a great script, which leads to a realistic outcome. Though a typical happy Hollwood exists here, one never questions its relevance to film's continuity. This film lover enjoys each performance of Cold Comfort Farm and continues to recommend it to serious film fans of honest and intelligent tales! Very Highly Recommended! 9+ Rating!  "},{"Title":"Charming but no big laughs","Date":"21 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Flora Poste (Kate Beckinsale) is a superficial young woman recently orphaned with no work skills. She tells her friend Mrs. Mary Smiling (Joanna Lumley) that she wants to be a writer but only when she's 53 after some living. She is counting on living off of her relatives but only a few of her country relatives offer. Distant cousin Judith Starkadder (Eileen Atkins) offers the rundown Cold Comfort Farm. She is married to Amos (Ian McKellen) and has a womanizing son in Seth (Rufus Sewell). Flora insists on bettering the unhappy farm.This is a comedy but just not really my kind of comedy. It's based on a British comic novel from the '30s. It skewers the romantization of the English country farm life from British literature. It's a dated comedy from another era and it's British. It has its charms but I can't find any big laughs. "},{"Title":"Robert Poste's child tidies up a messy old farm and liberates its inbred inhabitants","Date":"3 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is a wonderful movie--my favorite comedy of all-time, and it's based on a truly classic novel, first published in 1932. In Flora Poste, Robert Poste's child, Stella Gibbons created one of the enduring characters in the great canon of English Literature. Part Thoroughly Modern Millie and part Mary Poppins, this unflappable and distinctively British neo-flapper is always totally in control. She can't be bought. She can't be sold. She can't be baited (although she can be dated--but only on her own terms). And she always knows which end is up, and exactly what's what. She's urbane and hip, but she likes to preserve neatness and cherishes a sense of order Nature's all very well in her place, but she mustn't be allowed to make things untidy . . .  Sounds like Mary Poppins! And like Mary, Flora is going to enter a dysfunctional household and set things right. (And like Mary, after mission accomplished, she will fly off into the sky at the end.)It is most diverting to watch Flora repeatedly go nose to nose with the dirty, loutish and intimidating Starkadders without blinking or losing one bit of her composure and equanimity. As for Kate Beckinsale's performance as Flora, It's hard to imagine that this demure and perfectly controlled actress is the same person who will later play the sexy vampire warrior Selene who specializes in killing werewolves in the horror-action series Underworld. But perhaps the werewolves of Underworld are not so different from the Starkadders of Cold Comfort, whom she also subdues, but in a more genteel fashion, and without any blood and gore. In both cases, Kate is triumphant (and does Kate Beckinsale remind anybody else of Kate Middleton? Watch Serendipity.)Other delights of Cold Comfort Joanna Lumley as Mrs. Mary Smiling watch this familiar vivacious actress command a scene and hold a conversation with her eyes. Oh, and Joanna still has lots of it; that's her as Aunt Emma in The Wolf of Wall Street.Stephen Fry as Mr. Mybug. Pseudo-intellectual pomposity played to perfection. My favorite line let me warn you. I'm a queer, moody brute, but there's rich soil in here if you care to dig for it. His plan to write a treatise proving that Branwell Bronte was actually the author of the classics written by his sisters is hilarious.But my favorite scene in the entire movie is when Amos Starkadder (played by Ian McKellen) in his role as hellfire and brimstone amateur evangelist preacher, delivers his fiery sermon to the Church of the Quiverin' Brethren. Yes, the congregation actually quivers and shakes as Amos taunts them with the tortures that await them all You know what it's like when you burn your hand takin' a cake out of the oven or lighting one of them Godless cigarettes? And it stings with a fearful pain. Aye? And you run to clap a bit of butter on it to take the pain away, aye? Aye. Well, I'll tell ye. THERE'LL BE NO BUTTER IN HELL!And of course I must mention horrible old Aunt Ida Doom, whose refrains I saw something nasty in the woodshed and There's always been Starkadders at Cold Comfort Farm are the mantras that maintain her tyrannical control over the homestead--the demonic spells with which Flora must contend. And there's much more! Every role is perfectly cast, and played to perfection. This film is truly a must-see. A whole-hearted 10 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Great performances!","Date":"29 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is an updated version with an all star cast. Dame Eileen Atkins is perfectly funny as the cousin who invites Flora Poste to visit the farm. Cold comfort farm is the actually name of the Starkadder family who lived for generations. Matriarch Ada Boom is wonderfully played by Sheila Burrell. The entire cast is first rate even Kate Beckinsale is brilliant too. If the film has flaws, its that there too many first rate actors in the cast and not enough time for all of them. There are so many memorable characters and too little time for most of them. Atkins is brilliant as always. McKellen is also fine here. Margolyes is not on enough. But most of all, we don't get to find out what Ada Boom saw in the wood shed. "},{"Title":"I saw something nasty in the woodshed.","Date":"13 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I had never heard of this movie, but found it on a list of under-appreciated period movies. Being a huge fan of period dramas such as adaptations of Austen, Bronte, et. al. I decided to give it a try. My wife only asked that I chose Something pleasant for our evening's viewing. The creepy opening scene had both of us wondering whether I made a bad choice, but the movie soon switched pace. We didn't realize at first that it was a comedy, but found ourselves laughing almost immediately.Many other reviews have gone into the plot, acting and faithfulness to the book (which I haven't read), so I won't bother with all that.I'll just say that this movie kept us engaged and laughing. The delightful sort of movie that leaves you with a smile on your face and makes you want to see it again. And it makes you really are about about this wacky family. It reminds me of Frank Capra's wonderful You Can't Take It With You in that respect.The only negative is that ever since we saw this my wife has been cracking me up by saying I saw something nasty in the woodshed when least expected. "},{"Title":"Quaint, Quirky and Quotable","Date":"12 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie is based on a fantastic book but it is also worthy to hold the title, Cold Comfort Farm on it's own. Rarely are films as good as the book they come from (especially when the book is a classic - as this one is) but this movie can stand up beside the literature from whence it sprang as a distant orb. Thus it gets my 10 out of 10 rating. The story of a young, single woman in upper British society who doesn't really know what to do with herself. So she decides to go and live/inflict herself on some distant relatives on Cold Comfort Farm. Why? Because they sound interesting she concludes upon reading their response to her letter. Let the weirdness, ridiculousness and laughter begin. But it will also need a good dose of kindness and sensitivity, which is woven liberally in between the hilarity. Our heroine (played by the ever fresh Kate Beckinsale) ends up changing everyone's life for the better and in the end, her own as well. But this is NOT heavy drama. This story is for pure fun and those wanting a good time, the line starts here. And let me prepare you, there are so many great phrases that are entrenched in the true to life events that you will definitely want to view this movie with several friends. The phrases will remain in jokes and be quoted by all in attendance for ... ever (as it was in the case of my family). The great dialogue makes you laugh, ponder and try to apply it to any and every situation from there after. But remember no matter what you do, don't look in the wood shed. Because I saw something nasty in the wood shed. Or was it the garage? Or the barn? Or the bicycle shed? ~~~ by Laura-Lee "},{"Title":"An engaging British style comedy","Date":"14 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Loved this movie. Loved the book and was totally impressed with how they adapted it, nothing was lost.The story is simple Set in England, sometime around the 1930's - a young woman, Flora Post, is left with a very small annuity after her parents die. She needs to either find a suitable job, or find some suitable relative with whom to live.After she sends out enquiries to a number of relatives and receives responses, she decides to go to her country cousins, the Starkadders.Flora has no qualms about setting off on this adventure, but her cousins have NO idea of what they have let themselves in for.We join her on her adventures and are completely sucked into the story and the surroundings. Nothing defies her, nothing worries her, she sails through the lives and routines, gloom and joy of her cousins and their associates with the greatest of ease and comfort.Flora loves to organize things, and she relentlessly creates order from chaos at Starkadder Farm, in a charming way.There is so much to love about the story itself which is lightheartedly and gently making fund of a certain time in British history.The acting is amazing, the casting is incredible. The pacing of the movie is great - not for one minute does one feel bored or restless. We have seen it 5 or 6 times and it retains its charm.Highly recommended for fans of the out of the ordinary, or British humour. "},{"Title":"A riposte-geddit? - to  Hardy, Austen and Lawrence.Very funny.","Date":"11 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Flora Poste is an aspiring novelist whose idea of writing seems to comprise of stealing bits from famous authors and scribbling them in her notebook,presumably trusting to her muse for inspiration in cobbling them together.Not unlike then Miss Stella Gibbons who borrows from sources as diverse as Austen and Lawrence to produce Cold Comfort Farm.Her novel's saving grace is that it is clever (but not clever - clever)and very funny. Mis Poste is an orphan trying to exist on £100 a year allowance whilst awaiting literary inspiration. She goes to live with relatives in rural Sussex,the Starkadders,who run the eponymous Cold Comfort Farm. There is a Chaucerian vulgarity to their personal habits and jovial disregard of middle class morals which discomfits Miss Poste and she decides to lift them up a peg or two,to help them whether or not they want it - a bit like Amelie,in fact. Every literary cliché about rural England is cheerfully exploded,the lusty farmer's sons,the hell and brimstone preacher,the dark secret,Miss Gibbons mocks them all - but in a good - natured way. Mr J.Schlesinger,master of the British New Wave fifty years ago,manages the difficult task of making everything seem totally O.T.T.whilst maintaining a firm grasp. Miss K.Beckinsale is perfect as Miss Poste a character never actually meant to be believable,merely lovable.Like a sophisticated Fairy Godmother. Mr Freddie Jones and Miss Eileen Atkins avoid Grand Guignol by a thoroughly enjoyable hairsbreadth. My late aunt had a copy of Cold Comfort Farm which was published whilst she was in her early twenties.She recommended it to me as a teenager but I decided it wasn't cool enough for a man who dug Gerry Mulligan and Shorty Rogers. Clearing out her house,I rescued just two of her books,one she had won as a school prize and Cold Comfort Farm. I found it just as cool as Gerry and Shorty.I just wish she was still around so I could tell her. "},{"Title":"A religious movie?","Date":"1 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A kind of religious movie... A young rich woman (an angel?) comes, sets free the poor people living like prisoners in Cold Comfort Farm (great title!) and, once her mission is done, flies away. Before her arrival, all were dull and enslaved by the old lady living upstairs... but our angel knows what's right for everyone. Maybe the message is you will be happy only if you follow your dreams. A delicious English fairy tale, that I watched with a constant smile on my face. Schlesinger proves himself a very good director. After all, can anyone tell me what the old lady saw in the wood-store? "}{"Title":"Deliciously funny as only the British can do...","Date":"30 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Deliciously funny and very, very British. With ruthless efficiency, city bred Flora Poste sets rustic Cold Comfort Farm to rights. Kate Beckinsale is perfectly cast as Robert Poste's child Flora clever, charming and pretty, with a backbone of steel. Great work by all the characters, but I found Charles (Flora's love) bland and not worthy of her.And just what *was* in the woodshed?  "},{"Title":"Gentle comedy in the true English style.","Date":"17 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The English comedy as it should be; parody of manners, lifestyle and attitudes, without being too overt. An adaptation of Stella Gibbons' book, and a very good one. Eileen Atkins as the eccentric and obsessive Judith and Kate Beckinsale as the headstrong Flora really make the contrasts work. Set in the southern English county of Sussex of the 1920s, and filmed there in the 1990s - and yes, there are still characters like the Starkadders out there! If you can find it, DO see it. "},{"Title":"Thoroughly delightful!","Date":"5 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Flora Post is a thinly veiled Emma, and the film doesn't try to disguise this as Flora very determinedly goes about turning Cold Comfort Farm upside down, tossing out the old ways in favor of  the modern world, as she touches the lives of everyone on the farm in a positive, uplifting, enriching way. This is my favorite kind of film. It makes you want to break out in song or dance around the room, it's that much fun! Really! It was magical to watch.  "},{"Title":"the little things matter in cold comfort farm","Date":"22 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie was suggested to me by a librarian co-worker of mine during college. She said she wasn't going to tell me what it was about and even blackened out the back cover of the VHS. She smiled as though plotting and walked away. I dashed home and haven't stopped watching it since. The language used blends poetry with oratory simplicity. The family is faulted in a righteous and enduring way that you want to be part of the farm too. Our heroin rushes in to a strange place with unknown relatives. She is a city girl, thrust upon Cold Comfort Farm. Are the Starkadders aware that their guest is set on tidying and making lovely their dear farm? Setting things as they should be, promoting and planting seeds of change. There are mysteries mentioned and owes due. Every little corner of this movie will enchant you; the writing is superb and greatly verbose. But truly the actors each take on and portray not a role, but the person. Supporting cast brings sparkles and bubbles to the movie. I find myself quoting from it often in life. Still laughing and remembering, there will always be Starkadders at Cold Comfort Farm. "},{"Title":"Cold Comfort Warms the Cockles","Date":"21 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" My wife recommended this movie to me and after secretly viewing the trailer I didn't really want to see it. But...as my wife has never recommended something I didn't end up liking, I gave in and watched the film with her. What can I say? Her record stands. This was a perfect recommendation. It's about a flippant young woman, Kate Beckinsale, who, after the death of her parents, goes to live with some obscure relatives at a place called Cold Comfort Farm. Upon arrival, she finds the family manse lives up to its name as everyone she meets seem enveloped in a shroud of doom and/or filth. The farm is rather run-down and the family members seem to not care about making things better as they are as run down and filthy as the lodgings appear. One by one, however, our determined orphan lass gets to know the family and learns of their secret dreams and what is keeping them from it. It seems there is a reclusive dowager in an upstairs room who somehow holds and iron grip on the rest of the family due to something mysterious that happened many years ago. All she will eventually say about it is I saw something nasty in the woodshed! This doesn't deter Beckinsale's character as she weaves an air of trust and optimism among the family members who begin to look to her for answers to their dilemmas. Does she get to the crone who saw something nasty in the woodshed? I'll never tell. But let me add this - this movie ain't no Pollyanna. It's a family film, for sure, but is not all sweet and saccharine and therefore unrealistic. Beckinsale's character is a wonderful role model. "},{"Title":"Star rating 4 out of 5","Date":"1 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Cold Comfort Farm is a jolly film that bounces along as merrily as its theme tune.  It's a rollicking good comedy with a laugh-out-loud collection of Dickensian characters (the doom-stricken Starkadders, the rustic Adam Lambsbreath, and the upper crust Hawk-Monitors).  Certainly the film is very over-the-top and silly, but it's light-hearted fun - a welcome alternative to the glut of psychological, heart-wrenching, blood-and-guts fare on the market.      The Starkadders live on the bleak acres of Cold Comfort Farm, where the cows are barren and the sows are farren.  Into this gloomy and eccentric setting comes young, 1930s-modern Flora Poste, who sets to winning the hearts and minds of Cold Comfort's inhabitants, and dragging the Starkadders into the twentieth century.  Along the way she manages to rearrange and enliven her own life too.      Kate Beckinsale (prior to her arrival on the scene of big-budget American flicks) is a likeable and chirpy young lady with a talent for organisation.  In the supporting roles, Joanna Lumley is delightfully sarcastic as Flora's incongruously named aunt, Mary Smiling, who has a rather unusual hobby.  And Ian McKellen is a real scene-stealer as the fire-and-brimstone preacher of the Church of the Quivering Brethren.      The plot revolves around Great Aunt Ada Doom and the 'narsty' thing she saw in the woodshed nigh on 70 years ago.  There is also the mysterious wrong perpetrated on Flora's father by the Starkadders sometime in the dim and misty past.  So it is a tad frustrating that the audience is never let in on either of these secrets!  But these are minor quibbles in what is otherwise an excellent comedic romp, with some interesting and atmospheric cinematography.  A very good (and very British) laugh.  "},{"Title":"`I don't want sissies. It's red meat time in the movies.'","Date":"26 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Cold Comfort Farm was made for BBC in 1995 but it reeks of 1930's Hollywood farce on a par with My Man Godfrey (1936) and Bringing Up Baby (1938).Kate Beckinsale.... Flora Poste is the city heroine of her own Jane Austin plot in this movie. After being orphaned, she decides it's her calling to happy up or marry off (well off) all of her relatives, when she goes to live with them on their once-was-gentry but now dilapidated county farm. But unlike Austin's Emma, for example, she is highly successful...as is...this cute little fling from across the pond.Sheila Burrell, who plays Ada Doom (pun intended here) is a creepy old psycho Auntie who rules the roost while confined to her bedroom because of having `seen something nasty in the woodshed' a billion years ago. She reminds me of Uncle Theo in Amarcord (1973)... `I want a woman!' The whole family is nuts! But you just gotta love &#145;em. Ian McKellan, is brilliant as the family preacher. Weekly he has the town folk quaking and squirming in their pews as he loudly scoffs them for all their sins. He had my family ROTF with a (SPOILER HERE) hilarious reminder...`There'll be no butter in Hell! ' ...meaning you'll burn forever without so much as an unguent for relief. The supporting actors are all worthy as is the set design, music, and costuming. This movie is just silly fun and seems to get better with repeated views. It's in my DVD collection...which is going to be `such fun'...oops I mean `amusing or diverting. Never 'such fun.'  "},{"Title":"Denise is right on...","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is another of those wonderful sleepers that I always enjoy discovering. I like movies with interesting characters, that put you in another world, that present a mystery to solve and this does all three. The characters are disfunctional, interesting and ultimately lovable. It's a cute story, delivered in that understated British comedy style. "},{"Title":"One of my favorites","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  What a feel good movie with characters portrayed as only the Brits. can do. Not everything is put to bed but that's life A happy ending,  need more like this "},{"Title":"Cold Comfort Farm, a very fun and funny movie.","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  First off, Cold Comfort Farm has an amazing cast who were all wonderful in this film. Like Kate Beckensale, Joan Lumley, Rufus Sewell, Shelia Burrell, Eileen Atkins and my favorite Ian McKellen.This movie is good-natured, pleasant, thoroughly amusing and often hilarious. With no villains and no tragic heart-rending events this movie will make you feel better after you've watched it than you were before. I'm not saying it's perfect and it has its flaws, but for the average un-picky person who likes light subtle British comedy you should enjoy it.It is also a very good screen adaptation of the book by the same name. One of the best I adaptations I have seen. The people and places and atmosphere are almost identical from the book.Well, when I like something I'm not very articulate so I'll end it here by saying this movie deserves a 10 out of 10 for me for being a good-natured, fun and easily watched film. It's not as good as other films that have been given a 10 out of 10, but I love it too much to give it anything else.  "}{"Title":"Mommy, is that where Hillbillies come from..?","Date":"6 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Yes, Child.. shush!This is a really fun poke at the thin veneer of Anglo Post-Victorian society.  It starts out seeming as if it's going over the top.. but, once you run like heck to catch up, it flows VERY well through the consciousness.Don't get caught up in comparisons between this and 19th century comic/morality tomes.  That's balderdash -there ARE only so many plot-lines-.. as is the claim that only the British can do this humor.  Hollywood was full of this stuff in the thirties.  And Joel and Ethan Coen do a pretty good job of the genre today.Whatever, it's REALLY a fun movie once you get your groove going. .. and it gets better as it goes.  Note the send-up of Gone with The Wind as Seth leaves.One point that may not be obvious at the outset.. the Starkadders are regressed landed gentry, not peasant stock.The thing is chock full of great lines.  "},{"Title":"Highly Entertaining","Date":"21 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Perhaps it's because I'm a virgo, or just appreciative of a good dialogue, I loved this film. I love to watch things become better than they were before. I love things neat and tidy. Organization is a girl's best friend. It gave me the same sense of satisfaction as when I've cleaned a room in my house. How sick am I? It was obvious these people loved the parts they were playing. I enjoyed watching them. In fact it's the kind of movie I rent just to watch with people who haven't seen it before. I'm kind of sick that way as well, but there can't be anything wrong with wanting to share a good thing.  "},{"Title":"Fantasy of Empire","Date":"20 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie depicts a post-Victorian, but nonetheless backwards-glancing, (1930s) rural England. Given this material; the propensity of the English to believe it's their job to tidy up rooms, regions and nations, matched by the arrogance to subjugate and condescend to anyone they deem untidy over the centuries; it seems like the movie could be a drag. As a story it's been told one too many times... but a light touch and a off-kilter tone make it an enjoyable fable. It's a fond allegory of empire.Robert Post's child w/o hope of fortune but with great confidence in her world-view, takes on a rural situation out of boredom, works absurdly positive miracles, and sets things right, handily rescuing everyone from their self-constructed cages; all while reckoning with the gravitas of an unseen Miss Havisham in the room off the landing While Flora has no humility of her own, she does have manners; and with those, she pushes a bunch of maladaptive family members to a place they can unload their baggage by rediscovering humility.Making it all more bearable, the urbanites (played by Lumley and Beckinsale), typically snide and unlikeable, instead are awfully pleasant when they condescend. A few lines still make me smirk. It's not good to be dewy-eyed around smart people, but you can always secretly despise them is given a bright, cheerful delivery by Lumley. While perfectly serviceable as an unspoken rule of etiquette, it sounds quite absurd when uttered. A house-man who develops a admiration for his dish-scrubber, ...me and my little mop always makes me laugh.Manners come into play everywhere. Ruben's change from a gruff beast to a sweet fella is nicely done. A late scene in which Miss Post must gently rebuff his proposal has a sublime, light touch. Strangely, after countless viewings where I simply admired the writing, it made me tear up for the first time today. The cast all does expert work, making most of the movie look effortless. Lumley's bespoke Miss Smiley could make for a good movie on her own.The film was developed for British TV which explains a regrettable gag here and there, and some resolutions that are just too pat. Schlesinger replaced somebody else as director at the last minute. As director, it feels like he's confident in the material and just gets out of the way. I think there are just slight problems that prevent it from becoming a classic. Aunt Ada saw something nasty in the woodshed a few too many times. But there is an abundance of pleasures in it. The way manners are voiced... the ramshackle design of the old farmhouse. The production designer for Nanny McPhee has definitely seen this movie.Once upon a time, movies were made for learned adults. "},{"Title":"Strange People.","Date":"4 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Kate Bekinsale plays a chic young woman who inherits a pittance and, to save money and perhaps gather material for a novel, moves to remote Cold Comfort Farm. She gets more than she bargained for. First of all, the farm is really a farm, with cows, pigs, horses and barns. Second, it's a sprawling, dilapidated affair, which one character refers to as the house of Usher. Third, the place is cluttered and filthy and no one cares. Fourth, the half dozen or so residents are just as filthy as the floor and seem to have been inbred for generations. Finally, they are apparently ruled by an old madwoman who sequesters herself in an upstairs room and mutters about having once seen something nasty in the woodshed.Now, these are all very queer characters and each in his own way is a fit case study of psychopathology. Perhaps the most interesting is the preacher, who carries on in the local church, the walls of which are spritzed with lurid graffiti, about how much hell hurts. Did you ever burn your finger? It hurt, didn't it. And what did you do about the burned finger? You put butter on it. Well, friends, THERE IS NO BUTTER IN HELL. Man, there is material enough for a dozen novels.There is a problem with a movie so filled with nuts though. It reminded me of a movie I'd worked in, Crimes of the Heart, written by Beth Hemsley, about three quirky sisters, any one of whom would have provided a viable narrative. But Crimes of the Heart, like Cold Comfort Farm, really has nowhere to much go.In this movie, Kate Bekinsale -- a fantasy of pale and vulnerable beauty -- straightens everything out. People wind up married to those whom they should marry. A half-hour, off-screen chat brings the old crone to her senses and she takes off for Paris. The farm ends up in the hands of the most capable of its workers. Bekinsale literally sails off with the handsome young aviator.Afterwards I felt as if I'd visited a mother who trotted out a handful of lovely children, had them rattle off an idiosyncratic and brilliant version of the Trout Quintet, and then shuffled them outside to play. Gone in a twinkling.It's interesting without being particularly well constructed. Loved the characters, some of them anyway, and almost fell asleep waiting for the happy ending. "},{"Title":"A Freudian Comedy with Dark Secrets, Horrible Memories, Fear and Loathing. Funny and slick.","Date":"15 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The movie opens with I saw something nasty in the woodshed. It is a Freudian reference. Freud originally thought such visions were manifestations of actual events that were so horrible that the memory was repressed. He later renounced that theory and decided that such dreams were manifestations of suppressed desires and emotions. The subject never actually sees what was nasty and the woodshed is not real, either.Modern psychotherapists, for the most part with minimal training, have gone back to Freud's original theory, but the supposedly 'repressed memories invariably are so far-fetched as to violate fundamental laws of physics. Ada Doom's memory, for example, would probably have a woodshed with many rooms, stairs both up and down, windows, etc., all fitting within the small exterior of the building. The something nasty would include people who may well have been dead at the time, or who were far away, or who never existed at all. The ax implies murder and human sacrifice, a manifestation of feelings that she was mistreated by her own parents (or maybe Robert Poste). The dark wood-stains and shadows imply blood. The interior of the woodshed is dark, mysterious and quiet, as of a horror lurking there -- a hidden truth that no one can face.The movie, made during the height of 1990s witch hunt, parodies people who use memories of imaginary (or even real) events to control everybody around them. Interestingly, earlier productions were made during similar cultural periods. The 'something nasty' can represent anything from incest to fear of financial ruin to communism.The nasty memories, probably of fictitious events, manifest themselves in the untidiness of the Starkadders. The farm is practically in ruins, despite the fact the Starkadders are wealthy. Everything is all loose ends, hidden secrets, unfinished business. Flora Poste represents the traditional Freudian therapist, one who sees through all the junk of the mind and starts putting things in order by forcing people to see the truth about themselves and their situation, to stop dwelling on events (which are imaginary anyway) of the past and which have absolutely no bearing on the present. The Starkadders, one by one, have a paradigm shift away from suspicion, secrecy, and guilt to productivity, optimism, and adventurousness. They no longer live in fear.The movie ridicules fear and guilt. They are not just 'untidy,' they enslave us, tie us down, and keep us from reaching our full potential. Flora Poste represents the whole woman, idealized. She fears nothing for herself, despite the fact that she is the one character that actually has serious problems to deal with. Orphaned, virtually penniless, with an uncertain future, yet she could not care less. Unlike the miserable Starkadders who are helpless despite wealth, position and power, Flora Poste is the master of her own fate despite her lack of all the advantages the the Starkadders have.The movie allows us to laugh at our fears and shortcomings, and encourages us to take control of our own destinies. What is not to like about it? "},{"Title":"A Pleasant Enough Fantasy","Date":"4 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" If ever a movie with a generally realistic setting called for suspension of disbelief, Cold Comfort Farm is it. The viewer is asked to believe that a well brought up but penniless orphan (Kate Beckinsale) comes to live with relatives who mostly despise her and hate one another and who want desperately to leave this wretched, filthy, gloomy farm but cannot do so because of a tyrannical recluse of a family matriarch who is holed up in her room, consuming enormous quantities of food -- and in the course of an hour and a half, the plucky young orphan has transformed the lives of everyone on the farm, including the matriarch and the gloomy, mad cousin who invited her to come live with them because of a unexplained but terrible wrong done to the young woman's father by this family. Kate Beckinsale is outstanding in the role of the orphaned young woman and Ian McKellen effortlessly steals the picture from everyone but Beckinsale in his role as a fire-and-brimstone preacher whom Kate's character persuades to leave the farm to his eldest son and pursue his mission of preaching his terrifying gospel to the world. The picture has its moments, mostly because of Beckinsale and McKellen, though there is also a wonderful bit involving a Hollywood producer friend of the young orphan's who is persuaded to visit the farm and make a movie star of the lecherous younger brother. Mostly, however,Cold Comfort Farm is thin gruel and not nearly as amusing as the people who made it seem to think it is. "},{"Title":"Very Disappointing","Date":"20 August 2007","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" It's a real pity; it's a hilarious book, the cast is excellent, the sets are terrific, and yet, the film just misses the mark.It was as if none of the screen writers understood the book's humor, really, and there were only a few things about the film that I did enjoy (1) Mrs. Smiling and the way the film showed how she keeps her collection; (2) Seth and Reuben looked like brothers; (3) I adore Sir Ian in anything he does, and he did a lovely job on Amos, different from Alistair Sim, but just as delightful.I think what was really needed for this film to work was a better screenplay based on the book. I honestly don't think that this movie captured the fun of the book in the way that the earlier BBC version did.I actually found it a bit tedious, rather than fun, and they left out some of the best lines, really, for no good reason. I found that it got rather boring toward the end, and didn't really manage to give a sense of Flora Poste's STRUGGLE to change Cold Comfort Farm--it all changed too easily, and so one didn't really have the nice tension will she succeed?--she wins over everybody far too easily, and I think a good deal of the story is probably incomprehensible without knowing the book first.So--my verdict is find that wonderful old BBC version with Alistair Sim and Rosalie Crutchley and Faye Compton--and treat yourself to the book, which is the sort you pull out again to enjoy afresh, years later, and catch this one if it comes on TV, but don't go out of your way for it. "},{"Title":"Witless Comedy","Date":"2 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A young woman in 1930s England tries to mooch off her relatives as she gathers material for her future career as a writer. This is meant to be a spoof of the novels of such writers as Dickens and Austen. It is described as a comedy, and the way the actors deliver their lines certainly suggests that the dialog is dripping with wit. The only problem is that there is nary a single chuckle to be had from the humorless script. With hardly a plot to hold one's interest, it soon turns into a dreary bore. It is based on a popular comic novel from the 1930s; hence the humor is either dated or the screenplay does not do justice to the novel. It's a shame because it has a good cast that seems to be really trying. "},{"Title":"Tries a little too hard","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Cold Comfort Farm is indeed a Jane Austen/Bronte Sisters look alike film, intentionally mimicking Pride and Prejudice, Emma and Wuthering Heights. Nice cast of characters, but they all seemed so pleased with themselves that I couldn't rate this movie higher than a '6'.  It was almost too charming and oh so tidy.   "},{"Title":"Funny Films Glosses Over Ethical Ambiguities","Date":"7 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  We all agree that this is quite a funny film.The Starkadders are as grotesque a crew of troglodytes as you could hope to finds.And they are all better off for having Robert Poste's childstraighten up their lives.What bothers me,though,is this playing with  the lives of other people without their informed consent and awareness.It's really quite fortunate that Robert Poste's childwas as benevolent,and as adroite as she was.I have seen numerous instances,in real life, of malevolent and psychopathic persons who have taken advantage of the ignorant,the impaired,the helpless,and the disfunctional for their own gains and amusement,and then discarded them when their purposes were suited.True,the Starkadders have all benefited tremendously from these interventions,but it WAS done without their knowledge,their awareness,and their consent.And that's dishonest and manipulative.  "}{"Title":"Good book, shame about the movie.","Date":"12 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Cold Comfort Farm is a fantastic book and this could have been a fantastic movie. Instead, it was a good film that failed to live up to the expectations of anyone who had read the book. Kate Beckinsale was very good as Flora Poste though and the American who played Mr. Neck was also excellent, one can't help but laugh at Stephen Fry wherever he shows up.  "},{"Title":"Only if you love spoofs","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I don't get all of the great comments about this movie, but then I'm not a fan of spoofs of any kind. I think I'm in a minority, however. I just find them so predictable with such a lack of inspiration. Cold Comfort Farm is no exception. Not only did I not find it funny, I nearly turned it off halfway through from sheer excruciating boredom. It was awful. Trite, hackneyed, awful.  "},{"Title":"It Sucks in Sussex","Date":"12 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Let me preface my remarks by saying that I love Masterpiece Theatre and most British farces. Perhaps this particular effort was lacking in some cohesion that might have held my attention. Although the characters were certainly characters and the incongruities certainly incongruous, nothing about this movie satisfied my curiosity. The cast was terrific and their acting was quite good but the storyline seemed unhinged. If a lot of the book was omitted the movie didn't prompt me to even consider reading it. I was left with the uncomfortable feeling of having watched a bunch of oddities that somehow were never properly connected. And the denouement (a final part of a story or drama in which everything is made clear and no questions or surprises remain) was completely useless in that regard since it left me with more questions than I had before. What a disappointment this dog of a flick was. "},{"Title":"A Dismal Waste of Time","Date":"8 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Cold Comfort Farm has to be one of the worst films I have ever had the misfortune of sitting through. The acting was dismal, the story line unengaging, the direction indifferent, and the all-too-frequent attempts at humor pathetically lacking in comedic chops. This so-called star, Kate Beckinsale, could not act her way out of an amateur troupe, at least to judge from the shallow characterization here. Stephen Fry was bad, bad, bad, as was Joanna Lumley. Only Ivan Kaye as Reuben Starkadder deserves any kind of accolades. He was the solitary believable member of the wasted cast. I kept waiting for Cold Comfort Farm to get off the ground, but it just wallowed in its own mediocrity. Even the music was ill-conceived. At one point, a lengthy excerpt from Max Steiner's Gone With the Wind soundtrack came out of nowhere, an embarrassing anachronism worthy of another clunker from the past, Baz Luhrmann's horrid Moulin Rouge! Please don't invest your hard-earned money in this misguided project. You will regret it. "},{"Title":"Down on the farm","Date":"13 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" It is the 1930s, and London gadabout Flora Poste (Kate Beckinsale) has just been orphaned. With no options or ambition (except to experience life and become a writer), she goes to live in the country with distant relatives. Upon arriving at the dilapidated farm, she finds its inhabitants are all gloomy, filthy, wretched oafs, so naturally she sets about improving their lives.This basic plot has been done before, most notably in Amelie, but this BBC movie is terrible. There's no humor, the characters are all off-putting, and the changes Flora brings about - including turning a spaced-out naïf into a debutante, a deranged hermit into a fine lady, and a bumbling farm hand into a Hollywood star - are completely unbelievable. As Flora, Beckinsale is flat and tiresome and the relatives are reduced to English hillbillies. This is a tedious and unappealing movie. "},{"Title":"Not as great as many people say, but it is still good","Date":"26 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Before seeing it a few days ago I had never heard of this movie and I guess there are many other people like me who don't know it yet. I don't think it has ever had much of publicity, which would explain why it is so unknown to the public. But of course you can find it on this website and all I read about it is that it is perfect, an absolute gem, the best comedy ever... Well, I'm afraid I can't completely agree with that. Yes it is good, but it wasn't brilliant and somehow it was never able to really keep my full attention.Even though the movie has been made in 1995, so only 10 years ago, it feels a lot older. That's not only because of the subject (the story is set in the 1930's), but also because of the humor and the way everything is told. It seemed to me like if this movie was made in the 1950's nice to watch, but a bit too honest. The humor can be quite dark from time to time (which I really like), but somehow the entire movie isn't as sharp as I hoped it would be.The movie tells the story of the 20 year old Flora Poste, recently orphaned and left with only 100 pounds a year, who wants to become a writer and who is in desperate need of money and inspiration. She sends letters to many relatives and ultimately decides to go and live with the Starkadder, some distant relatives who live on Cold Comfort Farm. It is said that the farm and everybody living there is doomed, in reality it is the old grandmother who doesn't allow her family to do what they like to. As a real matriarch, she decides what the members of the family will do, but gradually Flora takes over power and makes her relatives see that there might be a better life...The acting is OK, but the story is a bit too black and white in my opinion. Of course, you could see this as an extra point of comedy, but I think it would have been better if the differences and contrast between the rich people living in the city and the poor people on the countryside were a bit less pronounced. Anyway, that doesn't mean that the movie isn't any good or not watchable. I still give it a 6.5/10. "},{"Title":"Unhappy People Living an Unhappy Life","Date":"20 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie is listed as a comedy genre. However, aside from the old matriarch beating everybody with a newspaper, I did not find one funny scene to laugh at.I won't criticize the acting because the performers do a fine job in their acting abilities. But, the story is unbelievable by American contemporary standards. I can't conceive of any American family which would relegate themselves to such constant misery by living on a farm what is falling apart. The characters would have left the farm for the city long ago and Robert Poste's child would have showed up to a half-empty farm. Likewise, the characters are too dirty living. Unwashed faces, dirty clothes never cleaned all make for an interesting scene if it were a war movie with the people in the mud in combat. But, for day to day living it seems that even in the 1920s people cleaned their bodies and clothes.Well, as Flora Poste flies off into the sunset in an open cockpit plane, All's well that ends well.I think this story would turn out better if it were a stage play rather than a movie. It has stage possibilities! The characters' personalities lend themselves to providing a good stage casting.Larry from Illinois "},{"Title":"Austen powered...","Date":"23 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I hesitated on renting this as I feared I would be a bit too Clueless (and for the same reason, I've not seen that film either). However, a favored friend of mine wuthered on about this, so I decided to watch it.The bottom line, I  probably should have read the Austen first. But I really have no desire to do that still... Then again, my wife, who loved Pride and Prejudice  (firstly on page then secondly on Firth) couldn't quite muster enough interest to stick with this film. A possible litmus test may be how funny you find the family name Starkadder.If your reaction is Oh heavens, what a laugh... or really any thing that starts with Oh heavens... then you are likely going to love this film. I'm not trying to fan this film with such dainty praise...it's meant to be a whimsical film. The characters are realized in a way that's more suited to the stage than to the silver or plasma screen in my opinion. To be fair, it was apparently a made-for-TV movie...in my estimation it might have been a better made-for-radio-play.I suspect this film will grow on me over time, and while I won't bust a gut now on it...when I am ready to titter...I'll reach for this. And I do expect tittering is probably a good 10 to 20 years off... Even at this point, I did enjoy a blubbery, blustery Ian McKellen, and Harry Ditson as the star-maker rain-maker from Hollywood. Others have mentioned those, but above all I could have used more of Trevor Baxter...that's who did it for me, the butler!Of course, in this sort of drama, the butler as part of the underprivileged class is allowed to be smart...even smarter than the upper class women. Meanwhile the men are buffoons or hunks and preferrably both. I would have killed for at least a cad, a rapscallion or a ne'er-do-well!I'm kidding..that honestly is not what prevented me from enjoying this film more. Actually the golden orb mocking of a very fresh-faced Kate Beckinsale was a nice laugh at the expense of her wrought dreams of writing. The film does use that tried and true repetition for comedic effect at times...with awareness to have all of the Starkadders roll deaf eyes when arch-matriarch Ada Doom started on one of her spells... I guess I'm more of a fan of odd juxtapositions for comedy, along with family dysfunction (or other societal expectations) twisted through neurosis and out the other side. This kind of plays upon that, but from another era...and exaggerated out of any sense of proportion.In retrospect, I can envision a pretty funny film, but watching it the first time, I never really fell under its powers. My destiny was the only one Robert Poste's child could not quite chart. Not to say I didn't appreciate the approach (in America I fear we would have cast Goldie Hawn or Fran Dresser in the lead role, sacrificing blithe beneficience for ditzy blundering...)That would have got a negative 3 from me, this I gave a6/10 "},{"Title":"No plot. No humor. No nothing'","Date":"22 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Silly movie about a British ninny whose goal in life is to sponge off relatives for 30 years and then when she's 50 write a novel. Even though she has zero talent for writing. She can't call the sun sun It's always the golden orb. So anyway, she goes to live at Cold Comfort Farm with its miserable wretches and tries to brighten their lives.Extremely boring movie that might have been OK if it had been played as a comedy but they left out the humor too. Only good thing is Kate Beckinsale as flora, the leading character. She's interesting and very attractive. "}]