[{"Title":"oh my god, you gotta read what I found this movie to be...","Date":"5 March 2006","Score":"131 out of 168 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I don't normally respond to these kinds of things, but after reading some of the negative responses I couldn't help myself. There is a movie out there for everyone, something everyone NEEDs to laugh at and who can relate to. This movie is the opidemy of my humor and the extreme way it portrays the upper crust world of stuffy, snobby, self absorbed unrealistic people who think the world revolves around their view and opinions is classic and makes me laugh in a way that is honest for me.I read that some people were offended by it and want to get others to share their view. All I gotta say is, If you didn't like the first one, why did you go to see the second one? Just to complain? Do all of us Friends of Jim Carey a favor, if you don't like his humor, just go find some stuffy anal retentive fluff film, and write reviews on them that we will never read since those movies are for stuck-up self absorbed types. Sorry I just didn't think it fair that these people are Flameing this as if there are no other possibilities.Thanx for reading. "},{"Title":"Funny as hell","Date":"23 June 2005","Score":"65 out of 79 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie was directed and written by Steve Oedekerk. Tom Shadyac is not attached to this movie for some reason. But, Steve Oedekerk did a pretty good Job. The movie begins with a spoof from Cliffhanger where Ace fails to save a Raccoon. Ace retires from being a Pet Detective until Fulton Greenwall (Ian McNeice) offers him a large amount of money to find a missing sacred Bat. The plot of this movie is not as good as the original. But it's funnier! And a lot of fun. I remember watching this 10 years ago at the theater when it first came out. Frankly, I think there should be one more movie before Ace retires. Jim Carrey is a comedic genius. And he is pure talent. Not even Jerry Lewis can compare to the talent of Jim Carrey. "},{"Title":"It's Just Plain Funny","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"54 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Is it dumb? Well, it's definitely low-brow, but it also has some gags that are undeniably clever. Is it racist? Yeah, a little, but it's also satirizing old stereotypes about Dark Africa. Is it immature and and gross and sophomoric and over-the-top? Yes. Yes, it is.But someone (well, me) once said the only thing comedies have to be is funny. And this movie is dang funny. Need I remind anybody of the scene where Ace insists on dropping a slinky down the hundreds of steps leading up to a Buddhist temple? (It was RIGHT there!) Or the slideshow in which Ace's hand appears to greedily devour a poacher's crotch? That's just hilarious!The great thing about this movie is that it doesn't settle for outlandish set-ups that only seem to be jokes. This movie gets full bang for its comedic buck. Do we have a fight with a crocodile presented in-and-of-itself as humor? No! In a lesser film, perhaps. But Ace Ventura goes the extra mile, bringing us childish schoolyard taunts (Stop hittin' yourself! Stop hittin yourself!) And is it enough to have Ace chasing the villain through the jungle in a monster truck? No - he actually pulls up next to him and utters a bon mot worthy of Groucho. Also, where did that monster truck comefrom?! The sheer resolve not to explain the truck's presence is a sublimely satirical dig at movies that might place monster trucks in the jungle just for cheap, lazy wackiness.This movie is anything but lazy. Jim Carrey, like no actor before him, pulls out all the stops as Ace Ventura. Is he milking things? Oh sure. He's milking things like Paganini milked the violin, or like Michelangelo milked the Sistine Chapel. He's inventing a manic persona so complete and fully realized, that it transcends standard comedy and achieves something mystical and poetic and truthful. And that's how it keeps from being annoying.This film is too casually dismissed because it looks like a terrible movie. I was hesitant to watch it. But maybe, years and years from now, it will achieve the kind of subversive cult-film status it deserves. "},{"Title":"Great sequel!","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"52 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Despite most views of this movie, I thought it was just as good as (and in some aspects better than) the original.  Of course there was a lot  of recycled humor, but there was also a lot of original humor too.  I was a little bummed to find out that Courteney Cox wasn't returning in the second installment, but they did just fine without her.  I doubt it will happen, but I would love to see an Ace Ventura 3 someday.I thought the scene where Ace is trapped inside the animatronic rhino was the funniest scene in the movie, but the film is filled with other great scenes too.  I also loved the fact that he is a lover of all animals, except Bats.  I thought that was such a funny idea for the character.  I mean, what does that say about bats if a lover of all animals can't even stand them and finds them revolting.  Just thinking about it makes me laugh.  I just love the irony I guess.  Anyhow, there isn't much more I can say about this film other than if you liked Pet Detective, you should see When Nature Calls.  Bumble-Bee Tuna,-Chris "},{"Title":"Ace Ventura is a comic genius bursting to the seams with brilliance...","Date":"23 May 2006","Score":"46 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I loved this movie ever since in come out in 1995 when i was six years old...I love Jim Carrey am a BIG fan of him...and i think that this was his best performance...he just so funny in this movie...It's the mucus that binds us still cracks me up today... His other famous saying Ok take care now, by bye then and alrightly are classic lines...Its best to see the first movie Ace Ventura Pet Detective, before you see the second movie so you get the feel of Ace Ventura...the jokes get so much more funnier in the second movie...Just the way Jim acts as Ace is genius...i recommend everyone see this movie... "},{"Title":"excellent comedy movie!!!","Date":"29 May 2005","Score":"29 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" One of the best and my favorite comedy movies ever! I have watched it at least 7 times and found it funny each time. All those guys saying this part is not as good as the first one, must be out of their sense of humor! This part lives up to its expectations and i found it even funnier than the first part. You might get bored watching the first part 3 or 4 times but not this part! This is a must see film if you haven't seen it already. I own its DVD and keep it very close to my DVD player all the times...never know when i'd like to watch it again -) I would give it a well deserving 10 out of 10, it cant get any better than this. I really feel sorry for those who didn't find it funny. Please Don't miss it...watch it today!!! Highly recommended!!!! "},{"Title":"Spank you very much....","Date":"2 September 1999","Score":"29 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I didn't think the first movie was any great shakes.Sure, it had Carrey in it, running amok and mugging and mimicking and making every rude sound a kid would learn by eighth grade.  But the story just kept getting in the way.That's why When Nature Calls, in my opinion, is much funnier.The story of securing a sacred bat is neither too intrusive nor annoying and leaves room for gags aplenty.  And Carrey....  Well, he enters a slapstick marathon and wins the gold in every event.  I swear the man is made of rubber.Some of the jokes are pretty gross (the spitting ritual, the guano references, etc.) but why should that come as any surprise?  Most comedies gear for that kind of humor anymore and, more or less sophisticated, reach the same common denominator body fluids is funny, dude.Still, without the fluids and functions, there are still great scenes (Ace's entrance in the dining hall, the monks' reaction to his departure, his behavior at the slide show, his driving habits, his escape from a mechanical rhino) and plenty of opportunities to see Hollywood's most uninhibited comedian use every conceivable part of his body to make us laugh.I laughed.  His work is done.When this Nature calls, answer it.Nine stars.  And remember do not pass go, do not collect $200. "},{"Title":"Terrific sequel to a terrific comedy","Date":"8 April 2003","Score":"27 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  When you hear a really hilarious joke the normal logical reaction would most likely be that you burst into hysterical laughter. Later on when someone tells you the very same joke again something is already different. You don't laugh to it anymore, you just give it a little weary yawn and say I've heard that one before. However, there are refreshing exceptions. Ace Ventura When nature calls is one of them because if the joke is good enough and someone can still tell it properly it can be just as funny even though you've heard it once before.This sequel isn't better than the original but unlike some other IMDb-users I feel that it really isn't much worse either. If you loved Ace Ventura Pet detective I see no sensible reason why you shouldn't love this one as well. Best thing about Ace Ventura When nature calls is the fact that our beloved pet detective has moved right from urban city surroundings deep into the exotic African locations. It would've been a really hard job to figure out perfect settings for the third part of this unholy saga so I'm pretty damn glad they never made it (as far as I understand Carrey refused) because these two flicks are so sensationally good comedies it would have been quite a shame to see how the excellent idea wears out after too much use.In the mid-90's when Jim Carrey was just becoming a huge superstar I used to consider him just an annoying and overrated jerk. I simply didn't understand him. I guess it isn't always easy to admit that a guy who talks through his arsehole is one of the most talented comedians of our time but in the end it probably tells more about our time than Mr. Carrey. The Truman show, Man on the moon and The Majestic has also proofed that Carrey is more than just a gifted comedian, he's a really believable, charming and impressive actor.Actually I predict that sooner or later when the time is right and he ends up in a right movie he will definitely get his Oscar but it's not coming from something like this that's for sure. Let's face it, if you're not used to Jimmy's humor these movies are not exactly the easiest ones to swallow since the breathtakingly lunatic Ace Ventura is one of the most (if not the most) overdone characters of the whole movie history. But if you give it a try, you may just love it. I can honestly say that I do. This is classic Jim Carrey at his best. "},{"Title":"If you didn't find this funny..","Date":"17 June 2008","Score":"21 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Well, then god help you. I've known people who are not big fans of Jim Carey's style of comedy and I can see their point. He's just outrageous and rarely witty. But this movie has a bit of everything clever dialogues, beautiful locations, and of course Jim Carey at his very best.I find it much funnier than any of his other works. The Mask had too few of the 'mask' scenes, Pet Detective was just about OK, nothing great. This movie though is better because the story flows freely(unlike P.D) and it has a lot of Jim Carey (unlike The Mask). The scene at the monastery is actually brilliantly shot and to have such OTT comedy at what otherwise seems so mystical a location, I've never seen something like that. And lastly, yes it may seem a bit absurd, it's Ace's love for animals that comes out quite well. To have gone to a seclusion for losing a racoon(he was not paid to find anyways) is both hilarious and heart warming.The rhino scene alone would've made this one of my favorite comedies, but there's so much more on offer.8/10 "},{"Title":"Jim Carrey Love Him or Hate Him","Date":"2 February 2013","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Jim Carrey is one of those actors you will find yourself either adoring or hating. He does not ever underact. This movie made me laugh so hard I cried (even after the fifth time!) From the robot rhino scene to the monopoly guy Jim knows how to be hilarious. I saw the first one (liked it a lot) and have to say this one is way better! I am a huge fan of Carrey. I don't think there are many people who can make such a variety of facial expressions. The only reason this is not a ten is because there is (as usual with Carrey) some inappropriate stuff thrown in. But if your love laughing and you love Jim, this movie will fit you Like a glove! "}{"Title":"A Guilty Pleasure Pet Detective Movie","Date":"12 October 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This inevitable sequel finds Jim Carrey reprises his role as the title character Ace Ventura, a detective who specializes in retrieval of tame or captive animals in Ace VenturaWhen Nature Calls. Ian McNeice,Simon Callow,Maynard Eziashi,Bob Gunton,Sophie Okonedo and Tommy Davidson play key supporting roles.His latest case, the disappearance of a rare African white bat, draws him out of his spiritual retreat at a Tibetan monastery following the tragic outcome of his previous case.Ace Ventura is on assignment in Africa to prevent a tribal war by saving a white bat sacred to both sides. Along the way, he nearly sleeps with a seductive African princess before her wedding, experiences astral projection with an enlightened monkey, masturbates, collects bat dung and, last but not least, is birthed by a mechanical rhino. Often short on taste, the film is nonetheless full of good spirit and plenty of genuine belly laughs particularly during the fight scene with a diminutive tribal champion.Not for every taste, Ace Ventura When Nature Calls is either hilarious or insufferable, depending on the viewer's opinion of Carrey's unique brand of slapstick and sight gags. If you're ready to laugh like a pack of hyenas, if you want more fun than an industrial-sized barrel of monkeys, you know what to do.Watch this film for that reason and also for guilty pleasure. "},{"Title":"Sporadically funny due to an OTT Carrey","Date":"5 October 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Despite being retired since a cliff top incident with a racoon, Ace comes out of retirement to help find a missing sacred bat that is the symbol of peace between two African tribes.  However he finds things are not all as it seems.The sequel to the first film was never going to be a fantastically inventive affair but rather more of the same, albeit not as fresh or different.  The plot is almost meaningless and certainly not important to enjoying the film.  The comedy is everything and it almost manages to make for a good film.  Opening with an inspired and hilarious Cliff Hanger spoof followed by a reference to William Shatner's episode of the Twilight Zone, the film fails to really keep it up and slips into relying wholeheartedly on Carrey's mugging.Mostly this is funny but it is less sophisticated than the first film (if it's possible to describe the first film as that!).  The jokes become more about the faces he pulls than about any invention in the dialogue or writing.  As such you'll like this or hate it based on how you like Carrey when he is manic.  I like him when I'm in the mood and laughed pretty regularly here.Carrey of course carries the film with ease but also has famous support like he did in the first film.  However they are not given as much to do and are of less value &#150; Callow, Gunton and McNeice are not that missed when off-screen.  Of curiosity value are several British actors playing Nigerians &#150; Akinnuoye-Agbaje is better known as the amazing actor from Oz on HBO and is given nothing to do here, meanwhile Okonedo is pretty and humorous for those of us who know her better for her gritty role in Clocking Off on BBC1.Overall anyone watching this should just be aware of what they are getting &#150; it's a silly comedy that is totally reliant on Carrey's mugging to carry it.  If you're not in the mood for that then avoid &#150; but even if you are then you should be aware that it still might not be that good a film. "},{"Title":"Sense of humor required","Date":"31 March 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This has to be one of my top 5 movies of all time without a doubt. I hear people call it dry humor, but the energy Jim Carrey showed surpasses every other comedian you will see, and it is very contagious in my opinion. I don't want to go too deep but for me the best way to describe this movie is hanging out with Jim Carrey in his prime. A human being at the absolute height of his talent. If you don't like this Jim Carrey then you really don't like Jim Carrey. A legend in my books. One of his few rubber meets the road, completely unreserved movies. MISS YOU JIM!!!! Can't wait for dumb and dumber to!!!!! This has to be one of my top 5 movies of all time without a doubt. I hear people call it dry humor, but the energy Jim Carrey showed surpasses every other comedian you will see, and it is very contagious in my opinion. I don't want to go too deep but for me the best way to describe this movie is hanging out with Jim Carrey in his prime. A human being at the absolute height of his talent. If you don't like this Jim Carrey then you really don't like Jim Carrey. A legend in my books. One of his few rubber meets the road, completely unreserved movies. MISS YOU JIM!!!! Can't wait for dumb and dumber to!!!!! "},{"Title":"Best Comedy I've Ever Seen","Date":"18 March 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" From beginning to end, this is not only a comedic masterpiece, but a dramatic one as well. A very serious (and global) story is told with the protagonist being one very off-beat, colorful and animal-friendly detective. Ace goes to the ends of the Earth, confronting his deepest fear (that of bats), and foresaking the relative security of the ashram to fulfill himself, retrieve lost animals.., and collect the $10,000.There's....something!! Something, on the wing!! Ace brings a splash of synthetic color and eccentric humor to the traditionally dressed and mannered African tribe who are his host. Nevertheless, they become endeared to him and accept him.., at least temporarily. Every moment is hilarious, even when he is caught by a neighboring, hostile tribe and sentenced to the Wachutu trials of death. The ending is one of the best I have ever seen in a movie, and totally unexpected Ace manages to find the sacred bat and save a princess from a forced marriage, as well. (The results of his efforts are unanticipated, though.) There is nothing like this movie, and it is a gem to be treasured. "},{"Title":"An Almost Perfect Sequel","Date":"6 December 2011","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" A year before this sequel, we were introduced to Ace Ventura; a rude, wise cracking pet detective who has the reputation for being the ONLY pet detective. Guess what? He's back and still has every quality he had in the original. I know, it sounds like there's a catch here. Well there is not-at least with Jim Carrey's character. I did not like this movie as much as the original for one reason and one reason only. No it wasn't that Courtney Cox didn't reprise her role as Melissa Robinson. That I can deal with. My problem was that the story involved some characters that made Ace Ventura's character seem stupid. What made the original funny was that Ace Ventura was on top of his game. He knew what he was doing and how he was doing it. What also made it funny was that nobody ELSE knew what he was doing and although it seemed strange, Ventura got the job done. This occurred throughout the entire first film. And that's how it goes for most of this movie. The part of the movie that I think either did not need to be added or could have been modified was when Ace Ventura was among the African Tribes. What was so hard for me grasp was that in the first movie, they took a smart crazy detective and put him around a bunch of normal people that understood nothing of what he did. When Ventura is around the Tribe members, he is the dumb crazy detective. Why do I say this? Because Jim Carrey's character does not speak their language. It is this major flaw of why some of the laughs fail in this movie for me. For example, when Ventura starts to eat the food at the tribe's festival, he does not realize what he was eating until he is told what it really was. I thought Ventura was the smart one here? The whole point of the first film was so that the joke would be on everyone else; now the roles are switched? Why? Does the laugh really need to be on our comedic hero? It was at that point I started to wonder whether Ace really knew what he was doing.Of course these kinds of instances did not happen all the time. There were many parts where Ventura was surrounded by upper class people who thought they were better than he was and just like the first film he proved them wrong with a snotty remark and an obscene gesture. That's the old Ace I know! That is what made Ace Ventura such a character. Ace Ventura When Nature Calls is almost a perfect sequel. It still has good laughs but it is dumbed down by its mediocre screenplay. It is because of this that Ace Ventura does not seem always on top of everyone else like he was in the first film. "},{"Title":"Awesome Sequel","Date":"12 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I LOVE THIS Sequel. Sometimes when it comes to sequels, I often don't like but with this one it is one of the best sequels I have ever seen. It is just as good as the first one and it so many funny moments in it, you won't stop laughing through out the whole film. Jim Carrey was amazing as usual and his over the top character Ace Ventura still makes me laugh, especially when he stands out with his Hawaiian shirts. One of my favourite scenes has to be when he goes inside the bat cave and then tries to defend himself before running out screaming. If you like animals or if you just like the first movie then this is the film for you. say hello to my stinky little friend. "},{"Title":"Top shelf comedy","Date":"28 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I've been saving this movie for years for some kind of urgent need for a laugh emergency. But, it was on cable last night and since I was worn out and not interested in exerting enough energy to push a button on the remote, I resigned myself to the fact that perhaps I needed it and had saved it long enough. It was so funny I was practically hysterical and had suddenly lost that feeling of being too tired to move.Anyone who used to watch In Living Color can attest to Jim Carrey being a master of physical comedy. I used to watch him do utterly amazing stuff on that show and looked forward, every week, to seeing what he'd do next. Ace Ventura When Nature Calls is, unquestionably, Jim Carrey at his very best.That goes for the entire crew of the movie. I think many people tend not to notice but there are huge differences between the quality of a comedy such as When Nature Calls and the rather half-hearted movies that just don't work very well and are not very funny as a result. Some of this can be directly attributed to how well the director frames scenes and how well they maintain the energy. To how well the writers, director of photography and the film editor did their jobs. With When Nature Calls, you have all of these bases covered in spades. It's truly well made in front of, as well as behind, the camera.Carrey never loses his momentum in this movie. He goes over the top quite frequently. Unlike some other comedic actors, though, he seems to almost always know when to stop. And when to play it cool, although that doesn't happen very often. I don't know how much of the movie is scripted and how much was ad libbed, but whatever the combination, it works beautifully. It's almost always hilarious and the camera always seems to be in just the right place. Exquisite production.Ace Ventura is a force of nature and all the world's a straight man for him, apparently. No one is safe. He is constantly pulling someone's chain. Particularly the bad guys who he always has squarely in his sights. I would definitely recommend this movie to a family. The small children, particularly the boys, will get a big kick out of it. It's disgusting from time to time and drifts effortlessly in to the scatological here and there but it's all good. One tip when Ace gets to the African tribe's village, that might be a good time to leave the room for a few minutes. You're welcome. "},{"Title":"Not nearly as good as the first one.","Date":"14 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I just got done watching 'Ace Ventura' 1 as well as 2 in a row and I must sadly state I have been disappointed.Do not get me wrong; I like this movie, but not nearly as much as the first one. Though, gotta give it that The movie is still pretty funny, which, however, is expected of a comedy movie.Even though this movie is a tad longer than the first part, I just could not find myself puzzle over the (admittedly rather Indiana-Jones-like) case this time, whereas I had much fun doing that over the case in the first one. Simply put No suspense whatsoever in this one.As stated above, though, I did have to laugh quite a few times at the jokes presented in 'Ace Ventura When Nature Calls', which is not the only good thing (of course). This movie does still have an interesting story, which I believe to be quite surreal compared to the first movie, though that adds some more ridiculous vibe to this comedic title.Summarizing, there is only one thing left to say If you solely watch this movie for the comedic purpose, you shall have a great time! "},{"Title":"When Nature Calls Through Its Arse.","Date":"11 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" You either like Ace Ventura or you want to entrap him in a space capsule bound for the heart of the black hole at the center of the Milky Way. If you are of the latter persuasion, don't read on. It will only prompt you to spend inordinate amounts of money on the space program to construct that black hole-bound capsule.Jim Carrey once again tears comedy a new black hole as pet detective Ace Ventura in ACE VENTURA WHEN NATURE CALLS, the Hawaiian shirt-clad sequel to his breakout ACE VENTURA PET DETECTIVE.More muttonhead insanity for muttonheads. That doesn't mean this sequel isn't as bold, brash and bountifully braggadocio as its predecessor; a riotous laugh-a-minute wild kingdom zoo train (but see disclaimer above).Ace is called out of retirement by an explorer (a game Ian McNiece), to travel to Africa and locate a missing sacred white bat, which will avert war between two tribes. Along the way, he engages in a loogie-fest with the Wachati tribesmen, a test of manly skill with their opponents, the Wachootoo tribe (featuring Tommy Davidson as a maniacal little tribal warrior), is birthed naked by a robot rhinoceros, wrestles a crocodile, is forced into a Wolverine hairdo, deflowers a forbidden virgin tribesgirl, uncovers the whitey corporate plot (with Simon Callow as a contemptuous upper class Brit), and once again talks through his arse.It becomes obvious from this movie that Jim Carrey's inimitable performance in ACE VENTURA was no fluke and that his star rising was no accident. Seeing him in action, we realize that the White Boy from IN LIVING COLOR has become a dynamo force of nature that no vagaries of the industry could have stopped. Physical comedians Buster Keaton, Charlie Chaplin and Jerry Lewis were from an age long dead - the world was hungry for the next larger-than-life King of Comedy.Unlike mundane comedians like the Patton Oswalts and Ray Romanos (who rely on writing, direction, editing, soundtrack, to convey their stunted comedic stylings), Carrey is able to turn writing and storyline into a visual hurricane of ideas and kineticism, aware of every muscle in his body during every moment of screen time, ever driving to squeeze the last iota of juice from his performance. It is not that he is bombastic - of course he is, that's Ace - but that he can imbue that bombast with such creativity.Underneath it all, WHEN NATURE CALLS is a call to nature - the message of conservation spears home loud and clear. You Earth faddies should love that, right? No matter what you may think of Jim Carrey, he opened the way for a new strand of physical comedy, the likes of which Will Ferrell and Rob Schneider and Jason Biggs should be eternally grateful.So before you even speak of that black hole, deal with that black hole speaking....--Review by Poffy The Cucumber (for Poffy's Movie Mania). "},{"Title":"The most hilarious idiocy the world has ever known.","Date":"28 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I have to say that the sequel is slightly better than the original (although most people would disagree).  I saw this movie in the theater with my friend and we saw it about 5 times after, and it still makes me laugh 4 years later.  There was one really small part on network TV (the movie aired before Storm of the Century on Feb. 14) after he pushes himself out of the rhino.  Made me laugh hysterically when he first walks through the Wachati town.  Great movie and Jim Carrey is still at his best. "}{"Title":"How the mighty have fallen.","Date":"25 March 2005","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Ace Ventura - When Nature Calls, was the first movie I can remember that I simply had to see. Not because the first movie was that good but there was just something so mesmerising about Carrey that he was too important to ignore at that time. He had three hit movies in a row, although I didn't really enjoy Dumb & Dumber that much either. Boy, was I disappointed. Not only did the movie suck but there is a mean spiritness running all the way through the proceedings that is hard to swallow. I am not talking about the gross-out humor, like Carrey making the biggest loogie in history (by the way that was quite disturbing) but the director seems to think that Ace has to be the World's biggest jerk to survive in the African setting.As in the first film, many of the supporting characters are just decorative, except Simon Callow (he was the gay guy who croaks in Four Weddings and a Funeral) and Sophie Okenedo. It's amazing she was nominated for an Oscar this year judged by this film. Carrey totally dominates every scene and it looks like that the star in him has taken over completely. That's acceptable, as so many 20 million Dollar men would probably do the same.The plot of the movie does seem more thought out but in this kind of venture who cares. It is totally under the mercy of how many catchphrases Carrey can recite and the rather embarrassing slapstick humor. Another annoying thing is the way Ventura has suddenly been turned into a pervert although the twist at the end is rather clever.So in summary the film is in very bad taste but there was a market for that sort of thing as the movie was a huge hit. But please, let's stop the insanity before Jack Black, who is the next pretender to Carrey's place, takes over. "},{"Title":"When Nature Calls, Avoid This Film.","Date":"14 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Ace Ventura When Nature Calls (1995) Dir Steve Oedekerk / Cast Jim Carrey, Ian McNeice, Simon Callow, Sophie Okonodo, Bob Gunton Dumb comedy about the union between man and animals and the stand to preserve wildlife. It opens with a parody of Cliffhanger where Ace Ventura fails to save a raccoon stranded on a mountainside. Depressed, he secludes himself in a temple until he is summoned to Africa to find the sacred bat thus preventing a war between two tribes. Basically the same stupid concept as Ace Ventura Pet Detective that devises predictable developments and recycled dialogue. The tribal jokes are offensive but director Steve Oedekerk allows for beautiful shots of Africa that are pretty much the best aspect of the film. In fact, watching ninety minutes of African footage on your average wildlife program would be better time spent than watching this. Jim Carrey does nothing new accept portray Ace as a bigger jackass. Ian McNeice is wasted as Ace's contact. Simon Callow plays the villain whose final scene has him molested by a gorilla. Sophie Okonodo plays the tribal Princess who encounters Ventura and allows him to pop her cherry before her wedding. This has him chased away from the village in a manner that many critics of this film may of felt. Serves only as a lame sequel and with all its idiotic mayhem it's a wonder why anyone would want to hear nature call. Score 3 / 10 "},{"Title":"Damn good sequel","Date":"17 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This inevitable sequel finds Jim Carrey reprising his role as the world's greatest pet detective. His latest case, the disappearance of a rare African white bat, draws him out of his spiritual retreat at a Tibetan monastery following the tragic outcome of his previous case. That traumatic experience, which makes for a hilarious opening-scene send-up of the Stallone thriller Cliffhanger, prompts Ace to venture to Africa, where he goes native with the tribe that hired him to find their symbolic bat. From that point anything goes, with Carrey pushing the boundaries of good taste (what, you were expecting good taste?) up to and including his now-infamous birth scene from the backside of a mechanical rhinoceros. Lighten up, and don't be ashamed if you find yourself laughing. "},{"Title":"improved on the original, a rarity among stupid comedy sequels","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  As so-called stupid comedies go, Ace Ventura When Nature Calls is one of the better ones.  It's considerably funnier than the original, as Jim Carrey reprises his Ace character with more rediculous-yet-funny pratfalls and physical gags.  Like most movies of its ilk, this film requires a certain mood in order for enjoyment to happen while watching it.  Also, like virtually all movies of this type, the plot is paper-thin and the dramatic acting is non-existent.  The storyline functions as a vehicle for Carrey's antics more than anything else.  Because of the sheer lack of artistry in these types of films, 6 out of 10 is about as good as it gets - which, of course, isn't to say that the film is entirely bereft of merit.  It definitely has some hilarious parts, scenes that only Carrey himself could pull off.  Just don't go in expecting to be floored by the flawless execution of art, and you should walk away from this one intact. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Carrey is the only good thing in this film!","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie definitely wasn't as good as the first one! I did like it, but only because of Carrey's performance. He is brilliant when it comes to comedy. But the plot and storyline is really disappointing. There was so much they could have done with this sequel. I give it a 6 out of 10! "},{"Title":"Not As Good As the First Film, But What It","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Ace Is The Man to Ask When A Sacred Bat is stolen.If You Are A Carrey Fan, Its A Must See, If You Liked The First One, Its good to see how ace has done in his life.OK A lot of the jokes, are recycled, and Aces pet Monkey Spike has a more pomenent role.  Like i have alredy said Not one as good as the original, but what is.  Its my belif, that if this was original, it would have been Received better, by Fans and critics alike "},{"Title":"Ace is Back on the Case","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  When an sacred albino bat is stolen Ace goes to Africa to find it before two African tribes go to war.  Ace Ventura is back in this grosser, but not quite as funny adventure.  This one has less plot and more jokes than the original and unfortunately many of them are not funny.  Jim Carrey, however, does what he can with it and still does a great job.  I am not saying it is a terrible movie, it is funny, just not as funny as the original.  ** out of **** "},{"Title":"3 and a half out of 5","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  WARNING MAY CONTAIN SPOILERSAce Ventura When Nature Calls is funny, but doesn't quite make it into the big Jim Carrey hype. Yes, I laughed my butt off, but it still didn't make it. Here is a reviewAGAIN MAY CONTAIN SPOLIERS YOU HAVEN'T SEEN MOVIE YET STOP READING HERELike for instance, the only part of the movie I find very funny, and it is my favorite part by the way is where Ace comes out the machine rhinos butt. I found that cool.And after he retrieves the bat; he gives it to the now friends tribe. There the man who beat him up realises that his new wife, isn't a virgin. Then the chase is on with the indians and ace. Again, not the original, but funny none the less3 1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Carrey is funny","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I gave this a 5 rating due to Jim Carrey's funny antics, which keeps this films ratings up this high.  Still, watch this film as the laughs/antics are all there for all to enjoy. "},{"Title":"A laugh out-loud hit!","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was great. I enjoyed it so much because it had so much good comedy. I would recommend this film to people who like slapstick comedy because those type of people would appreciate this film's humor. Thank you very much. "}{"Title":"I like it better than the first film!","Date":"21 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I just watched this for the....fourth time ever I think, and parts still make me laugh out loud. If you like Jim Carrey and you didn't like Dumb and Dumber as much as the first Ace Ventura (like me) then you'll welcome this work from his portfolio. Granted, like Dumb and Dumber there is a mucous scene which could have been funnier if they had stopped just short of showing it because you already got the joke before it happened (as with the Fat B**tard stool sample scene in Austin Powers 2). What I enjoyed most about the movie was that they expanded on Ace's exposure to upper class conservatives (or twits as the Pythons would call them) which sprouts a myriad of jokes and humiliations that Jim Carrey performs so well. While I find the first Ace Ventura movie difficult to remember (I own it as well) this sequel has enough enjoyable moments that I think of it often enough to put in the VCR. If you long for more great expressions and hilarious dialog from Jim Carrey, this movie has it! "},{"Title":"I've seen it dozens of times","Date":"27 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I've seen both Ace movies dozens of times each and I can't decide which one I like better. I loved the sequel and didn't think it was bad at all. This is one of my favorite movies and I quote it all the time. The humor was hilarious. I loved the movie, it was great! "},{"Title":"Jim Carrey's best.","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This film is absolutely Jim Carrey's best movie. I laugh at least 20 times even though it was the third time I saw it. Almost everything is funny. Jim's hairstyle is the coolest hairstyle of all time. And his robber face is best. "},{"Title":"A pure gut-buster","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  ACE VENTURA WHEN NATURE CALLS, in my opinion, is a pure gut-buster. I laughed REALLY hard when Ace (Jim Carrey) sang The Slinky Song, imitated jungle animals, and mocked the Monopoly guy (Michael Reid MacKay). As a matter of fact, I laughed at just about every funny thing he did. In addition, I have a LOT of favorite parts of this movie -- Especially when Ace picked up the skunk and said, Say hello to my stinky friend. Before I wrap this up, I'd like to say, If you're going to see this movie, prepare to laugh until it hurts! Now, in conclusion, I HIGHLY recommend this gut-busting comedy to those of you who are Jim Carrey fans or like gut-busting laughs.  "},{"Title":"A worthy sequel.","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  (spoilers) Ace Ventura When Nature Calls is unmistakably a childish movie, but so is the first Ace Ventura, so what did you expect? The opening sequence involving a raccoon suspended from a wire high up in the mountains (in an amusing parody of Cliffhanger) is a little too cheesy even by Ventura standards at some points, but the movie as a whole is a very satisfying comedy. Ace commits himself to an Ashram after losing the raccoon, unable to bear the emotional turmoil of allowing the poor animal to fall to its death. When Fulton Greenwall shows up to ask for Ace's help in retrieving a sacred bat so that war between two African tribes can be prevented, Ace at first refuses the task, citing how sorely needed he is here at the Ashram. The monks' wild party after he agrees to take the case was a little too childish, but it was a hilarious scene when Ace rolls the slinky down the stairs of the Ashram (`Of course! Let's do all the things that YOU wanna do&#133;'), and it was even funnier when Greenwall was trying to explain the situation to Ace on the plane (`I'm sorry, what were you saying?').There are a lot of goofball antics that sink slightly below the level of Ace Ventura comedy, such as the dusting for fingerprints scene and Ace's `meditation' scene, but there is no shortage of laughs in the film. The hilarious scene at Ronald Kamp's party is also done in a slightly different version here, as Greenwall takes Ace to see Vincent Cadby at the consulate in Africa (`Funny, it didn't seem that painful when you were doing it to the horse&#133;'). Some of the jokes are recycled, such as Ace's breathless analysis of Cadby, but even these recycled jokes are not entirely without effect. In the movie's defense, at least the jokes weren't copied to the extent that they were copied in the sequel to Austin Powers, which was far inferior to the original.Jim Carrey delivered a style of acting in the Ace Ventura films that is fairly unique to them - he never really acted this crazy in any of his later films, probably because he became so much more well-known and this kind of acting was just too silly for the quality of an actor that he later proved himself to be. There was some of what could be called over-acting in Ace Ventura When Nature Calls, but the comedy is never compromised because of this. The Ace Ventura's are not the most classy comedies ever made, and they require the presence of at least some of your inner child in order to fully enjoy, but their comedic appeal is much higher than is common in movies like this. Watch them with an open mind, and you're sure to enjoy them. "},{"Title":"Better than the original","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is in my opinion better than Ace Ventura Pet Detective. Ace can do a lot with the African setting. This time he is in search of a great white bat that can reunite two tribes. The only problem is that bats are possibly the only animal that Ace fears. This leads to a wild nonstop laugh filled adventure that goes from the high mountains of Tibet, to the dark jungles and caves of Africa. "},{"Title":"Funny Film","Date":"13 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Not as good as the first but it is still worth watching. Jim Carey returns as the crazy pet detective Ace Ventura in this sequel to the first. In this one he is attempting to find a lost bat for an Indian tribe in the South American jungles. Getting into all situations this film is worth watching if you want to laugh your head off. "},{"Title":"ace ventura returns","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  alrighty then... this movie is absolutely wild and crazy.Jim Carrey confirms once more that he is the comedian of the moment, giving us a frenetic jerry lewis performance. But i must admit that i enjoy the first movie much more, this one has many rip offs scenes and quotes from the first movie and it tends to exagerate everything, duplicating the craziness and the wildness of the first movie, and isn't always a good thing. But you know what? Who cares, the movie is still hilarious and it's a must see for all the fans of this type of comedy (the one that has no rules and everything goes), for the others who like a more normal comedy, don't see this movie. It's also a must for all Jim Carrey's fans 'coz he's absolutely brilliant in this movie. "},{"Title":"Jim Carrey showing them what comedies all about!","Date":"23 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I was SO surprised at the ridicule this film receives in its votes that i felt obliged to protect its GOOD name.First of all, this film is 10 times funnier than the first ace ventura with twice the jokes and 100 times the craziness.Also the plotline is VERY bloody good and blends beautifully with the comedy so zanily provided by the lord of funnymen Jim Carrey.Anybody in the critics section who tries  to say that this film is stupid and immature needs to grow up themselves as they were proably just pi***ed off at the fart jokes and felt insulted to hear such 'VILE language'.Basically this film was and always will be a work of genius and proves that Jim Carrey is the funnyman of the new millennium, well him or Adam Sandler. "},{"Title":"Lots of Carrey crazy gags but not much plot","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Less plot than the original, this movie is really just a Jim Carrey showcase. Fortunately Jim Carey is totally wild and crazy and there are enough gags to keep the film going. Going down the temple steps and the monkey and waterfall really had me heaving with laughter. There's not too much in terms of sophistication and some of the gags aren't too suitable for younger ears.Watch it in a relaxed, undemanding mood with a couple of friends - chat and laugh your way through it.  "}{"Title":"I like it a lot.","Date":"26 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The first time I saw this film I hated it, but the second time I saw it... Well, you know where I'm going with this... In all seriousness, I would say(with a straight face)that this is one of the greatest movies ever made. A quote for the poster Better than Citizen Kane.   "},{"Title":"Oh no! Please not!","Date":"20 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I watched Ace Ventura II in the cinema. I JUST SMILED ONE TIME and the rest of the audience wasn't very pleased too! The first part Pet Detective was really one of the best comedies I've ever seen, I nearly laughed me to death! But the second Ace is (in my opinion) just a poor piece of crap! The movie is full with a totally different kind of humor than part one. It's not funny, it's just stupid!  "},{"Title":"Doesn't live up to original!","Date":"1 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Ace Ventura When Nature Calls was dull. The jokes were cheap and not funny. Some parts of the movie were alright but nothing big, all and all the movie was boring. 4/10 "},{"Title":"The guy with the hair is back!","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is not quite as funny as the first one (Ace Ventura Pet Detective), but it's close. The comedy is totally weird again, and I didn't expect anything less. The plot is not worth mentioning, and there is no special affects or dramatic acting, but who needs those elements in a crazy comedy? Not me. Ace Ventura When Nature Calls is a must-see for all who like Carrey's comedy. A couple of words of warning If you do NOT like Carrey's humor (for what ever reason), you're going to hate this movie, since this movie is based totally on Carrey's comedy. "},{"Title":"The Film Is Garbage, Carrey Is Hilarious","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  WHO really cares what the plot, setting and other characters are like in this movie? They're boring if you're really interested, but the only reason this movie was made was for audiences to see  Jim Carrey's insane character again. And he is absolutely hilarious. The stand out scene has him driving through the African jungles singing Chitty Chitty Bang Bang to his furious companion and intentionally hurling the jeep into the air before crashing into the spot he wants....LLLLLLLLLlike-a-glove!!! Then he goes into the party in the country house, and messes about endlessly, and it's obvious Carrey was in a really silly mood for most of this. Okay, the movie is absolute garbage. But Jim Carrey is absolutely hilarious, and this confirms him as the Funniest Person Of All Time. Surely worth watching for that. "},{"Title":"Not funny, just silly","Date":"10 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Jim Carrey is an actor who constantly runs the risk of crossing the border between being outrageously funny or being outrageously overacting silly.Where he stayed on the good side of the border in part one, part two is only funny in a few places and Carrey turns from being funny into somewhat boringly embarrassing. It looks like Carrey had a free hand and four liters of coffee a day. And everyone in this film, probably including the director, didn't know how to stop him or to behave around him.Just stick to number one, and forget this. "},{"Title":"Not as good as the original, but still worth watching.","Date":"16 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie isn't as funny as the original but it's still worth watching. It seems that no matter what movie Jim Carrey is in it still makes me laugh. "},{"Title":"Alrighty then! This movie is really funny! A must-watch!","Date":"26 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Shikaka! Ace Ventura is one of my favorite movie characters of all time! This character catapulted Jim Carrey from small TV character actor from 'In Living Color', to A-list celebrity, when the film, 1994's Ace Ventura Pet Detective became a surprise hit. The first movie was such a hit, it spawn a somewhat funny animated television series (1995 to 2000) and one really bad 2009 spin-off children movie, Ace Ventura, Jr. Pet Detective. The best from all of these films, had to be the 1995 sequel, Ace Ventura When Nature Calls. This film has developed a large cult following since its release and I agree with them. This movie in my opinion, is probably the funniest Jim Carrey's movie in the 1990s. Yes, I said it! Jim Carrey reprises his role as the title character Ace Ventura, a detective who specializes in retrieval of tame and captive animals. This time, Ace Ventura is heading to Africa, to recover a sacred bat stolen from poachers, before two African tribes go to war because of it. Directed by Steve Oedekerk, the movie did a great job in location. I really thought, the movie was filmed in some type of Africa country. Actually, the film shot in various locations in and around Charleston, South Carolina, San Antonio, Texas and British Columbia, Canada. Who knew! The writing for this film is just amazing. Not only is the jokes, more hits than misses to the funny bone, but it's very clever with its gross out puns/sight gags, pop culture references, and movie parody humor of previous films like 1993's Cliffhanger. The crime solving mystery of the film is also pretty brilliant. You really get into the story, as Ace Ventura recover clue after clue. The best highlight of the film is Jim Carrey's acting. The way, he can move his body in a silly way for slapstick humor was astonishing. In his day, nobody could touch this guy for pure facial and voice comedy. You can tell that Carrey is having the time of his life just ad-libbing and winging it. Yes, he did overact, a bit here and became more like a cartoon than a person, but his overacting as Ace made it, very entertaining. This was Jim Carrey in his prime. He was and still is a mad genius at making people laughs, but lately hasn't found good material and tamed done since then. If there was any reason to watch this film, it's for his performance here. You'll find yourself, laughing more than once. I remember my whole family were crying, unable to breath with laughter the first time watching this. Spank you very much, Ace Ventura for making me laugh. The main theme song is pretty catchy by Robert Folk. The movie does a great job using establish songs like 'Secret Agent Man' & 'Lion Sleeps Tonight' to add to the humor. Indeed, the movie did come with alternative versions, when aired in syndication in International countries and on television. In order to receive a PG certificate, the UK release of the film features a number of cuts, equaling one minute and 35 seconds for the theatrical release, plus a further three seconds when re-classified for home video. This version is the worst, as it cut really funny scenes like Bumblebee tuna balls joke, and alternative version of the 'rhino scene'. Don't watch this version. Just find the US standard. Nature Calls does have considerably less offensive swearing, sexual jokes, and vulgarity than the previous film, but it doesn't really affects the quality of the film. Yes, there was Product Placement. An obvious ad of Subway is placed on a highway billboard early in When Nature Calls, but it was used as a gag about being in nature. The pacing is a bit off for a 90 minute film. Honestly, they could have cut like the whole first 15 minutes as it takes him forever to get to Africa and the story to start. None of the first part in the Himalayas and Tibet were that funny to begin with. The supporting cast was a bit missing. The female lead, the Princess (Sophie Okonedo) was barely in the film, and just there for somebody for Ace to bang with. It's a far cry from big female leads of Courtney Cox and Sean Young from the last movie. At less, this movie get a really good funny supporting character name Oda (Maynard Eziashi) that made scenes way funny. Ian McNeice as Fulton Greenwall & Bob Gunton as Burton Quinn & Simon Callow really did work, well as the straight man stock characters to Jim Carrey's outrageous cartoon character. Even fellow 'In Living Color' cast member, Tommy Davidson, got a few laughs in, as the Tiny Warrior. Overall It's a movie that you find yourself, rewatching it time after time, because it's so funny. You'll find yourself repeating the funny phrases and wisecracks. Ace Ventura When Nature Calls is a must watch, must have, film to add to your comedy collection. "},{"Title":"For the 9 year old in all of us......................","Date":"8 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Poo jokes,w*nk jokes,lunatic general behaviour,Mr Carrey once again appeals to the unrestrained 9 year old in all of us.Now while this may be all fine and good for ten minutes or so I'm afraid it is far too repetitive and tedious when stretched out over a whole movie. There is no place for comic natives in mainstream films today,not even if they are speciously explained away as being satirical;this sort of rubbish should have passed away with Call me Bwana.I found it very patronising and am surprised that Mr Carrey - presumably as liberal as most Hollywood actors - performed those scenes with such relish,even accepting the proviso that he is clearly portraying a man of very little brain. His is a curious appeal,my personal preference is for his performance in The Majestic,not a comedy at all,rather than the more usual The Truman Show,which in my view sledgehammers its points home. His fans will no doubt pooh - pooh (if you'll pardon the expression) all this as the ramblings of an embittered humourless old man,and of course I would die to preserve their right to do so - but I believe Mr Carrey to be a late 20th century Jerry Lewis without the depth,subtlety,gravitas and charm - and I don't say that very often.... "},{"Title":"Put together Antic + Windy + Fandango + Unbridled + Lewd and you'll have one word  AWFUL !","Date":"3 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" It's obvious how after the success of Ace Ventura Pet Detective, The Mask, Dumb & Dumber (believe it or not all released in one year) the producers gave free rein to (Jim Carrey) to do whatever he wants, and I mean ALL WHATEVER HE WANTS ! But that's not necessarily a good thing !Actually this movie (or rather Carrey) tries so hard to be at the furthest nasty limit. The thing is this nastiness wasn't laughable inasmuch as dreadful. Regard well  (Carrey) suffers from sexual repression so he masturbates (that's not funny or has been done in a funny way !), (Carrey) in some African fight with a man of the primitive tribes so he unclothes the last one's underwear to make him butt naked, (Carrey) in the most concocted scene comes totally naked out of rhinoceros's ass, then at the most violent scene &#x96; that gave me one of the highest disgusting moment I've ever lived - (Carrey) puts his own hand so all of his arm in the mouth of an ill man (that's sickening horror not comic at all !??), and finally look at (Carrey) speaks, literally, out of his ass (or for better don't !).I could swear no script got all of this. They seem all parts of (Carrey)'s antic behaviors at the moment. He was here something between Jerry Lewis of the 1990s with touches of (John Waters) filthy cinema. And by all means the final result was intolerable crap that hurts your nervous system more than putting a smile on your face.Historically, it was about time for this kind of comedies to rule. In the next 4 years you'd have (The Nutty Professor), (Kingpin), (There's Something About Mary), (Deuce Bigalow Male Gigolo), and of course (American Pie) where the comedy is nothing but heavy amount of sperms, urine, and all what the rudeness dictionary could contain. Definitely that found an audience that took a fancy to it, compensating a certain quantity of lost filth in their life or maybe feeding their inner longing for more. In any case, I'm not a big fan.Though, (When Nature Calls) isn't totally unfunny. There are some moments where Carry provides some chuckles. But that was in rare places. Originally the cartoonish persona of Ace Ventura, that (Carrey) carried out perfectly in part one, was creatively different, a bit childish, and totally entertaining. Yet here, OH MY GOD, it transformed into (Carrey) himself with all the unfunny wanton manners. And despite having an agreeable plot, the loud sense surpassed and ruined the good bits. So even if we replaced the word Fandango in the previous equation with the word Funny for some time, it'll still give the same resultant  Awful !It assures how (Carrey) was a walking special comedy back then. And how the studio loved the money that that brings. So watch (or watch out !) the real sinister climax of that - one year ahead - in (The Cable Guy). At that one he had - for the first time it happens for an actor in the history of cinema - a sum of 20 million dollar salary, to deliver nothing but unbridled ridiculousness! Actually in a few years (Carrey), or us, got board. So he brilliantly developed another more sane persona, considering Ace Ventura as an era that must not go forever. Wise move if you ask me.If you loved the first one, then this sequel will disturb, if not offend, you. I think the title (When Nature Calls!) says it all, giving us a cinematic toilet to get rid of what bothers you, yet I found more of that there ! "}{"Title":"The Hair... DAMN THE HAIR!!!","Date":"20 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Ace Ventura returns for more...After a serious animal-rescue accident parodying a little movie called Cliffhanger, Ace resigns himself to a monestary at the top of a loooooooong set of stairs. The kidnapping of a bat, however, forces him out of retirement, along with his pet monkey Spike and a slinky.Personally, I like it better than the original, but at the same time it's still a kiddie comedy. Nothing too special about it, and once again, Jim Carrey pulls the weight of the movie, although the supporting cast is a bit better.Not recommended for anyone in the mood for a good laugh. "},{"Title":"Ups and downs....","Date":"6 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The sequel to the hilarious antics of pet detective Ace Ventura has its ups and downs. For the most part, its the standard level of humor, the kind you'd expect for the character. There are fun elements, and some really funny spots. But like all good comedies, you can't watch it repeatedly over a short time. A movie like this has to appreciate - watch it once, then wait a year. By then the humor will seem fresh again. "},{"Title":"It's a little improvement","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  ** 1/2Starring Jim Carrey, Ian McNeice, and Simon Callow (Is it just me or does that name sound exactly like the mean guy on American Idol?)Ace Ventura, an investigator specializing with animals, must come out of retirement in order to retrieve a sacred white bat that is vital to a tribe.  He doesn't have a Friends sidekick, but he does have an interesting sidekick.The movie is a slight improvement over the original.  It still has 1st and 2nd grade humor, but thankfully lacks the inappropriate jokes that the first one had. "},{"Title":"The Sequel that was better, but wasnt good enough.","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This was an improvement from the previous original Ventura flick but it still lacks quality.  Carrey does some wacky hilarious things with himself in the hut and the spit loving but otherwise the journey he takes in the jungle is only good when you see him being reborn through the anus of a fake rhino. Rating4 "},{"Title":"Ace Ventura When Nature Shags","Date":"11 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is definitely as funny as the original. Many will disagree but while the original had a WAY better plot the jokes and gags in this movie are hilarious and perhaps a 'little' better then the original. As an overall I would say this movie is as good as the original.3(***)out of 4(****)stars "},{"Title":"It could've been funnier","Date":"19 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A sequel to the surprise hit Ace Ventura Pet Detective seemed inevitable. By placing Ace (once again portrayed by the hilarious Jim Carrey) in the jungles of Africa on a case to find an African tribe's bat mascot and prevent a tribal war, I originally thought that this film was going to be funnier than the first one. However, this sequel suffers from too many frequent forays into (mostly unnecessary) gross out comedy bits. It is not an entirely bad film and it is certainly better than The Mask and Dumb And Dumber, both of which were mostly groanfests, but Carrey did deserve a better way to resurrect his star making character. A short lived Saturday morning animated series which aired on CBS during the 1995-1996 season didn't help either.  "},{"Title":"decent sequel","Date":"9 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Jim Carrey still manages to get lots of laughs in this sequel. A spoof of Cliffhanger is one of the best moments, but some of the other gags don't quite hit the mark. Overall, a sequel worth watching, but still not great. 2/4 "},{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"20 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This was an absolutely horrendous movie full of bathroom humor that is aimed at getting a cheap laugh.  The only reason that this movie was made was because of the theory that if a movie makes a big splash and becomes a big time hit then a sequel will also be a big hit.  Often times that is not the case and this movie is one of those.   The first Ace Ventura had a lot of the same bathroom humor and slapstick humor but it went about it in a more tasteful way.  The first movie has a believable plot and does a good job of telling the story.  This movie however was totally unbelievable and at some points utterly stupid. In the beginning where Ace Ventura becomes a very spiritual man is totally unrealistic and turned me off to the rest of the movie.    "},{"Title":"Pure Carrey","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Ace is back and better than ever!  I actually enjoyed this film more than its predecessor.  It's Carrey at his best!My favorite part  When Ace is attempting to catch the fleeing evil mastermind who has stolen a jeep.  Ace tries to follow him, but the quaint little vehicles all lined up neatly in a row are all locked . . . except for a 20-foot monster truck at the end that just HAPPENS to have the keys left in it.A must-see for Carrey fans! "},{"Title":"Going fully into fantasy","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  No doubt this film had its hilarious moments, but overall it is inferior to the first Ace Ventura flick.In the first movie, Jim Carey acted over the top in a real city with a real football team. Miami may be crazy, but not as much as Jim Carey. Reality was Jim Carey's foil. And the joke was on reality. He also had his down time, when he was real and not so wound up alrighty then.In this one, Jim Carey has done away with any resemblance of Ace Ventura to a real person. He's a cartoon character now, not just a zany free spirit. He's thrown away the off button. No rest for this guy, even when meditating. But that doesn't mean he's funny just because he's on.The new movie doesn't take place in the real world, either. It's not Nairobi or Johannesburg or even a real rural Africa, but some fictional Africa where Apartheid seems intact, natives still fight wars with spears and there exists a species of great white bat. Goofy native customs are made up solely for ridicule. In other words, Jim Carey has given up the first movie's one foot in reality and settled on a stereotypical fantasy Africa.The problem is that when you don't know how a culture is in reality, it's hard to tell when the culture is being lampooned. "}{"Title":"Way too exaggerated to be better than the original but OK.","Date":"27 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  **Please excuse me for some spelling-misstakes**                              This sequel is very unrealistic. It isn't just POSSIBLE that our friend Ace EVER                               would lay himself in some kind of buddha temple in Tibet. Even worse is that it                               isn't Ace. This is the only sequel I have ever seen where the original front figure is                               a completely other person. I can't really see any kind of simularity. I shouldn't                               really complane since I know deep inside of me that I laughed till my eyes                               popped out at all the bad jokes and crazy comic that Carrey brings out. If you                               thought the first movie was not enough wild n' crazy SEE THIS MOVIE. If you                               simply hated the original DON'T THINK THE THOUGHT ABOUT SEEING                               THIS MOVIE!!!!   "},{"Title":"Very very unworthy sequel","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I was shaky about ACE VENTURA PET DETECTIVE. It treaded on the line between funny and silly, between good and bad. This one crossed the line. It wasn't especially bad, but I can't call it good. Most of the good jokes are recycled from ACE VENTURE PET DETECTIVE. All that's left within ACE VENTURA WHEN NATURE CALLS are stupid gags. (This proves my theory that sequels that are made the very next year of the movie are never as good, aside from SCREAM 2.)Ace Ventura, (Jim Carrey) after accidentally letting an animal die in one of his cases, has gone into self-imposed exile. But he returns to the pet cases at the request of Fulton Greenwall (Ian McNeice) to save a sacred bat. The wealthy Vincent Cadby (Simon Callow) has paid Ventura to save the bat before two African tribes go to war over it.Jim Carrey is his usual overacting self in this movie, but it's more annoying this time. This is the stage of his career I really didn't care for. This movie is still not as bad as DUMB & DUMBER, though, but the jokes are either old from the first movie or stupid. Ian McNeice and Simon Callow do an OK job, but their characters are not interesting because of bad plot and acting. The absence of Courtney Cox is probably the worst part of the movie.My final analyses...don't bother with this movie unless you are a Jim Carrey fan. "},{"Title":"when nausea calls......","Date":"8 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Having enjoyed Jim Carrey's mildly entertaining debut in 'A.V. - Pet Detective', I gave When Nature Calls a shot.I hope Carrey has been shrewdly investing the big bucks he's been getting to make these movies, because I don't see how he's going to parlay this junior high schmuck routine into a lifelong career.I don't know whether the script (such as it is) is weaker than in the first one, or it's just that this shtick wears progressively thinner and thinner (and more and more annoying), but suffice it to say that before the thing even finished I abandoned ship to watch a press conference by Richard Gephardt. The press conference was more amusing.  "},{"Title":"A bad movie","Date":"24 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is definitely a bad movie. Now I didn't like the original Ace but at least it had a few laughs. This movie isn't funny, well acted or anywhere near interesting. I liked Jim Carrey a lot in Liar Liar and The Truman Show and hopefully he won't do another bad movie as bad as this one again. * out of **** for Ace Ventura When Nature Calls. "},{"Title":"Too much body fluid","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Despite my guilty pleasure of enjoying the humor of Jim Carrey, this film was over the top with body fluid humor. I'm not comfortable with my body fluids, let alone those of Mr. Carrey. Plus, he lashes out against bats, one of the most misunderstood creatures in the animal kingdom. Bats are our friends. Shame on you Mr. Carrey.  "},{"Title":"Very funny","Date":"17 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A very funny film, one of the funniest around. 'Ace VenturaWhen Nature Calls isn't quite as good as the original, but is still quite good.  This one is about him going to Africa to find a sacred bat before a couple are married.  If the couple from different tribes are married without the bat, the tribes will go to war.  The only problem, it turns out that Ace doesn't like bats.  The same type of humour is employed here as in the first, and Jim Carrey fans will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"i gave 8/10 to this one..","Date":"26 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  since i do not like those movies about sports, dancing, and somemusicals. i dont think theres any reasons or rights for me to sayanything about those who dont these kind of comedy flicks.oh well, i liked this movie, it was just fun. i was laughingthroughtout the whole movie, i dont know why, and once again ifu do not like these kind of movies, i feel so sorry that u saw it.8/10 "},{"Title":"Funniest movie of 1995!","Date":"7 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"     Jim Carrey is at it again!  This time our hero Ace Ventura goes out of retirement and ventures into Africa to investigate a rare white bat and has to go up against a big game hunter and his henchmen who have stolen the bat.  And Ace is grossed out and frightened of bats!  Ace Ventura When Nature Calls is just as witty and hilarious as it's predessessor.     My favorite scenes were when Ace captured Quinn, and 'tormented' him by trying to make him talk about the whereabouts of the white bat. And who can forget seeing Jim Carrey driving a monster truck shouting, Nobody wants to play with me!  And a lot of other scenes that I can't describe because it was all funny!  Other Carrey fans might agree too if they had seen all his movies!      Give Ace Ventura parts 1 and 2 a chance!  Those movies deserve to be watched, unless of course you don't like comedies!  ;)  And I completely understand why some people wouldn't like him or his humor and that's fine with me.  Heck, Jim Carrey is so popular, that during the theatrical releases of some of his earlier movies later on became animated series for the younger generation of fans!  A great movie to watch with family, friends, and fellow Jim Carrey fans!  I give both Ace Ventura movies 4 stars! "},{"Title":"Horrible sequel","Date":"24 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Jim Carrey stars again as Ace Ventura in this fly by night sequel whose script looks like it was pounded out in a day.. While the first one was crude and funny ..this one is just crude..hardly any laughs at all.. it just seems tired and you just want it to end..on a scale of one to ten...2 "},{"Title":"Carrey at his worst.","Date":"20 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The strength of the original was allowing Carrey to display his own unique brand of wild anarchic humour within a story which, while slightly ludicrous, was at least plausible, entertaining, and believeable.This sequel fails because it looses that vital final element. While the directing allows Carrey to go a bit too far into toilet humour at times, the scene where a mechanical rhino gives birth to Carrey especially, this is half expected in a sequel to such a movie and does not ruin it entirely. Its failure is the sheer stupidity of Ventura gaining 'spiritual enlightenment' in Tibet, before being called over to Africa to meet a series of English stereotypes while trying to solve a truly implausible plot.I still cannot believe that such respectable actors such as Simon Callow would agree to do this type of movie, something that all other Hollywood actors from the first movie avoided.At his best, Carrey is hilariously funny, at his worst, he's like this. "}{"Title":"Alrighty Than is back and hilarious as always","Date":"11 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" After Pet Detective there was yet ANOTHER Jim Carrey installment of Ace Ventura and boy was this even more hilarious. Here Jim Carrey's charcther is send to Africa alongside a British explorer to find the missing bat.The opening scenes of Ace Ventura sees him climbing a mountain and meeting Hindu men and his raccoon falls to his death as the harness gets loose.Of course there is more slapstick humor throughout including a scene where Ace is inside a robotic rhino and he has to take off his clothes as the machine got broken down and the only way to get out of the robotic rhino was the get out of his backside,leaving the visitors of the outback of Africa to assume that the so called Rhino was having a baby. That was hilarious. Of course Ace Ventura has to solve the mystery as to where the bat is and who is the culprit again. Overall its not as funny as the first one and Jim Carrey is still Jim Carrey with his whacky over the top image that he had in the 1990s before he got serious with his films. But still if you are a fan of the first film and a fan of Jim Carrey,this isn't a bad film to see on TV or if you get it on DVD. Check it out and see what you think.5.5/10Out of 5 stars 2 and a half out of 5. "},{"Title":"Gravy!","Date":"4 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie was hilarious! It's kind of on the same level as the first movie. Both movies made me laugh out loud. This film features your different kind of humor. The humor in these films isn't your usual fast wit kind. It's the slapstick kind of comedy where things actually happen. People were hit, people were made fun of, people had stuff done to them, etc. It also includes crude humor. Different and kind of rude, but still hilarious.The plot wasn't exactly A+, but the humor made up for it. I mean, really. It did. Jim Carrey saved this movie. Jim Carrey was really perfect for this role. Crazy-ass Ace Ventura. Who else can play such a part? "},{"Title":"Pet dick Part II","Date":"2 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Ace Ventura When Nature calls is even sillier than the original. The original film was really silly. I didn't exactly like it as much as the original, but it's still really funny. I know most people will disagree with me. But I give it a thumbs up anyways. Despite it's silliness. Anytime that Carrey is beaten up I will laugh. Any time that Carrey is in a film I am sure to laugh. Because Carrey is my favorite actor. Most people don't give him much credit, as i've repeated time and time again. I only speak the truth. Ace Ventura When nature calls isn't as good as the original, but it's still really funny. I think you should see it. "},{"Title":"Jim Carrey Does It  Again...","Date":"30 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Ace Ventura When Nature Calls is another Jim Carrey masterpiece. The crazy pet detective is back with another crazy adventure. This time, he is called to Africa to find the sacred white bat (Shikaka) and to save the Wachati Natives from the bloodthirsty Wachutu Tribe. In this laugh packed comedy, you will see such antics as a movie projection fiasco, an intervention with the monopoly guy, a slinky and much, much more! Although this isn't the best movie ever, its still a great movie. If you are in the mood for a hilarious fun filled comedy, then consider Ace Ventura When Nature Calls the next time you are at the video store! "},{"Title":"Dumb, dumb movie...So what?","Date":"4 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" There is no doubt that both Ace Ventura-movies are simple, dumb movies with childish, gross-out and unintelligent humour. BUT What is a comedy's first and definitely most important purpose? Of course, it is to make you laugh. And BOY did I laugh! Jim Carrey isn't always funny with his rubber-face and comedic acting, but Ace Ventura is THE role for him. Everything fits, and some parts made me laugh until I cried.Who can forget the car-scenes, the guano-bowls, talking with the tribe-people and most of all the scene with the monopoly-guy? If anyone who has seen it doesn't at least smile when watching that scene, I simply don't understand it.So, when you amateur-serious film-critics review this film you should consider two things. 1 This movie is MEANT to be stupid. 2.Does this COMEDY make you laugh? For me, it did the two things it was meant to do brilliantly. 9/10 Allrighty then! "},{"Title":"For a sequel, this is not bad at all.","Date":"10 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" In the second installment of Ace, overtaken by Steve Oedekerk, Ventura travels to Africa with the duty of finding a sacred bat that belongs to an African tribe and is a very sacred symbol. As seen in the first one, Jim Carrey dominates the rest of the cast with his witty and outrageous performance as the crazed pet detective. The plot of this film, though outlandish and a bit bizarre, somewhat maintains the humor seen in the first installment. This is a film, though not better, that is as good as the previous one. Two thumbs up for Jim Carrey8/10 "},{"Title":"Another funny Carrey movie","Date":"7 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Let me start by saying that this is a good movie. It has plenty of great moments such as the Secret Agent Man montage, the bit with the Monopoly Guy, and of course, the Rhino scene. It's all good stuff. However, it's just not as good as the original. Now it's not this movie's fault, there are only a few sequels that surpass their predecessor. So why is this not as good as Pet Detective? In the first one, yes Carrey, was over the top and goofy. I went over that in my Pet Detective review. But it still seemed real. Every time Ace is searching for clues, hunting down his suspects, or just saving a dog from a dog-napper; it all feels real and grounded in reality. Need some examples? When Ace tells Melissa about his dream. Now granted it was a joke that Ace was playing on her, yet he didn't feel all that cartoony. How about when Ace goes into Ray Finkle's room. Nothing cartoony about that scene. Funny? Yes. Cartoony? No. Now we'll switch over to When Nature Calls. This movie does not seem to be set in a real realm at all. I mean come on, there's a monster truck parked outside of the... dang it. I can't remember what that building was. Was it the British Embassy or something. I can't remember. Any way, you know what I'm talking about. Another thing, Carrey is just non stop in this. I mean ,for lack of a better word, he was very cartoony. More so than the last one. In fact this movie felt more sophomoric than the first movie. And I don't mean sophomoric as in a second film. I mean just plain juvenile humor. Don't get me wrong. It's funny. Like my title says Another funny Carrey movie. It's better than Bruce Almighty and The Number 23. I know, one of those is not a comedy, but I don't care. When I give reviews I try to break every thing down. And this is the result. Comparing it to other movies. So if you look at the movie by itself, it's good. It's funny and I would highly recommend it to any Jim Carrey fans, fans of slapstick, or just comedy fans looking for some laughs. On a side note I don't know if I spelled cartoony right. It wasn't in the dictionary and it's just one of those words you don't see often. It feels like there sured be an e between the n and the y. So don't condemn my review based on my spelling of the word cartoony. "},{"Title":"I enjoyed this film more than the original.","Date":"17 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" It did not exactly take long for this film to be made after the original as it came out the very next year. While the first one was okay, I still prefer this one a bit more. Do not ask me why as I can see from the score it is not an opinion shared by most people. Still, this one starts with a bang in the form of a very funny cliffhanger spoof type scene. It then has a man going to a temple to try and lure Ace out of exile to help retrieve a rare white bat. They are soon off to Africa where hilarity ensues. Granted, once again at times Jim Carrey's performance is a bit over the top for my tastes it is still funny watching him try to fight a native warrior, escape a mechanical rhino, and punch out the monopoly man. The movie moves fast and is over before you know it as it to has a rather good ending. I am surprised that there has not been another sequel to this franchise in the past years, but there seems to be something coming out next year. Hopefully, it will be another improvement over the first two as they were funny, but at times to over the top. "},{"Title":"I'm in the minority with this, but I liked this one better.","Date":"9 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This was Carrey on steroids. By that, I mean that he went completely over the top with his performance, here, and just obliterated his usual audience by seeming to try too hard.I, however, didn't agree with that assessment. In my opinion, this work far surpassed the original in story, laughs, and all around execution.Carrey actually seemed to be enjoying himself in this second installment, which goes a long way towards fleshing the work into something palatable, whereas with the original he seemed to be pushing himself to be funny. As I said, I'm in the minority in this opinion.I thought this was far superior to the original, but still far from award-worthy.It rates a 7.7/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"My thoughts of Ace Ventura","Date":"1 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The movie is about Carrey being recruited from a monastery to find the Sacred Great White Bat that has been stolen from an African tribe called the Wachati's. The bat was a gift for the wedding between tribes, one peaceful and one ferocious, and if the bat is not returned in time for the wedding, it would be intensive fighting between the two African tribes. I think Carrey's acting in this movie was hilariously funny and his ability to surprise you with his every whim of sarcasm taking this movie to a better level than the first one. A lot of humor in this movie, and it has unexpected twists that will have you jumping out of your seats. I like everything about this movie with Jim Carrey, I admire the way he can turn an obstacle in a story and make it even funnier for people to enjoy. His way of acting is easily described because he knows how to flow with a situation. This movie is good for anyone to enjoy, I know I liked it and I would not mind watching it again! "}{"Title":"It just ain't the first one","Date":"23 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The first Ace Ventura is a great milestone in American Cinima History. Not because it was a classic movie but it introduced Americans to Jim Carrey. Watching Jim's Crazy antics in Pet Detective I decided that I would watch everything that he is ever in. Oh how I regretted that as I watched When Nature Calls. Jim does his best to make the movie funny and he almost succeeded. He uses his rubber face at comic timing to the full extent and almost pulls off another cute, silly, fun movie. But the script seems to be working against Jim throughout the entire movie. Ace was such a funny character in the first movie because he was so out of place living in the city. But this new movie puts Ace in the jungle right where he belongs. Ace looks more in place picking nits off of monkeys that he ever did driving a car. Ace does everything you would expect from the first one but this time there is nobody standing in the background looking appalled. Courteney Cox, who was very funny at trying to get Ace to act human has been replaced by an African Princess who seems to accept Ace for who he is. That is not to say that the film doesn't have its moments. The temple stairs and the Slinky scene is still one of Jim Carrey's better scenes from all of his movies. But, alas these scenes are to few and far apart to make this movie worthy of it's predecessor. "},{"Title":"A pure gut-buster","Date":"17 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" ACE VENTURA WHEN NATURE CALLS, in my opinion, is a pure gut-buster. I laughed really hard when Ace (Jim Carrey) sang The Slinky Song, imitated jungle animals, and mocked the Monopoly guy (Michael Reid MacKay). As a matter of fact, I laughed at just about every funny thing he did. In addition, I have a lot of favorite parts of this movie, especially when Ace picked up the skunk and said, Say hello to my stinky friend. Before I wrap this up, I'd like to say, If you're going to see this movie, prepare to laugh until it hurts! Now, in conclusion, I highly recommend this gut-busting comedy to those of you who are Jim Carrey fans or like gut-busting laughs. "},{"Title":"Jimbo's back","Date":"20 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" That fun loving Ace Ventura(Jim Carrey)is being called on by a sentry(Ian McNeice)to rescue a secret white bat that looks as ugly as big nosed rat with whiskers. Fulton Greenwell(Ian McNeice)and Ace Ventura must find that bat to save a tribe of ancient Indian peoples from killing each other. In this we see the butt talking Ace skunkify a sentry, almost rescue a raccoon and beat the bad guys with quick like reflexes and funny antics.Starring Jim Carrey, Ian McNeice, Simon Callow, Maynard Eziashi and Bob Gunton. Such a classic as this with these characters and actors must make you have a laughabalooza. "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"1 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie is one to see if you are a comedy lover. Surely every Jim Carrey fan knows about Ace Ventura. This movie is a little old, but it hasn't lost funny.I'm a big fan of Jim Carrey so it's natural for me to love his movies. Trust me this movie is worth seeing.This movie is about a funny and somewhat crazy animal detective sent to rescue (I think) a bird. My favorite part is when he's walking through the forest and is shot three times with a paralyzation dart. Then he's taken to a tribe and has to fight a madman for his life.We see this movie every summer at our friend's lake house and it never gets old. Jim Carrey gave me my funny and it's time to pass it along. "},{"Title":"Not amazing but still some memorable moments","Date":"22 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Jim Carrey gives a valiant effort in this sequel. Its still Jim Carrey humor but a lot of it can be hit and miss. I'm a big Jim Carrey fan first off so I'm trying to be as unbiased as possible.Ace is hired again to find another stolen animal. This time a bat in the jungle. Lots of Ace antics ensue to make for an overall enjoyable movie, maybe not a buyer but at least a one watcher for most (I bought it). There are a lot of good jokes in this movie and as a standalone movie its great but thats not good enough as it is being compared with the first. The jokes never stopped in the first so when this movie came out the same was expected but unfortunately it wasn't. Good jokes just spaced out too much.Recommended for people who want more ACE Ventura.6* out of 10 "},{"Title":"It Was So Funny!","Date":"11 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I loved this movie. I think one of his best, but that's just my opinion. Everything about it was great, his songs, his character was so awesome! I loved this movie it was so awesome if I could I'd watch it a million times. One of my favorite parts of the movie was when he was looking up at the guy on that tall piece of wood, and he grabbed the wood and said EARTHQUAKE TEST!! and shook it! That was so hilarious! Another one is when they were in his jeep and he started singing in the car that was so funny, I had that song stuck stuck in my head for at least a day after that and oh man his Slinky song that was the best! That's mine and my friends favorite part! I loved that movie so much.  "},{"Title":"Good, but doesn't beat the first","Date":"22 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Ace Ventura Pet Detective was an extremely funny movie. Jim Carrey was absolutely hilarious, and the Ray Finkle story was great. The scene with Ace in the tutu was especially great. Pet Detective got a 10/10 from me. But enough about PD, onto When Nature Calls.For one, Ace Ventura Pet Detective wasn't as good. Still very funny, but didn't live up to the first. Jim made me laugh as always, but there was something about the movie that didn't make it as good. But don't get me wrong, definitely a great comedy and worth a rental. (Actually, I suggest buying both Ace movies in a 2 pack.) And remember to thank the Monopoly guy for the free parking.  "},{"Title":"This move is really full of funs!","Date":"4 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I just saw this movie again. I must say that this move is really full of funs. I laughed from the beginning to the end. Jim Carrey is definitively a great comedian. I wonder how a man can show so much face signs and body gestures with such extreme exaggerations! Of course, the movie director and the writer must be very creative to think of so many funny things. When one elephant sat on the classic car as Jim told it to do, its really funny! If you ask how many stars this movie can get, I would give it 9 out of 10. It seems that many judges were too critical. Thats why this movie just got 5 out of 10 in the movie database. I hope Jim Carrey can play more such funny movies in the future. He was born a great comedian!  "},{"Title":"ACE VENTURA WHEN NATURE CALLS *** of ****","Date":"23 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This sequel picks right up where it's predecessor left off, and is equal in lack of brilliant substance, but still charming humor. Ventura (Jim Carrey) is searching for a African white bat, and wonders off into different customs in the bulk of this movie. Although the African scenes are in no way bad, the opening scenes provide the biggest laughs, involving a slinky dropping down hundreds or thousands or steps before stopping at the last one. Harmless and for an audience of a lesser clod, I enjoyed this film (although this time, no Tone Loc).VERDICT *** of **** Recommended "},{"Title":"GOOD, BUT IT'S TOO SILLY...","Date":"2 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This Ace Ventura sequel stepped out of its bounds. Ace Ventura is back again, but the detective seemed to have a limit on his choice of animals. I know Ace Ventura is an animal lover, but he's not crazy about bats. The scene after the virgin dance left Ace in full temptation. It was rather corny when Ace had that reaction when the bride flashed her rack to Ace. And Ace himself went to the hut to discharge himself. This movie was the silly side, yet it was still entertaining all the way. 2.5 out of 5 stars 7 out of 10 "}{"Title":"Alrighty Then!!!","Date":"17 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I too say that as a film in general Pet Detective was better.... But if you want some Raw belly aching laughter.... CHECK THIS OUT!!! This film has the MOST memorable quotes in any film ever!!! Bumblebee Tuna Iquincy Ocha! Excuse me...your balls r showing Slinky Slinky everyone loves a slinky!! and the first thing Ace Says to a dude in helicopter you know... u could take somebody's EYE out with that thing! and many many many more!! Most of my friends know this whole film by heart!!!This film must have been ten times tougher to shoot because it's almost completely outdoors! And the sets are just absolute brilliance!!!!Take care now... Bye Bye then! Loo hoo seeehhh heerrrrDT "},{"Title":"There's Been A Kidnapping of a Sacred African Bat And Ace is on the Case!","Date":"26 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS       High in the Alps is a rescue mission to save a stranded raccoon. Many of the team members have given up the search, except for one Ace Ventura, Pet Detective! He soon finds the raccoon on the mountain across from his. He climbs across to it, straps the raccoon to him and starts back when suddenly the strap breaks and the poor raccoon falls to his death. Ace was devastated. A man, Fulton Greenwall, was seeking out Ace Ventura. He found him living in a Buddhist monk temple. He came to them a broken man and had finally found inner peace. Greenwall explained the situation so Ace a sacred animal of the African Wachati tribe had been stolen. Ace said he could not leave the temple, however there was $20,000 in it for him and plus the monks encourage him to go. They throw a giant party when he leaves. While on the plane to Africa, Greenwall explains the entire story the Wachati princess is set to wed, however the rival Wachootoo tribe is against this and unless the sacred animal is returned within four days, the tribes go to war. Ace wasn't paying attention as Greenwall spoke. They soon arrive in Africa and in a Jeep driven by Ace, they head to the consulate. Ace takes a bulky short cut, but they soon tumble to their destination.         Once at the consulate, Ace meets Vincent Cadby and Burton Quinn who had a raven, Tinky, on his shoulders. Ace mingles with folks but ends up making a fool out of himself. He and Greenwall then travel to the Wachati village. Along the way, Ace finally learns what sacred animal he was chasing after a Great White bat. The bat was the only animal which Ace detested, but he wouldn't give up his case. When Ace meets the chief, he learns that launching loogies is a show of affection. That evening, Ace attends a seductive dance the Wachati princess performs, even though she is spoken for. While the tribe and Greenwall dance, Ace investigates the sacred hut and finds a black feather beneath the cage. The princess and Ace chat. She says she wasn't really looking forward to her wedding.  Well, the next day, Ace reluctantly investigates a bat cave and finds another black feather so he suspects Quinn. He spies on him inside a mechanical rhino, but what Ace didn't count on is that it can get pretty hot in one of those things and the door wouldn't open. Ace soon finds a most unpleasant way out. He then interrogates Quinn who turns  out innocent. When Ace explores the jungles, he's hit with several poison darts from the Wachootoo tribe so he sneaks into their village. He's caught. They tell him that he must pass several Wachootoo tests to live. He passes all but one pit of death. His opponent was a tough one. But since Ace's fighting made the tribe laugh, they didn't kill him.             Ace next stumbles upon a group of poachers Mick Katie and Gahjii who had the Great White bat in their posession! They capture Ace and tie him to a raft on the river that goes down a waterfall. When Ace surfaces, he wrestles a crocodile. When returning to the Wachati village, Ace was confused. What was it the kidnappers were after? And then it hit him Guano, (bat droppings). Ace returns the consulate. Mick and Gahjii were just handing the bat to Cadby when Ace burst in and solved the case right then and there. Ace then calls on his jungle animal friends and soon heards of elephants, lions, zebras, antilope, etc. come crashing in. Ace takes care of Mick and Gahjii with a skunk. Cadby escapes but Ace gives chase in a big-foot truck. By then, the Wachati and the Wachootoo tribes were getting ready for battle. That's when Ace successfully grabbed the bat and returned it to the sacred hut. Cadby escaped into the jungle but was soon caught by a silver-back gorilla, and it was mating season! Soon the wedding of the Wachati princess was on, only they made the detection that she was no longer a virgin. Suddenly Ace found himself being chased into the jungle by both tribes.        Well, Ace Ventura When Nature Calls wasn't really as good as the first. The first was much better. Jim Carrey reprises his role as the world's craziest animal detective. I wonder if there will ever be an Ace Ventura III. I doubt it. It seems as if Jim Carrey is getting more and more into serious films, but fear not, Carrey fans, I hear Jim will be making a return to comedy this spring in Bruce Almighty. Until then, we can enjoy his other physical comedy films, such as Ace Ventura When Nature Calls. Not as good as the original and is packed with crude humor but Ace Ventura fans as well as Jim Carrey fans, it comes recommended by me!- "},{"Title":"Alot of recycled jokes but still kinda good","Date":"27 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  SPOILERSBest bit has to be Ace standing all over the sacred ground whilst the chief spoke to the interpreter. Also when ace is told that spitting in someones face in the tribe is a sign of them liking you and so he does a massive flob into their faces.Good film. Shame alot of it is recycled from the first film but still its good to put on. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Funny Jim Carrey movie I think","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  As sequels go they usually don't measure up to the original, but for some reason I liked this one better than the first. Maybe because it was simpler and goofier. I can't figure it. I thought the fight scene was hilarious. So was the birthing scene. <G> Anyway I enjoyed it alot.10 out of 10. Don't expect Shakespeare and you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Okay, But It Pales In Comparison To The Original","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Ace Ventura is one of those characters you either love or hate. I don't mind him too much and can put up with his silly faces and noises in moderation but I guess he gets on some peoples nerves. I originally saw this at the cinema in 1995 with my girlfriend and she continually told me that she was fed up with Jim Carrey's noises.When I was at school many many years ago, there was some kid who was always making funny noises and messing around in the playground. Some kids (such as myself) couldn't get enough of him whilst others stayed as far away as possible. You either love them or hate them.Back to the film. I don't think the story was as exciting as the original but it was good enough and did have some funny scenes in it although I would have liked to see a bit more of beautiful Africa in it. There is a good cast here and Carrey does seem to have chemistry with them.All in all, a ridiculous but enjoyable movie which can be enjoyed if you are in the right mood and can put up with Carrey's pranks. "},{"Title":"They should have stopped while they were ahead.","Date":"12 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I loved Ace Ventura Pet Detective. But this movie was a crime against Jim Carrey's talented acting. I know that sequels are hard to make, but they could have done a better job than THIS! They should have made a Dumb and Dumber sequel instead. "},{"Title":"This film was way funnier than the first!","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I really thought this was a great movie! I enjoyed the first Ace Ventura, and I think Jim Carrey is a genious of humour. He makes me laugh out loud. In this, the second Ace Ventura installment, he has further developed the character (and hairstyles!) to make it even more cartoon-like and hilarious.My neice and I and constantly quoting bits of the film at each other, and we simply love every moment of it, every jesture and joke to come from Carrey is simply a scream!A must see movie. If you liked the first one, or if you like Carrey in Dumb & Dumber or Liar Liar, you'll love this film (and its best if you've seen Cliff Hanger (Sly Stalone)!  "},{"Title":"A great bad picture!","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is a great film without a plot or a story. Still it is one of the most funny films i know. The reason why i started to really love this film was when i realized how much and how great the actor Jim Carrey can overact. My guess is that this he actually more or less improvise through the entire movie. He play out he's entire register of faces, expressions and one-liners. This is Jim Carrey with out rules, manus or limitations. A must see for the truly Jim Carrey fan. "},{"Title":"Silly but extremely funny","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This was one of the first movies I bought on DVD so I could skip to any funny scene I chose.  This is one of those movies where you should be in a silly mood before you watch it.  I preferred this one over the first, but found them both to be funny. "},{"Title":"I'm genuinely surprised by how much this film made me laugh!","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I love animals. I absolutely adore them. And even though I was advised to avoid the Ace Ventura Pet Detective movie after I enjoyed The Mask so much upon its release because it would supposedly ruin (my) impression of Jim Carrey, I decided to check it out anyway simply because the basic premise of a cartoonish goofball who genuinely cares about animals appealed to me a lot.(To give you an idea concerning my affection for animals even though I understand the opening of this movie as a fiercely clever satire of Cliffhanger, nevertheless I couldn't help but feel terribly upset and disappointed at watching an all-too-realistic scene involving that poor raccoon falling to his death.)I was surprised at how much I enjoyed the first Ace Ventura film, because it made me laugh hysterically despite a couple of off-colour gags--until I reached the whole last act involving the nature of the villain, and then I almost lost my stomach at a certain shot concerning the appearance of a certain character's underwear upon their being turned around for the camera as evidence. The ending killed it for me.I expected this film to be worse. Much worse. Instead, I ended up enjoying it much better than the first one! Maybe it has something to do with the fact that I knew I would be safe from the same ending the first one had, I don't know... but I rented it out of curiosity and ended up laughing myself silly.Warning possible spoilers ahead.One of the things that made Carrey's performance in both movies so appealing to me--aside from the simple fact that Carrey is playing them--is that he is a genuinely likeable character. He's a nutcase, sure, but he's also likeable in how he tries so hard to cheerfully help out the situations he's hired for. By example, let me point back to the previously-mentioned raccoon scene--part of the reason why it works so well is not just because the victimized raccoon is so cute (I know they can be vicious in real life, but never mind), but also because Ace's heart is so much in the right place. I was actually really rooting for him to save that raccoon and was so sure that he WOULD get it right that I was actually shocked and upset when he didn't. Deep down under all the nuttiness, you just KNOW how much he cares and wanted to get that rescue right, as opposed to Eddie Murphy's recent sarcastic and thoroughly unlikable variation of Dr. Dolittle who simply acts as though he just puts up with his talent instead of genuinely caring about it. Carrey plays Ace as a wildly optimistic guy who basically loves his work, and that makes it all the more fun for me.Oh, and without giving anything away I also want to mention that this movie has the most hysterical gag about wearing stoles that I've ever seen committed to film which is both hilarious and makes it's point at the same time!There were maybe three gags or so that made me feel uneasy, ones that I had prepared myself for by reading about them here on IMDb first, but they turned out to be far less obnoxiously done than I had been led to believe. I wouldn't show those scenes to my young nephews, but still they could have been much worse. Somehow, even the weirdest gag that I didn't like ended up not completely turning me off from the film as a whole. That gag involved instant assistance to a pregnant woman. While my brow furrowed at it and I thought, That wasn't necessary at all, the attitude behind it is still miles away from other modern comedies which tend to be flat out cruel. Compare this bit to a semi-similar scene in what's easily the worst comedy done so far, Freddie Got Fingered Tom Green bites a baby's umbilical cord with his teeth and then swings it around, spraying blood all over everyone to the horror of all present. Carrey, on the other hand, gets the baby shot up healthily right into the arms of the father, who smiles gratefully and is obviously pleased. There's all the difference in the world here simply due to attitude.What I'm saying is that this film is much easier to stomach during such moments because it doesn't have the emotion of Isn't this so obnoxiously in-your-face that it shows disrespect for you as the viewer??? behind it. I didn't care for the birthing scene, but Carrey clearly believes he did it in the tradition of cartoon silliness as opposed to the current shock-and-make-everyone-mad-at-you routine.In other words, Carrey knows he's likeable. He doesn't NEED to act enraged at the world. He's confident in knowing that his happy-go-lucky performances are his main appeal in his comedies. And that makes this film far lighter even during its few gross moments in my book. That said though, I don't defend all he's done--I hated Dumb and Dumber and thought it was repulsive, had a lousy script and was simply below his level.Give it a try, and see what your final verdict is. You just might end up feeling pretty cheerful afterwards! "}{"Title":"Jim Carrey does not do it for me","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Despite the fact that Sophie Oonekedo makes a guest appearance in this film as a native African, this film was neither humourous nor entertaining. Carrey seems to play the same sort of characters in each film that he is in, which suggests to me that he is not a classical actor, but a buffoon. "},{"Title":"not quite as good","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Sloppy sequel has Jim Carrey returning to his star-making performance as a wacky pet detective. This time around he's overseas in Africa and hired to retrieve a sacred white bat that could cause warfare among rival tribes. Carrey is as loony and outrageously over-the-top as he's ever been, and there are an abundance of gross-out gags, some of which are actually pretty funny, but the story isn't strong enough to sustain the entire film and as a result it runs out of energy pretty early. The film is mostly just an excuse for star Carrey to have a lot of fun, which he seems to be doing, but that doesn't necessarily mean the audience will. ** "},{"Title":"A Laugh from Start to Finish - Jim upstages everyone!","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is the best of Jim's comedy films. It made me an instant fan. I rented it to watch the animals but my attention was drawn elsewhere. Jim is the only actor who has ever upstaged furry co-stars. Ace is my favourite of his roles. He's so weird and he doesn't care what anyone thinks. He's just - Ace! 9/10      "},{"Title":"Jim Carrey keeps this one alive!","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  If it wasn't for Jim Carrey then ACE VENTURA WHEN NATURE CALLS would be a bad movie, but since Jim Carrey is full of talent and energy, ACE VENTURA WHEN NATURE CALLS manages just to be an okay movie. It's not a bad movie and it's not a good movie, it's just an okay movie. Jim Carrey fans like me are probably the only ones who will find any enjoyment in this mediocre sequel. Two stars! "},{"Title":"A pure gut-buster","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  ACE VENTURA WHEN NATURE CALLS, in my opinion, is a pure gut-buster. I laughed SO HARD when Ace (Jim Carrey) sang The Slinky Song, imitated jungle animals, and mocked the Monopoly guy (Michael Reid MacKay). As a matter of fact, I laughed at just about every funny thing he did. In addition, I have a LOT of favorite parts of this movie -- Especially when Ace picked up the skunk and said, Say hello to my stinky friend. Before I wrap this up, I'd like to say, If you're going to see this movie, prepare to laugh until it hurts! Now, in conclusion, I HIGHLY recommend this gut-busting comedy to those of you who are Jim Carrey fans or like gut-busting laughs.  "},{"Title":"Lackluster sequel to the 1994 hit...","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Lackluster sequel to the 1994 hit with a script that seems as if it was composed on a roll of toilet paper.  Carrey is the best part about the movie.  The movie was a box-office success, mostly in part for those who thought they were getting the same entertainment as the first installment.I give Ace Ventura When Nature Calls *1/2(D).   "},{"Title":"You have to give Ace Ventura some credit. He is kind to animals. He is also the funniest thing to happen to big hair before Mary had that (stuff) in hers.","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This sequel to the hugely successful ACE VENTURA PET DETECTIVE is not as funny overall, and each individual's tolerance level of Jim Carrey will determine the response. This time out, poor Ace is so traumatized by the loss of an almost-rescued raccoon (a funny CLIFFHANGER-esque opening) that he enters an ashram in Tibet. Pity the poor monks. As one of them says He bends over and speaks from the rear. The Buddhists breathe a sigh of relief when Ace is lured out of his grieving period to take a new job on a distant continent. He goes to the jungles of Africa to recover a large, sacred white bat. Yuck. Even animal activist Ace gets the creepy-crawlies from the ugly winged mammal. Filthy flying weasel is his apt description. With a bat on center stage, you can be sure that many guano jokes will follow. I don't know nuthin' about birthin' rhinos, but WHEN NATURE CALLS does have a pretty hilarious take on that subject. Much of the rest falls flat, as loud juvenile grossness is no substitute for true wit. A more appropriate title might have been ACE VENTURA WHEN NATURE SCREAMS. Spank you very much. "},{"Title":"Second time's NOT a charm...","Date":"14 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"     Let's be honest, the first was hardly of Oscar calibre in terms of plot, characters, structure or drama; but it made me laugh uproariously, and that was all I cared about.  The sequel, however, lacks whatever mysterious ingredient it was that made the first one such a treat.  So much so that a wan smile is often the best you can come up with when you really feel like the makers wanted you to be holding your sides.   Perhaps it's down to over-familiarity with the character, but I doubt that's it.  The old Ace was always wacky enough so that you never knew what was coming next unless you'd seen the film.  The same is true here I suppose, but most times the punchline is really weak, and definitely not worth waiting for.  I think there is more material in Ace, but I doubt that we'll ever see it unless they bring in a new actor.  Jim is above playing this kind of slapstick goon now.   A more accurate reason for the dip in quality between films would have to be laziness.  This is basically just your staple 'fish-out-of-water' comedy with the same tired old jokes, but revolving around the ingenious central character.  Unfortunately, even HE can't resuscitate ideas that have been dead for so long.  It shows that the film is uninspired because it was knocked out little over a year after the original.  After the phenomenal success of the first, the producers must've just seen dollar signs.  It's a shame.  I only laughed heartily ONCE, and those who've read my glowing review of its predecessor will know just what a telling statement that is.  "},{"Title":"One of Jim Carrey's Best","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I don't care what people say about this not being as good as the first.  I thought it was hysterical.  Carrey is yet to make a movie that isn't. If you haven't seen this, go get it and watch it! Favorite scene  Carrey is reborn as a baby Rhino.   "},{"Title":"Could be the funniest movie ive ever Seen!!!!","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  personally i think this blows the first one out of the water.  the jokes are non-stop.  and its all Jim all the time.  there is a plot in the movie, all be it a weak one, but that really doesnt matter.  i was laughing so hard i forgot what was going on.  isnt the point of a sequel to NOT copy the first? how many movies have come and gone by trying to recreate the success it once had?  sure other than jim there are no other people from the first one, and so what?  the characters in this do their job.  its just a non stop joke fest.  if you want to laugh then laugh some more and when you think thats done, laugh again, rent this classic!!! "}{"Title":"The first was much better. If Carrey decided not to star in the sequel it would've been down bottom material.","Date":"6 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" In this sequel, a botched rescue attempt of a raccoon in Asia leaves Ace Ventura (Carrey, Batman Forever) an emotional wreck, so distraught that he joins a brotherhood of Tibetan monks to help find his way back. While at the monastery, he is visited by an African missionary who seeks his assistance in recovering the legendary sacred animal, Skikaka (a white bat), whose loss threatens to cause tensions to spill over between two warring African tribes. Steve Oedekerk (Kung Pow, Barnyard), project consultant on Ace Ventura Pet Detective, borrows a page from the Ernest movies by putting his obstinate and annoying character in a completely unique setting for more of the same rude hijinks and physical humor in this sequel. The result is a more visually inventive yet even more juvenile effort (hard to imagine), which once again allows the star comedian to cut completely loose with the material for some choice sight gags and sporadically funny crude humor.When Nature Calls continues the tradition of the first film in terms of its level of humor (namely, aiming pretty low), but the main character is a little more proactive in trying to annoy the rest of the characters in the film, holding absolutely nothing sacred, save for his precious animals. The result is a fitfully funny comedy that does contain a few clever moments of fun, but your mileage will certainly vary when it comes to a very over-the-top assault on your funny bone in a very crude fashion. It's the kind of movie where once you start laughing, you might become too giddy to stop -- or if you find yourself not laughing, the film will only continue to press your buttons to the point of annoyance.I think that younger viewers will tend to enjoy When Nature Calls more so than adults, as the gags are more slapstick-y and broad than they had been in the first effort. However, for those who liked the cameo appearances and detective storyline from the first film, there's less to identity with in this sequel save for the personality of the main character, whose famous catchphrases and one-dimensional delivery become redundant very quickly. Carrey is still a marvel, and Oedekerk often quite inventive, but in the end it just doesn't work out.For Carrey Fans only and no one else. "},{"Title":"More for the children.","Date":"17 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Let's face it Neither of the actual Ace Ventura films are very well done, but Jim Carrey gives them strength to stand. Unfortunately, pending on age, this one, the sequel, is the weaker of the two. Despite a scene where Ace is, ahem, grooming his gopher, most of this movie is pointed toward the kids of the audience (lots of Aren't the animals cute? humor). However, there are a few scenes adults can get a hearty laugh at, like Ace's well-timed Twilight Zone and Chitty Chitty Bang Bang references. Being a Jim Carrey vehicle, the movie's also pretty quotable (Excuse me, your ba1l$ are showing! - Bumblebee-tuna.) My favorite scene, of course, is Ace's escape from an undercover robo-rhino much to the dismay of a family on safari. "},{"Title":"Carrey is such a classic","Date":"16 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" OK I know this movie is a bit silly to say the least, and pretty gross in parts, but you gotta hand it to Jim Carrey there's few who could do it as good. Ace Ventura is such a knob but Carrey makes you love him.The scene of the rhino 'giving birth' has to be one of the funniest if not most disgusting scenes from any of Jim Carrey's films. And he does it so well! Coming out like a new born calf, naked frightened and slimy. Gross but oddly compelling.There are so many times I find myself rolling on the floor laughing in Ace Ventura, for example at the 'monopoly guy' (Do not pass go, do not collect $200!) or the projection room scene in the consulate when he just sits down in front of the projector (I don't know why something so simple could be funny I'm laughing at it even now!) and to when he does shadow puppets to the Consular's nipples! Its not high brow, its pretty disgusting and the plot is barely important, but Jim Carrey is funny, his expressions, his energy and the complete randomness (the monster truck for example, or him bumping up and down in the jeep when the road is completely smooth) and I find him likable.If you're not a fan of Jim Carrey and don't enjoy his style of comedy, then what are you even doing looking at this movie! Most people probably hate it, but I still think Jim Carrey is more original and unpredictable than some of the terrible imitations. I'm looking at you Rob Schneider! 'The Animal'?. please. "},{"Title":"One of his worst","Date":"26 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Jim Carrey is a gifted actor. He has really done some great things. Think of The Truman Show and Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind, I even enjoyed The Mask. But the man's biggest gift is also his biggest problem. Sometimes he really doesn't know when it's all too much.This time Ace Ventura will have to rescue an albino bat out of the hands of some bad guys. The bat is very important for some African tribe. They want to give it as a wedding gift when one of their girls will marry a man from another, hostile tribe. If Ace doesn't find the bat in time, the entire tribe will be murdered by the other one. As Ace goes on with his investigation, he finds out that he has been chasing the wrong guys and that the real culprit is someone he never suspected.Ace Ventura When Nature Calls is a sequel, and most of the time a sequel is much worse than the original. And this movie isn't an exception to that rule. It really has nothing to offer but Jim Carrey making the weirdest faces, some childish 'humor' (For instance spitting in someone's face or crawling out of the ass of a rhino) and the worst overacting I've seen in years. I guess this movie will be loved most by 5 to 10 year old kids or by people who have the IQ of a snail with brain damage. I give it a 3/10. "},{"Title":"Severely underrated Awesomness","Date":"2 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I watched the 1st Ace Ventura movie when I was 10 - I thought it was pretty funny - so when I learned there was a sequel, I said what the heck and rented it. This movie made me laugh harder than almost any movie I have ever seen. The sheer absurdness of EVERYTHING and I do mean EVERYTHING in the movie WORKS! Jim Carrey was an essential part of this movie. His comic genius shines more in this movie than in any other movie I have seen of his , (with the exclusion of LIAR LIAR). A highly underrated, and highly hilarious movie. A MUST see.Now some people are critical of this movie, they say its stupid, and a crappy low end movie - Lighten up people, If u can't laugh at a movie like this, what can you laugh at! - This comedic masterpiece is sheer enjoyment from start to finish.  "},{"Title":"Entirely average, and very inferior to the first film","Date":"10 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Steve Oedekerk might be a talented film-maker(when I say might, I mean exactly that; I've seen no other movies by him, I plan on doing so soon, though), but he's no Tom Shadyac, and this film very much shows that. The humor in the first one was at times crude, but mostly civil(nothing you felt really crossed the line, in my opinion). In this one, it's flat-out disgusting; it's very, very crude, mostly has to do with bodily fluids, and there's too many sex jokes for my tastes(and bad ones at that). The film really has very little to offer for anybody but the biggest of Carrey fans(I am a big fan of him myself, and I found this film hard to sit through). Another problem is that it borrows too much material from the first; every good joke is copied directly from the first(several lines are exactly the same), and the movie tries too hard to make you laugh at things that aren't actually funny. I also found the disrespect and mocking towards the tribes fairly insulting; while they may not be civilized, these people are hardly lesser humans, as this film makes them out to be. Another thing I despised was the way they changed Carrey's character to the worse; in the first, he was eccentric, mildly annoying, but mostly funny, and somewhat smart, actually. In this one, he's just annoying, arrogant, childish and, well, completely pathetic. We're supposed to laugh at this character, but how can we possibly laugh when he's so utterly annoying? He was somewhat immature in the first, but here, he's like a spoiled brat. It really seemed like the director didn't get the point of the first film at all; Ace Ventura isn't funny because he's a pathetic loser; he's funny because he's eccentric yet smart, and he somehow manages to be appealing, though he is like a grown child. It's like Oedekerk just took all of the lesser points of the first film, magnified them, put in some of the good, and released it. The plot is less interesting than the first, the mystery is less involving, as both are obviously pushed into the background to allow for the humor instead. I also thought that the humor seemed far too forced and overdone; not one single joke was minor or a detail. No, you have to show something completely ridiculous, and hope the audience finds it funny. One thing that I also have to mention is the special effects; they are truly horrible. I know that it shouldn't matter in a comedy, but come on, every single effect looked so fake. And who's decision was it to make that damn little ape appear in every other scene? It's not like it had a major part in the first movie, after all. It had as little a role in the first as any of the other animals. If they were going to bring back characters from the first, why not bring back some of the ones that work well with Carrey and his character; like Emilio, or Woodstock, or even Melissa. They were actually entertaining, unlike the supporting cast of this film. All in all, a very average film, and not really worthy as a sequel to the much better first film. I recommend this only to the biggest of Carrey fans, and possibly fans of Steve Oedekerk too. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Below par Jim Carrey","Date":"31 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A disappointing sequel.  The first film was fresh, anarchic and absurd. Jim Carrey was on top form.  Sadly, none of that can be said for this film. There was a blatant repeat of jokes from the first film, causing them to fall flat.  Jim Carrey seemed like he was just going through the motions, following a script which he seemed almost embarrassed about himself at times.  I notice that he didn't have a co-writer credit as he did the first time... Having said that there are a few funny moments, which are solely attributable to Jim Carrey's superb comedic talents and in spite of the dreadful script! "},{"Title":"What a difference two years makes!","Date":"19 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  N'ah wasn't a fan of this film. I just thought it was a stupid in the wrong way, whereas the first one was stupid for all the right reasons!The only thing that makes me laugh is how desperate British thesps Simon Callow (fresh from the success of Four Wedding and a Funeral) and Ian McNeice were to make a big Hollywood film!Best moment from this film was probably the Slinky moment and the birth of a baby rhino! And they only managed a smirk from this writers face!4/10 "},{"Title":"Stop while you're ahead","Date":"12 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  They should just have left it with the first Ace Ventura film.Couldn't shake the feeling that this was a collection of scenes that were either scrapped prior to or conceived during the making of the first film. "},{"Title":"Actually a really weak movie, made only worthwhile by Jim Carrey.","Date":"16 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I always thought that it was quite strange Jim Carrey only did 2 Ace Ventura movies, rather than making a trilogy out of it. Not that I've re-watched Ace Ventura When Nature Calls again I can see why they stopped with the series after this one. (I'm not really counting in the upcoming movie Ace Ventura Jr Pet Detective, since it obviously features a different main character.) Well, it was not like its predecessor Ace Ventura Pet Detective was brilliant but it showed some good potential for more. This potential gets basically all ruined and wasted within this movie.Thing I simply hated about this movie was its absolutely dreadful script. It's such an incredible childish and simple written script, that features nothing original, nothing surprising and very little funny actually. Most, if not all the fun from this movie comes from Jim Carrey's performance. It's an annoying story, that is set too much at the same locations. All of the other characters within this movie also just don't work out, due to its very poor story and writing in general.The movie is supposedly for most part set in Africa but its obvious that not one step get set on African ground during the production of this movie. It's obvious studio work and the movie for some parts got shot in wild life park(s), I would imaging. It gives the movie a cheap look and feeling as well, even though of course this wasn't a low-budget production.Yet, still it's a movie that will make you laugh. Jim Carrey is totally crazy as Ace Ventura and he's actually more hilarious in this role than he has been in any recent movie of his. The first Ace Ventura movie launched him to stardom, which allows him to in this movie go even more over-the-top with his character. It provides the movie with some great laughs, due to sheer stupidity. Yes, the movie and its comedy is at times so stupid that you can't help but laugh.So, watch this movie a get a few laughs from Carrey's performance. Otherwise, you can easily do without ever watching this movie.5/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "}{"Title":"A guilty pleasure","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  By no means is this a great comedy, but it does at least have the guts to accept no concessions to good taste in pursuit of a laugh. You get the impression the studio simply let Jim Carrey out of his cage and told him to do pretty much whatever he wanted with his Ace Ventura character. He is basically about 90% of what makes this movie work, with the remaining 10% split about equally between Ian McNeice as the guide/interpreter and the monkey, who makes a surprisingly good `sidekick' for Ace.This is, quite simply, a case of Carrey playing yet another utterly manic, yet basically loveable, goofball character, and you either go for it or you don't. Those who like their comedy built on subtlety, wit, and sophistication will pretty much hate this movie, the rest of us just go along for the ride, watching Carrey mug for the camera with unrestrained abandon. A lot of the comic material is iffy, and without Carrey, this movie would have been a real stinker, but thanks to him we get a number of scenes that are simply priceless; whether he's hiding out in a Buddhist monastery sitting in meditation with a gloriously goofy grin on his face while bugs flutter around his head, driving through the jungle at insane speeds while singing the `Chitty Chitty Bang Bang' song, prancing about the posh headquarters building in front of assorted dignitaries making a complete ass out of himself or going berserk when he finds out the sacred animal he's been hired to find is a bat, the ONE creature he absolutely fears and loathes. Let's face it, when it comes to doing outrageous physical comedy (especially involving over the top facial expressions and body gestures) and, in general, behaving like a complete lunatic, Carrey is in a class by himself, and he turns what would otherwise be a lame piece of junk into what could be described as a great `bad' movie, a true guilty pleasure.6/10PS The DVD version, while conveniently offering up both the full and wide screen versions, contains a pretty paltry collection of extra features, meaning people who enjoy stuff like audio commentaries and deleted scenes will definitely be disappointed. "},{"Title":"great movie!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This was a very funny movie. It was better than the first, in my opinion. I loved it and guarantee you will be rolling on the floor laughingafter the first 10 minutes. I give it 4 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"A retarded racist insult of a sequel","Date":"3 September 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I love the original movie.But this was sheer torture to watch to the end. That hour and half of running time, felt like 3 hours.I don't know how they could screw this up so bad. It wasn't funny at all. Just dumb. Jim Carrey wasn't funny, just as annoying as Adam Sandler in any Adam Sandler movie. It's like he either tried too hard or didn't try at all, because he knew this movie would suck and he was probably just there for a paycheck.And don't even get me started on the racism towards African tribes.Ace Ventura, unlike in the original, was not a likable character. here. He was just an a-hole. Maybe it was the whole dumb idea of moving the sequel to Africa. In the original, that took place in Miami, Florida, everyone was acting seriously, while Jim Carrey was the only one acting retarded. And he had good actors to act against. And that made him funny. Kind of like Joey vs everyone else in Friends. This felt like the spin off series Joey, that wasn't funny, because all of Joeys Friends were gone.The only ones that will find this crap funny, are kids from the age of 5 to 10. Any normal teenager or adult will hate this movie. "},{"Title":"not a good movie","Date":"17 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" You so have to be 12 or younger to enjoy the h.u.m.o.u.r in this movie. When I was 11 I thought this was the funniest movie ever made. Now I'm 30 and I realist that it is not funny it is just stupid. I can't believe adults think this is funny. Even when I was kid and I liked this movie I thought that Batman forever was Jim Carry's best. And now as an adult I still think that it is his best. Now so hyping this movie ever body it is not that good. It is very stupid. The best thing about was the sound track. I can believe that this is looked at as one of his beast movies. This is boring. Watching a grown man act like a silly little boy. Who that is what you want to send your time watching that's your business. But I have better things to do with my time. "},{"Title":"Looking For A White Bat","Date":"30 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Jim Carrey returned as Ace Ventura in this sequel that sees him coming out of self-imposed exile to travel to Africa to locate a sacred white bat that is the key to peace between two warring tribes. As usual, Ace ends up causing more chaos and disruption than any war could create, though there are villains afoot who would benefit from such a war... Equally idiotic and tasteless sequel does have an amusing opening that spoofs Cliffhanger, and one very funny scene involving him wearing monopoly man around his neck like a fur trophy. Otherwise, this is pretty much as poor as the first, with Carrey playing everything for the broadest comedy possible, which is what his fans cherish most about him... "},{"Title":"Dosen't Live up to its Predecessor, but a Fun Sequel Nonetheless,","Date":"1 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Ace Ventura When Nature Calls is a great movie with a very well written storyline and a terrific comedic cast. It's a fun sequel that is much larger in scale and budget than the first one, we get to see Ace Ventura head off on an even bigger adventure this time around that takes place in some very expensive looking locations that show that the studio put some big money in to this movie, but the actors and director still get the creative freedom to make the movie they wanted thankfully. It's certainly a disappointment in comparison to the original Ace Ventura, it's not as entertaining and wacky as the first, and there aren't as many memorable moments, I also would have liked to have seen other characters other than just Ace return, particularly Courteney Cox's character would have been a welcome return. The highlight of the movie is of course Jim Carrey, it is always a delight to watch him on screen, here he is given loads of free time to run around and improvise, and the best scenes of the movie are actually the parts that have nothing to do with the actual plot, they're just Carrey being the legendary funny man he always is. Though it's certainly more forgetful than the original, Ace Ventura When Nature Calls is still a fun ride that I would recommend to anyone looking for a good comedy. Ace Ventura comes out of retirement to help find a missing bat who is the symbol of an African tribe. He soon finds himself in more trouble than he expected.Best Performance Jim Carrey Worst Performance Damon Standifer "},{"Title":"A wildly uneven Carrey vehicle.","Date":"19 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I consider Ace Ventura When Nature Calls to be the 'acid test' for Jim Carrey devotees who claim unconditional love for the man's work anyone who can sit through this film in its entirety without feeling even the slightest tinge of annoyance at Carrey's wildly unrestrained performance, which sees the manic star seemingly knowing no bounds when it comes to acting the fool, genuinely deserves the perhaps rather dubious honour of being dubbed a true 'Super Fan'.As to whether the film should be considered by your more casual Carrey fan, I say give it a go if you're feeling brave its worth enduring the embarrassingly bad moments to be able to savour the genuinely funny bits, which very occasionally border on comic genius (just try keeping a straight face as Carrey escapes from his mechanical rhino disguise or goes head to head in combat with a savage African native).5.5, rounded up to 6 for having a monkey tied to a raft, a masturbation gag in a PG flick (try explaining that one to the kids!), and the Monopoly guy. "},{"Title":"Jim Carrey does his physical comedy.","Date":"13 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" A popular e-photo going around the internet and ending up on Facebook shows a naked man half sticking out of the rear of a Rhino. That image comes from this movie, and is one of the funnier scenes. Ace Ventura (no relation to Jessie Ventura) is inside a mechanical Rhino, spying on crooks, when his ventilation system fails, and even disrobing doesn't give him relief. So he works his way through a small hole below the Rhino's tail about the same time a group of parents and their children drive up to observe this very strange birth as the naked character falls to the ground, in a fetal position.But only about 1/4 to 1/3 of the gags worked for me, the rest were just plain dumb. The scene where Ace and the Tribesmen spit loogies in each others' faces to show approval was just plain gross.Jim Carrey is back as Ace Ventura, this time hired to recover a white bat (the kind that lives in caves) to save a tribe from extinction. The bright spot in all this is pretty Brit Sophie Okonedo as The Wachati Princess.Another very funny scene is when Ace gets shot with darts and as he runs through the forest to escape his attackers, the tranquilizing effect of the darts slowly takes effect, and he has to move forward with half-paralyzed legs and arms that hang as on a rag doll.Carrey truly is creative with his physical comedy, and I really like the way he does the exaggerated John Wayne swagger with his head weaving back and forth. But overall this is not a very good movie, and too many sight gags fall way short of funny. "},{"Title":"Great sequel","Date":"16 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" First of all I'd like to say that I love Jim Carrey, I think that although he has some humor that can be on the immature side, that he is a funny guy and brings some good natured stupid humor. I loved the first movie and i thought this was actually a pretty good sequel. A lot of people didn't seem to like it for some reason, but I thought this movie was hilarious and probably the best sequel I have ever seen. There were some moments in this movie that were simply classic and the movie stayed pretty true to the original without being too repetitive. I loved the scene with the rich people and the Monopoly Guy and the rhino scene was sheer classic, although many people who don't have a sense of humor may find it gross and in bad taste. But whatever, the point is that I really loved this movie, and I recommend it. "},{"Title":"One of my favourite comedy's - brilliant, hilarious, excellent","Date":"13 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Firstly, the main star - Jim Carrey I think is a great actor, this is what makes the film so good, can you imagine a different star in it....no.This film is the second in the 'Ace Ventura' titles and its gotta be the best, simply because Jim is so hyper and crazy, which makes the film so laughable.I like the film so much because basically it all comes down to being very funny. The plot is OK - a little crazy at times, but what do you expect from Jim? If you are after a good comedy, then Ace Venture When Nature Calls is the one stop shop. - 9/10 "}{"Title":"this is a lovely room of death","Date":"1 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Maybe the greatest movie ever. The first scene in the movie where ace burps up some food for that little bird has been immitated by me many times (to the disgust of those around me who don't know what i'm doing, but to the delight of those who do know). Hungry little fella? lol The thing that makes this movie great, and the thing that makes all ridiculous movies great, is that you can watch it over and over again and suddenly find new things funny. When Ace walks up to the totem pole thing with the guy standing on top of it is one of these moments. Instead of raising up his head to look up (like a normal human) he instead bends his entire back and looks up at the pole,.. its ridiculous crap like this that makes this movie the greatest ever! pleasure tinky "},{"Title":"Jim Carey is a detective in a search for a bat.","Date":"10 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I think this was a very well made movie, with a hilarious comedic line in every scene. The plot itself is funny, where the whole movie is based on bat poop, which also could have been why it got bad ratings, but either way if you're looking for a laugh then this movie is clear in doing that. I think it is one of Jim's best movies. Also this movie is much better than Dumb and Dumber, and Dumb and Dumberer. So if you somehow think those movies are funny, then you need to watch this movie and agree with me that it is 100 times funnier. There are many quotes that you will be saying after you see this movie. Ace Ventura When Nature Calls also has a high replay value, so you will watch it many times as have I, and it will probably get funnier. Hands down this is Jim Carey's best comedy movie, and i don't think anything will compare in the future. "},{"Title":"Top 5 comedy movies!!","Date":"5 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Wow, I cannot believe the losers who pay WAY TOO CLOSE of attention to every little move of Carrey's to insult him. Let the Movie be watched like a normal, human being. It is sad how you comment on the parts that aren't so great and that is ALL YOU COMMENT ON-Having said that...Jim Carrey is one of my favorite comedian's. THis movie is filled with hilarious jokes and should be enjoyed by everyone if you just let the movie go. Guano...sounds so familiar.--Bat Droppings. Great! Almost every sentence he says, is a funny joke. This movie has a small twist because you wouldn't expect Ace Ventura the Pet Detective, to be afraid of a bat. So on his quest, he has to conquer his fear of this bat. If you haven't seen this movie yet, don't only rent it...BUY IT! I love this movie. 9 *'s for me! "},{"Title":"Very funny!","Date":"30 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This was a great movie. It was hilarious all the way through. I highly recommend it. Jim Carrey is extremely funny. "},{"Title":"I thought it was very funny (Spoilers)","Date":"11 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was great. I laughed through out the whole thing. I did think the other Ace Ventura movie was better but this was quite funny as well. I thought the story was a little far-fetched but there was a lot you can do with that kind of movie/story. I like the different impressions he did while driving the monster truck. It was really funny. I thought it was confusing but overall I thought it was very funny and I recommend it to all viewers who like Ace Ventura movies. TWO THUMBS UP!!!!! "},{"Title":"What? A 4.7? I say at least an 8!","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I don't know how this movie could have received such a poor rating from everyone. I guess you just have to have a unique sense of humor... I adore Jim Carrey and his work. Especially because of these movies (the other being Ace Ventura Pet Detective). Had anyone else starred in these films they would have been trash. But Jim Carrey is absolutely hilarious. His energy is amazing and his enthusiasm is wonderful. You can just tell he is enjoying himself and knowing that is just makes you enjoy the movie that much more. Oh well, just my opinion. "},{"Title":"not a good movie, but an effective comedy, Jim Carrey can pull of anything","Date":"15 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  i loved the first Ace Ventura, and i love jim carrey, so i came into this movie with high hopes... unfortunately, this didn't turn out to be a good movie, nowhere near the quality of the first one.  there were many times i was just furrowing my brows, shaking my head, and going oh my god, i can't believe Jim Carrey agreed to do that....  this movie didn't have much of a plot either... but then again, plot is not exactly a prerequisite of a slapstick comedy.  AV When Nature Calls does have some redeeming qualities however.  Jim Carrey's unique style of comedy manages to pull it through.  there were many parts of the movie that made me laugh out loud (it's been a while since i've seen a comedy that did that).  in short, this is definitely worth watching if you're a fan of jim carrey comedies.  just try not to pay attention to the gross and ridiculous parts... and you'll be likely to enjoy it a lot!  "},{"Title":"Good sequel!","Date":"29 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The sequel crazier than the prequel and has some really insane comedy but I can't help but laugh at it)Jim Carrey was very good and Bob Gunton was good.This film is arguably funnier than the original.I don't spoil it for you so if you like the cast I mentioned and really silly stuff and a very entertaining movie then watch Ace Ventura Pet Detective! "},{"Title":"AAALLLLLLL-RIGHTY THEN!!!-PART DEUX","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  ACE VENTURA  WHEN NATURE CALLS (1995) *** Jim Carrey, Ian Mc Neice, Simon Callow, Sophie Okonedo, Tommy Davidson.  Juvenile hijinks with hair-defying private dick Carrey out to find the stolen sacred bat of a native tribe.  Some truly hysterical moments and fine showcase for elastic Carrey to get his ya-yas out.  Opening take off of Cliffhanger with a terrified raccoon is a riot. ALLrighty then! "},{"Title":"funnier then the first","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  i think this movie was way funnier then ace ventura pet detective...that movie was hilarious but this one was a lot better...i liked it a lot more and i hope u all did too...even though the rating is kind of like low "}{"Title":"This is one of the funniest movies ever!","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  You would have to be a major prude to not like this film. It was knockdown funny. I will give you that the mentality is not that of one of Altman's boring and overhyped comedies, but it is much funnier. Personally I think that Jim Carrey is best when he is given minimal lines and is allowed to be his crazy self. I just don't know how anyone could watch this movie and not laugh their heads off. It was slapstick at its best. I would dare say that many people that voted negatively on this film did not see it. There are six or seven scenes and lines from this movie that you will never forget. The Rhino baby scene, the Tommy Davidson fight scene, the Monopoly Man, etc.. If you get a chance to see this video, rent it and you will laugh, a lot. Lunacy at its best! "},{"Title":"What a disappointment","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Boy, when I heard part 2 was coming I got a bit excited. I should have known better. What a waste of time! Right from the very beginning it was bad. There were maybe a total of 10 times that I laughed out loud during this bomb. For these 10 times and my respect for Jim Carrey(which dwindled a bit with this movie)I gave it a 4. "},{"Title":"Waste of my time","Date":"2 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I liked the original, it was zany but it kept itself from becoming too cartoonish.  This on the other hand is more cartoon/comic than movie, and would of been better if it was done as a cartoon.  This movie is a shameless piece of crap with a bad plot, so it just tries to fill up as much as it can with lame jokes. "},{"Title":"Jim Carrey's antics get crazier and more uneven","Date":"1 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The movie starts with Ace Ventura failing to rescue a raccoon in a parody of 'Cliffhanger'. He abandons everything to live in a remote Himalyan hideaway. After the Himalayas, he joins Fulton Greenwall (Ian McNeice) in a quest to find a sacred bat and avert a war between with Wachootoo and Wachati tribes.Jim Carrey is pushing the envelop with even more crazier antics than the original. There are some hilarious stuff here. Sometimes it's even smart like the parody of 'Cliffhanger'. Mostly it's all very juvenile. It has its moment but like its predecessor, this does get tiresome. A big problem is that he does a lot of it out of anger. It makes some of the jokes to fall flat. It's a very uneven movie that tired me out. "},{"Title":"Very funny","Date":"13 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I actually liked this movie far more than I liked the first one in the series.I give the first one credit for setting up the premise, for being hilarious, and because it has Jim Carrey in it. But this one goes so much further in the humor department, at least for me.I found more quotes from this movie that I can easily recall later, and whenever someone mentions even part of a scene from the movie, the entire scene in full color comes back to me and I laugh all over again.I've seen the movie several dozen times and I laugh every single time, a good sign in my book that this is a great comedy. "},{"Title":"Better than the first, that's for sure","Date":"31 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I thought honestly that the second Ace Ventura was better than the first. It had some spaztic humor in it still, but I think Jim was coming more into his own skin once again. Also, I loved that it had more animal humor in it. There are more funny scenes and no love interest that lacks chemistry.SOME LIGHT SPOILERS My favorite scenes were definitely when Ace was tied onto the raft with the monkey that was going down the river into a water fall and the monkey frees himself and leaves Ace. Also where he has to prove himself by fighting the little tribe man.Ace Ventura When Nature Calls is definitely more entertaining than the first in my opinion. I would definitely recommend it for Jim Carrey fans or if you are interested in the Ace Ventura movies.7/10 "},{"Title":"Guilty pleasure comedy","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Without any shame I say  I love this film. Jim Carrey is a great comedian in my opinion and the Ace Ventura films remain his best and funniest achievements. I recommend this film to everyone who needs a good laugh when they're stressed or something. It's true  Ace makes you forget all your daily problems. I can't count the times I couldn't stop laughing. The story...let's say that's not very important but there's is a plot. To avoid a war between 2 African tribes, Ace has got to find back the sacred animal which is a big white bat. To do this, Ace gets stuck in a giant fake rhino, has to do a survival test made up by savages and infiltrate in the high society levels. I assure you this all turns into hilarious situations. I'm not saying it's better than part one, but it sure is more light-headed and there's much more variation. For the rest, all the elements that made Ace Ventura 1 so good, are present. And tons of it !!! Jim Carrey is a rather limited comedian. Either you love him or you can't stand him. If you love him, and his rubber face expressions, this film ( and the first of course ) are the best to check out. He'll probably never win an Oscar or end up in the best actor ever-list but I don't care. And I'm sure all other fans of this film don't care, neither "},{"Title":"Not as good as the first, but a decent sequel. Hey, it could've been worse!","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  ACE VENTURA WHEN NATURE CALLS has some funny moments, and some not-so-funny moments as well. But overall, it's a very decent sequel worthy of being recommended by me. All righty then! 2.5/5 stars-loved the cliffhanger spoof! "},{"Title":"Racist and stupid","Date":"28 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" When I was a kid I loved the first Ace Ventura movie. I remember not being as fond of the second one but that was mainly because I loved the first one so much. I've then rewatched the first one and actually thought it was kind of funny.Today I rewatched the second movie and seriously, it's just appallingly racist and stupid. It basically repeats the famous lines from the first movie (really, like a glove etc) and in between, it depicts people in Africa like a 50s documentary. If anyone thinks this movie is really funny, they should never be allowed to watch a movie again. Basically, they should forfeit their sight and give it to blind people so that they can use it to watch better movies. "},{"Title":"The first one didn't need a sequel!","Date":"17 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Ace Ventura When Nature Calls now seems more interesting because it was a before-they-were-famous situation it starred Sophie Okonedo - Best Supporting Actress nominee for Hotel Rwanda - as the princess. Otherwise, it was pointless. Still, Jim Carrey pulls off some funny stunts. His hairdo alone is enough to carry - or is that Carrey? - the movie. I think that my favorite part was the scene with The Monopoly Guy; the Cliffhanger spoof was also neat. But overall, there's not much that you didn't see the first time. As for the question of whether or not it made stereotypes about Africans, I wouldn't really know. A pathetic sequel. "}{"Title":"one investigation too much for Ace Ventura","Date":"10 December 2004","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The beginning of the film which presents a parody of the film Cliffhanger (1993) is the sole real acceptable idea of making in this flick. What's next? Well, simply, the rest remains at the zero level (and surely less) of what American comedy can deliver. Everything is out of control, including the script. All right, we can distinguish a story that could have hold water. But it is relegated to a position of secondary importance to give way to a series of cock-and-bull scenes where stupidity prevails. They are also scattered by ponderous racist jokes about the Africans and murdered by Jim Carrey's tomfooleries. He looks more like a retarded teenager than an animal detective.How would you define Ace Ventura When Nature Calls to someone who doesn't know the film at all? Lobotomized cinema at its best! And by the way, congratulations Mr Carrey you have made you finest rubbishy film. "},{"Title":"Funny but Not as Funny as the First.","Date":"24 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Ace Ventura - When Nature Calls (1995) is a funny movie but it is not as funny (or is it as good) as the first movie, the original and classic wacky comedy movie Ace Venture - Pet Detective. The first movie of course was the huge break out role for Jim Carrey that made him a bankable grade A star in Hollywood. The second movie is still funny with some really good scenes (I am thinking of the great scene where Jim Carrey comes out of the special robotic rhino that he was hiding in to watch the bad guys without being seen) but it never is as funny or as consistent as the first/original Ace Ventura.Definitely worth seeing but don't expect the same laughs from the first movie. "},{"Title":"Oh boy, oh boy, oh boy...","Date":"26 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Actually, Ace Ventura When Nature Calls is not quite as bad as this summary suggests. Though that is not to say that this film is good, for me it isn't. The film does look good, it was interesting to see the likes of Simon Callow and he especially does bring some dignity and like in the first Jim Carrey does a fine job carrying the film. However the plot is very predictable and flimsy, and the direction lacks the energy and imagination of that of the first. The film also could have done with being longer consequently some of the characters lacked credibility. Also the pace is not as snappy and smart, when the humour fell flat(like it did one too many times) it felt like a balloon had been popped. The slapstick is very juvenile here, while the script is more childish than sophisticated and for me that was a bad idea. Overall, disappointing but thanks to Carrey it is at least watchable if nothing to go wild about. 4/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Not original, but still funny","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  When I saw thsi movie, I knew it had as much originality as Weird Al Yankovic's parodies.  But luike Yankovic's paroides, this was funny.  Jim Carrey brings out the Ace Ventura like no one else can (possibly because no one else wants to do an impression from they're butt).  Humor comes in heavy doses, like the first one, and I laughed at a lot of it.  But it's just that this one seemed done before, and not as good as the first.  Still though, for Carrey fans (or for people looking for a laugh), this film is for you. A "},{"Title":"I Gave It A Chance","Date":"20 October 2003","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I usually despise Jim Carrey movies but ACE VENTURA PET DETECTIVE was just about bearable so decided to watch the sequel even though I`m a confirmed Carrey hater . The movie gets off to a good start with a spoof on CLIFFHANGER and the following scenes aren`t a million miles removed from RAMBO 3 , and as the action moves to darkest Africa OZ fans will notice the chap who plays Simon Adebisi , ( I can`t be bothered to spell his name ) , alas when the action moves to Africa the problems with this movie also begin with the plot featuring Ace looking for a rare bat becoming more and more obscure with Carrey`s slapstick mannerisms coming more to the fore . I`ve never been a slapstick fan and I find even Mr Laural and Mr Hardy can be hit and miss ( And believe me Carrey doesn`t belong in the same sentence as that legendary duo ) so the more the movie went on the more I found myself disliking it , and by the end credits I absolutely hated ACE VENTURA WHEN NATURE CALLS For Carrey fans only  "},{"Title":"Ace Ventura When Nature Calls","Date":"9 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is the interesting sequel to Ace Ventura Pet Detective. We see Jim Carrey return with a weird second film. He is hilarious, but there are some tiny moments where he's a bit annoying. But apart from those moments, this is a good comedy. A praised animal has been stolen from an African tribe. It is Ace's job to find it. The only problem is he's afraid of it. The only animal Ace does not like is a bat. But he must put his fear behind him in order to find it. With appearances from Simon Callow and wonderful gags, this is a good sequel. My favourite part was when he wore a man on his shoulders to teach a fox wearing woman a lesson. Worth watching! "}]