[{"Title":"I never thought of it that way..","Date":"22 December 2005","Score":"39 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The Brady Bunch Movie (1995) is, in my opinion, one of the best spoofs in movie history. Every character is deliciously well done in true '70s style, the decor is excellent, and the whole plot is hilarious the Bradys in the '90s. An excellent movie on the whole, complete with cameos by the original Brady Bunch cast and '70s icons.The beauty of this movie, has I've mentioned before, is that it is done so authentically. There are little touches here and there (you may need to watch the movie a few times to notice), such as 'The Partridge Family' bus going by just before the singing competition scene.There are some hilarious moments (some quite cringe worthy too!). Mike Brady giving a 'wise' speech, Marcia getting hit in the nose by a football, Marcia's dance and so many more. I even find when Jan knocks some boxes off funny! Pacing wise, it moves very fast so you don't get bored. It runs smoothly. No qualms there.It is really amusing to see a naive, sweet '70s family fit in with '90s California grunge. It's a great movie - many great memories of this. "},{"Title":"Great self-mocking fun","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"29 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The 1970's family The Brady's find themselves in the 1990's but still with the same virtues we all know.  However their next door neighbour is trying to get all the land around the area acquired to build a mall.  He has been hiding their mail and causing them to build up $20K in unpaid taxes.  The kids set about trying to raise the money to save the family home.Reading the reviews shows me that people just don't get this film.  I think this is a great example of what should happen when you remake a cheesy TV show from all our childhood's.  The whole film is one big self-mocking joke about the values of the Brady's.  The plot is not really important but it is a good summing up of the daft plots they had back then, however here it is just a device for the jokes.The joke here is that we have a slightly modern spin on the family.  We see them being all cheesy and full of morals even when surrounded by the dog eat dog world of LA in the nineties, but they are still the same.  I find this funny and the moral lessons etc are all delivered tongue in cheek.  The best bit of self mocking is the modern expansion of the characters &#150; this thing is full of innuendoes and nice touches &#150; like Jan hearing voices etcThe cast are all spot on. Long and Cole talk it straight but let their looks and glances tell a different story (Long is excellent), while the kids are all very very good.  I'd never seen the show till after this so I didn't see any cameos or anything but really this isn't important.This is great &#150; you don't need to have seen the show.  It's wonderfully self mocking and very very funny.  Those who criticise it for not being serious or for being a joke just are getting it at all.  Great fun! "},{"Title":"Hilarious, over-the-top spoof of Brady Phenomenon","Date":"10 October 2004","Score":"23 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Besides offering countless belly-laughs, this spoof of the legendary sit-com has many authentic elements of the original 70s TV show. The casting in itself was a stroke of genius. I'm still not sure if they actually froze Maureen McCormick (the REAL Marcia Brady), only to unthaw her in time to return to her role in this film; the actress playing Marcia in this film looks like a clone of the original! Shelley Long is also striking as Carol, as are Cindy, Bobby and Alice. -- Several original cast members from the TV series had cameos, most noteworthy Ann B. Davis (Alice), who returned as a truck driving confidante to a confused run-away Jan. -- Florence Henderson showed up as her own meddling mother who finally (much overdue) told Jan to cut the crap!, giving her a swift smack on the cheek, thus curing her of her chronic and tiresome wining. -- We meet the Brady's neighbors the Dittmeyers, who were frequently mentioned, but never actually shown on the TV program. Here they are no Fred & Ethel, but scheming, manipulative opportunists, eager to convince the Bradys to sell their house (to them), in order for a big developer to turn the entire neighborhood into a huge building project. -- The film is also loaded with cheesy advice we remember Mike & Carol dishing out in over-dose rations during their 5 year run in prime time (not to mention the zillions of re-runs to follow). This will always be Sherwood Schwartz's biggest hit. The Brady Bunch will go down with Lucy, Andy and Samantha as America's best loved all-time favorite sit coms. The Brady Bunch Movie only intensified America's love affair with the light fluff that dreams are made of. This film is a winner in my book!  "},{"Title":"Extremely funny, very clever too","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"18 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Out of all the movies that have been made from old TV shows, this is perhaps the best.  The plot is as thin as one you see on the show and.  The dialogue is killer - when Marcia is insecure about her injured nose on a date, the guy reassures her, its not your nose I'm after. Quite alot of the jokes are of the double-meaning style and most of them are very funny.  Gary Cole takes the acting honors, as he is just as sincere are Robert Reed was.  I was never the biggest fan of the show, but this movie made me wish I were. Also it was great seeing Davey Jones of the Monkees! "},{"Title":"Really 'Brady-full'","Date":"1 October 2004","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  In America, almost all teenagers, who grew up in the late 60's and early 70's, would have loved the TV show. Though I am way past that generation and not even close to America, I still fall in that same category &#150; every fan can only wish for one day- this to become a huge movie- and it did.Though the humour of this movie is of a sarcastic nature, basically ridiculing this family for being out-dated, it still doesn't make this movie less funnier. It only makes us realize, that TV shows before are of a completely different nature, and with that kind of script, no network would even think of accepting it. This movie covered certain things, which could not have been done on 70's TV- like Peter's growing up dilemmas. Everyone gave brilliant performances- there is homage to certain episodes- most of which were very popular- especially the one with Marcia's swollen nose. A bit of trivia- in the TV series- Mr. Dittmeyer is the Brady's neighbors- though I doubt he has ever appeared in any episode, his name has been mentioned on many episodes.Anyone who was a fan of the TV series should check this movie out. It is definitely a guilty pleasure, which is worth enjoying.  "},{"Title":"A must see for all Brady Bunch fans","Date":"27 October 1999","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I thought this movie was absolutely hilarious!! I grew up watching the Brady Bunch and anyone who is a fan of the TV show will truly enjoy this film. Michael McKean was so funny as Mr. Dittmire. Although the humor is off the wall and silly......this movie spoofed the show right down to a tee. Very funny! "},{"Title":"Neato!","Date":"24 September 2001","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Groooovy! Neato! Yup, the Brady's are back and are struggling to make it in the 90's, the Brady house is being put up for auction, and it's up to the all-singing, all-dancing Brady kids troupe to sing their way out of it!Shelley Long and Gary Cole play Carol and Mike Brady, while the kids are played by the likes of Christine Taylor, Christopher Daniel Barnes and Olivia Hack. RuPaul even gets into the Brady act, appearing as the kid's school guidance person - helping Jan through her 'Marcia, Marica, Marcia!' obsession.Plenty of laughs (if not for the sheer corn factor) and it's actually quite fun. If you ever loved the original 'Brady Bunch' series - then you'll love this. Cast originals Florence Henderson, Barry Williams and Ann B. Davis all make cameo appearances.It's happening in a far out way! "},{"Title":"Mind Blowing!","Date":"10 November 1998","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  For anyone old enough to have seen the original series, this movie truly blows the lid off of the whole TV show and pokes fun at the whole whole family and concept at every turn. They easily could have done a formula tv-ish movie and instead they make a complete parody that is screamingly funny. Not to mention that the fact that the cast are dead-ringers for the originals--in fact Jan is so _frighteningly_ like the original that it'll send shivers up your back. Four of the original cast also make cameos in the film (but you'll have to really look to find some of them), and the film blends the whole campy concept with the retro plastic nineties--a perfect joke on fashions of this decade. Very worth watching!  "},{"Title":"A clever spoof","Date":"29 June 1999","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  OK, I'm as fed up with the polyvinyl, well-scrubbed Brady family as anyone, so a spoof on the entire genre was most refreshing. But I think people who are not familiar with the series may take some pleasure in the 90's-steeped humor that's also present. Certainly not for everyone, but I can only rate a movie as I see it, and I was thoroughly amused (rating 7/10). "},{"Title":"Really good....but you gotta see the sequel!","Date":"17 January 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" When I first heard about this film being in production, I was about as happy as you'd be if you heard about a giant meteorite heading to destroy the Earth! After all, despite the original show having a bit of a following, the show was completely saccharine and impossible for anyone other than kids to like. So why, oh why, would I want to see this?! Well, it turns out I was wrong--wrong because the film WAS good to watch and wrong because this was NOT the same Brady Bunch I remember from my youth.So what was so right about this film? Well, first it was not a remake of the show, but a parody of it--the only way this could have worked. In this case, it's the same sort of Brady family BUT they are living exactly as they did in 1970--despite it being 1995. In other words, the clothes, the language, the actors and their spot-on impersonations of the originals (I particularly loved Gary Cole and the way he talked just like Mike Brady) and the music are all circa 1970--and everyone around the Brady family just stares at them in total disbelief. TO make things even better, there is a wonderful visit from Davy Jones as well as a wonderful plot involving Jan and hear jealousy of Marsha, Marsha, Marsha! As for the plot, this might be the biggest weakness. While it isn't bad, the film's theme of the evil neighbors and the Brady family losing their home never is as fun or interesting as the sequel--A VERY BRADY SEQUEL--and you MUST see this sequel. It is a hoot! "}{"Title":"A Classic Tribute!","Date":"31 December 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The Brady Bunch Movie is a fine tribute to the original television series and the film retains enough of the humor from the series to make the film work, despite an entire new cast. However, I liked the decision for Paramount to have some cameos from the likes of Florence Henderson and the late Ann B. Davis. The film is a bit campy at time, but it takes some getting used to. The jokes are really good, but the main joke is seeing how the Bradys react in the 1990's, and fortunately that joke did not disappoint.Betty Thomas's film has all the original characters from the television series, including my favorite Alice the housekeeper. A scheming neighbor of the Bradys plan to take their house unless they can raise twenty thousand dollars. They discover that participating in a musical may be their only bet to keep their property.The film was not badly acted. The new actors retained enough of the characters wit to be effective. Shelley Long and Gary Cole as the parents were very good. Christine Taylor as the eldest daughter, Marcia is also very good and beautiful! Michael McKean is effective as the scheming neighbor. Finally, Henriette Mantel as Alice actually reminded me of Ann B. Davis's Alice very much so.Overall, The Brady Bunch Movie is an effective comedy and a successful reboot showing a new generation the wonders of the Brady family. The movie often movies into slapstick territory and relies on physical comedy perhaps a bit too much, but that doesn't hurt the film too much. Nothing beats the original Brady family, but this Brady family was very good and quite funny. This is the story of how 1970 met 1995 to pretty funny results. I rate this film 9/10. "},{"Title":"satirical take on 70s TV family","Date":"3 November 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Shelley Long, Gary Cole, and Christine Taylor lead the cast to recreate the iconic 70s TV family. It's a stroke of genius to bring the gang into the 90s. They are a school of fish out of water. The storyline to raise $20,000 for back property taxes sounds so familiar.Jennifer Elise Cox is especially funny as the head bopping insecure Jan suffering Middle Child Syndrome. But Jan, you don't have any friends. Everybody in the family is funny. Some of the modern people overplay their characters. It's not really necessary. Most of them are better off playing the straight character to the family's wackiness. Although Alanna Ubach turns in one of the funnier characters as Marcia's pining best friend. "},{"Title":"very nice spoof - the late davy jones pushed this film up with his rocky 'girl' version.","Date":"1 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" i never saw any episode of the Brady's , but i enjoyed this spoof of 70's righteous family living in modern mid nineties, not so glamorous, period. i specially like the funny as always Shelly long of course as the mother, and amazing babe Christine Taylor playing Marcia. but for me the movie really started to pick up from the moment (49 min) Davy Jones give an exceptional performance of his 70's Brady's hit 'girl' while Marcia Brady 70's character drive an entire 90's grunge crowed to dance to is song, and the schoolteachers are gathering around him. so to sum it up - great fun movie , and the sequel was also as good. Christine Taylor will probably will always be remembered for this role. "},{"Title":"Groovy!!","Date":"12 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The grooviest movie ever made!! Deserves and Oscar!!!!! JJJAAAAAAAAAN Marcia, Marcia, Marcia! I'm the new Jan Brady! As a wise man once said, Wherever you go, there you are. Because my glasses make me look positively goofy, but with these new contact lenses i look ultra glamorous! Nothing could ever top this movie!!! (Except maybe the Sequel when Greg and Marcia fell in love! Who saw that coming!?) Neato! Groovy! Far out! This movie is the best movie I have ever seen!! It's happening in far out ways! Everyone should watch this movie at some point and time!! Even if they have never seen the show! But who hasn't seen the TV show!? "},{"Title":"far out and groovy","Date":"24 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I didn't think 'The Brady Bunch' television series was so stupid it was funny, I just thought it was stupid. I gather I am not on the same wavelength as its many fans. I'm still not clear on what they're fans OF. So I went in to see 'The Brady Bunch Movie' thinking, this will be a couple of hours of my life I'll never get back. And then I proceeded to laugh my fool ass off. The spoofery here is perfect and dead on target; it seems almost too easy of a kill. The makers of the film must have felt like kids in a candy store. What do you lampoon mercilessly first? Marcia's airheadedly blonde conceit? Jan's borderline-psycho jealousy of Marcia? Mike Brady's emptyheaded homilies? Carol Brady's hairdo? Don't get impatient, the film gets to all of them in due course, and many others. 'The Brady Bunch Movie' basically takes the Brady family on its own terms but thrusts them into the 1990's where they are even more out of place than before. The principal running joke is that they don't consider themselves odd at all, in fact the Bradys feel they are the hippest, best-looking, and smartest family God ever created. They are oblivious to an outside world that variously treats them with bewilderment, astonishment, and sometimes outright contempt. Doesn't faze them in the slightest. The early seventies, when the original series prospered, were a strange time anyway. In a way, the sixties hadn't really ended. Disco and Saturday Night Live were yet to come. 'The Brady Bunch' was the latest of a type of show that had been a staple of network television since its inception, the family situation comedy. 'Father Knows Best,' 'The Donna Reed Show,' and of course 'Leave It To Beaver' were the prototypes. One might think 'The Brady Bunch' would have been the last of its breed, but the format's enduring appeal lived on in such shows as 'Eight Is Enough' and 'Full House.' 'The Brady Bunch' is definitely an artifact of its time though, more noticeably so than the other examples given, given the 60's background and affectations in dress, hairstyles, and dialogue. So bringing this determinedly odd and stupid family into the 90's was a stroke of genius, and what resulted was a sharp parody that made a lot of money and was followed by a sequel. Some of the best bits include continual run-ins with their neighbor, Mr. Dittmeyer, and his boozy, lustful wife, who clearly wishes to engage in a threesome with Greg and Peter. The Brady's astroturf lawn is still there, and another neighbor comments in amazement, One time I was over there. One bathroom for nine people? And I never did see a toilet. Then there's Greg Brady's line to several female classmates, Hey there, groovy chicks. You're all hep in far out ways. And Marcia's comforting words to Jan, who is worried about moving because she'll have to make new friends. Jan, you don't have any friends. 'The Brady Bunch Movie' is a funny flick bound to send you away muttering, Marcia, Marcia, Marcia! "},{"Title":"Lots of fun","Date":"19 October 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Clever spoof on The Brady Bunch TV series. The Bradys are still living like it's the 1970s but it's 1995. They wear the terrible 70s fashions, are all squeaky clean and friendly and are totally oblivious that the times have changed. Various plots from the old TV show are used and the reactions from 1990s people are frequently hilarious. However this is probably only for a select audience. I grew up watching it on TV when I was in grade school and saw it constantly in reruns when I was in junior high and high school. Therefore I have mostly every episode memorized. The movie has plenty of in jokes for fans of the series and people like me (I sort of like the show but I'm no fan). So if you're not familiar with the Bradys or the show you might not like it. I originally caught this at a theatre back in 1995. It was wall to wall baby boomers and college kids. When the title song came on the whole audience joined in loudly and loved the whole movie! So I think most people will like it and get it.The whole cast looks almost exactly like their TV counterparts with the sole exception of Gary Cole who looks nothing like Robert Reed. On the other hand Shelley Long is a dead ringer for Florence Henderson. The Brady house looks exactly like it did in the TV show--heck, they even use the same music! Also there are cameos from various original cast members and other 70s stars (like Davy Jones and the Monkees). There are also a few dance and song numbers (all from the original show) that are energetic and colorful (if you ignore the inane lyrics). There's also a few gay positive characters squeezed in. There's a lesbian school mate after Marcia (who's totally oblivious) and an interracial gay couple living on the same street as the Bradys. I personally LOVE this movie and think it's hysterical. I give it a 10. "},{"Title":"Brilliant idea - bring the Brady Bunch forward 25 years!","Date":"27 August 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" When this movie was announced way back when, my first reaction was 'can't they leave anything alone?' Especially when the first descriptions said Marcia would have a gay girlfriend... I just thought the whole thing would be sickening. I was wrong.The beauty of this movie is that they take the Brady Bunch, right out of 1970, and drop them into 1995. HOW such a thing could be, I can't say, but it was a brilliant idea. Somehow, in the middle of the 1990's, the Brady family is firmly entrenched in 1970. They've got the cars, the clothes, the music, it's like the whole world around them doesn't exist! They either don't notice, or don't care. For example, Greg drives Marcia to their high school in Mrs. Brady's station wagon and along the way they are listening to an 8 track tape of Davy Jones singing. WHERE would they get an 8 track tape like that - and in 1995?! Well, don't worry too much about that, just accept it and laugh at it. Okay, so they get to school and Marcia says she has written to Davy Jones to see if he will sing at their school's dance. Greg scoffs at the idea because 'a big star like that is too busy to come to our dance!' I mean, where do they see Davy Jones as a star at all in the 1990's? He's got no hits, you'd never see him on TV... yet to the Brady's, he is a superstar and they are playing 8 track tapes of him gotten from who-knows-where.Where would they get their flare-bottom pants and gaudy patterned clothes? The square-toed mid-heel shoes? The paisley shirts? Their cars are right out of 1970 or so (though not the same cars they drove on the TV show). Where? When? How? You don't ask such questions, you just accept and laugh at the insanity of it all.The beauty of this movie is watching the 1970 Brady Family as they interact with the world around them which is 25 years further along. Okay, they do put some edge on the family members and they do get a little fun poked at them - like when Greg as Johnny Bravo gets up to perform at his school dance and says 'I wrote this song for the grooviest chick at Westdale High' and girls run screaming out of the gymnasium. And the drunk woman who lives next door has the hots for Mr. Brady - and Greg - and even Peter.It's a really funny movie. I never thought I'd have liked it but when I finally watched it, I realized what an ingenious idea it was. There is a sequel to this movie which IMO is one of the reasons sequels are usually no good, just an attempt to cash in on a good original.Finally, even as this movie makes fun of the Brady family, it does so with some heart. The humor is good-natured; the family members are still all likable and are treated with affection even as they are the source of the humor. If you always loved the Brady Bunch, this movie won't anger you by the way they were treated. Yes, the joke is on them, but they're laughing along with us - even if they don't get the joke in quite the same way we do. I like this movie! "},{"Title":"Excellent film adaptation of a classic TV show with smashing performances","Date":"26 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" THE BRADY BUNCH MOVIE, in my opinion, is an excellent film adaptation of a classic TV show with smashing performances. Also, even though everyone gave an appealing performance, I liked Carol's (Shelley Long) the best. In addition, I thought that Mr. Dittmeyer (Michael McKean) was a very despicable guy. However, I thought that Marcia (Christine Taylor) was somewhat arrogant. Before I wrap this up, I'd like to say that everyone involved in this film did a very good job. In conclusion, I highly recommend this excellent film adaptation of a classic TV show with appealing performances to any fan who hasn't seen it. You're in for a good time, so go to the video store, rent it or buy it, kick back with a friend, and watch it. "},{"Title":"You'll laugh, You'll cry, You'll fall on the floor laughing...","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Funny, oft times hilarious send up of the 1970's tv show. Starring Gary Cole, as the homily-spouting dad, Mike Brady (he nails this role dead on) and Shelley Long, as Mrs. Brady. They are to be commended, as the rest of the cast, for a comic retro trip back through memory lane. Henriette Mantel is especially good, as the pun-weilding, eternally cheerful Alice, the maid. Yes, some of the plot is a tad lame, and not all the cameos equate out to well above par. (What was it with that Davey Jones number?! Downright spooky...) However, this film has more than enough comical highlights, to make it very worthy of your time. Those not old enough to remember the series, ought to hip themselves first, by catching a few episodes on Nick@Nite first. If not, you'll be confused as to why your parents are giggling like they're possessed or something, at this parody.  "},{"Title":"Campier & even if it may be wackier than the Original TV Cast.","Date":"27 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" You'll Laugh as hysterically as I did & as all people of which I'd seen it with in the theater did & just about everyone in my family has too.It'll transport you back & forth both to a new Brady era as well an old Brady era. The predictable previous Brady vets Making cameos will take you away too.What more can one say but The apps. of 3 out of 4 of the Monkees make it all the more nostalgic in addition to all of the recreations from the TV Show & the new & updated Brady Humor also.Oh Yes that's right Stevie's Favorite Family Each time they come back Ste is more glad to see,They Drive Ste Brady true,true.Like no one else, They Drive Ste Brady & I can't help myself.Also do watch for the jump rope scene,it's very hysterical.As Critic Leonard Maltin states in his TV-Movie-Video Guide predictably previous TV Brady Vets do make Cameo apps.But this what makes it all the more enjoyable too.Gary Cole does a great succession to the Late Robert Reed's Role.The 3 Monkees making a cameo give a nice touch of Familarity too.Christine Taylor as Marcia is uncanny and she and Maureen McCormick even agree that looking at each other is like looking in the mirror.Shelley Long mimic's Carol Brady very well too.All the lead players do well on the whole too. Truthfully, Stephen Steve G. Baer a.k.a. Ste of Framingham,Ma.USA. "}{"Title":"A Good Tribute to The Brady Bunch","Date":"15 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Today's younger generation probably only knows The Brady Bunch from reruns, but it was the most popular sitcom of the 70's. This movie places the Brady Bunch in 1995, but they still act and dress like they were in the 70's.The movie is very funny and has a typical Brady plot of the family overcoming a crisis. The casting is dead-on. All of the characters looked and acted very much like the original, with the exception of Greg Brady. Barnes did a fine job, but he didn't look just like Greg & acted more dorky, this is the writer's fault. All in all, the film's a good time, even if you're not a Brady Bunch fan. "},{"Title":"Hilarious!","Date":"14 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The Brady Bunch Movie is one of the most clever spoofs I have ever seen. Usually self-parody can get boring and uninteresting, but the mocking of the Brady's family ethics mixed with sexual references galore makes it interesting throughout. And, although the plot may seem to lose steam at some spots, the heartwarming conclusion to Jan's running away is very worth sticking around to see.Not only is the movie humorous, but it very well acted. I think Jennifer Elise Cox stands out the most, as the psycho middle-child Jan Brady.All-in-all the cast nailed it, and this goes down hands-down as one of the funniest movies I have seen in a long time. "},{"Title":"Great Nostalgia!","Date":"13 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I first saw this at a cinema with my best friend, we grew up with the Bradys and to be honest, I think for one to really enjoy this movie, you have to feel as if you are on the inside of an inside joke. The cast is terrific, Christine Taylor's homage to Maureen McCormick is phenomenal and watching the highs and lows of poor Jan, Jan, Jan is an absolute hoot! My only suggestion is to watch it with friends who will get it. It elevates the whole film. Definitely one for the collection -- a keeper!This film was like cotton candy. very, very sweet -- it could give some a toothache. For me, it was a great retrospective of a part of my early life that I enjoyed immensely. Truly great fun! "},{"Title":"A Good Family","Date":"26 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I loved this movie. It was so funny! Davy Jones and cameos from Florence Henderson (Carol Brady),Ann B.Davis (Alice Nelson),Christopher Knight (Peter Brady),and Barry Williams (Greg Brady). The only scene in which I found just disturbing (the scene where Cindy gets the Dittmeyers' mail and Mrs.Dittmeyer is drunk). I wish Sherwood Schwartz would of just deleted the scene. But,it was a big plot point for the movie. Anyways,that's the only complaint. RuPaul,Davy Jones (my second mention of him),and Shelley Long all in the same movie! I love that. I really do. Oh,gosh. Anyways,this movie just brought out the best in the Bradys. And,if you want to hear their story,listen to the theme song (copied brilliantly from the original,nothing wrong with that). I own this movie on video,and believe me,I am happy to. This is my favorite movie,mainly because The Brady Bunch is my favorite show (or one of them). Anyways,this movie was overall fun and good! And,better then the sequel! Yeahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh! "},{"Title":"Irony at its finest","Date":"12 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is the film that started the ironic re-makes, most recently seen in Starsky and Hutch. This is a fantastically funny film, especially if you remember the old TV series. It pokes fun at the original (only gently) and has bucket loads of in-jokes and references. It takes you back to all those American TV shows that we got in England and were shown on Saturday morning TV and all the time through the holiday. The appearance of the Monkees just tops it off. If you're expecting a faithful re-creation of the original Brady Bunch, you're going to be a bit shocked. If you're expecting gross-out gags and teen humour, you're going to be disappointed. However, if you want a funny, clever, tongue-in-cheek and, yes, heart-warming comedy with a modern spin, definitely check this out. Finally, this film also showcases the genius that is Gary Cole, probably one of the most under-rated actors around. Also see Office Space for more of this superb actor, and Midnight Caller and American Gothic, if you can find them.  "},{"Title":"Really Nice Movie!","Date":"12 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I loved this movie, because I'm a big fan of the old shows. This movie starring by Gary Cole, Elizabeth Taylor, Elise Cox among others it's just hilarious, Here i can watch once and once to my favorite actress Alanna Ubach (Legally Blonde & Sister Act 2). But this is one of my favorites characters from her career, she played Noreen, the lesbian who fell in love with Marcia Brady, but she get sad because Marcia never loved her as she is. Meanwhile, Jan has inner voices, that says to don't leave Marcia alone, she's upset all the time with her. Cindy, she's adorable, her blonde hair it's fake, but she's still adorable. This movie has 100% of original jokes, I hope we have the third part in a near future with the same cast, before one of them die. Enjoy it! "},{"Title":"Brave New Territory","Date":"24 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The Brady bunch are a family whose members look normal to one another, and a few other social misfits, but the rest of the modern world sees them as out of place and weird. The movie starts by portraying a typical day in the nineties, but for the Brady's- it's anything but. The next door neighbors have been getting so much of their mail, that they've been missing property tax slips. And thus, they have failed to pay. This is great news to Mr. Dittmeyer, who has been trying to get Mike Brady to sell his house so he can have a mini-mall built. So, the Brady clan has to come up with a way to acquire $20,000 by the deadline, or Dittmeyer gets their house.The plot is not the most enticing reason to see this movie. Instead, there is a real networking subplot about a family from the seventies not trying to fit in, but are content in their own little world. One-liners galore, and the sibling relationships make for extra fun because though the story involves two families who merged together while their oldest kids are in their mid-teens- they all treat each other like natural brothers and sisters.Marcia is shallow as Hal. Her whole worthiness to herself never gets old. Her best friend tells her that she is the prettiest girl in the school, to which she replies, I know. The question on all of our minds is- but how can she use her good looks and sparkling personality to earn money? Jan is rad as a fad with her multiple personalities. One encourages her, the second insults her, the third suggests she act in rage. Watch my head spin! Kill! Kill! Kill! That line is a comment on The Exorcist. Cindy has a funny lisp, and the rest of the kids are boring. But, this movie doesn't waste time on boring kids. And that's what's so great about it. The music is great corny fun... I suggest you see the movie and scream out the lines, It's me! The New Jan Brady! Let's knock over a 7-11. Stop, you're scaring me! Me too. ME TOO!!!!*** out of **** "},{"Title":"Marcia! Marcia! Marcia!  Someone finally gets how to adapt a tv series to the big-screen!","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  THE BRADY BUNCH MOVIE (1995) *** Shelley Long, Gary Cole, Christopher Daniel Barnes, Christine Taylor, Michael McKean, Jennifer Elise Cox, Paul Sutera, Jesse Lee, Olivia Hack, Henriette Mantel, David Graf, Jack Noseworthy, Megan Ward, (Cameos RuPaul, Davy Jones, Florence Henderson, Barry Williams, Christopher McKnight, Ann B. Davis).  Finally a tv comedy series adapted the right way not changing the characters!  Very funny story of a lovely lady, her three girls and a man named Brady with three boys of his own and their time warped state of existence in modern day LA.  Plot bad neighbor McKean wants to buy out the Bradys for his real estate scam.  Who Cares!  The production design, plot lines from old episodes and uncanny doppelgangers of tv's most esoterically perfect functional family deserve kudos if not for getting the costumes right. "},{"Title":"Groovy fun","Date":"16 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The Brady Bunch Movie is about that famous clan from the 70's living in the same house in the 90's.  But that is threatened when an evil real estate agent wants them to move out.  This one is definitely NBG-Nothing but Groovy.  The clan definitely came through here.  But I have to say that I have a crush on Jennifer Elise Cox--Jan Brady.  She is just a very sexy geek.  Anyway, this one is a great movie.  The Bradys rock on.  ****stars. (Paramount) "},{"Title":"Great fun, even if you've never seen the TV series","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I never watched the original TV series but I ended up watching this film a couple of Christmas's ago with one of my housemates. We were both in hysterics for  the majority of the film. It really is hilarious.The writer and director have managed to capture the Brady's being completely ignorant to the fact it is the nineties. They still wear seventies clothing, drive old cars, live in a formica house and over-use old phrases such as groovy and far out.If you haven't seen it then I would recommend buying it on video, it often crops up in larger stores during their sales. I'm just a bit annoyed that no-one has released it on DVD yet as I can watch this film again and again if I need a good laugh. "}{"Title":"Marcia , Marcia , Marcia","Date":"28 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Okay , let's cut to the chase and determine why this movie did so well and the entertainment industry , and cable company gave it three out of four stars It wasn't because the movie was beautiful or heart warming. NO! Don't think for a second that was it , cause it's not , okay? It's still as annoying as it ever was. That's not gonna change. But It's simple really , I mean when I saw that film. It had Brady Bunch all over it! You know , sometimes they make movies off of t.v shows Rugrats , Southpark , Bevis and Butthead , The Flinstones, the characters might be the same , but the plot similarities are as distinct as girls going out on a date with Brad Pitt , and then another one going out with Mr. Bean. You are defiantly able to tell the difference. (I sure hope so) and you get reviews like This movie is nothing like that t.v show! It sucked!! Well , not to praise the The Brady Bunch Movie anymore than I already have, but this has the exact same sappy jokes or situational comedy that we've all grown to know and hate. Marcia , Marcia , Marcia Oww , my nose! The pitfall come on , you've been in that bathroom for ages (You would think that 20 years later they would build a new bathroom!!) The voice overs , The songs, It all fits in perfectly! Now here we have the Brady Bunch still dressed up form the 70's and their infamous catch-phrases. He is SO dreamy That's like having Elton John trying to fit in with the world , that's EXACTLY what makes this film entertaining. Everyone else lives in the 90's while the Brady's fit into a 70's time slot , and are able to capture a realism in the movie. The fact that they used their episodes and somehow were able to fit them into a plot to form a 2 hour movie is uncanny. And the timing is impeccable. They didn't just randomly insert the jokes into the plot line like they did with Austin Power's Goldmember. (No offense to Austin Power's fans , but come on) If you noticed , they pretty much poked fun of everything you can think of. Their style , culture , society , music , catch-phrases , affection , behavior , other sucked it dry like Anna Nicole sucks the cream out of a twinkie without breaking the crust. In other words , they beat the living #### out themselves. And for all that it's worth , I think after seeing ALL THAT ,you do have to feel sorry for them , and pity them for what they made in the 70's. I'm sure now that it's too late the producers said What were we thinking? I thought that I wasn't going to like the movie since I never liked the Brady Bunch , but I was wrong , I was in for a good surprise , I often found myself mocking the jokes from the Brady Bunch Movie with a few other friends. So it fun times. I never thought making fun of the Brady Bunch would be so much , well , fun. (I guess that's where fun comes from) If you're a Brady Bunch fanatic , the three of you reading this review tonight , I recommend you watch it , if you haven't already , which I doubt. And those of you who HATE the Brady Bunch , can't stand it , just watch and be amazed on how Hollywood put it all together. (it was Hollywood , right?)***/**** stars myself!And IMDB reviewers , take it EASY! "},{"Title":"A gripe-free retelling. Spot on. 10/10.","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  After almost 30 years, Sherwood Schwartz, the still living original creator of The Brady Bunch TV series finally got a feature film of his show off the ground. Amazingly, The Brady Bunch Movie (1995) is very funny and self-mocking, hip fun.The beginning sets the tone, when Mr Ditmeier, the slimy realtor (played by fabulous mockumentarian and the Lenny half of Lenny & Squiggy from TV's Laverne and Shirley, Michael McKean) is trying to explain the Bradys to his client it's like they're not normal. -Why the Hell not? What's their story? comes the opening gambit which then launches us into the familiar Here's a story theme song.The characterizations of the regulars are, this time, much more knowing. For instance, when Cindy lisps out to an uproariously non-comprehending Mr Ditmeier that she wants their misdelivered mail, and he eventually gets it and slaps the bundle down in front of the little girl, he dismissed her with Here. Hit the road, Bad Seed, a hilarious and unexpected reference to the 1985 made-for-TV horror flick starring a Cindy lookalike. But Cindy's killer lines don't end there. She has a barrage of innocently parroted jocular embarrassments in store for everybody Daddy, Mrs Ditmeier said that she'd be glad to wrap your package this Christmas. And Mr Ditmeier says that Mrs Ditmeier is overhung; but he's not in a very good mood because he's taking it in the rear.Mrs Ditmeier (played with broad jadedness by Jean Smart of Designing Women fame) is no shrinking violet either. She gleefully toys with the innocent Brady boys standing on either side of her by suggesting that later, they could all go inside and help her make (become) a sandwich. &#150;Hello.The anachronisms flow thick and fast. Jan is revealed as a paranoid schizophrenic middle child who hears voices, but everything she perceives about her downtrodden status in the family is fully and completely justified. So we get to laugh at ourselves for ever having felt the same way in our own lives. Jan (Jennifer Elise Cox) valiantly bashes into fences, trying to be cool about not wearing her glasses. Her over-prepared and really quite beautiful school counselor, Mrs Cummings (the amazingly well-spackled RuPaul) is hilariously expecting grittier problems than a kid conflicted about wearing glasses.The same technique of underwhelmed grit is used again when Marcia tries to be a teen model but gets some gritty advice about how to improve herself, such as getting a haircut and breast implants. She slaps the image creator (a farcical David Leisure) for daring to suggest she cut her hair!I really love what they do with Jan's inner voices. She first has to sink quite low, and her voices first degenerate into schlock It's me, the new Jan Brady. Let's knock over a 7-11!, urges her Linda Blair-sounding inner voice. Thankfully, it's not allowed to rule Jan for too long. They do settle the sibling rivalry with Marcia quite well. Eventually.Marcia's way cool theme, Venus, the original 1969 version by Shocking Blue, can be heard as she struts in the schoolyard. She is so popular, even amongst her 1990s cynical schoolmates (who just can't believe their eyes), that she actually attracts both sexes. In a very left field characterisation, we see the fabulous Alanna Ubach as Marcia's smitten, and unfortunately very gay best friend, Noreen. Thankfully, Noreen does get lucky with someone much more worthy towards the end of the movie so she doesn't have to feel in any way rejected by the dense and insensitive Marcia. Casting Directors in Hollywood! More Alanna Ubach, please! Ms Ubach is completely adorable - but she's not God. Even she needs *  better material * than the asinine Clockwatchers (1998).A key touch during the movie is the adherence to plot elements from the TV series, such as the Bradys needing $20,000 to save their house, which the kids try to fix on their own by entering a talent contest. Of course, they win, using a terrific Davy Jones /Monkees ploy, again from the TV series. There is another terrific scene where Davy sings a grunged-up Thank You, Girl at Marcia's high school dance, and the schoolkids eventually start to groove to him; but he's a real hit with their female teachers who just about faint! (Hah, I was always a Micky Dolenz type of girl. Still am.) And of course, we get to watch for all the original TV show cast cameos. Florence Henderson, Ann B Davis, Barry Williams, and Christopher Knight all put in quickie appearances (as other characters, of course, which doesn't detract from the new cast at all).As with the TV series, the Bradys' singing and dancing is actually quite crucial to their charm. Their style is of course very, very corny, but it works almost purely due to nostalgia alone. The rest is achieved through primary colour costuming, their height-arranged waddling duckline, and the refreshing naivete that is shown to always work on at least a fraction of their audience.The grunge band that is their main competition is shown to not even deserve winning, because they are full of it it is the cool people who are the real losers instead of everyone else they bitch about.I have to mention one final unexpected slayer joke in an attempt to pep up his entire family, Mr Brady claims that Alone, we can only move buckets. But together, we can drain rivers! &#150;not exactly the ringing endorsement I think we might have hoped for. So I have to commend the two groups of writers for their fabulous, subversive screenplay, which is peppered with similar little gems. It is rare to have so many cooks still not spoiling the broth. The ending addresses the very heart of the whole sibling rivalry issue and manages to make even having to stop seem entirely the right thing. I cannot think of a single gripe about anything. Perfect. "},{"Title":"I'm shocked to find so many people on this site liking this film","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Because I thought I was the only one! In fact, having caught this first on video, I was one of two people in the theater for the sequel! That one is nearly as good, too. The original television show was so stupid, and the idea of making old tv shows into movies is a bad idea in the first place. But the idea for this one is perfect. Way to go!  "},{"Title":"Very funny movie, bad slapstick, but were the Brady's really that happy?","Date":"26 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  For anyone who's watched the show, there are countless references and spoofs of the original, and I for one found this movie to be one of the funniest thing I've seen in a long while. What has me confused, however, is the complete misconception about the Brady's. Everyone pictures them as this super-happy love family, but really they didn't stop fighting. Although they always made up at the end of each episode, they spent the other 20 minutes each day just fighting about bathroom time, missing toys, and pretty much everything else physically possible. So how come the complete 'happiest family in the world' idea? That just sprung to my mind while watching this movie, as I too have always had this view. The main thing that lets the movie down though is the lame slapstick humour that tries to appeal to the under 10's, such as Eric Dittmeyer picking up the electricity cable. If I didn't understand all of the in-jokes, this movie would have been unbearably horrid. I strongly don't recommend to anyone who hasnt seen the show, but highly recommended to anyone who has. "},{"Title":"Hi.","Date":"28 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  To Jay from Southern California Lighten up, just because a show portrays a decade a certain way, doesn't mean it is wrong.  What would classic shows such as I Love Lucy or Leave It To Beaver be like if the 1950s was portrayed how it actually was?  People watched TV so they could escape the issues in the nation, they don't want to try to forget about the protests, only to turn on the TV, and see an episode of the Brady Bunch about the protests... Anyways... This movie is fantastic!! The whole cast is wonderful and do great jobs impersonating the original cast.  I highly recommed this movie to everyone.  BTW did anyone notice cameos from the Monkees, and the Partridge Family bus?  Hehe... My favorite part is when they dance to Keep On "},{"Title":"Funny spoof of the TV show","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Before you watch The Brady Bunch Movie you really have to have watched the show to understand it. And if you have, you'll laugh yourself sick. The cast looks and acts so much like the original, it's spooky. Especially Gary Cole as Mike Brady. His portrayal was so dead on it was hysterical! The musical numbers are great, and if you remember the songs from the show, just TRY not to sing along! I also liked the idea of sticking the Bradys from the 70s into the 90s. That was great. The movie is so funny! "},{"Title":"Great spoof if you know about the TV series!!","Date":"7 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is a great spoof based on the TV show by the same name. The Brady 's live a quiet life in 1990's america. The Brady's still believe it's still the 1970's!!Meanwhile, the real world has changed drastically since the Brady's time in the 1970's. Also a neighbor is trying to build a mall in the Brady's neighborhood. The Brady's manage to save their home and neighborhood.The movie has pleanty of songs from the orginal TV series!!Davy Jones,Florence(original Mrs. Brady), Ann B. Davis(Alice), the original Peter Brady and Greg Brady all have cameos in the movie!!!If you still have not seen the TV series , the watch it and then watch the movie!!This movie was followed by A Very Brady Sequel the next year!!Both Brady Bunch  movies are my favorites because I can relate to them in a big family(I am in a family of 11)!Of course I also grew up watching the series as a kid, it still is one of my favorite TV series(besides Doctor Who,Buffy and Angel!!) IF you have seen this awesome spoof go see it ASAP!!! "},{"Title":"Funny stuff","Date":"26 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" If ever there was a movie I never expected to recommend to someone, well, this is certainly it. I figured it was going to be another lame TV to big screen adaption. I never saw it in the theater or rented it. Gary Cole's face, who at the time I'd most recently had seen in TV's American Gothic as Sheriff Lucas Buck. So I figured I'd check it out fro a few minutes just for his performance. The tongue-in-cheek and double-entendre writing and acting were so on the mark!! I was constantly giggling and laughing. I was never a Brady Bunch fan, so maybe that made the movie funnier to me, but I don't think so. It was just plainly a hoot. It's right up there with the first entries in the Airplane! and Naked Gun series. Comedy you had to pay attention to so you wouldn't miss the next joke in this clever spoof. If you rated it low, watch it again without bias. Tell me lines like Doug, do you have protection? Oh yes ma'am, assorted colors and textures! aren't genuinely funny!!! "},{"Title":"If you watched the TV show, you'll love this movie...","Date":"21 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" THE BRADY BUNCH MOVIE is a twisted and clever lampooning of the classic 1969-74 TV show about the saccharine sweet blended family and the adventures they faced. Director Betty Thomas has cleverly set this movie in 1995; however,has kept the Bradys stuck in a 1970's time warp, talking, acting, and dressing like they are still in the 70's and it this clash of opposing pop cultures that help to make this movie so funny; however be forewarned This movie is solely aimed at people who watched every single episode of the TV series. If you did (and I must confess to being one who did) you will find this film rolling-on-the-floor funny. If you did not, you will find this film meaningless. Of course with everything we know about the Bradys now (Robert Reed being gay, Barry Williams book GROWING UP BRADY, the kids all having the hots for each other), this movie takes on even more meaning. The movie is very well cast too. Gary Cole's Robert Reed impression as Mike Brady is frighteningly on the money and Shelley Long is also good as Carol. The kids are well cast too, special mention to Christine Taylor' Marcia (whose physical and vocal resemblance to Maureen McCormick is uncanny)and the brilliant Jennifer Elise Cox, who just about steals the movie as Jan. She doesn't look too much live Eve Plumb, but the voice, the walk, the mannerisms and the attitude are dead solid perfect. There are amusing cameos by RuPaul and former Monkey Davy Jones as well as former BRADY cast members Williams, Christopher Knight, Susan Olsen, Florence Henderson, and Ann B. Davis. Michael McKean and Jean Smart are also very funny as the evil Mr. Dittmeyer, who wants to buy the Bradys' home and his drunken wife, who has the hots for ALL the Brady men. So if you loved the TV series, you will love this movie...if not, rent another video. "},{"Title":"The Randy Raunch Movie","Date":"7 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" If your tastes run toward the perverse and twisted, this lewd retread of a squeaky clean wholesome American sit-com will have many gut laughing. I'm no prude and enjoy blue humor as much as anyone, but the writers of this film just made the blue humor creepy instead of cleaver. It was like they made scenes off color just for the sake of besmirching the memory of the albeit corny-cleanness of the original TV series. If Sherwood Schwartz hadn't protested, there probably would have been a scene suggesting Greg and his mom were entangled in an incestuous tryst. Or that Mike (dad) was cruising public restrooms for gay glory holes. A retrospective Thank You to Sherwood. Even when Hollywood said you were dead (getting their wires crossed when Bob Gilligan Denver passed), you were faithful to the things you created, and I admire that. Some things just shouldn't be sold out. "}{"Title":"Culture clash humour done well","Date":"15 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Rating-7/10The Brady Bunch movie is a comedy reboot of senses of the original TV show The Brady Bunch. It is funny, a simple word but one that really describes the kind humour this is, just funny, not always smart but nevertheless funny as all. It is different in it's way of doing humour, a kind of way in which the 90's are the complete opposite of the 70's Brady family, and the results are at times laugh out loud. Now it isn't side splitting, but I felt it to be pretty good and it has so many various laughs, it just works.The cast do well, very good well maybe not but they do create a certain air of crazy and the situations they get into are sometimes brilliant. Gary Cole as Mike Brady is good and the way in which he portrays him is very calm but often funny. The entire family are funny, as said not always cry out loud humour but still laughs a plenty and some are silly, some are smart but even silly ones won't make you feel bad for laughing at them.Not the smartest movie as said, well done yes but as many critics of the day said, it is too silly. It isn't slapstick jokes(well some can be) but there not in massive quantity. I do feel it was written smartly by the numerous writers who seem to collaborate well and really are the people who make the great lines and of which most of the stupid jokes, but funny, are made. The culture clash of the film is what makes this what it is, I can't say this is exactly like the TV show but the way in which they kind of bring them back from the past in a new setting makes this even better, a great decision by someone.Now the direction isn't always done well, it creates some good humour but also creates some of the worst. This movie isn't always great to review as there is very little to say, but one thing is that the jokes can, now I repeat can be hit and miss but still remain fairly well done and the movie is as always I have said, a funny one.I recommend this to people who like good old humour, not a comedy wasting around trying to create a smart plot or anything, just comedy that makes you chuckle but not over think things. The actual plot is not exactly exciting but that's the good thing for me, it focuses on making you laugh more than thrilling or entertaining with boring and seen before plots so common of the day.Overall a kind of good movie and one that although not entirely brilliant, still a movie that should entertain and if a fan of the original series, please watch it. This movie even has a sequel so you can see that people did enjoy the humour and do like the film so please disregard any poor reviews but also don't listen to one's that say this is flawless, in fact my review is pretty worthless too but make your own mind up on this one and if you find it funny too. "},{"Title":"Hilarious parody of the beloved show","Date":"22 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I have a confession to make I watched the original Brady Bunch because, growing up in a dysfunctional family, I secretly longed for a functional family. This 1995 movie pokes fun at the Brady's wholesome and unified spirit, but also highlight their early-70's outlandishness by having the story take place in the mid-90s.While the last act loses some luster, the rest of the film is a laugh riot if you're familiar with the original show. And who isn't? The 1996 sequel A Very Brady Sequel is just as good.The film runs 90 minutes and was shot in the Los Angeles area.GRADE A- "},{"Title":"A cheery and carefree movie.","Date":"17 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I managed to catch this movie on TV and decided to stick with it because there was nothing else to watch at that time. Based on the classic TV series, Mike Brady and his wife Carol have one week to come up with $20,000 in back taxes or their house is sold to their scheming neighbor, Larry Dittmeyer.This is a PG-13 version of the family show; it still contains much cheery and carefree elements that render the movie annoying some times, but it isn't totally a waste of time as I've found that plot of the Brady kids helping to raise money to save their family's home to be pretty entertaining. The acting wasn't bad and it was interesting that the movie pays tribute to 60s/70s icons like the Partridge Family and Davey Jones, and well as appearances by some of the original Brady Bunch TV cast.Overall, it's not a bad film for some laughs. Fans of the TV show should enjoy it.Grade B- "},{"Title":"A decent riff on the TV series","Date":"19 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Being British I was never exposed to 'The Brady Bunch' growing up so this movie is the only taste I've had of it other than a few clips and a vague awareness of the thing. And it's not bad at all, although possibly it would be sacrilegious to anyone who loves the original series.The set-up here is that despite the rest of the world moving into the '90s, the Bradys are still stuck in their '70s sitcom world. It's a funny idea and it yields quite a few genuine laughs (Michael McKean hoovers up most of the best bits) while riffing on the plots and conventions of sitcoms (a date with two guys at the same time; the house coming under threat). It's affectionate rather than condescending, and it's all very jolly and enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Let's turn a TV series into a movie","Date":"28 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" My friend, when learning that I had taped and was watching this movie said You're kidding! You're not going to watch the Brady Bunch movie! You're sick! My response is that he is just a blind idiot that thinks style is everything that is him and if nobody conforms to him then they have a problem. Okay, the Brady Bunch movie is not the best of all movies, but it is funny in a very satirical sort of way.I never watched the Brady Bunch when I was young, and never really liked it, but I thought the clever part of the movie was trapping them in the 70's and bringing them into the nineties. This movie looks at the 90's in a very satirical sort of way, yet the Bradys are completely innocent and don't realise that the world has changed. Where everybody is playing heavy metal and chasing same sex relationships, the Brady's still think Davey Jones is a hit and consider a kiss at the door is the furthest one should go on the first date (not that I really disagree with this, but being 26, one no longer dates, but rather forms relationships with the people around me and we simply get to know each other, but then I'm not exactly the one who knows everything about dating).This seems to be the style that movies move, or the way that I think they should movie, focusing more on satire. Thomas in this movie is clashing the ideal family with the reality of the 90's. It is an attack on the American Dream, and even though they win through in the end, the entire situation is so absurd that one has not option but to laugh. The patriotic speech is a little annoying and creates an unrealistic feel that props up the American Dream once again. I feel that everything that is done to undermine the dream through the movie is completely destroyed by the speech. Then I think that it is something that would detract from a Brady Bunch Movie anyway. But when I consider the speech, it is creating the ideal again, what should be and is not. We should have our neighbourhood and should be allowed to live there in peace, but we all know that it is not true. What happened to the Bradys was absurd, but we know that in reality this will never happen. The point of this is to drag the stupidity of the situation to an extreme end so as to show how stupid it really is. This reminds me that I should sit down and write the drama script in this light, stretching the stupidity to the absolute absurdity. "},{"Title":"Remember, we'll always be Bradys","Date":"20 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Shelley Long had Florence Henderson right there on the set to guide her and Gary Cole certainly had the spirit of Robert Reed channeled to play Mike Brady. The two headed up a cast that really satirized the famous sugary sitcom that Paramount television brought us from 1969 to 1974, The Brady Bunch.Time has stood still for the family in The Brady Bunch Movie. Gary Cole and Shelley Long have raised their blended family right from the Seventies. The parents and kids listen to the music, dress in the fashion and behave otherwise as if the Eighties and Nineties just never took place. The kids stand out quite a bit from their peers in their suburban school.The main plot such as it is has the Bradys being under siege by their neighbors, the Dittmyers, Michael McKean and Jean Smart who need the Brady home in order to complete a big real estate deal. They'll get it by fair means or foul. The Dittmyers are best described as poor relations of that other TV family, the Bundys.A big part of the problem with this film is that you would have to have been a fan of the show and presumably have seen it in reruns a gazillion times on the TVLand channel in order to appreciate it. About 15 of the various episodes are used in creating the plot. That's a component that someone who never saw the show couldn't possibly get.Still some of the sly innuendo also comes from the Nineties culture with RuPaul as the school guidance counselor eying Christopher Daniel Barnes as Greg and a young lesbian girl carrying a big old torch for Marcia played by Christine Taylor. Jennifer Elise Cox has taken over nicely the role of the ever dissatisfied middle sister Jan who the real and original Carol Brady as the grandmother finally deals with in the appropriate manner.As in any of the television Brady episodes goodness and vacuity ultimately triumph and to find out how and which episode plot lines are used to bring that about, you'll have to sit back and enjoy the big screen version of America's most famous blended family. "},{"Title":"The Brady Bunch Movie","Date":"12 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie was the ultimate adventure, it had everything! Drama, Suspense, Thrill, Action, Tears, Laughter EVERYTHING! It was by far the best film of all time! It really should have won an Oscar. I couldn't believe this masterful piece of cinematography! It was UNREAL! I mean come on who doesn't love the Brady Bunch and then they were thrown into todays world... GENIUS! Oh boy it was simply the best. I also would recommend checking out the sequel, this was even better than the original! (I know, I didn't think that it was possible either) It is just amazing how they include the original show and what was going on and off screen into these movies, They are my favorite! And the lines, who could forget Mr. Brady's wonderful speeches, so insightful. Who could forget Alice and her ongoing relationship problems with Sam, so wonderful! Just watch these, you won't regret it! "},{"Title":"Hysterically funny","Date":"25 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I resisted seeing this film because I watched the TV series religiously as a child. I've heard that film versions usually are horrible take- offs on the original TV series. This film is hysterical. I can not stop laughing. This cast is incredible. The actors perfectly mimic the original characters. Marcia Brady and Shelly Long are my favorites. It is almost impossible to distinguish between their characters' film and TV versions. Marcia's voice is hauntingly the same as the one from the sixties. The film's plot matches the sappy plots from the shows in the sixties. For the film, they strung along highlights from our favorite episodes, and even my favorite Brady song - It's a Sunshine Day. Greg Brady makes an appearance as a music producer and tells Greg Brady he does not have time for an audition. Other actors from the series also make appearances. I kept blinking wondering whether I was watching the TV show or the movie. This film is total camp. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"OMG....my biggest wish came true....","Date":"28 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" When I was a kid, growing up watching the Brady Bunch TV series, I always wished that they would show up in my living room everyday. Well my biggest wish has come true, thanks to Hollywood, gotta love them for that.The Brady Bunch Movie is kinda the same as the TV show, you gotta see the TV show to understand the movie. Let me tell you, I haven't seen every episode of the series, only about 10-15 of them, and I loved the movies.Gary Cole got to give him hands down, he did awesome. I didn't think that anybody could do an awesome job, well like Robert Reed, but he did awesome. I actually found his portrayal of Mike Brady more believable than Robert's hmmm.Shelley Long did a great portrayal of Carol Brady, she even looks just like Florence Henderson did in the original, love the flip hair-do too. Along with Shelley and Gary the rest of the cast was dead-on.I can't tell you the story line, because it would give away the movie and I don't wanna do that, I want you guys to go out and see the movie. So here's what I will tell you, the acting was incredible, much better than the original series, there were a lot of better jokes as well. The story line was very well done, and it didn't skip a beat. I got to give it to the designer/set guys they did awesome, I wonder if they borrowed stuff from the set of the Brady Bunch because everything looked like it.Anyways, this movie is great, it's one of the best movies based on a TV series, what am I talking about, it is the best! I loved it, had a great time sharing my time at home with the Brady's. So once again Hollywood, thanks for making my biggest wish come true. "},{"Title":"Great, hilarious nostalgia!","Date":"18 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Being just born when the show originally ran, I probably had last seen The Brady's back in the late 70's, early 80's during reruns on TV and had only remembered bits and pieces since then. Snippets like Bobby saving a girl from a falling shelf, orange hair and some sort of model volcano explosion. Nothing very distinctive at all. So when the movie came out in '95, I gave it a shot and didn't like it at all. It just seemed like another fish-out-of-water movie, and the jokes were of the inside type, which was to be expected for a movie based on a TV show. They just weren't funny. So I dismissed the movie (which apparently was pretty popular) and didn't even bother with it's sequel, which came out the next year.Fast forward ten years to 2005. Thanks to the wonders of TV-on-DVD, I took another shot and bought the 1st season of The Brady Bunch and immediately got hooked. As I watched the episodes,those snippets suddenly became cohesive and the memories flowed back in. The warm, fuzzy, memories of a simpler time with the impossibly perfect family. As I eagerly awaited the subsequent season releases over the next year and a half, I held off on giving The Brady Bunch Movie a second chance until I had seen every episode again. I'm glad I did. Basically what I'm trying to say is that you definitely need to be familiar with the show, to fully appreciate the movie(s).As I mentioned previously the movie takes the fish-out-of-water, squeaky-clean 70's Brady's and places them in the 90's. While you get your usual riffs on the culture clash enveloped in a pedestrian plot (albeit, their oblivious attitude is good for some laughs), the real comedic meat comes from the spoofing of the show. Swollen noses, squeaky voices, inner monologues, Marcia, Marcia, Marcia, the life lessons, the clothes, breaking into song. It's all there in their glorious cheesiness, deftly presented by the cast, with special kudos going to the spot-on portrayals of Mr. & Mrs. Brady, Marcia, Jan & Alice. Actually Ben Stiller probably says to himself every day, I can't believe I landed Marcia Brady! Christine Taylor IS Marcia Brady. And look for some great cameos as well.Good, hilarious fun for Brady fans. Of course after this, I just had to run out and get A Very Brady Sequel, which is even better! Incest! The real Mr. Brady! Cousin Oliver! Oh my! "}{"Title":"If You Were There in 1969...","Date":"16 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" If you were actually there watching first run episodes every Friday night from 1969-1974, be prepared to bust a a gut laughing! I was eleven years do when The Brady's went off the air. I was too young to know just how funny the show really was. The Brady Bunch Movie is by far the best theatrical remake/parody of a 1970's TV ever made. First, there's the brilliant idea to set the film in contemporary 1995 and allows the BRADY's to be the anachronism. A fact to which they're totally, wonderfully oblivious to. Everyone else lives for today, but the Brady's are still a quarter century out of sync. This allows for one of the great rules of comedy to work perfectly. The Rule There's nothing funnier that watching someone watch someone else lose their mind. John Clesse said that (or close to it) but it's so true. Watching the reactions everyone has to the Brady's and their 70s ways are side splitting. Possibly the funniest bit is the simplest. Cindy Brady strolls over to the next door neighbors to bring them some undelivered mail. She walks through her own backyard, a poorly lit indoor TV studio set complete with an Astoturf lawn that sports rather obvious seams where it's been stitched together. She then passes trough the hedges onto the neighbors property and she ACTUALLY IS outside for real! Subtle, but hilarious! To have done the film straight as if the TV series never ended would have been embarrassing. Here we have the best of both worlds. Casual fans can laugh at the razor sharp satire, and long time fans can enjoy the trip down memory lane and still enjoy the good natured satirical humor! The cast is amazing! I realize that they can do anything these days, but it still must have been difficult to find actors that not only resembled the originals, but that were enough off kilter enough to make the satire work. My favorite line comes near the start as Marsha is walking through the high school campus as she draws longing stares from just about every guy who lays eyes on her. One remarks That's Marsha Brady. She's harder to get into than a Pearl Jam concert! "},{"Title":"meh...","Date":"21 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie I received for Christmas in a box set. I was very excited to watch it because I love the original Brady Bunch. I went it with HIGH expectations and came out disappointed. I was thinking I would see a show equal to if not better than the show. This move is not totally awful though. It is very very high on the entertain,ent scale and very high on the amusement scale. This movie is sooooooooooooooooo corny and cheesy you kind of cannot hate it. There is nothing to hate about this movie and really nothing to love. I would say it is not the worst movie I have ever seen by any stretch of the imagination but I cannot say without lying that it is the best, but I could say it is the happiest. This movie made me want to be a Brady it also made me want to stand up and sing and dance along with the Bradys. This movie is good in a way bad in another. "},{"Title":"Bradys in the nineties!","Date":"18 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The Bradys are in a fine pickle when the neighborhood has decided to sell their homes to developers. Michael McKeon is excellent as the annoyed neighbor and Jean Smart as his lush of a wife. He plots and schemes to get the Bradys to lose their home. He's not so nice of a neighbor and so his neighbors are in the same boat because they want to make money off their properties. Anyway, the casting is first rate. The writing works and the cast is fantastic bringing these beloved icons back into our living rooms. Of course, the Bradys are trapped in the 1970 and refuse to convert to the 1990s style of living and who could blame them. They appear to be a happy, loving family. If that's all there is to it, I'll dump my computer, cable television and join them but that's not reality and it's really just a funny comedy. "},{"Title":"Brady Bunch movie","Date":"25 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" My mom grew up with the original show. My sister and I grew up with re runs of the original show. The show has a pop icon status. I recently rented this video. It was funnier than I expected and I enjoyed it. I think seeing the original re runs helps when you see this kind of spoof. In fact the spoof is a tribute to the actual show. Thanks to the movies The Brady Bunch spans generations in popularity. I also like the casting in this one. The match ups were good and also close enough to be funny. A lot of funny references to the show to. I'm presently in film school and I enjoyed the irony of this. I recommend you rent the movie. It's a fun way to spend an evening. "},{"Title":"One of the only TV show adaptations that got it right.","Date":"21 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" During the past few years, movie adaptations of TV shows have become synonymous with horrendous, pathetic garbage (think The Flintstones, I Spy and Bewitched, among others). The Brady Bunch Movie is one that got it right. Even people who don't know the original series - or hold it in low regard - can admire this movie. You see, the problem with most TV show adaptations is that they transpose the characters to the modern world, thereby taking them out of context. This movie has the eponymous wholesome family living in the 1990s but time-locked in the 1970s, thus enabling a comparison/contrast between the two eras.The plot has the Bradys trying to keep from getting evicted, while Jan gets jealous of Marcia and Greg tries to start up a career as a singer. There are some scenes taken straight from the show, such as what happens to Marcia's nose, and Cindy having to learn about tattling. It's just a hoot how the Bradys are nice to even the meanest people.So, it's not any kind of masterpiece, but pretty neat. The sequel was OK. "},{"Title":"I really enjoyed it!","Date":"12 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The reason I originally watched the film was because I am a Monkees fan and I knew that Davy Jones made a cameo in it- but I found that I really enjoyed it! It is hilariously funny and is a really clever idea- the acting is terrific! Christine Taylor, Jennifer Elise Cox, Shelley Long, Gary Cole etc...all the cast were great!Of course I loved it when Davy sang 'Girl'- great stuff! I also got a good surprise when Peter and Micky were also in it! Okay, for a second- but even so!I rushed out and bought the sequel afterwords. Watch it- its great fun! "},{"Title":"So, you two are professional models? (spoilers)","Date":"17 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The Brady Bunch is one of the best spoofs ever, taking the perpetually 1970s Brady family and transplanting them into a hostile, sometimes mellow, and altogether bizarre 1990s Southern California atmosphere.Pulling together references to many episodes, the Brady Bunch Movie concerns the Brady's family desperate attempt to raise $20,000 for the back taxes owed on their house and avoid foreclosure. Larry Ditmeyer, the invariably scheming neighbor (played by Laverne and Shirley co-star, Michael McKean), hopes that he can prevent the Brady's from getting hold of the money too soon, because he wants to buy up the property (the last on the block after convincing everyone else to sell) and make his boss happy.The better parts of the movie however, are not from the main plot (and in spoofs, the main plot is hardly the funniest part of the movie because it is almost always character rather than situation driven). First, the absolutely nerdy Greg Brady (Christopher Daniel Barnes) has plans to become hip rock star (in a Seattle grunge dominated music decade), Johnny Bravo.Marcia (Christine Taylor) has two dilemmas first, she accepts two guys invitation to the dance (it seems only sitcom safe Marcia could worry about monogomy in the 90s), scrawny Charlie (R.D. Robb who was the I double dog dare ya kid in the holiday cult classic, A Christmas Story), and arrogant jock and big man on campus, Doug Simpson (Shane Conrad). Her other earth shaking problem is getting Davey Jones (yes, the real Monkees) to come to the school dance. Equally geek pre-pubescent Paul Sutera is Peter Brady, a guy with a serious hormone imbalance who falls for Holly (played by Marissa Ribisi), girlfriend of Peter's hostile Ditmeyer neighbor, Eric (James Noseworthy).Although Marica's character is so achingly bubbly and conceited (making her perfectly funny as disaster happens around her to which she is oblivious to), I liked her secretly lesbian friend, Noreen (played by former Beakman's World assistant, Alanna Ubach), who likes Marcia, and even helps her out of a jam with that idiot Doug Simpson. She's really funny.Jennifer Elise Cox does the best job in the whole movie as the greatest character spoof, playing the ridiculously self-conscious and low self esteem teen Jan Brady. She spends the movie trying very hard to get herself recognized and break out of her middle child syndrome (why doesn't Peter have this problem?). Her guidance counselor is Mrs. Cummings, played by RuPaul. (And girl, you better work it!). In fact, her invisibility to everyone causes some very hilarious moments of delusional schizophrenia. (Says the evil Jan in one scene Look at me, I'm the new Jan Brady. Let's go knock over a 7-11!). Shelly Long and Gary Cole are fantastic (and amazing replicas) of the out-of-touch mother and father of the family, Carol and Mike Brady. Mike, the architect, hopes he can design an acceptable commercial building (all looking like his house, of course, since it's the only design he's ever made reference to making) in order to get a pay advance and cover the taxes on the house before foreclosure. I love how the mother always does this you're father's right business to everything Mike Brady says, even though no one knows what he's talking about or when he has stated the obvious. That's about the time when the kids easily submit with, gee...I never thought of it that way.If you think the Brady Bunch were ahopelessly corny and terribly safe moralistic sitcom family (especially given that they were on television in the 1970, the same time as shows like 'All in the Family' and 'Maude'), then this is a film recommended for you. They really stick out like a sore thumb. (Holly says to the guys after they're checking out Marcia Brady, I think Peter's a babe...in a Gilligan sort of way. Eric responds, what are you? braindead!). Look for cameos from former the Brady Bunch cast as well as those of other 1970s sitcoms (Barry Williams, who was the original Greg Brady, shows up as a music producer and actually rejects the spoofed Greg Brady's request for an audition; Christopher Knight has a blink-and-you-miss him part as a school coach who tells Ditmeyer to stop picking on Peter Brady; Anne B. Davis who was the original Alice the maid shows up as a truck driver who gives Jan a lift; and Florence Henderson plays Grandma Brady). This movie promises a lot of laughs, and everything the Bradys do is so stupid, that's why it is so funny. (Don't miss Jean Smart as Ditmeyer's alcoholic wife Mrs. Brady sure is lucky to have a big strong, virile man around the house.)If you love spoofs, don't miss this one!  "},{"Title":"GROOOOVY","Date":"14 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a really great example of how to adapt a hit television series into a movie.  The Bradys are now living in the 90s, but the catch is that they are exactly the same as they were in the 70s.  The same great Brady jokes, Brady clothes, and Brady fun.  The thing for all male viewers to remember when watching this movie is that ITS ALL ABOUT CHRISTINE TAYLOR.  Christine Taylor makes a delicious Marsha.  There's a great line in this movie that shes harder to get into than a Pearl Jam concert but she could sure fool you in those short skirts and go-go boots.  If after watching Christine Taylor prance around in this movie you don't feel the need to go erm....you know....you must be a eunuch or something.  Some other fun things to look for in this movie are Ru Paul as a guidance counselor (freaking hilarious) and a grunge rock remdition of Thank You Girl.  Loads of fun. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Much better then you would expect","Date":"23 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A smart script, with a solid group of actors and some clever direction makes this not just a tribute to the classic TV show, but a parody of modern comedies. In some ways its actually a little too smart for its intended audience, but still worth while. "},{"Title":"This movie is awful!!  Ten Stars!!  Three thumbs up!!!","Date":"3 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film is so perfectly crafted, an instant classic and true work of cinematic genius.  If--like me--you have watched every episode of the television show at least fifty million times you will catch the non-stop references to your favorite episodes.  It's all there--the costumes, the music, the house, Westdale High.  The cast has the characters nailed so perfectly they must have watched the TV show as much as I have.  But there's a twist--they live in the real world (more or less).  It's like the TV show with a new dimension.  Lest I spoil it, I'll say no more except that if you truly know everything about the Brady Bunch, stop reading these reviews and go watch this movie!!  "}{"Title":"Sha-na-na,na-na-na-na-na-na.","Date":"14 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The Brady Bunch is a hilarious movie that isn't what you expect. It shows what the Bradys would be like if they lived in the 90s instead.There surrounded by gangs, prostitutes,freeloaders,and they handle it all with their 70s talk. Some of the Brady kids look exactly alike. Marcia and Jan are like exact duplicates! It is a hilarious movie. Everyone should see it to see how dumb the Bradys would sound today! Hey!, Isn't that Alice wearing a tassle!?   "},{"Title":"A Stupid Yet Funny Look Into The Bradys Lives In The 90's.","Date":"23 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The Brady Bunch movie is a pretty good movie, but yet it has some stupid humor in it. Shelley Long did a great job. I'm sure EVERYONE has seen the classic original television show, so you can compare the movie and the tv series. I'm sure that you would have to agree that the tv series was way better than the movie, but it is fairly entertaining. I give The Brady Bunch a 7 out of 10.  ) "},{"Title":"Never thought it could be good","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I hate the Brady Bunch.Now that I've left that out of my chest, I feel the need to explain just *why* I hated it. It was corny. It was supposed to be real, but it wasn't. It was the perfect depiction of an utopic family. I couldn't stand their arrogance, their perfection... you get the idea.Then Jan grew up, and when I saw her, I changed my mind. But I digress... actually, later on I learned to appreciate the simplicity and honesty of some of the shows.Anyway, I bought this movie because of the striking similarity between the main characters. I thought they were the *original* bunch until I noticed it was a remake. So I thought... why not. And I was mostly surprised by what I saw. Not the real Brady Bunch, but what the Brady Bunch should have gone through because of being the way they were.Allow me to explain. In the first minutes of the film, we see Mike is going to be in lots of trouble, a paperboy hitting Alice right in the buttocks, and Carol and Mike being ridiculed for their parenting ways. A satire of the world's most perfect family! It was a direct attack on family values at first sight; but deeper, as other poster noticed, it is an attack on the values we sorely miss as a society nowadays. Family togetherness, brotherly love, friendship, you name it. Everything is made fun of in this movie.Of course, it has a happy ending (it is, after all, The Brady Bunch we are talking about), but it still leaves you wondering if life ever was this good. And I still like Jan, BTW. "},{"Title":"Disturbing. Far more than you would ever expect.","Date":"1 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It's true that this movie is a genuinely fascinating idea and *very* biting in its humour. Deviously so. Wickedly so. And it certainly has its audience. I can think of a lot of people both younger than myself and my own age (who grew up with the Brady Bunch since it first came out) who would enjoy this film.And every once in a while, I rent it just to give myself a little nostalgia kick. I wouldn't actually buy it, mind you, but I do rent it on occasion.But there's one thing I want to point out about this movie. It is far darker, far creepier and a lot more disturbing than you might expect it to be from the ads. Of course, we all know that it's a funny idea to have the Brady Bunch in a Twilight-Zonish time wrap (which I sort of wish was explained) and face-to-face with the 90s. But that's not why I call it dark and creepy.It's creepy because..... well, how do I explain this... because it's not exactly the most comforting thing in the world to watch a movie that is physically demonstrating just how much more the world has gone to hell in a handbasket during the past several years. This film deliberately draws lines to show how much more cynical and jaded people have become, and it isn't a pretty sight.If you want to see a lighthearted trip down memory lane, this isn't the film for you. It might only depress you. I myself did like watching it, but the first time after seeing it it made me feel unhappy for a long time afterward. However, if you are personally cynical and jaded yourself and think things were TOO innocent in the past you might very well disagree. "},{"Title":"See it in cinemas ... well, of course, you can't","Date":"2 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There are a number of reasons to see movies in the cinema rather than at home the obvious ones involve the size of the screen, and the communal effect of sitting with a hundred strangers (okay, very often many fewer than that) all watching the same thing at once.  There's a less obvious reason to do with one's lack of control.  At home one has the freedom to get up and walk around, stop watching for a few minutes, skip the dull bits, mentally tune out, and (assuming it's not a broadcast) fast-forward.  This freedom is a BAD thing.  Anyone who wants to watch a movie at all, dammit, should be (so to speak) strapped to his seat and FORCED to watch the WHOLE THING.  Some films - some very good films - make us all flinch or wince a little bit, and the temptation to avoid what makes us flinch or wince, when we are free to do so, is too great for any of us to resist.  Take, for example, this film.  At first glance you'd think it was a perfect example of a movie you might as well see at home - it's hardly Lawrence of Arabia - but I'm sorry I saw it on television.  I wish I'd been FORCED to endure ever single second of thorough-going Bradiness.  I may not have enjoyed it, but at least I'd have gotten the full effect.As it is I'm not in much of a position to say how well its (splendid) conceit succeeds.  A little piece of pure sucrose way-beyond-kitsch from 1970 survives ENTIRELY UNCHANGED in 1995, at once brittle (the Brady Bunch might run smack up against the real world at any second) and robust (would they notice if they did?).  Clever.  Sweet, too.  I thought (but again, bear in mind I'm not the best judge) that the writing could have stood to be a good deal wittier, and that the I never thought of it THAT way before running gag was hilarious, but really ought to have been run into the ground - that's what running gags are for, after all. "},{"Title":"Very Funny-Comic Gold","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  THE BRADY BUNCH MOVIE(1995)Shelly Long, Gary Cole, Christine Taylor, Chris Daniel Barnes, Jennifer Else Cox. In this film, based on the 70s TV Show The Brady Bunch, Carol and Mike need 20,000 dollars by the end of the week, or else their house gets auctioned off. Cindy finds out and tells the others. They try to help raise 20,000. This is very funny and entertaining, but if you never watched the show, then you might not get a lot of the jokes. But if you watched the show, then you laugh non-stop. If you never watched the show, then I wouldn't recommend this. If you have, then rent this some night. I guarentee you'll laugh!THE BRADY BUNCH MOVIE BPG-13; some racy innuendos. "},{"Title":"The Brady Bunch, the Brady bunch","Date":"4 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This was a 90's movie with 60's twist. a 60's family that are living in the 90's. This movie has some very amusing parts.When that guy told that Brady bunch girl that she had forgotten her skipping rope, the guy picked it up, got a shock, fell on the ground, then a dog came by and p***ed on his head. LOL!!!!!!!!!And another part when Marsha's nose got squashed, OH! MY NOSE!MY NOSE! NOSE! Another LOL!!!!!!!!Give this movie of cackles 10/10!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Funnier as you get older!","Date":"24 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is only funny if you get the inside jokes.  When I first saw this movie, I didnt get like any of the jokes.  Like when Carol says Doug, do you have protection? and he says Oh yes maam, assorted colors and textures  I never realized before that he meant condoms.  Being 14, I have noticed that if your a teenager, this movie gets funnier and funnier the older you get.I have so many lines from it stuck in my head that won't go away! "},{"Title":"Hey, groovy movie. I think you're really happening in a far out way!","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When I first heard about the concept of this movie, I thought it was dumb-I liked the idea of a BB movie, especially since the previews looked great, but then I read I review about how the Bradys are in a time warp and the rest of the world is in the late 90's. When I saw the movie, all my fears were put to rest. In fact, some of the culture clash scenes of the Bradys interacting with the rest of the world were the best, such as McKean's character not understanding a word of what she's saying because of her lisp, an attempted carjack Well, this is a car. But my name's not Jack! and Marcia's best female friend being a lesbian with a hopeless crush on her. THere's not really enough room to say enough good things about this movie. I've had a long week so I'll just list them- FIrst, the dead-on impressions are great, especially Alice, Jan, and Marcia, but Robert Reed is really the standout-he sounds more like Mike Brady than Mike Brady, and has his mannerisms down perfect. Lots of in-jokes and references that kids who didn't watch the show won't get but those of us like me that did will get for instance, when Carol kisses Mike goodbye when he leaves for work, she says, See ya, Tiger!(pause) Tiger...Tiger...I wonder what ever happened to that dog? the blackboard in the kitchen has porkchops and applesauce written on it, etc. They even manage to throw in a reference Johnny Bravo. The period detail is great (now that I see it as an adult, I realize the Brady's house was actually pretty cool looking), including the costumes. There's some little sexual innuendo thrown in, but it fits in with the movie and the characters perfectly-one of the funniest scenes is when Carol and Mike think they're alone, and she's sitting on his lap whispering what is probably talking dirty in his ear, and he's saying Uh-huh...You would...I see... exactly like Mike Brady does when he's talking to someone on the phone. They include the popular Brady songs like Sunshine Day (always kind of grated on me, but they do a great version in a Sears store) and the horrible one that starts Clowns never laughed before... but Keep On is actually a pretty catchy one. They recreate many famous moments from the show, such as Marcia's nose getting broken (Oh!My nose!) to Jan's delight, potato sack races, Jan hating her new glasses, Peter (or is it Bobby-for some reason those are the only 2 names I can't keep straight) being the Safety Monitor at school, and plenty more. The plot (yes, it actually has one)involves the Brady family's efforts to save their beloved home from an evil land-developer. Highly recommended, even if you're not a Brady completist. Watch for the cameos from 4 original cast members-the best was the real Alice playing a truck driver (hmmm, always though Alice was a little butch) picking up hitch-hiking Jan who has run away from home.  Most importantly to me, though this is a parody, the moviemakers make fun of the show while still staying true to the spirit of it and the characters. All their naivete (spelled wrong, I know...) is actually sweet rather than annoying-Marcia wears hideous 70's clothes but carries herself like a princess, Greg wants to make friends with the car-jacker, assuming he must need a spare tire, Mike explains how he wouldn't sell his house for any price because he designed it himself with love. During one scene, Marcia and Jan go to a modeling tryout (Jan is instantly booted)and the photographer/agent tells her she needs to cut her hair, get plastic surgery, and lose weight. She slaps, him horrifiedCUT MY HAIR?? How dare you! Greg's lines to pick up chicks (well, it seems like this is his only opening pickup line) is Hey groovy chick. You look really happening in a far out way! are actually endearing.Everyone with a sense of humor and fun will probably like this movie, and those of us who grew up on the show will absolutely love it. "},{"Title":"See the Classic TV Show.","Date":"12 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The Brady Bunch Movie (1995) Dir Betty Thomas / Cast Shelley Long, Gary Cole, Christopher Daniel Barnes, Christine Taylor, Michael McKean Marcia, Marcia, Marcia! whines Jan in the film version of America's most happy household. It looks like the 1970's sitcom yet it plunders in despair of various episodes forming to create a lame story. The Brady family try to save their house from being auctioned off by a greedy neighbour. Director Betty Thomas succeeds in placing the sitcom setting within the reality of change that the family fails to adapt to. The performances would be great if the actors were given anything to do. Gary Cole and Shelley Long play Mike and Carol Brady who couldn't find their way out of a closet with the door open. Among the many children are Christopher Daniel Barnes who dreams of becoming a rock star so that he can wow the girls who think he has no talent. Christine Taylor plays Marcia who combs her hair 500 strokes. That sounds like someone who has too much time on her hands. Michael McKean is featured as the villain out to get their home as well as others in the neighbourhood. Its purpose is to celebrate a successful sitcom, which they shamelessly tarnish with elements of current lifestyles. The clean humour of the original sitcom is replaced with corny sexual references and bathroom humour that have no place within a family like this. Score 3 / 10 "}{"Title":"I totally laughed out loud","Date":"1 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I kept seeing clips of this movie from tumblr and I thought they were pretty hilarious so I thought I would check out the movie. I have no knowledge of the TV series, nor would I be interested in it but despite not knowing the show, the movie is awesome, kinda. Of course, there are some problems, 1. it's dated, 2. the acting is terrible 3. some of the characters are really dull 4. the plot is so thin and predictable 5. some of the subplots are really stupid. The whole subplot of where the younger sister is always being a nark, it gets kind of old...okay, so there are a lot of problems but I enjoyed it. The best parts of the whole movie is with Jan; her reaction with the voices in side her head and always against Marsha...it's definitely interesting to watch. sadly, Jan maybe the only related character; outcast with sibling rivalry dealing with her insecurities. The other characters are just too...out there...If you're bored and looking for something that will have your attention, this is a movie to watch. It has some goods parts that are worth viewing. "},{"Title":"Response to Kayla","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm going by a different name, but I'm still Jay from Southern California.Anyway, Kayla...your post telling me to lighten up doesn't make any sense. For one thing, shows like Leave It To Beaver DID portray their contemporary periods accurately. The Brady Bunch didn't. And, if it is true, as you say, that people watch television to escape from the harsh realities of everyday life...then why is it that, with life being so chaotic in 2002, I turn on the television and find shows that are even MORE chaotic? Why don't we have any non-children's shows nowadays that are anything like The Brady Bunch? (And don't tell me there are, because there aren't.)Anyway, thanks for your comments. "},{"Title":"Resurrection of Bradys not a total waste.","Date":"26 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  In the '90's, it's plain to see how the world was conditioned by such sitcoms as Leave it to Beaver and The Brady Bunch, so to make a loose statement on this, The Brady Bunch Movie escapes from not just becoming another offshoot on a tv program. Directed by Betty Thomas, who did a great job with The Late Shift, the film pokes delirious fun at the sugary lifestyle of the Bradys by placing them in a '90's atmosphere, letting them stick out like a bunch of very sore thumbs. Shelley Long and Gary Cole (doing a great job impersonating Robert Reed) play the mom and pop with great poise and exact timing. The kids are also great look-alikes, especially Jan (Marcia, Marcia,Marcia!). The real hoot of the cast is Michael McKean as the next-door neighbour who detests the goodie-goodies next door. While The Brady Bunch does have a good idea in paralleling the two cultural strains of yesterday and today, it also does not have a great deal of big laughs to speak of. I must say I am glad that this did not end up like a lot of other send-offs of this type, and follow up with a turgid rehash of Home Alone (think Dennis the Menace), but it also does not cover enough ground for one to write home about it. A much better film of this type, Pleasantville, captures this idea with much greater momentum and integrity. Rating Two stars.  "},{"Title":"Carol,No One Has Answered For Over A Decade","Date":"24 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I was tooling through the Las Angeles area when a voice comes over the c.b. 'Breadk 1 - 9,this is Christmas Carol. Im looking for a blue eyed blond by the name of Jan. Tell her mama bear and papa bear loves her. that's when the chatter started on channel 21. Someone says Jan ran off with her boyfriend Tyrone. Someone else says an alien named Pedro abducted her. Some one calls Art Bell and said Bigfoot abducted Jan because they needed breeding stock. Then Schultze came over the squak and says,Christmas Carol,i got a 20 on a blue eyed gal named Jan. I dropped her off at Clinton Place. I was wondering why Schultzee took Jan all the way to the White house.This is a funny movie. Well wrighten,directed and acted. Well Done!!!Ann B Davis drives the Freightliner big rig.Ann B Davis is a permanent A list actor!!!Shelley Long, Christine Taytor, Jennifer Cox, Harretta Mantel,Florence Henderswon,Jean Smart,Beverly Archer,Yolanda Snowball,Ann b Davis, Elisa GHabrielli and the cougars worshiping Davy Jones at the prom are hot!!Olivia hacks' performance is outstanding!!---One Truck Drivers' Opinion---erldwgstruckermovies.com "},{"Title":"Not every one in the room is a giant sucker","Date":"24 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Here's the story of The Brady Bunch Movie. Which was funnier than one would ex- pect. Most of the humor was pleasant, like the series. But some of it fell flat.Here's the story of the lovely actors. Who played their roles with a crafty sense of style. They were fit-ting, all very solid. Yes, it was somewhat worthwhile.And if one day I'm strick-en with cyni-cism. And you look onto this review as not groovy. You can go on to not trust me. After I enjoyed The Brady Bunch Movie. Yes, I did. I guiltily liked The Brady Bunch Movie.Starring Gary Cole, Shelley Long, Henriette Mantel, Christopher Daniel Barnes, Christine Taylor, Paul Sutera, Jennifer Elise Cox, Jesse Lee, Alanna Ubach, and Olivia Hack. Directed by Betty Thomas. "},{"Title":"Brady Bunch Movie!? Surely not!","Date":"8 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The Brady Bunch movie! (ugh!). The very thought makes me shudder. It is hard to imagine a send up of one of the most benign, dead-boring, square T.V. shows of the 70's, one which achieved a sort of sad cult status. Yet here it is in all its glory!?The story tells us of the adventures of America's favourite family as they battle against an attempt to oust them from their beloved home and (horror of horrors) move them on. The singular gag is that the geeky Brady's are now living in the 90's, but still every bit as 70's as they were twenty years ago.The casting crew have done a marvellous job locating the look-a-likes required, and have excelled themselves in the Marcia, Jan and Cindy departments. Shelley Long's Carol Brady is great while both the original mom and Alice make surprise cameos.Not a great deal to get excited about comedy wise, but enough to keep one awake, and seemingly enough to justify subjecting a new generation of young viewers to the Brady Bunch by resurrecting the old tele shows.Saturday, March 11, 1995 - UA Theatre, Anaheim, USA "},{"Title":"Clothes Continuity -  A nod to the TV show","Date":"5 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A previous visitor commented on the continuity issue When Jan runs into Mr. Ditmeyer's car and breaks his mirror, she is dressed in the same outfit (green turtleneck, crochet vest, and blue plaid pants) that she wore in the opening scenes of the movie, but all the other characters have already been seen dressed in different outfits, suggesting it's a new day. I think this may have been a nod to the TV show - weird stuff happened with their clothes in many episodes. How many times did you see the kids wearing different clothes in the same day? Speaking of clothes - I read that the extras wore Marcia's and Jan's old outfits. "},{"Title":"The 70's meets the 90's","Date":"3 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" With the Bradys! I mean, who hasn't thought if the Bradys could survive into today's society? I used to watch The Brady Bunch reruns every Sunday with my folks when I was younger and you know how fake everything was. I mean, how this family could be happy all the time and just got along perfectly? With The Brade Bunch Movie, you get a chance to see them in the high stress world of the 90's. Yet somehow they still stick together and survive and pull through it. With a fun and good look alike cast and awesome cameo's, this is a film worth watching. It has it's original humor due to the original TV show creator's script. Only add on some jokes from the 90's with the original Brady episodes. I think you'll enjoy this if you enjoyed the show. It's a groovy time.8/10 "},{"Title":"One big inside joke, so if you never watched the TV show, don't bother watching the movie.","Date":"22 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you ever watched the show growing up, this movie is a scream, poking fun at TV's dorkiest family. (I can picture people who never watched The Brady Bunch TV show scratching their heads and wondering what it's all about.) There are a hundred inside jokes but, again, you had to have watched the show at one time or another to appreciate it.  I saw this movie at the cinema with three friends when it came out and we laughed our a**es off. We'd grown up in four different parts of the country but we all grew up watching Marcia et. al., and this movie made us laugh at the Bradys and ourselves.     "},{"Title":"Incredible Look-Alike Casting and Scenery....BUT","Date":"4 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The Brady Bunch is an American icon to millions of viewers around the world that has entertained generations of families for almost forty years. Its testament to success was the traditional American values and family morals which Sherwood Schwartz and his crew work so diligently to preserve, and they certainly succeeded.The Brady Bunch Movie has a stunningly realistic feel in both the casting, scripts, and story-lines. The actors' personalities and actions are jaw-droopingly close to the original series! You could tell that the producers of The Brady Bunch Movie payed close attention to many of the familiar story-lines and character situations.Note that in order for the movie viewer to appreciate how brilliantly the characters and scenes look, you MUST be familiar with the series such as the problems with Cindy's tattling, Bobby upset for being a school Safety Monitor, Greg being chosen to represent the big singing star in rock and roll, Johnny Bravo, and, in a standout reenactment, Jan's anger and jealousy over constantly being compared to her sister Marcia.The story centers on the Brady neighbors the Dittmeyer's involved in a scheme, where Mr. Dittmeyer as a greedy land developer wants to buy up all the properties on his block, forcing the Brady's to flee their suburban home because they have been unable to pay their $20,000 back fees in property taxes. When not reenacting a classic Brady moment, you have the movie characters trying to figure out what they can do to raise enough money to save their home. Classic Brady songs such as Sunshine Day and Keep On add to the groovy fun of the movie.However, there are some crude sex-jokes innuendo that hurt the other redeeming qualities of the film, which were totally unnecessary and out of place. When this movie first came out, I read that the original script was very raunchy for a PG-13 rating. Sherwood Schwartz was rightly outraged and worked with the producers to clean up some of the content. Unfortunately, there are still some dialogs that would certainly NOT be appropriate for children under 13. Parents or guardians should supervise viewing of this movie for anyone under 13. Very young children, because of the sexual innuendo, should avoid this picture completely, and that is a sad comment to write when talking about what is supposed to be wholesome family entertainment like The Brady Bunch. Removing the sex-gag humor would have helped this movie a lot, making it the kind of family movie that Sherwood and his staff would have wanted. They may have cleaned up the original script, but not enough for younger viewers.Love the movie for its casting mannerisms of the family, in addition to the great believability of the characters in playing the original Brady roles to near perfection. Great detail as well to the set designs of the original Brady house. However the PG-13 humor taints the movie's enjoyment.For the greatest Brady Bunch moments of all time, it is best to stick with the original classic series. "}{"Title":"Self mocking and fun, The Brady Bunch Movie is much funnier, though less wholesome than the television series.","Date":"30 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" If a Brady Bunch movie were made during or soon after the television series, it probably would have had the original cast and most definitely would have been as wholesome. This movie is about a wholesome family, but the writers subtly point out how goofy the premise and apple pie characters from the original series are. It's a tribute and a spoof, and a downright fun movie.The Brady's are in debt for 20,000 dollars and will lose their home if they can't pay off the money. Amidst the chaos though, the family is together and fine, and stays cool. Carol and Mike Brady are married and have their six kids, and everything is fine. The doorbell rings, and it's Carol's dead husband at the door, here to see his girls. Apparently he wasn't dead, which means Mike and Carol were never married. But fiendishly, the man claiming to be Carol's dead husband is just a man after an antique horse worth 20 million dollars in the Brady house. Many silly sub-plots ensue, like Marcia and Greg falling for each other and Jan making up a boyfriend.All throughout, this movie was silly fun. The Brady family was written how the family was written on the T.V. show (minus a few mildly suggestive innuendos), but the other characters are written like normal people. The Brady's are off in their early 70s dream world, where everyone else is living in the 90s. It sounds dumb, but it was a good idea. The actors all look like their 70s counterparts. In fact, they're all pretty dead on with personalities and looks. The jokes almost all come from the ridiculousness of the premise, and most of them hit well. It's a spoof of a show with an all too positive outlook on everything, and it's very funny.One small thing I found odd was a shared cameo by Zsa Zsa Gabor and Rosie O'Donnel. It just seemed like a weird duo, but whatever.Overall, this movie didn't take itself too seriously, and because of this it's lighthearted fun.My rating *** out of ****. 100 mins. PG-13 for sexual innuendos. "},{"Title":"Drowsy satire for '70s aficionados","Date":"8 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Propelled by the never-ending reruns and a popular stage show called The Real Live Brady Bunch, Paramount finally decided to cash-in on their cult hit by recreating the TV show The Brady Bunch for a theatrical satire, using the polyester-and-fringe look for a series of retro jokes. Seems the wholesome Brady clan is stuck in a '70s time-warp, and they are completely unaware of the changing times and modern predicaments (such as carjacking, grunge bands, lesbian advances and the fact that Davy Jones is no longer a rock star). Carefully-picked cast members have the look and groovy idiom down perfectly, and they are complimented further by recognizable faces in most of the supporting roles, but the plot (about evil next-door neighbors the Dittmeyers trying to oust the Bradys from their home) is just an outline, hung with familiar jokes and situations from the series. As a TV family, the Bradys (and wisecracking maid, Alice) were so dogged in their corny saintliness that they didn't allow for much excitement (they weren't fish out of water so much as fish underwater); director Betty Thomas can't really juice up their lives here either, and so juxtaposes Mike's job at the office and the kids' lives at school with the harsh realities of 1995--and it's a depressing contrast. The thing certainly looks good (great care was taken to reproduce the Bradys' world down to the smallest detail), but the film cannot sustain itself on visual gags and innuendos alone. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Oh my God I'm trippin' with the Bradys...and it's awesome!!!","Date":"22 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie was really one of the first spoof movies that took an old show and put it into the modern age while at the same time lampooning it's more innocent and serious namesake. The movie is of course aboutt the Bradys, the 70's favorite family. The one bathroom sharing, wood paneled station wagon driving, ahh shucks and golly saying clan are looked at by modern society as harmless, yet out of their minds or completely oblivious of their own out of date style and personalities. This coupled with the cameos from former members of the original show along with other stars makes for some pretty entertaining laughs. All in all the comedy is often taking a stab at the cheesiness of the original but at the same time letting the Bradys have the last laugh and showing our modern day society's flaws in the meantime. If you haven't seen the first movie it's also pretty funny but the stories don't connect so it's not important which u see first. If you enjoy films such as Starsky and Hutch or Charlie's Angels then u will probably dig this. Check it out for yourself and Alice will set a place at the table for ya. "},{"Title":"You know you're getting old when...","Date":"19 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" You know you're getting old when you can remember when the show originally first aired and these plot lines (all rolled into one ninety minute movie) are more stupid than they were at first.But then, the times have changed, but the Bradys have not. Drive-by shootings, massive earthquakes, race riots, car jackings, and teenagers being older today than the teenagers of the 70's all put this movie in perspective, but the only reason I can find for doing this movie is to get those costumes out of storage and get SOMEONE ELSE'S kids to wear them! Maybe they'll survive in storage for another twenty years so they can find someone else to poke fun at them.The only thing I have to say in closing about this movie is, You know you're getting old when you can name all the Brady kids, but can't name the Backstreet Boys. "},{"Title":"Another World","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Was this really a movie or just some kind of joke ?I was looking forward to it just like everyone else but I couldn't believe how it turned out. Practically half of it was made up from a certain scene of that episode when at times it didn't have anything to do with the movie.Now let's look at the plot. The kids find out they need $ 20,000.00 in a week to save their house and they try doing it by cutting grass or whatever - give me a break. ( This reminded me in Rad when the kid needed $ 50,000.00 to race ) Why didn't Bobby go out for a pool shark ? And as for the school scene when Peter was in class when he passed out from what they were talking about. Guys , I bet you really thought that subject was cool didn't you ? You probably played it twice. And girls , if your boyfriend was sitting next to you , I just wonder what he was thinking about.And the acting could of been better. But first , when did Alice learn how to drive a truck ? She couldn't even drive a car. Speaking of cars , where was the station-wagon ? The color on the convertible wasn't even the right one.Mike never did kiss Carol after he came home from work like he did in the episodes. He also said too many words of expressions.  Peter's voice was way too deep during the song and I couldn't understand it.Whenever Alice would try to be funny , her eyes would be so wide they'd look like golf balls. As for Jan , she didn't show any emotion at times and she'd swing her hair too much. Marcia did fine , but her poster wasn't the same as the original one. This one says Butterfly Love. It should say Butterfly Of Love. I believe that's all I can say except I also grew up watching Leave it to Beaver and when that movie came out , it was worth it and it took away the Brady's. "},{"Title":"Stuck in the 1960s.","Date":"23 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Another one of the tiring and unwanted television series that got a movie version in the 1990s, The Brady Bunch Movie is not terrible but there is just not enough material present to make the film worth much on celluloid. The titled characters, led by Shelley Long and Gary Cole, are just happy-go-lucky people that seem stuck in a simpler time than 1995 Los Angeles. This leads to quirky situations and odd outcomes. The plot is transparent as evil neighbor Michael McKean and hung-over wife Jean Smart do their best to get the family to sell their house to land developers. At times the movie just copies some of its predecessor's stupid episodes. By-the-numbers and uncreative film-making. 2.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"You call this a movie? *SPOILERS*","Date":"11 November 2008","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" *SPOILERS* I love the Brady Bunch. My mom watched it when she was young and I was hooked by time I turned 4. When I was flipping channels, I was over thrilled to discover the movie, now I wish I hadn't. The acting was HORRIBLE!!!!! The actors didn't really even attempt to act, they were just reading the script and pretending to act. The script itself was boring. Sure the movie had some funny one-liners, I thought you were from Nebraska. But other then that, I was completely bored. When the Brady's were dancing around Sears, I literally wanted to die laughing because of how stupid they looked. Jan's psycho thing, like the dream about Marcia's hair was horrible. I don't even know how to describe it. The best part were the cameos from the original cast and the in-jokes I've never seen a toilet in that house. It is not worth your time to watch unless there is nothing to do. MY SCORE 1/10 "},{"Title":"almost never funny","Date":"27 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  the brady bunch movie is almost never funny. i laughed maybe twice. there are so many unfunny gags in this movie it's not even funny. at least other comedies that are not funny are silly. the brady bunch movie isn't even silly. but there are some parts of the movie that are watchable that keeps this movie from sinking. i give the brady bunch movie ** out of **** "},{"Title":"Doesn't fare too well...","Date":"16 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm sorry, this movie just didn't cut it for me. Shelly Long is very good in her ditsy role, but that's about it. This film is based on the television show from the 70s - or is it? Is it a parody? A spin-off? Or a continuation? The world may never know. I hated the show, and I think that the fans of the show will be just as disappointed in the outcome of this film, as it is too stupid to enjoy and too different from the televison show for the fans to enjoy. After this, you won't be whining, Marcia, Marcia, Marcia, you'll be whining, Mercy, mercy, mercy!2/5 stars - just as bad as the stupid sequel -John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Bland and unfulfilled...Just like eating parsley.","Date":"7 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I understand the premise of this film. Transplant a time capsuled sitcom from the 70's to the bleak world of the 90's and let the wackiness ensue, right? Oh, and lets not forget to cover every single classic moment from the series in order to please the nostalgia factor, right? It cant possibly fail if we use this sure fire formula, right? WRONG!!!!!!!!!! I couldn't believe how DULL this movie was. Even when they do cover the series' memorable catch phrase's and scenes it feels cheap and contrived. I think I would have rather viewed a TV retrospective special than see different actors portray it on the movie screen. Also, when the gimmick of them in there 70's clothes, hair and mannerisms interacting with the people of the 90's just falls flat. I know they are supposed to come off as strange but in a comedic way. Here they do it in just a plain strange way. You actually side with the contemporary people and wish somebody would call the cops and throw them into a padded cell. Despite all that the script offers nothing much for them to do except the things I have already stated, which don't work. Frankly, I think this is one TV to movie cross over that should have never been attempted. "}{"Title":"Oh my nose!","Date":"16 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Was anybody else let down by this movie? Not that I expected an academy award worthy film but The Brady Bunch movie, although not awful also wasn't that great. It was sort of a let down.I'm not sure what didn't gel but it wasn't cinema's finest hour. The Brady's as a movie simply doesn't work. Oh, I'm not gonna pretend I didn't laugh at all example (she's harder to get into then a pearl Jam concert-LOL), but the movie itself was pretty corny. I actually liked the parents better then what they did with the kids-and that whole selling the land storyline was just a weak storyline (cmon-this is the BRADY bunch- could not SOMETHING a bit stronger have been used as the main storyline?). I think it could have been very funny if they just didn't try so hard to modernize everything and everyone in the movie. They should have concentrated on the things that made the original television show such a success and made the movie funnier but in a more recognizable brady way. Looking at the movie objectively it can't really be said that it stands out as classic as did the television show.Even though the movie was good for a few laughs and is cool to see once, I wouldn't recommend it as a really great movie. I really am of the opinion that not everything needs to be so modernized, some movies will still work fine if the charm and wit that made them work in the first place is left intact or even expanded on. This isn't awful, just unremarkable. 5 out of 10 is my rating. "},{"Title":"A Very Brady Bruising","Date":"23 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I'm probably in the minority here but as funny as the send up of the Bradys is (based in part on a Saturday Night Live skit) sometimes the downright meanness of the modern day characters is really uncalled for.In two different scenes The Brady's sing and dance in public,only to be looked at as if their nuts! On the plane they're told to sit down & shut up. What's so funny about that? It would have been funnier if the people on the plane and in Sears had joined in.In fact I would have enjoyed this more if the Bradys so called sugary-sweet' nature had rubbed off on those jaded 1990s people and opened their eyes to how terrible and vindictive they'd been. I did like it when the police come to the neighborhood and see the neighbors finally standing up for the family. I wanna live in this neighborhood too! To me that's a statement that speaks for a lot of people. We all wish we had neighbors or just people in the world we could trust like the Bradys.Gary Cole as Mike was hilarious trying to sell the same structure to his boss(a model of his own home). Peter's voice changing,Jan's voices in her head & more. Some really funny moments but just too many mean-spirited one's for my taste. I'll stick with the TV series,I think it's really funny in a far out kind of way! (END) "},{"Title":"Brady bunch movie","Date":"28 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie was the most terrible thing I have ever seen in my life So corny so TERRIBELE but Marcia looks like the real Marcia And mike Brady is the guy from office space U yeah u huh did you get the memo? terrible movie who wants to see a most terrible movie I mean they were mocking it to so that was good i only laughed one time on where Mrs.Brady said Tiger tiger what ever happened to that dog its true i think the real tiger got ran over by a car and they never played him on a episode again.Jan does not look like Jan i mean the soft voice and stuff and the werid part is OWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWW AHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH My noes Ahh My noeses so freaky so fake... "},{"Title":"Am I The ONLY ONE THAT HATES THIS MOVIE?!?","Date":"12 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"     Ok, This movie is horrible. I do not know why everyone likes it. It is just so stupid. The Jokes are corny, repetitive (It's always Marsha!Marsha! Marsha! Marsha!) Come on!      Having to raise money to save the house, that has been done in SOOOOO Many T.V. Shows before! It's like one of those episodes the cartoons HAVE to have The Ol' Switcheroo, etc.       Well, the movie seems to be a success with the other IMDB members, SO if you like Stupid, Retarded, Plain, Boring, Repetitive Hippie crud, Watch this. If you don't, look at this movie and shudder. This one has replaced Freddy krueger and the Teletubbies from my Nightmares.              My Rating -100/10 "},{"Title":"What a waste of time and money","Date":"31 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  For the life of me, I cannot understand how anyone could find this movie funny. Sure, it has plenty of humor. But the humor is mostly painful and you laugh simply out of the compulsion to do so. The time warp concept of THE BRADY BUNCH MOVIE doesn't work. I wish people would realize that the 1970s was NOT a time of peace and flower power and everyone loving each other. On the contrary, it was a decade of war protests, economic slumber, racial strife, energy crises, political scandal, rising crime rates, and overall moral decay. In a word, the '70s were just like the stereotypical portrayal of the '90s in this movie. The Brady Bunch was simply a way of coping with all of that. In 1969, there were very few families like the Bradys. Yes, in the '70s Americans had to deal with homosexuality and greedy land developers and all of the other '90s stuff seen in this movie. It is the cultural naivet of whoever made this movie remake that ruins the satire. Yeah, I know it's just a juvenile movie. But the scary thing is that it was made by adults. You can see a similar weak attempt at humor in PLEASANTVILLE. Contrary to what the TV shows proclaimed, the 1950s were NOT a time of conformity and social vacuum. I wish people would stop resurrecting old TV shows and turning them into movies. They end up giving us false impressions about the past. "},{"Title":"Good, but not as good as the original","Date":"4 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The movie is entertaining, but is not as good as the original. Sure the half an hour I spent watching this entertained me, but it seemed a little off. The cast was much better in the original, if you watch it you will see what I mean. They are good, but in my opinion only Shelly Long is similar to her character, but Florence Henderson was better. Personelly the movie would be 5 time better if the whole family, but Shelly Long was re-cast and the script was more like the original. I am not saying that this movie is not worth your time, but if you can be watching the original Brady Bunch I personally recommend it instead.2/10 "},{"Title":"stupid","Date":"4 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Well, even though some of my favorite actors are in this movie Gary Cole and Christine Taylor, this was a very stupid movie. The Brady Bunch in the 90's wouldn't work and it didn't here, but I did like the casting here that is about the only thing I really liked about this movie. The Brady Bunch Movie annoyed me so much I didn't bother to see the sequel, the high 5 rating is a little kind. "}]