[{"Title":"A tale of friendship and hope","Date":"29 December 2005","Score":"35 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Cure is an outstanding real-life drama that deals with a very sensitive subject. It is the story of the profound and dear friendship between two boys, Eric and Dexter. The latter has acquired AIDS from a blood transfusion. Thus he and his mom (Annabella Sciorra) have become outcasts, shunned by the public and labeled as dangerous company, basically due to a common lack of public knowledge of the disease.When Eric (Brad Renfro, known from 'The Client' and 'Apt Pupil') and his mom move into the house next to them, he has to deal with public insults and the fear of catching AIDS himself. However, Eric overcomes his fear and risks everything. At first he starts talking to Dexter, but eventually he climbs over the fence and joins the witty boy (played by Jurassic Park's Joseph Mazzello) and his games. Very quickly he develops a real friendship with Dexter, who is delicately built and frail due to his condition.The central theme of the movie &#150; the theme which makes it pervasively authentic and tragic at the same time &#150; is how Eric and Dexter try to find the ultimate cure. At first they experiment with all kinds of plants and leaves &#150; which is very naive, but also genuine at the same time, as it shows how young kids deal with such heinous diseases and how strongly they still believe in the magic of the world. When they hear about an alleged cure which has been developed in the South, they do not hesitate and take off for an adventure that will bring them even closer together and symbolizes the ultimate quest for hope.So they board a raft and head southwards on the Mississippi River. What starts as a real adventure becomes a dangerous undertaking, which is emotionally intriguing and instructive at the same time. The scene when Dexter reveals his fears and talks about the end of the universe, where everything is dark and cold, Eric hands him his sneaker, a symbol that wherever the boy may have to go, Eric is and will always be with him; he will never have to be alone. This sequence, which is one of the most compelling ones of the movie, features a very convincing interaction between the two actors, who manage to avoid awkward and corny dialogs and deliver a very genuine performance that is eventually smashing in its tenderness and honesty.I will not go any further in outlining the plot, as I do not intend to give away too much information. The ending however is emotionally tough and makes the audience so much a part of the tragedy that everyone who watches the movie will feel personally affected. This aspect makes this movie so strong, so outstanding and so convincing. The emotional burden on every character is so real and so thrashing that even the tougher members of the audience might need some hankies.A 10 is doing justice to this movie and is not too high a rating. There is hardly any other movie I have seen in my life so far that handles such an emotional issue with so much wit and sensibility. It is the story of how two boys make each other's life richer and how they teach each other lessons of life. Thus Dexter overcomes his isolation and sadness, and Eric learns what really counts in life; and both of them realize how much of a gift real friendship is when it comes to the hardest moments of life.This movie is tragic &#150; but its message is sheer inspiration. "},{"Title":"Stunning triumph of film-making and humanity","Date":"20 April 2005","Score":"30 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" For unknown reasons this beautiful masterpiece didn't get well-deserved recognition and has been vastly under-appreciated by many American movie critics. So it's easy to understand that I've met lots of troubles trying to find this movie. Finally I watched it and it was so beautiful, sincere and poignant that for the first time in my life I watched one movie five times in one week after getting the tape. The story is focused on the friendship between two young boys Erik and Dexter, eleven and twelve years old, who are very different from each other but they are becoming the best (and only) friends. The beauty and sincerity of their friendship have been shown in the Cure so sincere and naturally as it has never been before. There are so many beautiful, heartfelt and poignant scenes (particularly on the river), which strike the heart and can't leave any human indifferent to them. The movie also is full of incredibly powerful and emotional symbolism, (particularly strong with Erik's shoe) which also greatly increases visual impression from such beautiful work. The story, written by Robert Kuhn, is well written and on the contrary to overwhelming majority of modern Hollywood's products practically every scene, every phrase and every sentence in the movie is meaningful and bring something important about characters and relations between them. Peter Horton, who as I know had no major experience in movie directing before, showed his great abilities and talents in this sphere. The cinematography is also superb with perfectly selected locations for the movie, but the most important is perfect acting, which with all above mentioned makes The Cure one of the best movies ever. Both Brad Renfro as Erik and Joseph Mazello as Dexter created wonderful atmosphere of sincere friendship and magnificent chemistry between two main characters. Only one this movie (I haven't seen most of their other works) is enough to name them as one of the best actors of their generation. Annabelle Sciorra also give a terrific performance as Dexter's mother. It's terribly sad that such talented actors didn't get wide recognition, while numerous overrated stars enjoy enormous publicity and huge salaries. Finally it would be unfair not to mention amazing soundtrack written by David Grusin, and terrific Mark Cohn's song (one of the best songs that I've ever heard in the movies) My Great Escape. So all that I can say about The Cure is one simple word &#150; great. At any point of view this movie is a beautiful, heartfelt and inspiring work of all people involved in making of this masterpiece. I have to credit all those people who put their hearts and souls into the movie and Universal Pictures, which among numerous formulaic commercial projects has found a way to make such a beautiful movie. But such movie so rarely come to movie theaters that very often studios themselves don't realize what gem they have made that they're unable to provide respective marketing campaign. The only one minor drawback about The Cure for me is its short length (only 97 minutes). I don't want to write more about the movie because it's simply impossible to put its beauty and sincerity into words, so if you have any opportunity for watching The Cure, rent it or buy it and you wouldn't be disappointed. 10 out of 10. Sorry for my bad English. "},{"Title":"Unforgettable","Date":"28 September 2002","Score":"30 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is one of the most touching films I had ever watched. No movie has effected me the way this one did. This is a great film and you have to see for yourself. I'm normally impregnable with these sob story movies but this one did it for me. I was in tears at the end. You'll yearn for the friendship that is portrayed in this movie. If I can give this movie a billion stars I could. "},{"Title":"One of the few films that manages to be touching without being cheesy","Date":"13 December 2006","Score":"22 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I had seen The Cure when I was a kid and I loved it then. Now, years later, I got a hold of a copy almost by accident, and watched it again. Being a kid, you don't really have the ability to procure things for yourself that you want, that is usually a prerogative of your parents - but when I watched it again now I felt sorry that I did not do more to get a copy of this movie back then, and consequently almost forgot about it until today.This really is a beautiful movie. It tells the story of the unlikely friendship between a hard-edged, misfit kid - who takes his cues from his horrible, abusive mother - and his neighbor, a slightly younger boy who has AIDS.Right, you say. Another one of those. A tear jerker. A bucket movie. A morality tail. Yeah, I know, I hate those too. Only this one isn't. It is one of the very few movies among those many I have seen that pulls off a very rare trick it conveys a truly sad story (and yes, a morality tale) but without a single moment where it feels cheesy, forced or in any other way hollywoody. It shows a REAL relationship between two REAL boys, who interact as REAL kids do. And through that interaction the good-natured, loving character of the older boy, Eric, starts to shine through his tough-guy persona, as he takes on a kind of big-brotherly care for Dexter, his HIV-positive younger neighbor. Together, they embark on an adventure to find a cure - which to Erik seems to be just around the corner - so that all this silly AIDS thing will go away and they can be friends forever.The production is top notch. But, of course, what really carries this movie, is the performances of the two leads - Brad Renfro and Joseph Mazzello. Especially Mazzello, who is simply stunning - he does convey a sense of frailty needed for an ailing boy, but at the same time he manages to make Dexter a truly energetic and determined character. He shines at the scene where the boys confront Pony his impulse to protect his older friend lunges him forth, drives him to say what he says - and only afterwards, the horror is depicted on his face, as he realizes that what he himself said is true his blood is poison... Renfro also has his moments, in particular the scenes with his mother he depicts perfectly how this macho, street-wise kid is left completely frozen and numb when faced with his abusive, storming mother, and can't get a word in to contradict her as she forbids his relationship with the ailing boy out of her fear and ignorance. Annabella Sciorra also gives a memorable performance as Dexter's mother, who ultimately becomes, in a sense, a mother figure to Erik as well.I've first seen this film when I was at school back in America, and loved it - not at all a given concerning movies of this sort. But the behavior of the kids in this movie was so real, I could easily relate to them. Ironically enough, the teacher who had shown us this movie (a wonderful woman, I'm still in touch with her) got in trouble for it, as some uptight parent complained about it having the scene when the two boys are looking at a Playboy... Pathetic. Seriously, will Americans ever get over this ridiculous phobia, I do not know. There was a hardly-distinguishable shot of a playboy cover in the movie and thus it is not shown in schools... how sad. Kids need to see this movie. It is more inspiring and educational than all the official after-school specials put together.Oh, and one more thing. I know I'm rambling, but nevertheless... The score. It's great. I am a musician, and as such I know Dave Grusin from his records he is a well known Jazz pianist and record producer. Up until this movie I really did not know that he did movie scores as well, even though when I later checked I found out that I had unknowingly watched several movies he worked on. Really, a wonderful job there.All in all, a solid Ten. I'd recommend this movie to anyone. And I'm definitely going to see it with my younger siblings - they can use watching a film like this among all the standard special-effect hysteria they usually see. "},{"Title":"Although fictional, very realistic tale of a childhood friendship complicated by AIDS","Date":"2 June 2000","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Unbelievably close to real life feelings and emotions captured by Joseph Mazzello as a hemophiliac child affected by AIDS and his new young neighbor, a wanna-be tough redneck played to perfection by Brad Renfro.  Although the story may seem slightly farfetched (the two boys attempt to river-raft several hundred miles to find a doctor who claims to have the cure to AIDS), the emotion, actions and interactions of all characters involved are tragically close to real life.  Being a big brother to a boy in a similar situation who died a few years after this film was released, I strongly recommend this picture to anyone who has ever wondered what really happens in the life of a child with AIDS.  Superb direction by Peter Horton creates the perfect mood and setting for each scene and draws the viewer into the various emotions affected by friendship, illness, prejudice and the final parting of two friends who fought hard to overcome adversity.  "},{"Title":"Even in tragic circumstance, this film shows there can be happiness","Date":"11 October 2006","Score":"12 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The subject of children being terminally ill is difficult and saddening but 'The Cure' successfully portrays the idea that it doesn't have to be all doom and gloom and, if anything, children need to have hope and delight in their lives if they are to find peace before the end. It is also a film of remarkable bonds of friendship and the innocence of childhood.The film sees Erik, a dysfunctional adolescent boy with a distant mother, moving into a new area where their next-door neighbour is eleven-year-old Dexter, who contracted AIDS through a blood transfusion. After his initial fears and ignorance over AIDS are allayed, Erik befriends Dexter and their almost fraternal friendship sees them embark on a journey down the Mississippi to where they have heard about a New Orleans doctor who claims to have found a cure for the disease.The talent from the two young leads of Brad Renfro and Joseph Mazzello, who play Erik and Dexter respectively, is exceptional. Brad was able to portray Erik's harder edge without comprising the subtle childish innocence inherent to the character while Joseph depicts the sense of vulnerability to Dexter's character but injects the right amount of boyish enthusiasm and zeal to highlight that his illness doesn't mean he still isn't a child who wants to run and play like any other eleven-year-old boy. The pair's interactions create a feel in the audience that these are two boys who are genuinely close and they carry the film well. Annabella Sciorra also delivers a touching performance as Dexter's mother Linda, who adores her son and delights in seeing him thrive with this new friendship to Erik and eventually becomes a surrogate mother-figure to the other boy.Set against an excellent soundtrack, 'The Cure' is a very bittersweet film that manages to flawlessly weave the story of boyhood friendship that survives unflinchingly in the midst of prejudice and terminal illness without resorting to sappiness or unnecessary saccharine sweet scenes. A very interesting reflection in the film is that is it the adults who have the problem with Dexter's AIDS status whereas the children, even the 'bullies', come to accept him as they would any other. What is also very touching is how, despite Erik's streetwise nature, he is the more naive one in his determination to cure Dexter while the younger boy has this haunting sense that he knows his fate but is swept away by his best friend's enthusiasm for a cure.I highly recommend 'The Cure' for it is rare to find a film that is simultaneously sad and uplifting. "},{"Title":"Great Film!","Date":"9 April 2006","Score":"12 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Very nice movie! I was browsing the channels on my TV and I usually ignore the channels that air drama movies but then I saw this channel that airs old school movies and it is where I saw this movie. At first, when I saw the title The Cure I thought it's gonna be boring but then I got hooked when I saw Brad Renfro was in this movie (because of one of my favorite movie of all time is The Client where Brad also stars). Then the scenes was getting better and better. The story is so beautiful and very touching! I cried hard in this movie which I don't usually do. Great casting! and there are so many beautiful lines/quotes in this movie which is very striking and made me cry hard! Now, I bought my own copy on DVD and I always recommend it to everyone! "},{"Title":"I cried a bucket, she cried a river.","Date":"17 January 2006","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Way back in 1996, One of the airliner pilots where I used to work gave me a copy of this film. He told me that It'll make me cry. I never believed him and we even made bets. After seeing the film....I cried a bucket! Even after the seeing the film, I found myself in the bathroom crying. It was actually the most touching film I have ever seen. I like the part where Dexter's mom confronted Eric's mother the line went something like... your sons' best friend just died today..and it's not gonna be easy...if you ever lay your hands on him again...I will kill you! The last part where Dexter took Eric's shoe was a scene that never left my mind until today. Honestly, just thinking about it makes my eyes teary. A story of what true friendship is all about. My girlfriend loved it too... She hated me for letting her see the film. I cried a bucket, she cried a river. "},{"Title":"Incredible film, acting is superb","Date":"15 October 1998","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The Cure is a great movie, the only drawback being the short length. The acting is amazing and the direction is great. Joseph Mazzello (Radio Flyer, Shadowlands) and Brad Renfro (The Client)  delivered career best (and still best) performances and Annabella Sciorra (Hand that Rocks the Cradle) was good playing Dexter's (Mazzello) mom. "},{"Title":"There is no greater cure than a true friendship","Date":"26 January 2011","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" 'The Cure' is a touching film about a true friendship. A friendship that exceeds all of the preconceptions. I agree that this is a tale of happiness under tragic circumstances. Plus, it portrays an ignorant side of society. Many believe that AIDS is strictly a gay disease and transmittable through the air and mock and treat miserably those who have it. This movie can teach us all many lessons and morals.This story is about two unlucky boys with different personalities and some problems in common (both are rejected and unwelcome by society). Erik is, I assume, 12 years old (like Brad Renfro himself back then), an easy target for a bunch of dorks and his mother is a horrible person and ignorant (and so is his unseen grandmother). Erik's neighbor Dexter is 11 (like Joseph Mazzello at the time). Dexter has a loving mother but he is a cursed child. He is very nice and sweet but he got AIDS from a blood transfusion when he was a baby and just because of his illness he is treated by the ignorants as if he was a plague. This is Dexter's drama. Poor Dexter!Erik and Dexter got off to a bad start but Erik quickly learns to like and respect Dexter and they become great friends. Together they live adventures and moments of fun and happiness at the same time they attempt to find a cure to save Dexter. Their friendship has no boundaries and both find out they're braver than they ever imagined, as their courage helps them in sticky situations. Erik gives Dexter a chance to live life as it should be lived.There is a number of heartwarming moments, such as the scene when Erik gives his tennis shoe to Dexter to comfort him and make him feel safer. Another part that gets me every time is the tense sequence when Dexter stabs his hand and says the haunting line «My blood is like poison» and gets far weaker after this bravery act and has to be taken to a hospital.During Dexter's stay at the hospital, there are some fun moments which serve as a perfect comic relief under a tragic circumstance. The boys prank the doctors that Dexter is unconscious in two occasions. Dexter scares the hell out of the doctors and laughs a lot. But in a 3rd attempt to prank them, when Erik asks Dexter «Are you ready for another victim?» and Dexter smiles and nods Yes, the sad irony is that Dexter no longer wakes up. The cure is not found. The nice tyke doesn't make it.The two boys take the movie all by themselves and shine like stars Brad Renfro as Erik and Joseph Mazzello as Dexter.Brad Renfro was talented and always looked mature for his age. That and the fact that his voice sounded mature for the age made him look some years older than he really was. Shame he did put himself in a bad spot few years after this movie was made and passed away early.Joseph Mazzello always proved to be a fine young actor. He is simply wonderful in this serious role. And he was a very cute kid and had the cutest and most adorable voice, along with Judith Barsi.Annabella Sciorra's acting as Linda also deserves my praise. The soundtrack is worth of my praise too, it sounds so peaceful-minded, fits perfectly in the mood of the film. This movie is a classic, deserves much better luck than it got.Title in Portugal 'Laços de Amizade'. "}{"Title":"Awesome Story, Incredible Production","Date":"14 March 2005","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I remember when this film came out, and watched it a few times on VHS. I was so glad when it was FINALLY released on DVD. I was hoping for widescreen, but at the point would take what was available. I love how they used color in the film, the outdoor scenes are so alive with color. The trees are the greenest I've ever seen. Most of the film was shot in Stillwater, Minnesota, a beautiful town located on the St. Croix River. They must have really scouted locations for filming, because they did a great job. The story is well written, and directed. I would rate this as one of Peter Horton's best. I'm also surprised that Andrew Dintenfass (the director of photography) hasn't done more. He did an incredible job. The acting also rates up there. It's amazing to see two actors of such a young age pull off this type of film. Annabella Sciorra did a great job as Dexter's mother. Who wouldn't want her as a mother. "},{"Title":"A story about friendship, loyalty & the naivete of childhood.","Date":"4 October 1998","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Here's a film about and enacted by two children. Although there are adults in the film, they are there to add some authenticity, drama and, at times, comedy relief. The younger of the two boys, Dexter (Joseph Mazzello) is dying of AIDS; the older boy, Eric (Brad Renfro), is something of a sociopath. A lad of the South, Eric lives with his divorced mother in an unidentified city in the upper reaches of the Mississippi River (St. Paul, Minneapolis?). His innate hostility coupled with his marked southern accent does little to endear him to his peer group. So Eric is something of an outcast and has few friends...until he meets his next-door neighbor. He and Dexter become fast, though tenuous, friends. The friendship solidifies as the story segues into a quest for an AIDS cure which takes them on a Tom Sawyer trek down the Mississippi River with lots of adventures. One later scene, which will be thought of as emotional and something of a tear jerker, is truly uplifting and brings to the fore the true theme of the film. A first time effort by director Peter Horton, its theme was not one to garner any great box-office success. But it is well worth a video rental. (Brad Renfro, by the way, proves that his brilliant performance in The Client was not a fluke.  And he did it without Tommmy Lee Jones & Susan Sarandan).  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly beautiful piece","Date":"8 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Even though this film is 11 years old, I just rented it yesterday, and I found it to be a really touching film. The story of true friendship in the face of a very real monster is an inspiration and quite touching.While I did not care much for the amount of language used by some of the young actors--especially from Renfro--I understand that art is imitating life. Renfro once again does a magnificent job of the rough-and-tough, very (and I mean VERY) disturbed wannabe bully (his role in The Client comes to mind), and Mazzello does a wonderful job of the witty, somewhat quirky, Dexter--a child who realizes that his life must end too soon.While there are so many touching and funny moments in the movie, I have to say that my favorite was when the boys were cornered by Pony in the abandoned church, and Dexter (Mazzello) cut himself, saying his blood was poison. While very resourceful, and somewhat amusing seeing a grown man running away from two little kids, it's one of the hardest scenes in the film.Definitely check this one out, but prepared with your Kleenex--you'll need it! "},{"Title":"The Cure... for all boring AIDS movies","Date":"17 May 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When the movie The Cure starts, we find out about a young man named Erik (Brad Renfro). Erik is a teenage boy living with his paranoid mother, and living next door to him is a young boy named Dexter (Joseph Mazello). One day, Erik and Dexter connect and head up to the supermarket, where Dexter gets his first taste of Butterfinger. When Erik learns out that Dexter has AIDS, he tries leaves-and-water tea to make it better. But when the front cover of The National Enquirer says a New Orleans doctor has found the cure for AIDS, the two boys will stop at nothing to get to New Orleans for the cure.In my opinion, The Cure is easily one of the best friendship movies ever made. It shows unconditional love between a boy, his (new) best friend, and his best friend's mom. Everything is so well done, nothing needs to be changed. Not only do I give this a 10/10 for being a fantastic friendship movie, but it also is a sad, but humorous, and fun AIDS movie. And the tragic finale with Dexter's contraction of AIDS is enough to make me shed a tear. Very well done. "},{"Title":"A great Movie!","Date":"14 October 1998","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The best movie about friendship!  Especially  between an AIDs infected person and a  normal  person. This is a great movie for everyone to see even though there is strong language used. I have seen it 25 times. "},{"Title":"Song Question","Date":"26 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I really liked the movie, thought it was very entertaining as well as dramatic. But I just had a question about the music is the movie. I haven't been able to find any kind of soundtrack(if there even is one). And specifically ,I was wondering if anyone could tell me the name of the song that is playing while the boys are going down the river on their way to New Orleans? I thought it was something along the lines of My great escape, but I've searched on the internet, books, pretty much everything I could think of to try to, and I just can't find it anywhere. If someone could help out it would be greatly appreciated. Thanks. "},{"Title":"Excellent film","Date":"13 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This was such a beautiful film. Such an amazing performance from Joseph and Brad. Very innocently written and performed. A must see !! I cried my eyes out almost through the entire movie. This is a movie that every family should sit down with their children to watch, it does teach us all a very important lesson in life and how we should be approaching the harsh subject of AIDS, how we should be teaching our children to cope with it and people around them. Not only with AIDS, but with any terminal illness. I hadn't even heard of this movie until I scrolled through t.v. one day and happen to run across it. I recommend everyone to watch this, just don't forget your box of tissues. More movies should be made like this one. Extremely heartwarming. "},{"Title":"absolutely superb","Date":"26 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" For all the viewers who have seen 'The Cure' would agree with me on this comment that it is a superb movie and is very heartwarming. Joseph Mazzello and Brad Renfro prove their star quality in this movie, along with Dexter's (Mazzello) mother Annabella Sciorra.When i first watched The Cure on TV, i didn't know what to expect, but as i watched this masterpiece it soon became clear what it was about. Dexter an 11 year old boy who is plagued with AIDS, sits around his backyard playing with his toys when one day he meets his next door neighbour Eric, which at first is a little awkward for the 2 boys, but they soon became good friends.During the film, i kept wondering what would happen to the two boys, as they kept me wondering. I wondered how the heck they would get to New Orleans sitting a door with a sea biscuit under it pulling an inflatable crocodile behind it. There were other great scenes throughout the movie.But the part that reached out to me was the part when Dexter's health started to deteriorate. You just couldn't help but wonder if he was going to make it but towards the end you find out. I thought at the first prank they played, that Dexter was really dead he obviously wasn't, silly me. But when they play the third, something is very wrong. Dexter doesn't get up to laugh nor does he show any kind of laughter. At that point the victim of their prank soon announces that poor Dexter had died. At that part i lost it. I balled my eyes out, and from that scene onwards i was crying. You just have to. As the end nears you start to understand Eric's loss and then the movie ends on a nice note with Dexters shoe floating ever so slowly down the river.Overall this movie was excellent. It has laughter, adventure, emotion and sadness etc. When you put that in a blender you get an excellent, must watch film. Peter Horton has done a great job directing this film and i believe its certainly one of his best. But for now, i will try to search for this movie on DVD, if it exists that is. Once again a superb movie that will take you on an emotional rollercaoster. "},{"Title":"Lovely Lovely Lovely","Date":"23 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  *** Contains spoilers ***A lovely film this, starring Brad Renfro and the ever wonderful Joseph Mazzello.  I like Joseph Mazzello, out of all his films I've seen to date I've loved every single one of them for many different reasons and The Cure is no different.  Brad Renfro does very well in this movie as well. The Cure is a drama/coming of age movie from the viewpoint of an ill child and his friend.The basic idea is  Dexter (Joseph Mazzello) has AIDS.  He ends up befriending the kid next door (Brad Renfro) but Erik's mum is very narrow-minded, ill-informed and somewhat thick when it comes to Dexter's illness.  She thinks AIDS is contagious like the Common Cold so doesn't want her son going anywhere near Dexter.After many attempts at making their own cure with no success, the boys go on their way to New Orleans to find the cure after reading a pamphlet about it.  After getting their kicks from Playboy magazine, Dexter's health goes south shortly afterwards and as his health detoriates, there's still enough life in the boy alongside Erik for two pranks of pretending to stop breathing.  Unfortunately, poor Dexter does indeed die from his illness, leaving poor Erik behind to wonder why he couldn't find the cure.  Throughout the movie he ends up bonding more with Dexter's mother than his own.It is a very heartwarming movie to watch and is not absolutely perfect (movies rarely are) but you won't care less about that as you get involved in the film more.  A must for Joseph Mazzello fans, one of his best performances ever.  Very well recommended must-see movie - if you can find a copy ) "},{"Title":"Teachers, show this movie!","Date":"12 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Junior high and high school teachers will find The Cure an excellent teaching tool, both as a companion to Huckleberry Finn or as a stand-alone lesson.  Although AIDS is supposed to be the main theme, the strong sup-text of friendship and love, as they evolve between Eric and Dexter, is a powerful message for teenagers. Writing prompts centered around the symbolism of the tennis shoe are particularly effective.  I also suggest directed class discussion about how Eric evolves from manipulative user to loving friend. "}{"Title":"A wonderful, very emotional movie.","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  There was nothing else on tv yesterday afternoon, so I thought okay, let's watch this.  I didn't know the plot and I had no expectation whatsoever, I was thinking in a few minutes or so I will channel surf again.  But then story started to unfold, and the characters played beautifully by the two boys.  The story did have unrealistic parts and scenes, but overall it was a real good movie.  Very well worth watching. "},{"Title":"An excellent, well-acted film about AIDS from a child's viewpoint","Date":"5 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Although flawed in it's view of homosexuals, this movie will shed light for the viewer about the myths and inaccuracies concerning AIDS.  Despite the depressing subject matter, this film depicts a warm friendship between two boys, and will make you laugh as well as cry.  Very well-acted by all, especially Joseph Mazzello and Brad Renfro.  The language is a little strong, though appropriate, and it's an entertaining and intelligent film for the whole family.   But remember to have the Kleenex ready! "},{"Title":"Almost five years later, The Cure is still my favorite film of all.","Date":"30 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What can I say? I love this movie like no other film ever made. It is flawed and unrealistic and has a few holes in the plot you can stick your fingers through. None of that matters. This movie has heart. It has the best portrayal of friendship and brotherhood that I have ever seen in a movie. Mazzello and Renfro deserve medals for they great job they did. They really brought Dexter and Erik to life.There is love and truth in this story. It might even crack through the armor of hardened cynics (if anything can).It's the one laserdisc I would take to a desert island (wired for electricity, of course). Next runner up, a similar but completely different movie from 1993 called Digger. "},{"Title":"positive","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This was truly a heart warming movie. It is filled with so many messages. Loyalty, friendship, sickness, death, and the paranoia society has concerning anything they don't understand. I have shed a few tears during certain movies, but this movie kept the tears flowing.  "},{"Title":"**** out of ****","Date":"31 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The Cure is by far, the only movie to even make me come close to crying. I almost couldn't hold it in.  The film is surprisingly realistic.  I also liked how the movie didn't do like others and only use the parents as a device to push the plot forward; they were actually involved somehow and Anabella Sciorra gave a tragically tear-jerking performance at the end.  It was realistic and genuine.  The film also succeeded in creating a heartwarming bond between the two boys.  I found myself caring about them as well as the other characters.  I also liked how the boys tried everything, including drinking plants, to cure the disease. "},{"Title":"Boys don't cry","Date":"26 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I first saw The Cure when I was really young; I remember my mother used to watch this film with me, mainly because I was a kid with a few friends. Erik is a boy that decides becoming friends with Dexter, a younger kid infected with AIDS and full of life restrictions. Their friendship is beautiful to be seen; despite the implausible possibility of this happening, it's great to see their trip to New Orleans in order to found the cure. They do everything in their power to find a cure for Dexter, but, unfortunately, they never discover where the heck it is at-- actually, 20 years have passed and, as of now, people are STILL looking for the cure. The acting varies from average to great, and the actor that portrays Dexter is very able to bring sympathy for the spectator; I mean, it's not that people with bad diseases have to be 100% pristine to be respected, but it surely brings life to the story as a whole. Maybe it's a cheap trick they make for us, but it works! All in all, The Cure is a wonderful movie that brings some nice reflections to us, and I'm glad I found it online. Very recommended! "},{"Title":"The Cure, the first movie that taught me the art of letting go","Date":"22 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is the first Western drama I watched when I was a kid that showed me how fun it is to have a childhood adventure with your best friend but at the same time it touched my childish heart with its poignant plot.I think it's a great movie because I really enjoyed it and I could easily relate to the two lead characters a hard-edged, misfit Erik and Dexter, an eleven years old boy who got AIDS from blood transfusion. The way these kids deal with the horrible disease and then embark on an adventure to find the cure &#x96; is natural and uplifting.After growing up and watch it again, I've noticed some things that intensify my love for this movie, which I didn't fully understand then. It taught me, in the most simple and sincere way, about the danger of AIDS and the importance of supports to the patients. I love how Erik stand up for his next-door-ailing- best-friend against the bullies and his alcoholic and abusive mother. And Dexter beautifully portrays a terminally-ill kid who is just too young to understand his situation and decides to just live with it.The acting of Brad Renfro and Joseph Mazzello, who play Erik and Dexter respectively, is impeccable. The relationship between the two boys are solid, like they were meant to complete each other. Erik is a rebel and outdoorsy, which he got from his distant and storming mother. On the contrary, Dexter is smart and witty boy whose sweet relationship with his mom fascinates Erik. He sticks to Dexter and his mother's imperfect but happy life, regardless rejections from surroundings.The most memorable scene from this movie is what I called 'the shoe metaphor'. On one night in the middle of their naive-but-brave adventure, Dexter tells Erik about his fear of death and nothingness.Dexter Suppose you kept going another 18 billion light years, what if there's nothing out there? Suppose you kept going another trillion times further, so far out you see nothing. The light from the universe would be fainter than the faintest star. Infinitely cold. Infinitely dark. Sometimes if I wake up and it's dark, I get really scared, like I'm out there and I'm never coming back.Erik Here, hold onto this when you sleep. And if you wake up and you're scared, you'll say, Wait a minute. I'm holding Eric's shoe. Why the hell would I be holding some smelly basketball shoe a trillion light years from the universe? I must be here on earth, safe in my sleeping bag, and Eric must be close by. And the smelly shoe, continues to bring tears off of my eyes in the end of the movie, when Erik puts the shoe to Dexter's hand in his coffin, &#x96; then releases Dexter's black funeral shoe to the river. This is very saddening because the boys start their adventure from the river with a raft made of used tire. The adventure that will always continue and bonds them forever.Lastly, this movie is the first movie that taught me the art of letting go. No matter how much we love someone, we need to be able to let go and move on. And we gotta keep holding on their beautiful memories so they will live forever in our hearts &#x96; and in heaven. "},{"Title":"Heartwarming and Touching Film","Date":"13 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I had never heard of this film, nor seen any press about it. I happened upon it in the cable TV menu and recorded it to view. It is one of the most touching and heartwarming stories I've ever seen. There is no indication that this was based on a true story, but if it isn't, it's one of the most amazing screenplays ever written, and the director and the cast have certainly delivered that type of vision to me. Erik (Brad Renfro) portrays the most rare of youngsters, in his friendship and care with his best friend, Dexter. Everyone (adults and kids) should see this film and take away the most profound feelings of love, friendship, and loyalty. "},{"Title":"Incredibly sad but also incredibly amazing film","Date":"4 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Cure starts off a little hokey at first, but it quickly becomes a really powerful and gripping film that words alone can't describe. It's a testament to the intense friendship between two very different kids as they travel through an adventurous summer. And there's one other catch... one of them is dying and their goal is to find a cure for what's killing him.Eric and Dexter might as well be from different planets; Eric is a loner bad boy from a broken family, with his only companion being his b!tchy mom who works constantly but is never there for her son. Dexter is a sickly little boy who unfortunately caught AIDS from a blood transfusion and he's the only one his single mom, Linda, has left in the world. When Eric meets Dexter from next-door and immediately assumes he's a homo, Dexter doesn't really take offense, which is something new to Eric, and suddenly he starts spending more time with Dexter and they quickly become best friends. Eric's mission is to help Dexter find a cure for AIDS, and this becomes their summer quest as they run away to New Orleans.Words can't really express just how good this film is, so all I can really say is that I loved it. It has excellent actors, a wonderful soundtrack and an exciting, intense, original plot that'll stay with you forever after you've seen it. It's amazing and I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Real Lesson","Date":"16 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I remember watching this movie as a kid, and the most beautiful thing about movies like this is how you learn something every time watching it as you get older. This movie is not just about a cure, but a passionate and devoted friendship between an innocent sick boy named Dexter and his neighbour Eric. As the movie begins, you will see how fast kids perspectives change once they realize that their actions may hurt them for the rest of their lives. You will also realize how much symbolism is involved in the entire film. It's these kinds of movies that make us feel very insightful and want to discuss the meanings behind the symbolism. Of course, we also learn about a real truthful friendship and what it really takes to be a good person in someone's life and how people become when they realize that life can be short and we want to be remembered for all our characteristics.I have to say, this movie was exceptionally done. Every single scene I had my eyes wide open or tearing up over a heart touching scene. I was in awe at every part. If you like a good moral, clean, sad drama film with a lot of symbolism, this movie is highly recommended for you. Enjoy it because it is one of the most greatest movies, without a doubt! "}{"Title":"AIDS-possessed love","Date":"14 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" An early film on AIDS but the case considered here makes the subject extremely tender and touching. It is an 11 year old BOY who has AIDS and got it from some medical treatment. That was common at the beginning of the epidemic. Of course some neighbourhood kids accuse the child of being gay with nice words like fag thrown at him as if it could in anyway be possible.But the interest of the film is the relationship this sick child, Dexter, is going to build with his next door neighbour who is slightly older but alone with his mother like Dexter. This neighbour, Erik, is looking for a friend for the summer and he assumes the situation in which Dexter is naturally but with a tremendous optimism trying by all means to find a cure in some plants, concocting all kinds of potions for his friend.But the best side of the story is how these two boys develop a loving relationship that makes them adventurous, courageous, even reckless, just to get a cure for the disease or to get to New Orleans where there supposedly is some doctor who would have a cure. The whole adventure becomes some kind of Huckleberry Finn and Tom Sawyer down the Mississippi all over again, though in slightly different conditions.This love between the two boys is in fact a threesome in a way since there is always a third character, the disease itself that haunts Dexter, that possesses Dexter and at the same time that entirely controls Erik, his reactions, his care, his tricks and pranks on nurses and doctors. Erik's mother is just a prop but Dexter's mother is also extremely important in her patience, in the way she accompanies Dexter to his final destination and accepts the love between the two boys and the silly antics they do together just because it might be the last chance Dexter has to experience some pleasure, some happiness.And the end is a miracle in a way. The two boys decide to play a trick on a doctor again, Dexter pretending he is dead in order to resuscitate and frighten the doctor. But that was one time too many and this time the doctor confirms the diagnosis which is this time no longer a trick. That kind of end is so cool, so natural, so peaceful we just wonder if that is not the miracle a doctor spoke of before going out on tiptoe as discreetly as possible like an angel in the sky.Those two boys and Dexter's mother seem to give us a tremendous lesson when we are confronted to a disease that does not want to be cured. Patience, calm and receptivity seem to be the needed cure when there is no other.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU "},{"Title":"Masterpiece - Deeply Touching Tale of Two Friends","Date":"18 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Cure is one of the few movies I gave a flawless score. It is one of the most deeply touching movies of all time. The story is so well-developed that we witness gradual shifts from absolute happiness to absolute sadness. In the process of this, however, it manages to attach an important message throughout the movie, which is the message of hope. The script is powerful enough to make the audience laugh and cry, and sometimes both at the same time. The acting is simply superb from two amazing boy actors, strengthening the power of this masterpiece.The Cure is a masterpiece that combines simplicity, funny elements, deeply touching moments, the essence of having hope and the power and meaning of friendship. It is going to leave a mark in your heart that you will carry forever.- dchgl.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"A Quiet And Low-Key Exploration Of Friendship And Hope","Date":"2 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film was made at a time when there wasn't a great deal of knowledge about AIDS and as a result there was a lot of misinformation and fear about the disease. This was, therefore, a courageous film, dealing with a very delicate subject matter. Dexter (Joseph Mazzello) is an 11 year old suffering from AIDS that was transmitted through a blood transfusion. Because of the disease, he's isolated and has no friends, but he does have a loving and attentive mother (Annabella Sciorra.) After moving into a new neighbourhood, Dexter suddenly has a next door neighbour named Erik (Brad Renfro.) At first, Brad wants nothing to do with Dexter, but gradually they develop a close friendship, much to the displeasure of Erik's less than attentive mother (Diana Scarwid.)The movie revolves around the attempt by the two boys to travel form their home in Minnesota to New Orleans, where they've heard that a doctor has developed a cure for AIDS. We follow their adventure and their growing friendship along the way, until Dexter becomes too ill to continue, which leads to the sad conclusion of the movie.This is a moving story, which isn't built around action or excitement but rather revolves at a leisurely and low-key pace around the friendship between Erik and Dexter. It's a solid testimony to the importance of both friendship and hope, and the impact that both have, summed up by Dexter's mother near the end of the movie. When Erik laments that they hadn't found the cure, she tells him that they did, because before Erik appeared, Dexter's life had been sad, and Erik changed that. This isn't as much of a tearjerker as I thought it might be, but it's touching. (6/10) "},{"Title":"A film with very useful and valuable morals","Date":"31 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" People can be so mean, so selfish, so unfair, so ignorant! How would you feel if you had AIDS and were mocked, despised, bullied and treated like crap just because of the illness and even go as far as consider it a disease only for homosexuals and transmittable through the air? Do these people ever stop to rethink and think of the person they are treating as one apart? As if that wasn't enough, they go even farther by calling faggot to that person's neighbor. If it was like this in 1995, today it's much worse.Unlike the more popular but overrated 'Philadelphia' (with the no less overrated actor Tom Hanks), this one is not boring or dull, it's a really good movie.'The Cure' is a movie that makes you feel good under tragic circumstances! It shows that anyone of us can bring happiness to a fragile person who is suffering from a terminal disease and treat and respect him/her well. If we really want to, we can do it. A disease is no reason to judge someone, what matters is the personality. I really think we all can learn a lot from this film. This unfortunate world and society needs more Dexters and Eriks. This is the story of Dexter, a kid with a heart of gold who has AIDS (which he got from a blood transfusion). His older neighbor Erik quickly becomes his best friend, his idol, his hero and his protector. Erik idolizes him and his mother as well, as Erik has the curse of having a horrible mother. The two boys's quest to find a cure for Dexter's disease is a failure, but at least Erik managed to bring much joy for Dexter's difficult life and was the best thing that ever happened to him. The ending is sad. Dexter doesn't make it. But in real life the actor who portrayed Erik died.Brad Renfro and Joseph Mazzello illuminate the screen with their amazing performances. They make the movie as good as it is. It owes a lot to these two young talented artists.This should definitely be on Top 250. "},{"Title":"One for the Heart","Date":"1 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Such an awesome movie -- I was transfixed the entire time and so emotionally overcome in the end! The two young male actors in the movie were more than compelling in their performance as their friendship and support of one another was quite believable and I thought the comparison/contrast between their respective home lives vs. health situations were made so very real between them. The success in bringing this movie to life was obviously a team effort so to actors, EP's, producers, writers, directors, and all of production I say, WELL PLAYED! Having missed the credits at the beginning of the movie (it was being shown on HBO), I was so very surprised that I had to actually research (albeit briefly) the internet in order to find the title of this movie -- something so great should have been known by me -- a clear indication that this movie must be re-released! "},{"Title":"Amazing movie!","Date":"23 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" So glad I have HBO right now. I didn't plan on watching a movie today, but when I got home and saw that the next movie on HBO was this one I decided (based on the description) to at least give it a shot. I'm so glad I decided to watch this movie! Maybe this movie just caught me at a vulnerable moment (I'm a little stressed out, got a huge test to be studying for), but it definitely gave me quite the perspective on friendship not to mention taught me a valuable lesson on empathy. I'm currently one year away from graduating from pharmacy school and the whole scene involving the doctor and the nurse was definitely a learning point for me!Anyhow, I just wanted to post up letting the world know this is an amazing movie and not to be missed. There is definitely something for everyone in this movie! "},{"Title":"A Secret Gem","Date":"24 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I had never heard about this movie when it was given to me to translate, so I didn't know what to expect. I checked it out on IMDb and got curious. It didn't take long to realize that this was a gem. Outstanding performances, great story, and it's both well directed and well written. It's hard to compare it to other movies, but Stand by me comes to mind, although it has as many differences from The cure as similarities. The tale of an extraordinary friendship between young boys, plus the dramatic and humorous elements are the most obvious similarities between this movie and Stand by me. Other than that, The cure is a fine movie in its own right, well worth a wider recognition. It's dramatic, but also adventurous, sad, but also humorous. I can't think of a single thing that bothers me about it. Having said that, I don't want to give the impression that it is a perfect movie, whatever that means, but rather that I enjoyed it immensely, was very moved by it and wouldn't change a thing in it. I won't go into a detailed description of the story/plot, partly because it would be either too general or too revealing, and partly because you can find that information elsewhere on the site. In closing, I can only say Wonderful movie, see it if you get the chance. "},{"Title":"what a great movie","Date":"14 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" this movie is so amazing when i was 8 i lost my best friend to brain cancer on Christmas eve and we use to sit around and try and think of ways to make him better i have never cryied like i did when i saw this movie a truly great heartfelt movie. this movie talks about things i have gone thought and to see this on a screen it hits home its more touching then i could of ever thought i hope one day that i could make take my life with my friend and make it into a story and maybe even a movie its hard to think of my life up on the big screen but i have never met someone who had such high hopes as my friend he is always with me and will be on my heart and in my mind for the rest of my life until i leave this earth to spend some more time with him ricky i love you "},{"Title":"Clark's Short Version of the Cure","Date":"3 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The Cure, directed in 1995 by Robert Kuhn, is about a boy named Dexter Peterson (Joseph Mazzello) who is battling the AIDS Virus at the age of twelve. Dexter and his mother (Annabella Sciorra) had moved to a small town in Minnesota where they were the talk of the town. `That is the kid with AIDS, don't get near him or you might catch it.' One day, when Dexter was playing outside in the garden, he met his neighbor Erik (Brad Refro). Even thought Erik's mother (Diana Scorra) did not agree with her son playing with a boy who had AIDS, they became best friends. Not only did Erik become best friends with Dexter, but also he became closer to Dexter's mother than he was with his own. When watching the movie Medicine Man, Erik and Dexter decided that maybe they could find the cure for AIDS. The boys had decided to go into the woods and test different kinds of leaves, flowers, berries, along with types of foods to find the cure. Although these methods did not work, Erik and Dexter did not stop. A few days later, the boys found an article that read `Dr. Fish Bern has found the cure for AIDS in New Orleans.' Once Erik's mother had found out that her son had been spending time with Dexter, she had banned Erik from seeing him. She had planned to send him to summer camp the following Monday. The night before summer camp started Dexter and Erik left home. Hoping to find the cure for AIDS, they had planned to travel the Mississippi river to New Orleans by raft.I found this film to be and excellent production. The way Erik took Dexter into his life without even thinking of his illness is a true way of showing friendship. Like in the movie, most people make fun of those who are ill or different, but Erik looked past that. It is about time there is a film out there which shows compassion for friendship that has to deal with sickness, and how important it is to have friends around when someone is sick.  "},{"Title":"Suprisingly heart-warming","Date":"19 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Brad Renfro gave such an electrifying and convincing performance in his debut 'The Client', I was compelled to watch his second film to see if he was actually any good.  'The Cure' definately exceeded my expectations and Renfro delivered an even more powerful (yet subtle) performance.  The story revolves around the unlikely friendship between Erik (Renfro) and Dexter ('Jurassic Park's Jospeh Mazzello) who is HIV positive.  The two boys spend the entire summer playing and eventually turn their efforts to finding a cure for AIDS. The chemistry between Renfro and Mazzello is fantastic - Dexter is Ying to Erik's Yang.  I am in total agreeance that these two deserved more recognition for their roles in this (also) little seen flick.  Anabella Sciorra also turns in a credible performance as Dexter's strong (yet grieving)mother. All in all 'The Cure' is an excellent film that delivers its message of understanding and tolerance, without being too preachy.  It allows us to see that friendship truly does prevail over all the ills in the world and it certainly is an interesting take on the 'buddy' genre.  It is a beautiful (and refreshing) thing to finally see the platonic same sex relationship being portrayed without any homosexual undertones - which is supposed to be funny in this day and age. I do hope this is released on DVD coz it deserves the audience it never got!GRADE - B+  "}{"Title":"It is true friendship can be the best cure ever.","Date":"2 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  On more than one level, I can relate to what happens in this movie in a very personal way. And all I can say about it is, that it's true, what Dexter's mom tells Eric at the end of the story he actually did 'cure' her son, by taking away his sad feelings and his loneliness.This movie emphasis a philosophy I can very well agree with. We are all going to die one day sooner or later. In the end, it is not the amount of time we live, but the fun/good times/happiness we have during that time. It is not the quantity, but the quality that counts.I guess all other words used here would only keep you any longer from getting to see this movie, if you haven't already. I really would like to see it released on DVD. Definitely it would be added to my 'all time classics' right away! "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Excellent","Date":"7 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I had never heard of this movie. I was feeling somewhat depressed so I decided to go out for a movie. I usually look for Sundance and Foreign movies but there was nothing in those sections that I wanted. So I wandered around and picked up The Cure. It was one of the best movies I have ever seen. If THIS movie doesn't make you appreciate the joy of being alive (and the responsibilities to be nice to our fellow human beings), then you weren't paying attention to it. This movie awakened a feeling in me that I have missed for a while -- the feeling that we are all in this world together and that we can either be ignorant (as the 3 bullies in the movie were) or we can be accepting (as Erik was in this movie). I have bid for a copy of this movie on EBAY -- it is one that you can show everyone over the age of 13 -- even your minister and your grandparents (language is rough in 3 short places, but it is appropriate). Also, at the end I was wanting Dexter's mom to adopt Erik. "},{"Title":"The cure was probably the best movie to describe friendship with a dissability","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I would just like to say that The Cure was a fabulious movie to help inform how people who are HIV positive have to function in life. Expecially a young boy who cant go to school because he could contaminate someone. and the ignorance of the boys who called them FAGGOTS. that just shows how much children are not educated about aids. "},{"Title":"Fabulous Movie","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERSMeet Erik. He hasn't any friends. He recently got new neighbors. 11-year-old Dexter and his mother. Dexter unfortunately has AIDS. Because of this, the kids at school make fun of Eric and call him a homosexual.One day, for no particular reason, Erik and Dexter decide to meet and play together. They have a pretty good time. They raft down the river to the grocery store. Butterfingers are Erik's favorite candy bar. Dexter get's hooked also. But Erik's mother is incredibly narrowed-minded and bigoted. She thinks AIDS is a disease you can transmit through the air like a cold or the flu and that is just not true. She forbids Erik to play with Dexter. But she works all day, so Erik ignores her rule. The boys read in a magazine that a doctor in Lousiana had discovered the cure for AIDS. It was a possibility though. Not for sure. It was found in a plant, so Erik and Dexter decide to experiment with plants. They first tried experimenting with candy and got very sick.Erik's mom soon finds out about the boys being together and decides to send Erik to summer camp. Erik meets with Dexter and talks about going to New Orleans to get the supposid cure for AIDS. It just so happened Erik's father lived down there. Room and board. So they get a raft together and set off. They then buy a boat ride from a couple guys who soon invite chicks aboard. One of them is named Angel but her tattoo said Angle. The boat ride is pretty uneventful, so they get off and go to the bus station, but Dexter begins to feel ill. So they go home and Dexter goes to the hospital. Erik visits. The boys enjoy playing pranks on the doctors, pretending Dexter had stopped breathing, but one day, he really did. Very sad.This movie has a sad ending, but a pretty good beginning and ending. The continous use of the S-word is funny. This movie stars Brad Renfro (Tom and Huck) and Joseph Mazzello (Jurassic Park), who are good in their roles. Bruce Davidson is good as Dr. Jenson. Now correct me if I'm wrong, but Annabella Sciorra looks remarkably like Halle Berry. In conclusion, if you're in the mood for a drama, see this movie! You'll like it! Directed by Peter Horton (Children of the Corn).- "},{"Title":"moving reaction to movie","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Found the movie to be very moving. Well acted, has a realistic quality to it. A sensible approach to AIDS and the associated stigma. It also portrays the deep friendship that can develop between boys of this age, and although its ending is sad, the overall story is one of courage, hope and faith. "},{"Title":"THE MOST TOUCHING MOVIE IN THE HISTORY OF FILM!!!!","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  THE CURE is a classic in it's own right. Highly sentimental and very sad, THE CURE is the ultimate drama. It hooks it's viewer from the get-go and it doesn't let you off the hook until the finale. Even after the film is over, you will have a good recollection of this film.  It is the story of friendship, love, and the beauty of being alive. This film was released in 1995, and since then, I have seen it many times. It's as if it gets sadder each and every time I see it!!! Highly enjoyable and entertaining is this movie and worthy of being in the record books as the saddest movie of all time.  I must mention that this is drama at it's best. It's meant to tug at your heart and help you to realize how special life is and how special love is!! I love this movie and once you see it, you will feel the same way also!! "},{"Title":"Thoughtful treatment of a taboo subject","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film treats the subject of childhood AIDs in a thoughtful and compassionate manner. While very sentimental, particularly towards the end, it manages to avoid mawkishness. There is a good smattering of humour that lifts the story at crucial points and prevents it from becoming depressing. Both of the young actors are brilliant. Brad Renfo portrays Erik with vigour and the characters veneer of tough boy masculinity covering his true compassion and empathy is beautifully expressed. Joseph Mazzello is perfectly cast as the lonely Dexter, who needs nothing more than friendship and love. Sheer brilliance! "},{"Title":"The only movie that cracked my armour!","Date":"24 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I am considered to be a dreadful cynic when it comes to movies. I am a defender of the principles of the art of cinema, so I discard a lot of films (e.g.Gladiator) as Hollywood rubbish. Yet this film, The Cure, found the chink in my armour. Just by its subject matter, the story of a boy with AIDS and his friendship with his next-door neighbour, is fantastic. And to think that people avoided it because they thought it would be too political. Nothing of the sort! It's a tribute to boyhood friendship and the magical world of kids, even if one has a dreadful illness. I didn't even cry at Schindler's List, but this has me going every time I watch it; I've watched 5 times in the 5 days I've had it.A lot of people mention holes in the plot, yet these are neither important or noticeable. The film has an atmosphere that picks you and never lets you down. It boasts a fantastic soundtrack, some great backgrounds and fabulous acting. I would particularly like to mention the Oscar-deserving performances from young Joseph Mazzello as Dexter, the one with AIDS and from Brad Renfro as his best friend Erik. They were made to act together and they perfectly bring across the love and sadness that they are feeling. Mazzello's portrayal of a dying boy is heart-rending and heart-warming at the same time.This is a film without pretentions. It doesn't try to be artistic or fancy or a blockbuster. It just trys to bring across emotions, and to bring out our emotions. It's a wonderful story, cinema poetry that I fell in love with the moment I read about it. I had to search for it for over a month. I have only one gripe I want to buy the soundtrack, but I've learned that it does not contain the theme song My great escape by Marc Cohn. I'm gutted as it's a lovely song. Apart from that, no criticisms. You'd have to be the most jaded cynic not to love this movie, particularly the tent scene or the end scenes. Pure poetry in cinema form.Uppers1-The story; 2-Mazzello and Renfro's performances; 3-The music; 4-Annabella Sciorra's performance; 5-The tent scene; 6-The My blood is poison scene; 7-The backgrounds; 8-The last scenes; 9-It's just the right lengthnever gets boring; 10-The backgronds; 11-The realistic portrayal of friendship.Downers1-um..er..the soundtrack doesn't contain My great escape!This film found the hole in my cynical armour and it opened my eyes to the reality of AIDS. I recommend it to anyone, it'll put your own life into perspective. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest movies I have ever seen!","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I found this movie to be one of the best comming of age drama's that I have seen in a very long time. Joseph Mazello and Brad Renfro were supurb in their potrayals of a young boy outcast with AIDS and his best friend. The emotions were always very genuine, I actually understood where each was comming from. The one scene that I will always remember is when the two boys were spending the night in the tent. Dexter was having a terrible nightmare and Erik woke him up. Dexter explained that he was afraid of being of in complete nothingness where the light of the galaxy would be fainter than the faintest star. In typical boy style Erik offered him his shoe to remind him that he was safe here on earth and Erik must be close by.  "},{"Title":"the best movie","Date":"3 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If you see only one movie, this is the one to see. It's one of those heartwarmers, about two friends trying to find a cure for AIDS. The best thing about this movie is that it's got some comedy, and it's also sad, if you're into sad movies (which I am ^_^) The acting is also great. I've seen this movie fifteen times, and I still cry when Eric gives Dexter his sneaker to help him get to sleep. This is the best movie I've ever seen. ^_^ "}{"Title":"One Of The Most Touching Films Ever","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is one of those stories that makes you amazed at how dense people can be. Two outcasts becoming friends, despite the fact one of them has AIDS. (Which shouldn't be an issue anyways.) Brilliant acting performances by Joseph Mazzello and Brad Renfro. When they find an ad about someone finding the cure for AIDS, they go to find him. Although they don't quite get what they want or find what they want, the trip makes the bond between them stronger. Hence the point of the movie Friendship lasts a lifetime, and beyond, I think.  "},{"Title":"The only movie which makes me cry","Date":"22 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is actually touching and it makes you feel very involved in the characters' feelings. I saw The cure about fifteen times as I consider it one of the best movie of the '90s. The performances of the two young actors are wonderful, I think Brad Renfro and Joseph Mazzello are two real promises of the next century cinematography. I suggest this movie to everybody, of every age, because it can tell you a lot of things. It's simply beautiful! "},{"Title":"A beautiful story about the triumph of the human spirit","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Who could not love this movie? There is not one flawed performance in the entire film, and the story is genuinely touching. Like the film's Marvin's Room, and Life Is Beautiful, The Cure deals with a number of potentially depressing subjects, yet never becomes bathed bathos. Unlike many television films of the week, where disease and death are central to the story, The Cure is not so much about AIDS as it is friendship. Although in the end the picture's main character dies, The Cure is an ultimately uplifting film, for the its theme is deeply rooted in the triumph of the human spirit. However, be certain to bring your hankies with you!P.S. Joseph Mazzello has got to be one of the most underrated actors of all time. His performance in this film was as magnificent as his fine work in the brilliant film S "},{"Title":"A must see!","Date":"7 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  When I first hired this movie, I must admit that I was a little apprehensive of it not being a Big Title and such, but little did I know just how involved a person can be with a movie, just by pushing the 'play' button!I am a fan of Joseph Mazzello and he didn't let me down in this movie. It is the first movie that I have ever cried out aloud in. In fact, I cried so much, that I had a headache all day.Annabella Sciorra is just marvelous as Mazzello's mother, and Brad Renfro plays his friend with awe.A must see! "},{"Title":"One of my 5 favorites","Date":"25 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The Cure easily made it into the top 5 movies that I liked. The theme of friendship in the movie really struck me. The characters were very likeable. The character of Eric was very unpredictable which made him interesting. The late scenes with Dexter were very sad. The thing that clinched it for me though was the very end with Eric and the shoe. I can honestly say it is the single moment in a movie that has ever made me cry. This movie is a ten, two thumbs up, and anything else you can think of. "},{"Title":"Most touching","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The Cure is a very touching and dramatic movie.  It expresses feelings from children's point of view, which is naive, sweet, and true.  It's a beautiful story shows the good part of this world. (The AIDS is not a good part, though.) "},{"Title":"A very good movie","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was channel surfing the other day when I came across THE CURE. Luckily, it was just starting. I had never seen it before and I didn't intend to watch it, but it grabbed my attention right from the start. I sat and watched the whole thing through. It was VERY GOOD. One of the best I've seen in a LONG time. I would definitely like to see it again. It never got boring, it was funny at times, and had a lot of heart.VERY GOOD!!!If you have not seen it, you should rent it. You'll love it.I promise. "},{"Title":"Once in ten years.","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Honestly, I didn't think it would ever happen. But THE CURE (from 1995) did it. It managed to touch and impress me just like STAND BY ME from 1986, which still is one of my all time top-3 movies. Seems to me, that even in Hollywood it only happens once in ten years, that a cast as outstanding as (Phoenix / Wheaton / O'Connel) or (Renfro / Mazello) is available at the appropriate age and with the required ability, charisma, talent and guidance by a superb director.Youth, friendship, growing-up and death. These are the driving forces of both movies. Both movies (at first sight) tell the story of a group of friends, who try to get to a specific place that is far away and who believe, that getting there will change their life for the better. But somwhere on their way along the train tracks (or down the Mississippi) they realize, that the fascination is not due to WHERE they go, but to the fact that going there is something THEY do - on their own - against their parents will - and maybe even against the natural course of things.Both movies use beutifully set up pictures and symbols and a soundtrack that bypasses ones brain and goes right to ones heart. They both manage to walk the wire and not to fall on either side. Neither are the films artificially nostalgic or digging for tears on a cheap and low level (Kitsch, we say in german) nor are they to cold and heartless for the sensitive subjects touched.THE CURE is 10 out of 10 to me. I just hope that THE CURE will never be overshadowed with the sadness, that River Phoenix' death added to the final scene of STAND BY ME. "},{"Title":"Boys find faith in each other","Date":"15 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When I first reviewed this film, for Our Mother of the Worthless Miracle newsletter, I gave it a resounding, I don't think so! But, upon that review I've watched it again, and now, I'm happy to say, Yes I think so! Let us begin with the story. A delicate bond between the two young men (Brad Renfro and Joesph Mazzello) carry the sentiment in almost homosexual undertones. Call me crazy but that just hits me in the heart. The acting, which, at first glance appeared wooden and stilted,now it is fluid and graceful, like a glass of water dancing with a clown. And, for me, the most overlooked performance in the film is that of Jim.(Played by the poor man's Harvey Kietel, Craig Gierl) He runs with the realism of a pack a day smoker, and his lines, although minimal, breath truth through this cracked, tragic story, all the while brilliantly keeping the homosexual undertones at arms length. Craig Gierl makes this film work for me and cures me of the ailments only this cruel world can offer. "},{"Title":"By a Joseph Mazzello freak","Date":"20 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Joseph Mazzello was the most adorable, best looking child actor who ever lived! And the cover is distinct and unforgettable looking. To me, the cover's so familiar It's like one of the most well known covers ever. Unfortunattely this movies out of stock possibly and isn't even on DVD! When this came out I was sick and pulled out of school from February till the end of the school year. Joseph Mazzello and Brad Renfro didn't get along during production, because of the difference in their personalities, but Renfro was actually nice and likable. This is a movie, I don't cry often, but when I saw the end, I just thought of how sad it was and discovered I could make my self cry, even belly ache. This movie has distant echos of The mighty with plenty of violence from Erik's abusive, smoking mother. Erik's first word is Jesus you're a midget and Dexter says he's only 4-inches shorter than average, since actors can be passed as being a couple inches shorter for their characters. AIDS is such a serious subject that I was surprised this wasn't R. "}{"Title":"Rent This Movie","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  RENT THIS NOW~~~~ It is the best movie in the world. It is right up there with Gone With The Wind and Forrest Gump. It is my all time favorite. If youve never seen it rent it.If youve seen it rent it. If you dont want to rent it, rent it. If you like movies rent it. If you dont like movies rent it. JUST RENT IT!!! "},{"Title":"So great...","Date":"11 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have one main point of this comment.  Read through the other comments left here.  See anything negative??? ....... I didn't think so.  Get this movie. It will make you laugh and it will make you cry.  The acting is wonderful, and the script is interesting.  Five out of five stars. "},{"Title":"Has It's Heart In The Right Place","Date":"8 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A tale of a young boy, Dexter (Joseph Mazzello) with AIDS who befriends a rough and tumble boy (played by Brad Renfro) his exact opposite, The Cure is a sad, if a bit too soapy, pull at your emotions message movie with it's heart in the right place. For that fact alone, it's a recommended view. The highlight might be just watching them finding friendship and hanging out with each other when no one else accepts them. However since the real story centers on the boy's AIDS - things take off when one day at the local supermarket, Dexter's eye catches a checkout tabloid magazine that states a New Orleans doctor has discovered the cure. Both of them, obviously a tad naive, make it a plan to set out for New Orleans in whichever means possible. Which pulled me two ways. While its a mite heart warming, I found the plot wandered in a melodramatic fashion. I couldn't escape the tugging notion I was watching a road trip movie about self discovery, sickness and growing up. For instance, I know they're young, but I found it hard to belief in the things these boys do. Like making a cross-country voyage with no legal or downright scary repercussions. My misgivings aside, those are movie conventions you come to expect, The Cure is a story worth seeing particularly with family. "},{"Title":"Acting makes this the best drama ever","Date":"25 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is the only film that I have ever seen that has made me think of the characters, not the actors who played them, or forget about the numerous flaws that could've sunk it. In his first lead role, 11 year old Joseph Mazzello is mesmerizing, his performance as a dying AIDS victim is the best I have ever seen from anyone. Ever. His chemistry with Brad Renfro is what makes this film rise above everything else. Annabella Sciorra plays Mazzello's mom with such ability that makes me wonder why she isn't getting the roles Julia Roberts or Meg Ryan are getting.+ (GOOD THINGS) 1.) Joseph Mazzello's performance      2.)'Trillion light years away' scene    3.) 'Bus Arriving' Scene    4.) Filming Locations 5.) Chemistry between Mazzello and Renfro      6.) Annabella Sciorra's performance      7.) The Bad Guys      8.) The script- (BAD THINGS)          1.) Diana Scarwid's performance      2.) Where the hell did that raft come from?Total     9.5/10 "},{"Title":"A Movie That Will Tug At Your Heart Strings","Date":"10 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It's hard to put into words just how wonderful this movie is.Do you know those old clichés where people say  It will make you laugh,it will make you cry ?  Well,this movie will.This movie is about friendship,and the way we deal with difficulties that arise in life to the people we love and cherish.As I watched this movie, I found it deeply disturbing that as human beings we could be so loving and so cruel at the same time.I found myself wanting to know what makes one man good enough to judge another ? As a Christian,I stand for what I believe,but try not to judge my fellow man for what mistakes they might have made to put them in any given particular situation.Although I find homosexuality wrong,I find it even more sickening that my fellow man could put themselves in such a mythically high position to damn each other.Would Christ have done this ? I think not.I also find it difficult to believe that my fellow man could judge a child,an innocent,as being guilty of anything whatsoever.There used to be a time when I wondered aloud to the Almighty why a child would have to go through such a hardship.My answer was much more simple than I could have ever known.The miracle that could have resulted in a cure could never equal the miracle that resulted from the way the individual was treated.Man learns by example,and what more could make a man humble than to see a child be so loving and selfless ? Truly what could equal a miracle that makes a man challenge his arrogantly bigoted behavior ? It just pains me as a human being that it would take something so dramatic to elicit such an emotional response. May God Bless All that watch this movie,and may it open all our eyes and hearts a little more.  "},{"Title":"FINALLY a Great Christian Film Without all the Preaching","Date":"27 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Let me start out with saying I was VERY surprised with the production value of this movie. I managed to catch an early showing and I have to Say this is the BEST (if not only) Christian film to hit theaters since The Passion.Don't let the PG-13 rating scare you off, the rating is appropriate because of the serious issues that are dealt with in this film (divorce, teen pregnancy, drug use, and suicide), but nothing in the film is gratuitous. This is definitely a movie that a Junior High youth group could see without upsetting (most) parents, and the message is wonderful. The best part is this is not a film FOR Christians, it is a Family film without the cheesy 7th Heaven feel.The laughs are there, and several times in the theater everyone was laughing, the bits of humor were natural and didn't seem scripted or forced, and that made for good pacing in such a serious film. Teens and young adult, both religious and otherwise, will be able to identify with many if not all of the characters in the film, and I was surprised to see such issues dealt with in this kind of film. The plot is not in any way predictable, and by the end hits closer to home than many will admit. Christians, fortunately, are not shown as all mighty know it all's of The Word, but instead people just trying to understand life. Humans make mistakes and no one is perfect, not even in this film... not by a long shot.The acting is top notch, the writing spot on, and you aren't hit over the head with all the preachy Christian rhetoric. This is a great film that will make you and your teens think, talk, and perhaps question their own morality (or lack thereof). If you want to see a quality family film in January check your local listings for this film, and you might learn something about yourself.And I am a 25 year old male that just wanted to see a free movie. "},{"Title":"Dexter's Last Scene","Date":"12 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Overall, I thought the movie was great with the exception of Dexters last scene. Both young stars showed excellent acting chops. I truly enjoyed the part where Brad Renfro's character successfully defuses a run in with the local bullies and as they turn and walk away, he throws the rock at them anyway.This is classic juvenile behavior and it was written and acted to perfectionon the other hand.......................**SPOILER**....as good as this movie was, Dexters final scene was HORRIBLY written. You have a young kid, pass away in his hospital bed and not one beep or alarm goes off? The doctor was completely unmoved by his findings, he didn't even try to resuscitate.. NOTHING they just let him die..Not a realistic depiction at all and really, really, really a terrible way to ruin a near flawless movie. "}]