[{"Title":"Definitely worth checking out!!!","Date":"21 April 2006","Score":"52 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This movie is action packed and definitely worth watching for any fan of action movies. I'm surprised at the low rating it's has so far on IMDb.Two of my favorite actors are in the movie, Sylvester Stalone and Antonio Banderas. I just found out the movie is written by the same people who did the Matrix and I can see how that is so. Any movie with Banderas is usually good, and this is no exception. ) If anyone likes sniper movies like Enemy at the Gates or Leon the Professional, this is definitely a movie worth checking out. You won't regret it. "},{"Title":"Thrilling movie.","Date":"15 September 1998","Score":"49 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Sylvester Stallone and Antonio Banderas star in this great action-thriller.   Sylvester Stallone plays Robert Rath, who is supposed to kill this guy at a  funeral, but someone beats him to it.  He tracks the man and has a nice  little talk with him.  The other man is another assassin, Miguel Bain  (Antonio Banderas).  Rath (who is the best assassin there is) gets another  assignment worth two million dollars.  Eliminate buyers and return girl and  disk and he can retire.  Bain wants to beat Rath and complete the task  first.  What follows is a battle between the two assassins.  Sylvester  Stallone looks sleepy, at one time they show a close-up of his eyes and  Julianne Moore's eyes.  You can see the difference so easily.  Banderas is  alive, which is good.  The best performance is probably from Julianne Moore  who is the girl they have to get the disk from.  Special effects are good,  as is the ending climax.  Overall, it is thrilling, with a fair amount of  action and violence. "},{"Title":"What was written before the Matrix","Date":"21 December 2003","Score":"40 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  When I firast watched this film,I enjoyed it thoroughly.  Ironically enough in the advent of John Woo (his american popularity and his imitators) as well as Micheal Bay, Tony Scott, and Jerry Brukhiemer, it is rephreshing to see an action movie, a shoot-out action movie, where the emphasis is on efficiency and control rather than chaos.  Unlike the John Woo pilosophy of keeping the guns firing non stop even if they hit nothing, Assassins works on the exact opposite theory of every shot has a purpose and a meaning and no shot is taken wildly even to distract (add on to the fact that in most John Woo movies, and especially  Michael Bay movies, the guns are super loud, whereas in Assassins, pretty much every shot thats fired is silenced). I beleive there is only one instance in the film where shots are fired wildly wnd wrecklessly, and that is during the apartment scene where Antonio Banderas' character. Micheal Bein, shoots blindly through a wall at Slyvester Stallone's character, Robert Rath.  Other than that, there is not really anytype of panic fire or wild bullet spraying (in fact I dont beleive this film even features automatic rifles of any kind).  Strangely enough, this allows for events that move extremly quick example, the first scene featuring the three title characters in the hotel.  We see Antonio Banderas, in the blink of an eye alomst, take out 3 guards, walkinto the room they were guarding and then take out the 4 targets in that room in the same amount of time.  In a way, it is very similar to the old Samurai films since their action scenes moved in a similar manner with nothingn then all of a sudden a few quick sword strikes and the conflict is over.  That being said, this movie would require a certain type of taste in action movies or is a type of movie you have to be in the mood to watch.sidenote When I first watched this film, I had no idea it featured the would be superstar Antonio Banderas, nor that it was written by the soon to be Matrix creators.  In that sense it is almost a fun movie to watch because it kinda answers the question what did they do before they were famous? and now you know.     "},{"Title":"Definately underrated...","Date":"10 June 2000","Score":"37 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Assassins is definately one of the better written action films I've seen, but then again, it was written by the Wachowski Brothers, who also wrote (and directed) the equally well done Matrix.This film was directed By Richard Donner, who also directed Lethal Weapon 1-4 and Superman, among other films. I felt the characters were all well presented and the story was told well.Apparently, Brian Hegleand rewrote parts of the script, but I can't imagine what, since the whole script seems so Wachowski. Huh... "},{"Title":"Terrific Action-Thriller","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"27 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  A great movie.Sylvester Stallone and Antonio Banderas did a terrific job on the screen as they play the role of two killers.Stallone is Robert Rath, best killer around, the Number 1. Banderas is Miguel Bain, the one who wants to become the new Number 1, but if he wants to do so, he has to eliminate Rath.They meet at a funeral, where Rath's mark is killed by Bain before he does so. From then on, it's battle between the two.The movie is quite similar to The Specialist(1994) - another Sylvester Stallone movie - only that there he had no Banderas to fight against!A couple of words on the cast. Well, I already said that Stallone and Banderas did well but my compliments go to Julianne Moore. She was brilliant.Vote  80/100. "},{"Title":"Characters Not Consistent But Lots Of Action","Date":"30 August 2003","Score":"19 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Sylvester Stallone, Antonio Banderas, and Julianne Moore star in this action movie a battle of hit men. Stallone has had so many bad roles before, but this is one of the better roles I've seen him in. He would follow it five years later with a similar role in Get Carter. However, a real hit-man would not have hesitated to waste a woman. Antonio Banderas seemed out of character as an assassin. He was way over the top with emotional outbursts and impatience. These seem highly uncharacteristic of a successful assassin on his way up. Julianne Moore's character changed from a calm, cool bad girl into a helpless, bumbling female after meeting Stallone. How convenient! Many Of Richard Donner's other films have similar problems. However, there is enough enjoyable action, development and tension to enjoy the movie, as long as you suspend a lot of belief ...a lot of belief. *** of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"not bad","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"19 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I thought this was a great action flick. I'm really into this genre of movies. I don't particularly like Sylvester Stallone but he was pretty good in this movie. Julianne Moore was good but I think she would've been better if her role was bigger. But I think Antonio Banderas stole the show. He was so good as the psychopathic assassin. I loved the chase scenes. Especially the scene in the taxi. Miguel Bain's (Banderas) evilness just oozed out of him as this scene played. Robert Rath (Stallone) wanted to kill Bain so bad during this scene. I loved the explosions. I just had a thought though. Whenever Rath blew Bain out of the window and then it showed Bain in the bathtub, shouldn't he have had more wounds than it showed? I don't know. Maybe it was just me. Anyways. This movie had violence but not as much as most movies in this genre does. I thought it had just enough. The ending was pretty good. It seemed like Bain just would not die. An invincible villain! How many times have you seen that in these kinds of movies? Well, I don't have much more to say about this film except I really enjoyed it and thanks for reading my review! Bye! "},{"Title":"A No-Brained-But-Fun Ride","Date":"10 February 2007","Score":"21 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" In order to really enjoy this movie, you have to put your brain in a freezer for 133 minutes and just refrain from trying analyze anything in here. There are more holes in this story than swiss cheese, as the cliché somewhat goes.Having said that, however, I did enjoy the action scenes and the by-play between the two assassins - Robert Rath (Sylvester Stallone) and Miguel Bain (Antonio Banderas) - enough to make it a fun ride. I might even have rated it another star higher had a few things weren't confusing and left unanswered, or Banderas spoke clearer English. Still, it's not bad and for fans of Sly and action films, worth a look. "},{"Title":"Aren't assassinations thrilling?","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Ok fellahs and dames, I saw this movie for the first time...yesterday...6 years this movie has been out and I saw it yesterday, pathetic I know, but I was definately not disappointed. Not only does this movie possess comedy, but it's thrilling. I was on the edge of my seat in some of the scenes. I honestly didn't know who to cheer for between Miguel (Antonio Banderas) and Robert (Sylvester Stallone). I enjoy them both and both their characters were hitmen. Even though Robert was trying to go through a change, he was still a hitman, end of story. Now Miguel he was a little more cut-throat. In this story Robert is starting to grow a soft spot and only kills the person he was hired to kill...leaving innocents out of it. While Miguel was ready to shoot a 7-year old soccer player to get what he wanted. Banderas plays this part well. I dunno if any of you caught this but when Banderas is handling a gun he does alot of the same things in movie. Scenes from the movie Desperado started to flash in my head when I saw Banderas and Stallone duking it out at the cemetary. Robert is then hired to hit a mark, which is a woman who is only known by a pair of cat eyes, to retrieve a disc, and also kill the buyers. Miguel is also hired for the same job causing a little game between the 2 hitmen. Ofcourse Robert can't come around to killing Electra (Julianne Moore), so he instead protects her and later teams up with her for some more delightfully planned out fun. I really enjoyed this movie because I am the crime loving type. I also loved it because of the connection between Electra and Robert. A definate must see if you enjoy movies such as this. If you don't prefer them then go watch, Aladdin. "},{"Title":"Watch two assassins in action for the price of one...","Date":"12 August 2006","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" If you have watched 'The Mechanic', you will certainly see a parallel between that movie & this movie. Both are fast-paced action movies about two assassins in conflict with each other.'The Mechanic' starred Charles Bronson in the lead role of a veteran contract hit-man, Arthur Bishop. He took on a cocky but ambitious young man, Steve McKenna, played by Jan-Michael Vincent, to be his protégé. The latter turned the table on the master.In this movie, 'Assassins', Sylvester Stallone played the lead role of a veteran contract hit-man, Robert Bath, who apparently was number one in the business. A cocky, but ambitious young hit-man, Miguel Bain, played by Antonio Banderas, came into the scene with the fatalistic idea of becoming the number one.Intertwined in their personal conflict of hierarchy, appeared a woman computer hacker, Electra, played by Julianne Moore, as well as a mysterious employer, Nikolai Taslinkov, who seemingly was connected to all the three key characters in the movie.For the rest of the movie, it was an exciting cat & mouse game between Bath & Bain, with Electra eventually teaming up with Bath to elude from & deal with Bain. The action sequences throughout the movie, especially the shoot-out inside a hotel in the first half & the shoot-out in an abandoned building (in Mexico) towards the end, were really good.It was quite fun to watch Antonio Banderas playing the hot-headed, crazy guy. He was really good, as good as Sylvester Stallone, who, as typical & in most of his movies of this genre (Nighthawks, Cobra, Judge Dredd, Demolition Man...), played the cool, confident character...maybe, a little stiff in some way. Julianne Moore, a very accomplished British actress, unfortunately had an understated role, although she did her best.On the whole, 'Assassins' has been an entertaining - never a dull moment - action movie to watch...especially when you can watch two assassins for the price of one! "}{"Title":"Nice touch","Date":"21 January 2000","Score":"15 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  There are some touches that makes me think of Matrix in this film. The gunfighting scenes are really good, mostly because they are very silent - the assassins both use silencers, which adds new flavor to a well-used dish. I like that part very much. And Banderas is great to watch as usual. There simply isn't anyone with his mimics and his body language anywhere else. Stallone does a good job too, actually. And Julianne Moore, yeah well - who could say anything bad about her?Entertaining, fast-moving - and please! Check out that gunfight again. "},{"Title":"Top Notch Action Film With 2 Awesome Performances By Stallone And Banderas","Date":"15 March 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is a top notch action film with 2 awesome performances from Stallone and Banderas!. It's very unpredictable, and a really cool twist at the end, that you won't see coming!. I loved the mind games between Stallone and Banderas, they were a LOT of fun to watch, and see them try to outsmart each other was a treat!. It's very intelligent, with only a few plot holes, plus the chemistry between Stallone and JUlianne Moore was great!. It's One of Stallone's best Non Rocky films, and one of his best performances too!, even though he is amazing in everything!. The Directing is awesome!. Richard Donner, does an awesome job here, with some great camera work, keeping the film fresh and overall keeping the film at VERY fast pace!. There is lots of blood, but we only get LOTS of extremely bloody gunshot wounds. The Acting is AWESOME!. Sylvester Stallone is AMAZING as always, he gives one of his best performances here, he kicks that ass, had awesome chemistry with Julianne Moore, and was just TONS of fun to watch!. Antonio Banderas is AWESOME here as the main villain , he was extremely menacing, funny, and him and Stallone were great fun to watch!, love his accent!. Julianne Moore, is STUNNINGLY GORGEOUS!, and was GREAT here, she had awesome chemistry with Stallone, and was very smart, she was a perfect choice to play this part!, she is a wonderful actress!. Anatoli Davydov, is good in his scene!. Overall GO see it! a must see! ***** out of 5 "},{"Title":"Polished action/thriller, but not engrossing enough","Date":"6 February 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Released in 1995, Richard Donner's Assassins is a slick action flick starring Sylvester Stallone as Rath, a professional hit man who wants out of the business after decades of killing. Antonio Banderas plays his young rival and Julianne Moore a computer whiz with whom Rath teams up. Anatoli Davydov is also on hand.At a 132 minutes, Assassins is too long for what it is &#x96; a wall-to-wall action movie where someone gets shot every 1-2 minutes, at least during the numerous ultra-violent sequences. This would be alright if the story and characters were interesting enough to warrant such length, but they're not. Banderas shines in the role of Bain, the zealous murderous psycho, but being a murderous psycho means he will get no sympathy from the viewer, otherwise he wouldn't be a murderous psycho. The characters played by Stallone and Moore are more sympathetic, but there's not enough detail to really care about them. Beyond that, the plot is convoluted even while the film is snappy. Despite the thrills, the story's just not engrossing enough to give a higher grade, but it's nowhere near as bad in this regard as, say, The Mummy Returns. In other words, Assassins moderately keeps your attention.And then there's the pile-up of implausibilities that are too easy to spot, like how does Bain not get seriously wounded by a bus while hanging out the window of a taxi? How does he emerge virtually unscathed from a fall from a third-story window after a great explosion? Even if the table protected his head and mid-section, what about his fingers and legs that weren't protected? How did he NOT break something from the awkward fall? Why does Rath blow valuable seconds looking for a dumpster to throw a suitcase with a ticking bomb? If you knew a sniper was waiting for you outside a bank, wouldn't you use the back door and then maybe surprise the assassin from behind? If someone pulls a gun on you, like at the end with Bain and Rath, wouldn't you automatically shoot first and ask questions later? Lastly, the whole set-up at the end with one character waiting in the bank, another as a sniper in an abandoned hotel, and the other outside informing the one in the bank is the height of contrived.I realize implausible and contrived things happen in all action flicks, but the really good ones are able to get away with it because the filmmakers take the extra time to work out the kinks and make a truly compelling picture, like Terminator 2, and not merely string together a bunch of exciting action scenes with contrivances galore. Still, Assassins is worth checking out if you like the cast and are in the mood for a polished action/thriller.The film was shot in Seattle & Everett, Washington, Portland, Oregon, and San Juan, Puerto Rico.GRADE C+ "},{"Title":"The film is very good","Date":"29 January 2002","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I Enjoyed the film very much and i would watch it again , it is an good action film and stallone plays his part very well. The best part of the film is at the the end you never new what was going to happen. Stallone is another hero once again. "},{"Title":"Assassination of your intelligence.","Date":"4 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" What can one write about Assassins? It's so bad, that almost every scene should be torn apart for its stupidity, yet the whole movie doesn't deserve 50 words of a review.The story is much more simple, than it pretends to be. Two assassins are given the very same task by some mysterious employer. One of the killers suffers from an old veteran willing to retire cliché. The other hit-man however is a young, flamboyant rookie (doesn't this characterization recall a much better movie directed by Donner - Lethal Weapon?) Needless to say, those cardboard characters are gonna clash more than once and I'm sure you're dying to find out the final result.The horrible script (filled with more then standard amount of clichés, plot holes, logical flaws and contempt for laws of physics) has pretty much given up any attempt at credibility in the first half an hour. The evil hit-man (Banderas) escapes arresting by police. He can be hiding anywhere. Yet our hero assassin (Stallone) only needs to steal a cab and wait for a passenger willing to reach an airport - miraculously he turns out to be Banderas. Coincidence of such proportions wouldn't a five-year-old, but it's good enough for those allegedly adult writers of AssassinsWho, one may ask, is given the questionable credit for writing this nonsense? Two names shouldn't come as a surprise - Andy and Larry Wachowski, two of the biggest hacks of modern cinema. After getting way too much praise for Matrix, they thought every junk they produce, will spawn a similar religious following. It seems they were terrible writers before 1999, just not as self-indulgent.A bit more surprising is the third name in the bunch - Brian Helgeland, the Academy Award winner for L.A. Confidential. It's up to debate, how great the script for Curtis Hanson's noir film really was. Surely, a work of genius compared to Assassins, though a rest of his career wouldn't prove such quality.Obviously, a script this bad is still a pile of paper, which should never be brought to life. Who takes responsibility here? Surprisingly again, a few acclaimed names and (with exception of miscast Julianne Moore) experienced in making action films. Should we praise Stallone, Banderas or Donner for their mild competence? Or maybe we should mock them for embarrassing themselves. I didn't find their effort as a saving grace of this film, as much as a fall from grace for them.To conclude, this way too long review - Assassins is an awful movie, which asks to be annihilated. Luckily, to accomplish this mission, you don't need to hire one or two killers. All you have to do is change the channel. "},{"Title":"Graceful, intelligent action movie","Date":"22 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This highly engaging thriller has a polished edge of style and sophistication to it, giving it an upper hand over the rest of the endless action movies churned out during the never-ending '90s. Mixing the talents of an established director who knows how to handle the action - step up, Richard Donner - and two soon-to-be-mega-famous scriptwriters, the Wachowski brothers (THE MATRIX), plus some surprisingly good performances from the interesting cast, and what you have is a decent movie. The action sequences are excellently handled, highly realistic and at the same time very exciting, and the various special effects and stunts are inserted perfectly into the flow of things.Meanwhile the scenes of suspense between the action are full of very real danger, so despite the long running time you never find your attention wavering. Cast in the flawed hero mould is endlessly-criticised Sylvestor Stallone, putting in a nicely subtle performance and letting his nemesis, Antonio Banderas, do all of the (over)acting as psychotic but deadly assassin Miguel Bain. Holding the movie together is a low-key and sweet Julianne Moore, as a surveillance expert who finds herself over her head and in the middle of a violent battle to the death between two expert marksmen. The only problem I have with a film like this is that all other action movies don't possess the same level of commitment, grace, and intelligence as this one does. "},{"Title":"Out with the old, in with the new","Date":"7 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This movie is really about removing that which is old to replace it with something that is new. Robert (Sylvester Stallone) is an assassin working for the US government. Fifteen years previously he assassinated his mentor Nicholai as he was leaving a bank so that he could become number one. Now a younger assassin, Miguel (Antonio Banderas) has appeared and he wants Robert's position. This movie is an action movie and is quite good. Donner creates a very dreamlike feel to the movie, which possibly means that what we have is not always going to be there. Personally that is just a wild guess. The bigger theme in the movie is the fear that somebody younger will appear that is much better than you and thus making you obsolete. The world in the movie is one of assassins, but this is very much true in the business world where the older people have to keep on their toes with the younger executives who want their job. Then there are the conservative established companies who are being challenged by the new innovative companies. Assassins portrays life, a life where we must watch out for the ambitious coming up from below us and remain alert as they attempt to take from us the position that they want. Yet there is also a time when we want to retire, when we wish to give up, and the thing assassins says is that we can never retire because even if we give up the race, the race always seeks to come along and forcefully remove us. Assassins is done in a dreamlike state because it is a reflection of the world in which we live. "},{"Title":"Intriguingly Under-rated Spy Thriller","Date":"28 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Richard Donner (Superman 1 & 2) 1995 actioner starring Sylvester Stallone, Antonio Banderas, and Julianne Moore. A veteran hit-man embarks upon his final assignment.This did pretty well at the box office, but suffers pretty rotten ratings here at IMDb. For the most part, this work features the typical Sly Stallone performance, Julianne Moore in pigtails (??!!??), and Antonio Banderas as a (as in not THE) villain. It's not a bad mix, the story is adequately supported by the performances, and the direction was top notch.I would have to say the main detractor from this work is the apparent weakness of the lead villain, the spy factor as most Americans were over the Cold War at this film's time of release, and possibly Moore's pigtails.All in all, although a bit uneven, with extended slow moments, I still enjoyed this, if for nothing else than Banderas's performance. Believe it or not, this is probably his best performance so far.It rates a 6.6/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"One of my favorite scenes from a Stallone movie is...","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" ...in this particular film. I don't consider what I'm about to tell you a spoiler but if you'd rather know nothing about the movie before seeing it, then skip this. Banderas waits for Stallone to come out of a bank from inside an abandoned building across the street. He plans to kill him with a sniper rifle, much in the same way Stallone had killed another mark years earlier from the same spot. Stallone knows this so he takes his time, leaving Banderas to wait uncomfortably in a sweltering heatwave. Banderas can't leave his position for fear of missing Stallone leaving the bank so we get to witness his patience wear out completely. This has to be one of the funniest scenes I've ever seen in a movie because Banderas looks like he actually lost it. Personally, I don't think he was acting. Now that I mentioned that, I'll give you my opinion on the movie itself. The rest of the movie is OK. It's not great but it's not horrible either. It's a right in the middle movie. Stallone does a passable job, Banderas also. Julianne Moore doesn't really do much but she's okay. The action scenes are on and off, one of them taking place INSIDE a moving taxi with Banderas in the back and Stallone driving. I can't decide if I dug it or not, but it's pretty funny. Fans of the Matrix take note this movie was written by the Wachowski Brothers. Rating **1/2 out of *****. "},{"Title":"I loved this movie, until i saw the ending.","Date":"5 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie started off nicely. Maybe a little slow, but still a nice start. It had a good story line and not even Sylvester Stallone screwed it up. The actors were not bad, the directing was pretty good. In fact, I really enjoyed this movie until the ending. There were many opportunities for this movie to have a good ending; however, it took the Holly Wood route to being predictable and unsatisfying. Over all i still enjoyed the movie, but i was highly disappointed in the way the ending happened when there were so many opportunities to have a better ending than it did have. I recommend this movie, but not as highly as I was hoping to. I'd give it about a 7 or an 8 in that range. "}{"Title":"Sneaky, eerie, and heartless","Date":"29 March 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is the film you hit the theatre watching and go home asking yourself one question What if? The movie completely casts an aurora of non-fiction techniques that any top Navy Seal or Special forces recruit can pull off. Everything in this film is possible. Only one part in the beginning; after the police apprehend their suspect they'd have him in the squad car for hours until they complete their graveyard murder investigation----witnesses would be brought over to the police car to positively I.D. the suspect. And assassins are psychopathic. They never change. So no, the one assassin would never go from high-paid contract killer to choir boy. There should be a sequel to this film too. I love these assassin movies; like Michael Mann's Collateral. I want more! "},{"Title":"Assassins  What I liked","Date":"16 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This movie is great if your looking for an action thriller featuring famous faces and great performances.Let's start with the famous Rocky star. Sylvester Stallone gives a good performance as a contract assassin who wants out. He performs the role well, and works well with his co- stars Julianne Moore and Antonio Banderas. Julianne Moore gives a good performance as the love interest to Stallone's character. She performs the role with emotion and does a respectable job of it. Now, when I watched this film recently all I thought of was how amazing Antonio Banderas performed his role as the arch-nemesis of Stallone's character. Banderas did an excellent job on his character, he performed it with depth, emotion and wit. His performance was convincing and made the movie that much better for me. He was the star of the movie even though he wasn't meant to be the star of the movie. He out acts Stallone and Moore, he makes the movie what it is with his memorable performance as Bain, it reminds me very much of how Heath Ledger was a key to the success of the Dark Knight. Banderas was key the the movies success, but overall it was a good movie with great characters. And great performances from a star cast. "},{"Title":"Excellent early Wachoswki outing","Date":"29 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I'm mystified by the weak reviews for this film, which I've watched many times since discovering it in the DVD bargain bin. Assassins has everything anyone could want in a popcorn action flick great cast, interesting premise, good action sequences well mixed with character-driven tension-builders.Basically, Stallone and Banderas are rival hit men, who inevitably end up pitted against one another. As you'd expect, the fun is in their contrasting styles - Stallone the world-weary professional, Banderas the brash younger upstart - with both actors really getting the most out of these admittedly stereotypical roles. Julianne Moore makes a great love interest, playing a nerd (hey, this IS fiction) who gets herself in trouble by hacking the wrong secrets to the wrong people.The story builds through some nice set-piece stand-offs between Stallone and Banderas, and climaxes with a sweaty showdown almost worthy of a Sergio Leone or Sam Peckinpah. True, Richard Donner lacks the style of those great directors, but it's that kind of situation, and Donner milks it for all its delicious tension, through to the satisfying if not entirely surprising resolution.Sure, Assassins isn't exactly cinema at its finest. But it delivers what it promises some clever action that, for once, takes the time to evolve from the characters - no doubt courtesy of the Wachowski Brothers' above-average script. I'd put Assassins right up alongside some of Stallone's other under-rated action flicks - well ahead of simpler films like The Specialist and Cliffhanger, and even smidgen ahead of the more robust Daylight.Don't go in expecting Citizen Kane, and you should have have a grin-inducing good time with this one. "},{"Title":"Slick, enjoyable, mano-y-mano action thriller!","Date":"4 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I had never been a huge fan of Sylvester Stallone in the 1980s. I find most of his 80s flicks unwatchable. He doesn't have that ability to let loose and make fun of himself while still entertaining like Mr. Arnold Schwarzenegger. I can think of a dozen or so Arnie flicks from his career that I can just plain sit back and enjoy b/c Arnie knew how to entertain an audience. Stallone has always taken himself too seriously and been too stiff. But guess what? A funny thing happened in the early 1990s. I started to like Sylvester Stallone! All of a sudden, he made these hugely entertaining action flicks that his style of, errr, acting seemed to be suited for CLIFFHANGER, THE SPECIALIST, DAYLIGHT, and this film, my favorite of the lot, ASSASSINS. I love ASSASSINS! I can watch it over and over. The tone, pace, and style of the film perfectly fits Stallone's stoic, glaring, steely demeanor. And Stallone is damn freakin good in this film! It's one of his better film performances. Stallone plays Robert Rath (cool name), a veteran highly paid assassin who will only assassinate high-level shady criminals (nicknamed marks). He has morals of course, as noted early in the film. But Rath wants out. He's tired of killing for a living, so he wants to do one last job, assassinating a reclusive billionaire mark named Alan Branch, who financed South American death squads.But there's a complication. Rath finds that he's no longer alone. A cocksure, boisterous young gun named Miguel Bain (played with vim, vigor, and verve by Antonio Banderas). Bain kills Branch at his brother's funeral (where Rath was going to kill him), then the fun begins! Rath tracks down Bain and tries to eliminate him, but to no avail. Bain escapes and so Rath wants to know from his secret employer who this kid is. So Rath agrees to do one last job (this time he's serious; it pays 2 million dollars) to retrieve a disc with encrypted information and kill the buyers and the seller (the mark). The buyers are Interpol agents trying to capture Rath and Bain's secret employer. The mark (who intercepted the transmission) is a hot, slightly skewered-in-the-brain redheaded genius named Elektra and she is played by then newcomer and now top Hollywood actress Julianne Moore. I've never seen Moore's big time Oscar-nominated movies (except BOOGIE NIGHTS), but I've seen her in a lot of other stuff and this is my favorite thing she's done.As Rath is about to complete this 'final' mission, Bain steps in again and kills the buyers while Rath gets to Electra first before she turns over the disk information, but decides not to kill her since Bain has interceded again and he wants to stop this kid and deal with his employer for hiring him by extorting for 20 million dollars for his trouble. It is during this time that Rath and Electra develop a connection and become partners to stop Bain from repeating history (Rath killed the #1 assassin 15 years before to be #1; now Bain wants to kill Rath so he can become #1). Stallone, Banderas, and Moore are all excellent and keep the action lively and moving. I like the way the film shows how these highly trained professionals plot, scheme, think, and outwit their way through sticky and tricky situations. The action is spare, yet exciting when it comes and the film is an very interesting character study. It never slows down or drags at all, even though the pace is delibarate. The final showdown is thrilling to say the least. Well done all the way around! "},{"Title":"a very entertaining film for Stallone and Banderas","Date":"24 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" For what it is suppose to be, this is a very entertaining and smart film. The Assassins is a film about two Assassins who go up against each other, and only the best Assassin is going to walk away alive from this. The film is written by the very talented Matrix writers Wachowski Brothers, who do and absolute legend at making their stories very entertaining.Stallone and Banderas not only do a good job in this film, but they actually have really great chemistry on set. They are the perfect actors to play against each other, show casing their ability to be deadly assassins. The film unpredictable, and a really cool twist at the end, that you won't see coming!. I loved the mind games between Stallone and Banderas, they were a LOT of fun to watch, and see them try to outsmart each other was a treat!. It's very intelligent, with only a few plot holes, plus the chemistry between Stallone and Julianne Moore was great!. It's One of Stallone's best Non Rocky films, and one of his best performances too! "},{"Title":"Not one of my favourite Stallone films but it got better as it went along","Date":"10 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Assassin Robert Rath (Sylvester Stallone) arrives at a funeral to kill a prominent mobster, only to witness rival hired gun Miguel Bain (Antonio Banderas) complete the job for him. Rath decides to take one last job and then return to civilian life but that final contract sees him falling for his target(Julianne Moore) and then becoming a marked man himself.Not one of my favourite Stallone films, its a bit lame actually and that's taking into account its age too. There were just too many dumb things to let go -the gun hidden in the cast at the funeral (like that's not obvious) Stallone's magic sandwich that he keeps taking bites out of but never chews or swallows, hiding behind a gravestone in plain sight of the mobs of Day of the Dead people that somehow don't see them. Maybe I just took this too seriously? I enjoyed it more as it moved along, I guess because the action picks up. Stallone does a decent enough job and I suppose he's meant to be some kind of anti-hero but that aspect never really comes through. A young Julianne Moore plays Electra, who is a high tech hacker/crazy cat lady/voyeur. Weird.As for Antonio Banderas he's c-c-crazy but in a good way. Totally over the top and insane, fun to watch cat and mouse-ing his way after Stallone. The ending climax is decent especially the bank scene with Antonio waiting (all day) to take Rath out and then the show down in the crumbling building. 2/17/16 "},{"Title":"Not Quite Sure How This Fails To Hit The Target So Often","Date":"29 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Continuing my plan to watch every Sly Stallone movie in order, I come to 1995's AssassinsPlot In A Paragraph Sylvester Stallone plays the number one Hit-man in the world, Robert Rath (don't worry, since it's Sly, he is a Hit-man with morals and principals. He only kills bad guys) who is about to retire, when an ambitious young Hit-man Miguel Bain (Antonio Banderas) appears, with plans on being number one.As so often is the case in the early to mid 90's, Sly is totally over shadowed by his co star. Antonio Banderas steals this movie from Sly, whose character is as boring and bland, as he is ridiculously named!! Like The Specialist before it, he sleepwalks his way through the movie collecting his $15 million paycheck. It's another miss for Sly for me on this one, and truthfully, I'm not quite sure how this missed, a movie about feuding Hit-man, starring action legend Sly Stallone and upcoming star Antonio Banderas, written by the Wachowski bros (Matrix, V For Vendetta) directed by Richard Donner (Superman, Lethal Weapon) but somehow it does. Despite it having its moments and some impressive set pieces It feels overly long and slow. It has a few it holes, and the number one Hit-man in the world is a pretty poor shot when it comes to killing the number 2 Hit-man in the world, as is the number two, when it comes to taking down the number one. Killing anyone else?? Never miss. But they can't hit each other. It's better than The Specialist and Judge Dredd, but not up to the standards of Cliffhanger and Demolition Man "},{"Title":"Decent Action Film With Two Great Stars","Date":"10 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Professional hit-man Robert Rath wants to fulfill a few more contracts before retiring but unscrupulous ambitious newcomer hit-man Miguel Bain keeps killing Rath's targets.How often are Sylvester Stallone and Antonio Banderas in the same movie? Not very often. And how often are they both killers, who would be more than happy to kill each other? Only once, so far as I know. It is a great combination, and proof that Stallone was not just a star of the 80s -- he is just as strong here (and some would say he is still good in 2015).This also happens to be one of those Julianne Moore films that has her as a main character before you realized that Moore was a big star. Maybe at this point it was more obvious, but it is quite surprising how many films she did before she was seen as an A-list actress. "},{"Title":"A spectacular life-view of an assassin","Date":"4 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Only thing that made me avoid giving a 10 is the fact that the filming was quite old, which as we can see the cinematics aren't as sophisticated as today's work.However; acting, plot, story-line, and the scenario altogether was unbelievable to the point that it is my favorite movie so far.Assassins movie gives a broad view of what life is like for an assassin back in the 90's. In this case, it's about two different assassins with two different point of views.When East meets West, the clash is very fierce and a game of never ending chess keeps on playing.What I loved most about this movie is the characterization of both assassins; their intelligence, wit, will, and how cynical they are in achieving their goals.Unlike normal people, assassins strive for success in their field, and they do that by risking their life since they got nothing to lose except this life that has been given to them.Afterall, in their mind what better way is there in giving themselves a better life except by taking a life? "},{"Title":"assassins , saw it on retro TV,channel ? channel 68(something called TRUE GRIT?)","Date":"7 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I was very impressed w/ this Stallone action thriller, but when I saw the incredibly good looking woman (tv description, the computer data something, or other),I was blown away how beautiful she, was, but could not place her face!..OMG, it was the same woman who won the Oscar for playing some sort of senile dementia(STILL ALICE?)....this is the same woman? how could it? she is so breathtakingly beautiful in this sleeper hit!.As always, I would have to describe Stallone's performance as,definition 'Laconic' the term used to describe someone as having a 'Spartan reputation for being terse in saying something....'(!!!???). 5-star rating movie..... "}{"Title":"I just killed your brother....","Date":"1 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Robert Rath is a seasoned hit-man who just wants out of the business with no trace of him, or any legacy. But, as things go, it's not so easy. A younger, more ambiguous assassin named Bain is having a field day trying to kill Rather. Rath teams up with a computer hacker named Electra to defeat the obsessed Bain.....Its by the numbers stuff, but anyone who is expecting an all out action ride will be sorely disappointed by the overall movie. It's more of a thriller, even a drama, more than anything. And like the titular characters,the film is all about waiting for the payoff, waiting for the right moment.Its one of those movies in Stallones career that has been unfairly forgotten about, and was ignored on its initial release. I can understand why it didn't do very well, it was released a few months after Judge Dredd, and this was a time when people went to see movies based on star power, and Stallones star was rapidly fading after his brief comeback with Cliffhanger.Plus, it doesn't help that Banderas steals absolutely every scene he's in. Maniacal, unhinged, and downright brilliant, his Bain is the highlight of the movie, from his body language to his grandiose way with the script, its one of his finest performances.When the action is there, it's pretty spectacular. From the initial meet up in the taxi, to the raid on Electras apartment, Silver spares no expense with the action, and the pyrotechnics.Moore is good, but she's just filler for the decidedly thin plot, but it looks good, even though it's aged terribly (Stallones E-mails are hilarious), and Stallones wardrobe leaves a lot to be desired, Donner has crafted a neat little movie.It's just a shame it's not more widely seen. "},{"Title":"Had the potential to be very good, but it's spoilt slightly by an iffy narrative and some unanswered questions making it merely a 'good' film","Date":"19 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Robert Rath (Sylvester Stallone) is a hit-man who just wants to retire from the business. When he loses out on payment for his last contract when an unknown rival Miguel Bain (Antonio Banderas)takes out his contract before he had the chance, Rath agrees to take on another job on 4 Dutch Buyers who are intent on buying a disc from Electra (Julianne Moore) who is the mark who Rath has been assigned to kill. The trouble is that there is no intel on Electra making it tricky for Rath to find her. By the time, Rath does find her, Bain is already on the scene, but Bain locates the buyers rather than the mark. Rath then tricks Bain into thinking that he has killed Electra. Rath soon begins to realise that the Contractor is playing both himself and Bain off against each other and tries to find out who's doing it and why whilst also trying to stay one step ahead of his deadly rival.When watching films, I sometimes have to say to myself 'Come on, it's only a film, don't take it so seriously' and for the most part I can suspend disbelief, but there were some things in this film that just didn't make sense....1) Bain gets arrested by the police early on, but manages to slip his cuffs and escape killing about 3 maybe 4 police officers in the process. Due to the nature of his escape and due to the fact that he killed a few officers made me think to myself 'Wow!! Bain will end up being one of the most wanted men in the city', but after the early police presence we see no police officers pursuing either Rath or Bain that in spite of the number of people Bain kills throughout the film. It just wasn't believable.2) We also are expected to accept that Bain has a skeleton made of steel - he gets crushed between a car and a bus (whilst they're both moving) and also gets blown out of a third floor window. On both occasions, he seems to suffer no 'ill effects' - it's an action thriller so I can probably let this one slide, but it still kind of annoys me.3)In the closing stages of the film, it's revealed that the 'Contractor' was the guy who Rath was ordered to kill 15 years ago. Rath believed that the 'Contractor' was dead, but Rath fired at the Contractor's heart and the 'Contractor' had some sort of prosthetic shell covering his heart due to the fact that he knew Rath would aim for his heart. This was quite a nice twist and it explains why he targeted and set up Rath, but why was he stringing Bain along? It's possible that the 'Contractor' may have played Rath and Bain off against each other purely for his own amusement and in order for Rath to prove that he truly is the best, but this is unclear.All in all, if you take this film as it is then it is an entertaining and fairly decent thriller. Considering it's 130 minutes long, it actually moves at a reasonably good pace with only the odd sag here and there. Despite my gripes above, I did enjoy the film and would say that it's worth a look. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"30 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I had high hopes for Assassins after reading articles in magazines on the movie and seeing the trailer. There are some movies that are meant only for one thing mindless fun. Assassins very clearly comes under such a range of films. In the bundle of all that it lacks, I feel that the movie is ignored for its imagery. About as funny as a bad case of syphilis. Okay, so what did I think of this movie? I liked it because it's fun. It has its fair share of problems. If you are looking for a good movie with good acting this might not be for you. Here's a movie that I'll forever associate with high school. All in all, seven out of ten. "},{"Title":"Intriguing and involving with plenty of thrills","Date":"28 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Richard Donner (Lethal Weapon series) is in top form with possibly his best movie to date, a highly entertaining, sweaty-palm thriller.Director Donner has taken Larry and Andy Wachowski's slick script and fashioned an oft times riveting work which features some well staged action sequences, believable characters and a smart pace.Assassins pays enough attention to plot detail, thus not asking too much of its audience. Action sequences are never too numerous nor over done, allowing the viewer to take Donner's film exactly the way it was intended, quite seriously.Usually typecast, we may not be surprised to see Sylvester Stallone in this pic, however he manages to bring a certain amount of freshness t"}{"Title":"Like most of Stallone's 90's work, it's underrated","Date":"16 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Assassins is a top notch, big budget thriller that is often over looked when discussing Stallone's filmography. Which is a shame, cause it's one of Sly's better films and his performance as an aging burn out hit-man is quite solid.Antonio Banderas really steals the show though as the over the top and cocky newcomer who idolizes Stallone's character. Banderas is full of energy and his performance is electric. Miguel Bain is one of Banderas' best roles. An all time great movie villain perhaps.Many fans forget about Stallone's solid output in the 90's, Cliffhanger is always mentioned but Assassins seems to be forgotten. It's a slick and explosive action thriller from Lethal Weapon director Donner. Featuring some great dialog and shoot outs between Stallone and Banderas.On the negative side, the film is too long. Running over 2 hours, Assassins begins to wear out it's welcome. And the love story between Moore and Stallone is too cheesy and unrealistic to be taken seriously.Like Daylight and Copland, Assassins is one of Stallone's most underrated films from the 90's. An over looked gem that deserves to be seen again. "},{"Title":"Adequately average action - 62%","Date":"15 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" A mid-Nineties action film starring Sylvester Stallone and directed by the helmer of the Lethal Weapon series hardly sounds like a recipe for greatness, does it? It's not the sort of the film that troubles award committees or quickens the heart-rate of critics. But audiences lap these sort of films up and especially guys who enjoy explosions and gun fights and various macho activities. Which I do but this effort never really steps it up and seems perfectly happy to remain in third gear without getting anywhere near top speed.Professional hit-man Robert Rath (Stallone) is looking to get out of the game as age starts to catch up with him. After he misses out on a contract thanks to rival Miguel Bain (Antonio Banderas), Rath is offered a shot at $2 million. The target is an anonymous electronics whiz (Julianne Moore) who's trying to arrange a deal with some shady Dutch types in Seattle. But Bain is never far behind and as Rath begins to question his orders, both of their lives are in danger.Stallone, looking much younger on the film's poster than he does in the movie, is a strangely monotone hero (if you can call someone who kills or money a hero) and at no point do you feel, support or root for him. Banderas is much more engaging but this is because he's an evil equivalent of El Mariachi from Desperado. Gun in each hand and hair in front of his face, you know the look. Anyway, the pair of them tear through the scenery with plenty of gusto and the action is satisfying enough even if it is a little old-school. The plot is pretty formulaic and predictable - in fact, the only real surprise is the lack of a sex scene. So far, so what? It couldn't be any more average if it wanted to be but Assassins does have a couple of interesting trivia points. The script, written and then disowned by the Wachowski brothers (creators of the first 21st century action movie The Matrix), isn't as bad as they reckon but it doesn't offer anything new or different. The director, Richard Donner, knows his stuff when it comes to the action genre but it doesn't feel like a quality product - all the guns sound silenced for some reason and there is an explosion which is badly imposed on the footage and gives the sense of a budget being ran dry. I also can't figure out why they paid Stallone such a vast sum of money for his performance because for $15 million, I'd at least expect a flicker of emotion or some facial movement. But the only things that move on Stallone's head are his eyes and lips and personally, I wonder if the Wachowski's disowned the script after they'd seen the movie. "},{"Title":"Better Than Expected","Date":"5 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I wasn't expecting too much from this Hollywood thriller. Sullen, monosyllabic one-dimensional Stallone becomes a little tiresome as movie lead. But - I got a surprise.Stallone plays a hit-man. He's the maestro. Long in the business and meticulously careful, with a low profile. But he's had about enough and wants out. His contracts come via the internet (that's not something you could do post 9/11). At his next hit, he finds himself upstaged by another killer, played by Antonio Banderas. He's also extremely good at killing, but he's halfway over the blue wall, slaughtering anyone who is the least inconvenience with a maniacal relish. He's the new kid on the block and wants to be No1. But it's obvious that such overt, ferocious excess couldn't possibly stand the test of time. The authorities would have to track him down. A star that burns twice as bright shines for half as long, etc.It appears that both men have been played-off by their contractor. One of Stallone's next hits is a female computer-hacker who sells secrets to foreigners - a traitor, in other words.Instead of bumping her off (he's an unemancipated sucker, you see) he decides to defend her from his heir-presumptive firebrand who is likewise after her scalp. What follows then often resembles 'The Terminator', where hero Kyle Reece tries to keep Sarah Connor safe from the relentless cyborg. Though there are other plot threads too.I found this a thoroughly entertaining romp. It far exceeded my expectations. Sly's sluggish demeanour is well suited to the quiet, calculating character he plays. Whilst Antonio Banderas has played the manic pistolero often enough to know the score. All the players give a decent turn for their paycheques. When the action comes - it comes plentiful and fast. Meanwhile the corpses accumulate. But it's not all road-rage and shoot-'em-up. There are plenty of mood moments and lots of clever original plot details. I particularly like the exchanges of money and goods by means of a radio-controlled model truck via the hotel ventilation ducts.All of the technical issues like lighting and editing are on the mark. The soundtrack and incidental music are interesting and well-chosen. I was only a little disappointed by the ending. This movie has far more to engage the viewer than Tom Cruise's verbose and rather over-blown 'Collateral' (which also features a hero protecting some female from Cruise's brutal assassin). Frankly, I think the critics have been unreasonably harsh; there's some solid entertainment here. Recommended. "},{"Title":"Assassins","Date":"31 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I did recognise the poster I saw after seeing this, of course not all posters do much for the actual film, from director Richard Donner (The Omen, Superman, Lethal Weapon). Basically in Portland, Oregon lives professional hit-man Robert Rath (Sylvester Stallone) who is given all his assignments for business by an anonymous boss on computer email. Ten years ago he killed Russian crime boss Nicolai Tashlinkov (Anatoli Davydov), and now his target is crime boss Alan Branch (Stephen 'Steve' Kahan), until vicious rival hit-man Miguel Bain (Antonio Banderas) steals his contract, and he wants to catch him. After he fails to get even, Robert wants to retire and decides to do one last job, killing Seattle surveillance expert and information thief Electra (Julianne Moore), planning to sell stolen data to some Dutch buyers, led by Remy (Kai Wulff). Unfortunately Robert gets to know his target better, and he can't kill her, and Bain kills the Dutch men Electra would have sold the floppy disk of stolen data to. So Robert and Electra are now on the move to get the floppy disk of data to the Robert's anonymous boss for a high price, $20,000,000 and walk away with the money, while Bain is not only looking for Robert, he is his next target. Also starring Muse Watson as Ketcham, Kelly Rowan as Jennifer - Electra's Neighbor and Reed Diamond as Bob. I agree with the critics, you lose track of the plot, but the rivalry of Stallone and a not too convincing villain Banderas is alright, and one or two action and chase sequences, so not a complete waste of time. Okay! "},{"Title":"Hashashin","Date":"26 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I was raised on Stallone films and there's no denying that he is a screen presence even when he is saying nothing. He never looks bad on screen (even in Copland he is captivating as a deeply scared and mostly silent sheriff). I was also raised on the high octane action thrillers of producer Joel Silver and direct Richard Donner. My teen years were gung ho and visceral in terms of film going.Something drab happened in the 1990's though. Mood was mistaken for entertainment instead of mise en scene. And as a result a clutch of thrillers simply did not work. The Assassin (Point Of No Return) the remake of the French Nikita was slow and despite having Bridget Fonda and Gabrielle Byrne it lacked edge, and John Badham's use of slo-mo worked against the films action instead of for it. Then came Stallone's own tepid simmer (hardly thriller) with Sharon Stone - The Specialist. This is best remembered for two things 1) the hilarious sex scene between the He-Man Stallone and the Barbie Stone (really funny for how awful it is); 2) the ubiquitous scene-chewing James Woods who has a ball as the bad-guy, in this laughable and yet boring fiasco. Always suspect in any film is a voice over - like they forget something and had to make sense of it (Re the ill-advised Bladerunner VO), only here it is the terrible and completely unbelievable telephone calls between Stone and Stallone that play over otherwise banal surveillance shots of Stallone stalking the Colombian mafia on Stone's behalf. The whole films might have worked better without the calls. Oh well.And then came Assassins. Admittedly a step up from The Specialist, but not far. Julianne Moore's character comes over as a completely asynchronous character as she is not clever (which she is supposed to be), but is too old to be as ditsy as she plays it. Stallone does have more action to play with and the film's flaws are not his fault. The problem comes in the last half of the film when the pace is slowed so much it feels like it will never end. The problem is that the first half has a fair amount of action in it, whereas the last half is a tense setup. This simply does not work as we feel let down by the lack of action. A film tilted the other way might work more, but it's never going to work as a tense ending when the heartbeat in the first half was quite simply beating faster. The result, although competently directed, is an uneven film which ultimately lets you down.I would really like Stallone to do another Specialist/Assassin film today, where he comes out of retirement for something personal (I know that's the story of Rocky Balboa/Rambo IV, but if it ain't broke...). I think he could redeem himself of these studio blips (I see big thumb prints all over these pictures), so long as he wrote and directed the film himself. Stallone is a very good actor who has been caught in a niche market (despite trying to break free of it) for three decades. He is also a good writer and director. If he took some time over this one it could be another hit for the iconic star.Please redeem yourself Sly. I shall wait with baited breath. "},{"Title":"Interesting","Date":"5 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" ** HERE BE SPOILERS **Robert Rath (Stallone), a professional hit-man, is starting to get tired of his job. He start to plan his retirement (note not to confuse with his own death) but on a job another hit-man shoots the mark before Rath do. This newcomer has different tactics than Rath, he has no regard for innocent bystanders. Stallone takes up the hunt, and finally catch up with the hit-man named Miguel Bain (Banderas). They find themselves in a stalemate and Bain gets away when the police involves itself. Rath's next assignment is a unknown ghost who sells secret information to some Dutch men. All are to be eliminated. Once again both Rath and Bain finds themselves on the same assignment. But while Bain eliminates the Dutch men, Rath tracks down the ghost, a woman by the name Electra (Moore). But he doesn't kill her, and a strange relationship start to evolve. His employer doesn't get happy and Bain is sent to really retire Rath.It is an interesting plot with some really interesting scenes. In a movie where much of the killing is done by silenced long-range shots, the two adversaries Rath and Bain, often finds themselves close together, in a situation where violence is impossible. The confrontation is then more verbal, and I got a deeper understanding of the conflict than if they just were to shoot at each other. I think that made the movie both a little different from others and better. Of course there are enough scenes with shooting and explosions and so forth as well. The cast is good, Stallone is typical Stallone, maybe a little stiff. Moore is good as well but best of the three is Banderas as Bain. The plot, interesting as it is, is not really good at twists and turns though. There are some, but unfortunately a little to much advertised in the movie. What I guess was intended as a surprise wasn't surprising. But it is still an entertaining movie with a little different aspect.6/10 "},{"Title":"A brutally efficent action thriller.","Date":"12 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Sylvestler Stallone plays a hitman who is contemplating retirement, but a hot-shot young killer (Antonio Banderas)has other ideas and tries to get in first when Stallone targets a flaky surveillance (Juilanne Moore). So, Stallone kidnaps Moore... A brutally efficent action thriller.3 out of 4 "},{"Title":"More than what I expected","Date":"1 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie for the first time on television, and I mainly just watched it  because I wanted to see Sylvester Stallone kick butt, because he does that fairly  well.  I came in a little late in the movie, and it took me a while to recognize  Antonio Banderas because the last thing I saw him in was Zorro.  Anyway,overall, I thought the movie was good.  It definitely kept me going.  After the  scene when Banderas gets blasted out of the window, I thought the moviewould soon be over.  I check the TV Guide, and I see that there is about an hour  left in the movie, so I stay up way past my normal bedtime to finish the movie.                 I wasn't sorry that I did.  Sylvester did an incredibly good job in this  movie, before I had not really been impressed, but he definitely impressed me  with this.  It looked like he could snap your neck if he wanted, and was such a  good opposite to Antonio Banderas REALLY over-the-edge-I'm-just-trigger- happy character.  Julianne Moore also did a decent job and now that I haveseen the movie about three times I finally get the end song.  It all makes sense.   It may take a few times before everything becomes clear, but I would definitely  say give this movie a shot.   "},{"Title":"A cleverly thought out film...","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  A cleverly thought out film with well portrayed characters, Assassins is a lot better than I thought it would be. I first picked it out because I thought it would be a typical Sylvester Stallone - some nice mindless violence with a vague storyline underneath.It is anaction film with car chases, shootings etc, but the story is gripping.Robert Rath is a contracted killer - the best, after he killed his friend Nicolai - who is fed up with his life as it is and just wants out.Miguel Bain is a young assassin, the best after Rath - whom he idolises and mimics to the extent of stealing his contracts.'Electra' is a computer ghost to be killed by both Rath and Bain, but when events take surprising turns, it's not quite clear who is killing who or who's side anyone is on.I loved the light relief, and the action was explosive. Anyone who likes action - Stallone or Arnie movies - should definately give Assassins a go. "},{"Title":"Antonio Banderas,","Date":"27 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Antonio Banderas is outstanding in this movie and no one has put this in his resume. He was great!! He stole the show from Stallone. Great actor love his craziness!! Antonio kicked butt!! One of the best action movies and never mentioned as a top rated movie. Beats a lot of movies these days. Today is nothing like yesterday!! I would love to see Stallone and Banderas in another movie together there was great chemistry. I hope there are other viewers who agree with me on this. I'm hoping to stop writing now but the guidelines saying i need more text! i hope they will now take this or i will scream!Okay i'm screaming now i have nothing else to write-hello. OMG finally!!! "}{"Title":"The Good Murderer","Date":"4 August 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Howard Hawks allegedly said of his film Rio Bravo that we enjoyed making it so much that we made it again. He was, of course, referring to El Dorado which although it is not officially a remake of Rio Bravo shares with it a very similar plot and the same leading man, John Wayne. Hawks and Wayne were later to make the same film for a third time, this time under the title Rio Lobo.It would appear that, with six Rockies and four Rambos under his belt, Sylvester Stallone also enjoys making the same film several times. His 1994 outing, The Specialist, never generated a franchise in this way, possibly because it was given a deservedly hostile reception by the critics. He did, however, follow it up the following year with the very similar Assassins which can be regarded as an unacknowledged remake.In both films Stallone plays hit-men who earn their living by murdering people, the main difference that Ray Quick from The Specialist prefers to use explosives, whereas Robert Rath, Sly's character here, uses a gun as his weapon of choice. Now you might think that this would make them the villains of the piece, but both are in fact treated as the heroes of their respective films. Hollywood has often tended to romanticise professional assassins, the more recent Bradgelina love-fest Mr. and Mrs Smith being a good example, and Messrs Quick and Rath can both be regarded as Good Murderers to whom falls the task of protecting the innocent from Bad Murderers. (In between The Specialist and Assassins, Sly had made Judge Dredd, in which he plays another type of Good Murderer).In Assassins the Bad Murderer is Miguel Bain, a rival hit-man even more ruthless than Rath himself. When Rath discovers that both he and Bain have been assigned by their contractor to kill the same mark, a computer hacker named Electra, he has a change of heart and decides to protect her from Bain. Similarly in The Specialist Stallone found himself trying to protect an attractive girl, played there by Sharon Stone, from the attentions of another Bad Murderer (James Woods).Despite Rath's change of heart, the difference between him and Bain, as far as their code of ethics is concerned, is really only paper-thin. Perhaps it was for this reason that Stallone and Antonio Banderas, who plays Bain, decided to make their characters as different as possible in terms of styles of acting. Banderas plays Bain as an aggressive, cocky and hyper-active loudmouth, the sort of man the audience would loathe even if he were not a vicious killer. Rath, by contrast, is quiet, reserved and stony-faced. Rath's main motivation is financial, whereas Bain is obsessed with the psychological need to prove himself a better assassin than the older, more experienced Rath. (The idea of crime as a competitive sport is a common one in the cinema, another example being Ocean's Twelve which features a criminal whose motive for committing crimes is the desire to prove himself the best thief in the world).This film is more evidence that Julianne Moore's career has been a rather chequered one. (She plays Electra here). Although she has starred in excellent films like Far from Heaven or The Hours, she has also acted in her fair share of rubbish, examples being Body of Evidence and the dreadful Gus van Sant remake of Hitchcock's Psycho, both of them even worse films than this one.Assassins is not a truly appalling film like either of those two examples; Richard Donner, who made The Omen, the original Superman and the Lethal Weapon series is a competent director of action movies, and at a basic technical level is not a bad film. My overall, view, however, would be similar to my opinion of The Specialist, namely that it is an uninspired, routine thriller marred by a misguided attempt to glorify a murderer by turning him into a hero. 4/10 "},{"Title":"Very swift, and promising!","Date":"14 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Movies about hired guns will come and go once in a while, with the movie Assassins this movie is like a roller-coaster ride, only deadlier. With one hired gun, who needs an upstart, who's a total hothead. Sly Stallone plays Robert Rath, a veteran killer who meets his match, a young upstart named Miguel Bain(Antonio Banderas) who kills one of the few crime families at a funeral, then makes his escape while being handcuffed by the police. He dislocated his thumb to slip through the cuffs, and snaps the officer's neck in the process. Robert has the scanner which makes himself more efficient. Bain is so dangerous, he kills anyone who got in his way. It was downright barbaric to tamper with the fireplace to kill that young lady, and follow her every move. I liked the part where both men realize that the man Rath thought has killed, was still breathing. And Bain who tried to shoot Rath confronts him in the bank to have a little chat with him. Why blow the chance and do it already? Maybe he had a another plan if the first one backfires. To me, his assassination of Rath was stalled out for too long. Bain may have had youth, but Rath had more tricks up his sleeve, or tucked in his belt. This movie in my opinion is great, plenty of cunningness, and the plot was played out very well. This is one of Stallone's finest movies. Rating 3 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"There's not much action here","Date":"11 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Sylvester Stallone's early action films actually had some decent action. Most of his latter day films which all pass themselves off as action films only seem to contain gratuitous explosions and buff bodies. This disappointment from Stallone and action film director fixture Richard Donner being one of them. It's basically a rehash of tired action sequences and unoriginal ideas that fails to hold the viewer's interest much of the time. Almost as bad as Cop Land, a later Stallone film.  "},{"Title":"Bang Bang, You're Dead","Date":"8 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The word assassins has an interesting etymology. It's from Arabic and was used to refer to a tribe of murderers who wrecked themselves on hashish before doing the dirty deed. Well, they may have used it, but not while murdering anyone. Hash is much too mellow a high. Which is something that can't be said about this movie. You may or may not know it but you've seen this movie before. Think back to the last dozen or so action movies you've watched, pick out the typical characters and set pieces, put them together in a slightly different order or locale, and you have Assassins. You will need a high-speed car chase, exploding fireballs, pistols with silencers, a sniper's scoped rifle, a sinister villain with greasy and unkempt hair, the supposedly dead body that has just been shot and fallen through four floors and suddenly comes rip-roaring back to life, bodies crashing through windows in slow motion, guns that never need reloading, a hero rushing madly through a flock of pigeons to save his girlfriend who is in immediate jeopardy, someone hanging by the fingertips of one hand from a rickety old pipe,a hit man who wants to retire, and a plot involving a MacGuffin and a rivalry between assassins to see who is going to be the best assassin in the world, the second best, and only the third best. Put them all together and you have Assassins. The suspense associated with awaiting the outcome whipped me into a frenzy of indifference. There is one surprise, though. If Stallone managed to take off his clothes and flex his pecs again I managed to miss it, thank God. His muscles have acquired such bulk that his sports jackets look made by Adrian. If his shoulders get any wider he'll look like Joan Crawford in some 1944 movie. It's hard to tell from this movie that Julianne Moore is really an actress with some range. Nothing much is asked of her here except to be the helpless, trapped female, but see her as a vacant personality in Safe, in which she turns in an excellent, subdued performance. She isn't stunningly pretty and she doesn't ooze sex and collagen, but she has the kind of ordinary good looks that might draw glances in a supermarket. She needs a vehicle. "},{"Title":"You Can't Fix Stupid","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I had read enough reviews of Assassins to have some idea about the silliness of the story.  I decided to watch it anyway because I thought that a movie with Stallone, Banderas, and Julianne Moore would likely have high enough production values to make it marginally interesting even if the story was stupid.  I was right -- barely.  The tension is contrived and stupid is not a strong enough word to describe the story.  (The heavy, Banderas, turns out to be harder to kill than Frankenstein's monster.)  How Brian Helgeland, who co-wrote the screenplay for L.A. Confidential, could have allowed his name to appear in the credits to this cretinous mess astounds me.  Still, I have to admit that Assassins charismatic stars and big budget allowed me to be reasonably well entertained most of the time.  Marginally recommended, 5 of 10. "},{"Title":"Two assassins, Stallone and Banderas, battle each other with Julianne Moore assisting Sly","Date":"15 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The Macguffin is a computer disk possessed by Moore who is a computer jock who does shakedowns of shady people, but this time she has downloaded and attempted to blackmail a quarry she should have left alone.Stallone, a professional assassin who gets his instructions from an anonymous computer source, is called in to get a mark, some right-wing South American figure, but he's ready to retire. Just when Stallone's about to assassinate him at a funeral, a competing assassin, Banderas, appears, and takes the contract. Stallone knows that he is being targeted, so on his next assignment, which is Moore and the disk, he reneges when Banderas again appears.Well-staged chases and close escapes ensue, in several locations. We also are treated to love developing between Stallone and Moore, who are initially antagonists. Donner's sure directing hand gives us a smooth result. Stallone and Moore stand out. Banderas' character is a cliché, namely, a competitive, hot-tempered, macho Latin man who wants to be number one. Each sequence in the movie is well-developed, especially the climactic scenes on a Caribbean island that involve a deteriorating hotel. The script develops character mainly through action and plot development, so that it engages viewers.A good show overall that made me realize that assassins are vulnerable to being assassinated because they know where the bodies are. The only way to prevent the threat of himself being killed is not to know who or where the orders come from. Stallone has that arrangement, and even that turns out to be dangerous. "},{"Title":"A Guilty Pleasure Action Thriller","Date":"6 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Director Richard Donner helms this action-adventure yarn in which Robert Rath,portrayed by Sylvester Stallone, a veteran, burned-out hit man for hire who's looking to leave his profession, meets a younger, crazier, more ambitious competitor, Miguel Bain,played by Antonio Banderas, who is out to best Rath and make him a target in the process in this movie,Assassins. Julianne Moore co-stars in this film written by Andy and Larry Wachowski together with Brian Helgeland.Rath signs on for one last hit, but complications ensue when he falls in love with the mark, a beautiful, mysterious woman named Electra. Bain sets out to murder Electra as well.The two are competing to hit the same target for a $20-million payoff, and their challenge takes them from explosion to explosion on a cat-and-mouse chase from Seattle to Mexico and the chase leads the two assassins into a deadly game of wits.Sylvester Stallone and Antonio Banderas seem as if they didn't know quite what to do to make this implausible action drama a kick.As for the screenplay,the plot becomes increasingly silly, and while some pleasure can be had in the improbable set pieces, this is not nearly as much fun as it should be.But nevertheless,Richard Donner managed to give this movie a style as he handles action sequences with adequate flair and has a good time blowing things up.Overall,it manages to become a guilty pleasure especially for viewers who love action thrillers. "},{"Title":"Well made thriller with some good action sequences.","Date":"21 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Robert Rath (Sylvester Stallone) is a professional killer for hire. Robert is tired of the business and he is willing to do one last hit before he retired. When Robert takes the job to kill his next target, he finds out that job is already taking care of by a ruthless killer by the name of Miguel Bien (Antonio Banderas). Robert finds out that he is double crossed by the mysterious person, who hires him for the job. Now Robert is forced to take five hits to financially allow him to retire. But Miguel again beats him to the punch expect not killing the last hit, he didn't found. An attractive computer hacker (Julianne Moore), who finds herself between Robert and Miguel. Now she is forced to help Robert to find his mysterious contractor before Miguel gets to them.Directed by Richard Donner (The Lethal Weapon Series, Superman 1 & 2, 16 Blocks) made an watchable, although flawed suspense-thriller with some good action sequences. Stallone is fine as the morose professional hit man. Moore does well in her supporting role. But it is Banderas, who has an great time as the crazed killer for hire. The movie does have an great first-half, although it slows down during the second half. Although an box office disappointment, Assassins does have an cult following and the movie is played often on TV.The Wachowski Brothers (The Matrix Trilogy, Bound, Speed Racer) originally wrote the story and screenplay before it was heavily re-written by Oscar-WinnerBrian Helgeland (A Nightmare on Elm Street 4The Dream Master, L.A. Confidential, Payback). Which the Wachowski Brothers tried to remove their names from the credits. Assassins is a extremely well made movie that could have been greater but falls short. It is certainly worth watching for the skilled action-set sequences and Banderas' amusingly over the top performance. (*** ½/*****). "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"9 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Pretty good film with many action sequences and good bad guys characters. Will probably be forgotten as the cinemas play more and more movies based on action hero comic books as time passes. I haven't seen any films like this around for a while myself...Antonio Banderas plays a rival hit man working against Sylvester Stallone in this one...to good effect. It is interesting the way films about things like this are popular since things like this in real life are regarded as evil incarnate. Well, film is escapism after all...Julianne Moore plays a sexy computer hacker in this film also, to good effect. Nothing really more to add about this one, except to comment that Sylvester Stallone seemed to have done another film in a quite similar vein with Sharon Stone I believe called The Specialist. If it works, do it... "},{"Title":"A Decent Action Thriller","Date":"29 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" A well paced, decently scripted action thriller. There is good action, decent dialogue and a script that hangs together and has a reasonable plot-outline with a solid twist. There isn't anything that stands out remarkably like The Bourne Identity which is even tighter and more stylistic. This is more an entertaining, somewhat mindless thriller that contains all the basic elements and is accomplished with just the right amount of power. Perhaps its more the script and the devotion to the action scenes that don't quite break through to remarkable status. This is more a predictable, but absorbing movie that doesn't offer anything we haven't seen before, but it is done well, if not superbly. "}{"Title":"Great beginning and middle, but ending was off.","Date":"12 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Slyvester Stallone as...Slyvester Stallone. And Antonio Banderas as... a crazy gun-toting madman. Throw in Julianne Moore as Stallone's love interest, some cool action scenes courtesy of veteran director Richard Donner, and a slick score by Mark Mancina, and you get a recipe for pure popcorn entertainment. Well almost.The story is about a veteran hit-man (Stallone) who's at the top of the assassination game and wants out. But his rival, a manic assassin who obsesses to be #1 (Banderas), keeps him from doing so. During his presumed last mark, he gets a setback as his last mark is a female hacker (Moore), and he escapes with her.The acting is okay, with Banderas being the standout. I just loved him in that performance. Who wouldn't? The story was okay - what got me bugged was the ending, it just didn't feel right. It was like the beginning and middle brought you up to a lot of tension, then at the ending it became predictable and cheesy.Overall, quite an entertaining thriller. Good if you have nothing else to watch.6.6/10 Delton "},{"Title":"Hollywood trash with some slightly redeeming qualities","Date":"2 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The first time I saw this was in a Hotel room while I was on vacation. I only saw the last half so I didn't know the full scope of the plot, but it's a simple movie so that wasn't important. What stuck out in my mind was a performance by Antonio Banderes that was so memorable I had to go back and re-watch this in its entirety very recently. Unlike many of the other viewers who posted here, I thought Julianne Moore was terrible in this film. The character was bad enough, but Julianne Moore's interpretation of the script made this aspect of the film practically unbearable. She was the most annoying and dumb woman who could possibly be in any film. Not to mention, she was an insulting mockery of Seattle women by making it seem people from Seattle could actually be like her. Her sense of style was absurd, and that little raincoat was a joke. As if everyone in Seattle wears these ugly little raincoats. I've not been very impressed with Julianne Moore anyway. I'm sure she's a very nice person off the screen, but she just seems like a flavor of the month actress, which is probably why we aren't seeing too many hits featuring her lately.The plot is not completely innovative or complex but it's satisfactory. Unfortunately, the film is riddled with unrealistic moments that resemble the old Tom and Jerry cartoons where everyone gets smashed up but they still survive.Banderes is what makes this movie worth watching. When I saw this movie, I took on a new opinion of his abilities. His high strung personality along with the constant swearing under breath and emotional disruptions really made his character interesting to watch. There's a definite comedic edge to Bain which had me laughing through the whole movie.The bottom line, it's not a good movie, but somehow still rewarding and worth watching. "},{"Title":"Predictable but good.","Date":"4 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This film was predictable but it's an action film so that is okay.  You already know who's going to win and you don't care as long as people get killed on the way.  The story line was not bad for it's day.  Banderas does a great job in this film.  He went on to do much better but this is great for a start.  If you are looking for a film to just watch for a good time rent this next time your at the store.  You won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"An enjoyable flick, Bandaras performance is interesting. Thanks to the Matrix making brothers.","Date":"2 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  When this movie came out, it was like the Specialist without any steamy sex scene at all. So too was that the Lethal Weapon filming crew is obvious behind the production, the director, the producer, and that mobster who got shot at the funeral plays the Chief in the Lethal Weapon films. It seems like a simple action flick comparable to a Segal or Van Damme class action flick, and with a few million bucks from Wanner Brothers, they will produce any kind of propaganda to sell their product.While watching the making of the Matrix on DVD, producer Joel Silver actually mention about the Wachowski Brothers earlier work, which was this movie, and he mention the it was dark and edgy. It was this that led me to buy this movie on DVD, on a discounted price, Woo Hoo!!!Although it still feels like a Segal or Van Damme class action flick, I have look deeper into the film and realize that Banderas actually performed very well than boring Stallone and Moore. The music delivers a good impact to the film and the cinematographer along with the film's editor employs their trick of the trade to deliver some smart presentation into some of the action sequences. My favorite was Banderas using a table to shield himself from an explosion.While this may not be Wachowski Brothers best work, it is not bad considering their early attempt into Hollywood, kind of like John Woo's Hard Target starring Van Damme. "},{"Title":"slow, but decent action film","Date":"29 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This film was very good for about the first hour, with lots of action, then it got rather dull in the second hour, with several uninteresting dialogue scene's and barely any action.  The film only got interesting again during the final action scene, which I thought was enjoyable.  Stallone gave his usual decent performance in this one, but Banderes went over the top during most the scene's he was in and was rather annoying.  Overall this film is decent, but could've used a bit of trimming during the second half. 3/5 "},{"Title":"average action flick","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  ** Sly Stallone stars in this silly film as a freelance gun for hire ,easily the best in the buisness of of hired-killing , who , on the job , meets his match in psychopathic Bain ridiculously overplayed by Antonio Banderas who wants to eliminate the competition .Exciting in some parts , boring in others the whole thing is only mantained by the presence of Julianne Moore, whos character brings the much needed comic-relief.Okay timewaster. "},{"Title":"Really OK. movie but gets boring early!","Date":"17 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" If Sylvester Stallone plays the world's number one assassin in this thriller, that must make Antonio Banderas, well, number two. The two are competing to hit the same target for a $20-million payoff, and their challenge takes them from explosion to explosion on a cat-and-mouse chase from Seattle to Mexico. Julianne Moore plays the cagey cat fancier and computer hacker who possesses a stolen computer disc that makes her a prime target for bad guys, and Robert Rath (Stallone) is only too happy to come to her defense. Director Richard Donner handles action sequences with adequate flair and has a good time blowing things up. Banderas has fun with the nonsensical plot, and Moore is enjoyable in one of her big-budget mainstream roles. "},{"Title":"I just want my life back. - Yeah, me too...","Date":"26 July 2007","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Assassins starts as Robert Rath (Sylvester Stallone) the absolute no. 1 hit-man in the entire world, no make that universe (all the hit men everywhere probably meet up once a year for a hit-man competition to find the best...) is hired by his shadowy mysterious boss to kill a bloke named Alan Branch (Steve Kahan) at a funeral. Unfortunately before Rath can make the hit another hit-man named Miguel Bain (Antonio Banderas) shoots Branch, Rath decides he's had enough & wants to retire from the hit-man business. Rath teams up with computer surveillance expert Electra (Julianne Moore) & bribe his boss with a computer disk full of sensitive information, his boss doesn't like being bribed & calls in Miguel to assassinate Rath & get the disk...This American French co-production was co-produced & directed by Richard Donner & is an overlong bore of an action thriller. The script by Andy Wachowski his brother Larry & Brian Helgeland starts off pretty well to be fair to it but then descends into one of the most boring & drawn out finales I've ever seen set in a bank & rundown hotel. The action scenes lack any excitement, there are no fights or anything we haven't seen 100's of times before & even a potentially good car chase ends up being rather flat & dull. Then there's the so-called twist at the end about who Rath's boss is, I'm sorry but this is one of the most predictable & frankly bland twists in cinematic history & I can't believe that it would come as a great surprise to anyone. Having said that the rest of the film is predictable as well but that ending must have took all of 60 seconds to come up with. Then there's the annoying character's especially Electra who has an irritating fluffy cat for it's cuteness value, urgh. I didn't like it when I saw several years ago & I still don't like it having re-watched it again, not one of the better big budget action flicks from the 90's.Director Donner does nothing special, there's not much style or visual flair here & the action scenes have no life or excitement at all. Most of the action scenes involve people shooting at each other which just becomes dull, I mean Rath & Bain can shoot anyone with deadly accuracy but when they start firing at each other they lose their perfect aim very quickly. He even manages to ruin what could have been a cool car chase. The ending should also have been cut down to move along quicker as it feels like it goes on forever.With a supposed budget of about $50,000,000 Assassins deservedly tanked at the box office when Se7en (1995) murdered it there, it's well made with that Hollywood polish & has high production values though. Apparently the lead role was written for Sean Connery but he couldn't make it while both Michael Douglas & Arnold Schwarzenegger were also considered before it went to Stallone who after just making Jugde Dredd (1995) didn't need another big flop on his hands although the reported $20,000,000 he was paid to star in Assassins probably eased the pain a bit. Woody Harrelson & Tom Cruise were consider for the role of Miguel Bain before Christian Slater was offered it but turned it down & it eventually went to Banderas. I have to say I think the acting is poor especially from the ever annoying Julianne Moore & the frankly awful Stallone.Assassins is a bland totally forgettable & unexciting supposed action thriller that succeeds as neither, at one point Julianne Moore's character Electra says 'I just want my life back' & when Assassins had finished I knew exactly how she felt... "},{"Title":"Chunky Mix","Date":"12 May 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Spoilers herein.This project fascinates me. Donner is legendary for taking `chunks' out of genres, attaching them to characters, and jamming them together to make hits. Sometimes it works, and sometimes the experiment gets out of hand. This one is a failure, but an interesting one.Start with the idea that there are three acting styles the multilayered selfreferential, the `simplify to the archetype,' and the `saturation' or method. Take the top actors in each of these fields Julianne Moore, Stallone and Banderas respectively, put them together and watch the intergenre sparks fly.Then, go get the top new writers of situations here they chose the Wachowskis, who know how to sculpt a very, very simple, readable situation and make it appear complex. And finish it off with Helgeland who is adept at potent speeches. I can see the wheels spinning at the production office. I can see people buzzing about the new mix and how it will change the blockbuster equation like `X-men` and `Lethal Weapon.' I can imagine how comfortable each player felt because they were being asked to expand on their own worst tendencies like Mel Gibson was.It doesn't work. I think an equally radical and outrageous production/art design would have helped. The final set in Rico wasn't dimensional enough. But the key problem is with the players. One can fault Stallone, but that's not fair. I think he knows a lot about his own presence, and has some intelligent ideas about it, but is too limited an actor to do anything but grunt. Since he often goes to extremes, it hardly is noticeable that here he actually is trying to out-Dred Dred. That Wachowski depends on him for inner complexities is supposed to be part of the joke, one Donner uses a lot.One can't fault Banderas either. He is as jumpy as humanly possible in an antimacho manner. No, this time the fault is at Moore's feet. That's why I find this so amazingly interesting. She is one of the best film actresses working. She understands how to fold an explicitly false reality of the film with a real reality of comment in a private world shared between her and viewer. And she is consistently powerful enough to blow two relative amateurs like Tony and Sly off the screen. The whole enterprise depends on her holding her own, so why doesn't she? Instead, she doesn't even try and instead follows the Basinger model of `girl on the run with resourceful, lover/shooter.' I can only guess that this is because she did 5 films that year. Two of them were hard, hard work, and that follows the amazing `Vanya' of the previous year which was in preparation for very long.Too bad, too. This was the only experiment I know where intelligent acting, indeed some deep thinking about what acting IS, was intended for an action movie. We all lost when she took a vacation.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 4 Has some interesting elements.  "},{"Title":"Stallone wearing a sweater","Date":"29 February 2004","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  *SPOILER ALERT* *SPOILER ALERT*All movies start off with a grace period where the possibilities for a good movie still exist. Your mind is full of hope. Assassins grace period lasts for about two seconds. When the movie started, I was living in a dream world. Then Stallone showed up as a hitman wearing a sweater. I woke up screaming.Assassins is the definition of lame. You know things are bad when Stallone won't even kill his target at the beginning of the movie. His victim is whining and blubbering about how Stallone only kills bad people. Stallone looks pensive in his mighty sweater. His words of whining really touch Stallone. Then Stallone gives the guy a gun to kill himself! Stallone is an assassin right? That's his job title right? Aren't assassins supposed to, uh, assassinate people? Ugh. How lame.So Banderas shows up to take Stallone out of the picture. Banderas knows that Stallone has got to go. It's that dang sweater. Stallone should never wear a sweater. Hitmen don't wear sweaters. Stallone could not get into the idea of being an assassin so Banderas had to come along and finish him off. It's not often I root for Banderas. The sweater made me do it. "}{"Title":"Time-Pass!","Date":"24 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Richard Donner's 'Assassins' is Time-Pass! A Fast-Paced, Edgy Action Flick, that works, along-with with winning performances.'Assassins' Synopsis Robert Rath is a seasoned hit-man who just wants out of the business with no back talk. But, as things go, it ain't so easy. A younger, peppier assassin named Bain is having a field day trying to kill said older assassin. Rath teams up with a computer hacker named Electra to defeat the obsessed Bain.'Assassins' is Fast-Paced & Edgy, and it gets it right on more than just one occasion. Andy Wachowski, Larry Wachowski & Brian Helgeland's Screenplay is entertaining & well-paced. Richard Donner's Direction is as good as ever. Cinematography is fair. Editing is passable.Performance-Wise Stallone is super, as always. Antonio Banderas is a terrific actor & he proves that fact right once again with 'Assassins'. He plays the heartless villain to perfection. Julianne Moore looks a million bucks & performs with her usual style. Anatoly Davydov is alright.On the whole, 'Assassins' is worth a look. "},{"Title":"* * OUT OF FIVE","Date":"9 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Sylvester Stallone stars as Robert Rath an assassin who ends up protecting Electra (Julianne Moore) from a rival assassin (Antonio Banderas) in this flat yet harmless actioner which benefits from good locations as well as a few stylish actionscenes. "},{"Title":"Please assassinate!","Date":"12 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I never thought too highly of Stallone, and he hasn't let me down in that area. What a totally horrible excuse for a movie. Stallone's acting is awful as always, Banderas seems high on crack or something and is highly annoying. It's all there a lame story, thinner than cigarette paper, crappy computer 'simulations' early 80's style, a lame female villain who won't leave home without her pussycat in a cage, four Dutch bad guys (all speaking German!) wanting to buy some information on a diskette, an action for which -of course- all four have to travel across the big pond, dumb-ass police officers, unbelievable action scenes... Well I guess you get the gist of it. Only plus to me is a lot of people end up dead in this flick. Don't watch it. "},{"Title":"A good start descends into tedium","Date":"11 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The fact that this film was written by The Wachowski Brothers actually lowered my expectations of it; not because I don't rate their groundbreaking action hit 'The Matrix', but merely because of the fact that I've never heard a Matrix fanboy singing it's praises. There's a good reason why this film doesn't have its praises sang very often too; as it's not very good. All I wanted from this film was an entertaining action feature; and after the first sequence, which takes place in a taxi cab, I really thought I was going to get what I wanted. The first sequence is clever and thrilling; but the film just can't keep that up, as after the initial sequence it descends into tedium and despite a few worthwhile moments, it never really gets out of it. The plot follows Robert Rath; a professional hit-man who wants out. His efforts to get out, however, are thwarted by the appearance of Miguel Bain; a younger assassin who has taken it upon himself to get rid of Rath himself. We then follow the hit-man as he teams up with a woman named Electra and tries to kill the younger man before he gets it himself.The Wachowski's clearly have a flair for scripting exciting action scenes, as their later opus showed; but aside from a couple of sequences, this film doesn't feature a great deal in the way of excitement. The Wachowski's also showed with The Matrix that they can handle a complex plot...so why can't they do a very good job with the simple one in this film? Much of the plot is very routine and predictable, while the ending comes out of nowhere with a plot twist that harks back to an idea that was never really a big thing earlier on in the film. The cast is fairly strong, with action icon Sylvester Stallone going through the motions in the lead role. He is joined by a charismatic Antonio Banderas, who's not bad as his opposite number; while the talented Julianne Moore is given a role way below her later standards. There are a number of good ideas in this film, but many of them would do better if the rest of the film was good also. The good cast never really gets a chance to shine, and overall, all I can rate this film as is a shame as considering all the elements and the people involved; it could have been decent example of the genre. "},{"Title":"this sucks","Date":"14 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I think this is a dreadful film - tedious to sit through and instantly forgettable.  Stallone delivers his usual performance almost on auto pilot. Banderas camps up his bad - guy act a bit, and almost gets a few unintentional laughs.  The female lead is simply irritating, and the action sequences so antiseptic I thought I was watching Miami Vice at times. This is Hollywood at its worst. "},{"Title":"LAME","Date":"11 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  How can the director of Lethal Weapon and Superman have come up with this lousy garbage? I wanted to like it, I love action movies and thrillers, I like Stallone, Julianne Moore and Banderas, but I was bored to the point of tears through out. This movie is excrutiatingly s-l-o-w, and when things finally happen it's not much. For an action movie there is about two small explosions, two short gun fights....and that's it. If you decide to watch Assassins, it's boredom ahoy. "},{"Title":"Almost Stallone's True Lies...almost.","Date":"21 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" What I mean by my title is that Arnold Schwarzenegger's True Lies was a feat of mastery for the action genre. It wasn't just an action film, it was an epic, masterfully created piece of work. It had a very talented director, a sweeping storyline, powerful supporting roles...everything about it worked. Assassins could have been that and in some ways it comes close. You have a legendary action director in place, the action god himself, a worthy villain, and epic storyline, exotic locales. It was a roller coaster ride for me and not just because of the action but how I felt about the film. One moment I was riveted and really enjoying it and then something would happen that would drop it down a few points for me. There was one entire character who I think was entirely mis-cast but I will get to that. The film absolutely gets better as it goes until the epic climatic finale that is truly outstanding. The story is well written and action scenes that are very nearly legendary. The shoot out in the cemetery, the car chase scene with the police and the taxi cab and the finale in the run down church are without a doubt sheer genius. So why isn't Assassins better known? I am completely biased when it comes to Sylvester Stallone. I idolize this man. When I first discovered how much I loved movies I discovered Stallone and he and I spent an inordinate amount of time together when I was a teenager. And yet I had never seen Assassins...don't even know how that happened. So I was on the edge of my seat to see this. Stallone is very good as the emotionally charged and scarred Hit-man who does what he is told in order to get his mark. He is the best of the best and an event in his past has left him deeply marked. This was a solid role for him and he does well. Many reviewers on IMDb dislike the film but most rave about the performance by Antonio Banderas. Banderas is okay in the role but I would never rave about it. I think he overplays and overdoes the role. The quirky little behaviour and obsessive tics his character has gets old quick and is more distracting than anything and makes it hard to believe his assassin is number two in the world. Stallone and Banderas have good chemistry opposite each other but its not amazing chemistry. Banderas does get significantly better (excellent actually) in the last half hour of the film when he starts to take things more seriously. And not the problem with the film. Now I have the opposite bias for Julianne Moore that I have with Stallone. I don't like her. Never have. She has chosen some good movies and she won't stop me from seeing a movie but I don't enjoy her for whatever reason. I think she is awful in this movie. The character is completely given the wrong persona and she is not believable, distracting, annoying, whiny and the romantic tension with Stallone is SOOO not necessary. Removing her from this film and making the hacker a guy would have made this film at LEAST a nine for me. The three of them simply don't mesh well together and it drags the film down. Stallone and Banderas are okay but you add Moore and the cast is sub-par at best.Richard Donner is a legend just based in my books on one film and a film series alone. That is Superman and the Lethal Weapon films. Those make him action director extraordinaire. His style and exceptional emotional range as a director does truly make this a very good watch and far from just a run and gun, shoot em up flick. It's so close to being great that it hurts. I feel like Banderas and Moore were bad casting or at least Banderas character was over-acted in the beginning. The concept is awesome. Two hit men, one young hot headed newcomer is desperate to eliminate the top hit-man in the world. It's a solid script written by those crazy Wachowski siblings of The Matrix fame proving they have more in them than just Matrix. A better supporting cast, and just a slight tightening of a few details in the script and this could have been really something. However, as it is, its still a great Stallone action flick and worth checking out for a turn off your brain, sit back and enjoy sort of flick. 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"The movie stinks","Date":"4 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This movie was a bomb to put it likely. All it seemed to focus on was Antonio Banderas idiotic, unrealistic use of two hand guns seemingly aimed at two targets at once. Those scenes have been used in some of Banderas other films such as Once upon a time in Mexico (I didn't like that movie either)and seems to be a standard with this idiot. I believed Stalone held a very good supporting role, but try as he might he couldn't put this broken movie back together again. It would seem the only thing interesting to me was the footage that was taken from the Seattle area. It is a real sorrow to see a Stalone movie flop, as I know his abilities to create a realistic and well made movie. Unfortunately working with a goof like Banderas must have been frustrating for Sylvester. This movie is best left on the video shelf to collect more dust. "},{"Title":"I'm going to die like English Patient's girlfriend--long, slow, boring death!","Date":"2 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Well, Khan from TV's KING OF THE HILL never says that line in ASSASSINS, but he could have.  This is a long, slow, boring film. Even sequences that are supposed to be exciting--such as a part where Stallone retrieves a briefcase from an elevated train in Seattle, then has to get rid of it in a hurry--are just there. There's no energy here. Sylvester Stallone does a very good job showing a hitman who's life energy has been destroyed by his career, but unfortunately his character's weariness mirrors the film's. We aren't any more enthused by what he's going through than he is.What's interesting, and a little strange, is that this movie was written by the Wachowski Brothers, who went on to write and direct THE MATRIX. The strange part is that the structure of these two movies, this one and MATRIX, isn't all that different several intense action sequences bracketed by a large amount of exposition. It's more what's done with it than what it is, though, so ASSASSINS has unexciting action with uninteresting dialogue compared to THE MATRIX.And for the goofs section, the Nicolai character says he had to fake his death in 1980 because the Cold War was coming to an end. Whatever events were happening in 1980, the Cold War's imminent end wasn't one of them. "},{"Title":"Assassins-That's What's Needed for this Picture 1/2*","Date":"27 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Totally confusing and miserable film depicting the so called execution of a man, who 15 years later, suddenly reappears. Seems that he wanted to be thought of as dead as the cold war was ending.The story or plot is not clear as to what is going on here. Sly Stallone, Julianne Moore and Antonia Banderas, with hair in curls, is given an unusually poor script to work with. What is exactly going on here?There is plenty of shooting along the way with deadly results. 4 police officers succumb as well as Moore's innocent neighbor,who was in the wrong place at the wrong time. In fact, after seeing this mess of a film, most viewers will also believe that they were unfortunate to be there as well.Banderas is total wacko here and pumps bullets all over the place. His survival after being shot numerous times and falling through layers of a decaying building is inconceivable at best. "}{"Title":"Ok action flick","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is a what if kind of movie.. it has loads of talent with Stallone, Banderas, and Stone..but something is missing..it has its suspenseful moments but not enough..the rivalry between old timer Stallone and hot shot (no pun intended) Banderas could've been written better.. Overall its an ok movie good to watch if you have nothing better to do or if you are a fan of any of the stars on a scale of one to ten..a 4 "},{"Title":"A strangely lifeless and stupid film","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Robert is a season hitman who is sent on a job where the mark is killed by another, younger hitman Miguel.  On another job Miguel also completes first, however one of the targets is a young female computer hacker who Robert decides to protect as he retires.  However Miguel wants to finish the job but also get a reputation by killing the famous Robert Rath.When this came out at the cinema (all those years ago) it had no preview tape for the magazines etc to review.  And it's clear to see why.  This film is daft and has only formulaic action scenes to save it.  The plot could have been interesting and was written by the now world famous Wachowski brothers.  However the rivalry between the old and new assassins is wasted and we are left with big dumb action scenes to fill the void.  However this are not great &#150; all OTT and lacking any form of logic at all.  It's a shame because you can see how the scenes between the two men could have been better and you wonder what the Wachowski brothers could have done with this with different actors.Stallone is a rock.  Literally he is made of Stone here and I never got a feel for his character.  On the opposite end of the scale, Banderas seems to be in a different movie and hams it up wildly &#150; although at least he's lively.  Moore is a great actress but you wouldn't know it from this &#150; she's got nothing to do and her boredom shows.Overall this has bangs and booms if that's all you want.  God knows it has very little plot, logic, sense, excitement, tension or characters.  A strangely lifeless film. "}]