[{"Title":"A respectful and intelligent film","Date":"27 August 2004","Score":"52 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I don't know much about Claude Chabrol's cinema. I've seen seven or eight of his dozens of films, but I remember them quite well, especially Violette Nozière, Le boucher and La rupture. Many years after these, La cérémonie is a serene work, the construction of a mature man who avoids making artificial judgments or explaining motivations of his characters, and tending traps to his audiences to keep them interested in what he's narrating. In an economic way, with well-chosen details he gives us everything needed in a story that deals with psychological disturbances and profound social disparity. I do not see this movie as a thriller nor do I see the connection with Alfred Hitchcock. While Hitchcock could almost ruin his forays into psychological landscapes (like Simon Oakland explaining Norman Bates' behavior in Psycho or placing clues that led to nowhere) and very rarely treated social issues, Chabrol prevents from recurring to psychological clichés and gives us subtle gestures to illustrate the class struggle the way the rich daughter returns the handkerchief to the post-office clerk after cleaning her filthy hands; the way the post-office clerk throws back an envelope to the bourgeois father. A few times Chabrol is not so subtle and he shows tension even between persons of the same class the way the poor maid and the post-office clerk despise the miserly charity of an old Catholic couple, the way the rich father protests when giving his son a ride to school... Using this strategy, all the portraits are compassionate the members of the rich family seem as pleasant as the two poor women when they share the little they have. When the climax arrives -the daughter of the bourgeois family discovers (part of) the maid's secret and, in return, the maid reveals she also knows something about the young woman- there is little else Chabrol can add, but only guide us to the conclusion. Maybe there is a much too obvious cut from the two women with no food at home, to the dinner table where the rich family finished a tasty meal. That's all we need, in case we want an explanation to why the way the two women act in the last scenes. All the elements are there for us to find answers or make interpretations if we want to do so. Not too many filmmakers today treat audiences as intelligent human beings and invite them to participate in the creative process adding the absent information, with the benefit of more than a century of cinematic tradition and &#150;if we care- reflections on the way things are today in imbalanced societies. When La cérémonie was over, I was very pleased not only did I watch a movie directed with brains, but I felt treated with respect by Claude Chabrol. Not frequent in much of today's cinema, a respectful film has great merit. "},{"Title":"Pessimistic view of humanity","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"28 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Claude Chabrol,  one of the leading lights of the French New Wave, faded into a series of unimaginative throwaway flicks and obscurity (peppered with moments of worthiness such as Blood Sisters )until storming once again into the limelight with this claustrophobic psycho-thriller adaptation.Like Heavenly Creatures and Fun this film is anchored around the destructively intense relationship between two female leads the apparently insipid family housemaid Sophie (Sandra Bonnaire) and the sparky but cumulatively obnoxious postmistress Jeanne (Isabelle Huppert). They both, it transpires, have potentially murderous secrets in their past involving the incineration of unwanted relatives (a child and a father). After a roundabout, deliberately vague confession to each other they erupt into childish laughter and it seems their relationship is cemented in their mutual utter lack of remorse.There is no guilt felt by either woman for any of their crimes be it spite, neglect, theft, opening other's mail, arson or even murder. This is because, primarily though Jeanne's obsessive class angst and Sophie's obsessive paranois, they justify their stance and actions with an us against them the world self-righteous fervour. Jeanne describes all her - increasingly erratic - behaviour as a good deed and the equaly unstable Sophie believes her.Every role is acted impeccably by some of the leading lights of French cinema. Along with Bonnaire and Huppert, arguably the best French actresses working today,  Jacqueline Bisset plays the bourgeouse lady of the house for whom Jeanne works. She sees herself as a kind and understanding employer, providing glasses and a television for her taciturn domestic. However this gesture is interpreted as patronising by the illiterate Jeanne.It's through minot details such as this that character exposition arises . The two principals are painted with tiny, finely detailed brushstrokes while everyone around them is painted with broad strokes. This intentional disparity brings us uncomfortably closer to the unhinged worlds of Jeanne and Sophie. Worlds which are revealed slowly, subtly and manipulatively.La Ceremonie is based of a Ruth Rendell novel, Judgement in Stone. Rendell is an archetypal British writer and I think that if  La Ceremonie was a British film with British actors and a skilful British director it would have been a very different, darker and more disturbing movie. Having said this, Chabrol, with his distinctly French sensibilities and post nouvelle vague expertise brings other qualities to the story and makes this a remarkable film. Chabrol avoided darkness for the sake of it in favour of a highly sophisticated level of characterisation and build-up. The climax, however it was filmed, could never be anything less than shocking.Ultimately la Ceremonie presents a pessimistic view of humanity bleak, depressing and disturbing. Even Bisset's family don't come off well with their selfishly consumereist and blinkered middle class lifestyles.This and the high degree of audience manipulation means the film leaves a bad taste in the mouth but there's no denying it's an egregious work of art. "},{"Title":"No angels in this movie","Date":"29 November 2000","Score":"35 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  In La Cérémonie one of my favourite actresses, Virginie Ledoyen, not only gets to play a vital role, but also share a movie  with her favourite actress (Isabelle Huppert). Huppert plays the other vital role.A rich family is looking for a housekeeper. They choose Sophie (Sandrine Bonnaire), a slightly cold woman. Much sooner than the family we find out why she's so cold she can't read. Her employers are Georges Lelièvre and his second wife. They have a son and (from his previous marriage) a daughter Melinda (played by Virginie). Melinda looks at Sophie as somebody who helps around the house (rather than 'the maid' as her parents call Sophie). Every now and then Melinda tells Sophie she shouldn't let her father walk over her. Melinda likes her father, but thinks of him as a fascist. She isn't the only one the lady from the postal office (Jeanne, Huppert's role) thinks so too. But soon we find out she hates all the people with money. Georges hates Jeanne too he's sure she opens and reads his mail. He also mistrusts her because her child was badly burnt (even though Jeanne was cleared - because there was no proof she wounded her child on purpose).But wait, there's more Sophie's father died in a fire. Sophie was interrogated, but soon dropped off the suspects' list. Sophie and Jeanne feel there's a bond between them because of their past (nobody could prove we had anything to do with it). The longer Sophie knows Jeanne, the ruder she becomes.Director Claude Chabrol doesn't pass judgment. He doesn't tell us whether Jeanne and Sophie are guilty or not. He only shows them how this affects the rest of their lives and of the lives of the Lelièvre family. Because it soon becomes clear that Jeanne wants revenge and tries to get Sophie on her side. Jeanne is revengeful and full of contempt, Sophie gets ruder all the time, Georges expects too much of Sophie and his wife is incredibly posh. You don't get angels in this movie. But it is Melinda who is crucial to how you watch this film (she's the most 'normal' character). Melinda is the bridge between her parents and Sophie. It's Melinda who finds out Sophie's secret. And Melinda is the person responsible for the crescendo and denouement of the film.Chabrol films this in his usual style the camera likes to slide around the house. It observes. The viewer is the one who can decide who's to blame more for what happens. The viewer is always right. (Wait a second... no, I'll take that back.)  "},{"Title":"Intriguing Film","Date":"10 September 2005","Score":"26 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is one of those films that I happened upon, late one night and I could not take my eyes off of it. The characters are very enigmatic and I kept hoping that more would be revealed about the two lead characters (Bonnaire and Huppert)shadowy past experiences. Claude Chabrol demonstrates his ability to be France's Alfred Hitchcock with this picture. I kept wondering where the direction of this story was going and I was shocked at the turn of events at the ending. It was a film that had me guessing, at certain points, surprised at other points, but the main feeling was intrigue. I kept wondering what was going to happen next and what each turn of events might mean. The minute that it was over, I am thinking, I don't know if I liked this film or not, but I know I want to watch it again. Like I've already stated, while watching this movie, you get the feeling that something sinister is waiting around the corner, your just not really sure what it is going to be or how it's going to manifest.Sandrine Bonnaire, Isabelle Huppert and Jacqueline Bisset are all excellent in their roles and carry their performances very well. A very intriguing and enigmatic film. "},{"Title":"Don't read too many user comments.  Just see it!","Date":"13 June 2001","Score":"24 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I watched this on video without reading the plot summary on the video box (or the user comments here), and I highly recommend seeing it without knowing too much about the plot.  It is a gripping, Hitchcockesque character portrayal that slowly builds great tension and a sense of foreboding.  Let all the clever foreshadowing pique your imagination;  the ending will be that much more effective.    "},{"Title":"Sandrine Bonnaire Is Perfect","Date":"23 February 2006","Score":"21 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I love Sandrine Bonnaire. Not love her in the sell my possessions and move to Paris love her, but love her in movies. In this movie especially. Every second she is on the screen, I was riveted to her. Her somewhat jerky and stiff physical mannerisms, her plain but beautiful face. And even though from the start we sense that her character is odd, creepy even, we can also feel her almost childlike panic and pain early on when we learn she can't read. It's enormously moving, and it creates a sympathetic bond with her that complicates how we view the events that follow. I just love her, and that probably clouded my overall estimation of the film. That's not to say the film is otherwise weak. It's not. The exploration into the class conflict between the rich and their help was excellent. And so was the portrayal of the sociopathic personality, shifting from sweet smiles to cold-bloodedness in a process devoid of emotion. Chilling, especially so when the sociopath is a waifish beauty. It's a very good movie made great by Sandrine Bonnaire's performance. "},{"Title":"Stark, naturalistic shocker, brilliantly presented","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"18 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" In this character study of two hateful middle-aged women (not so middle-aged in the movie, however, as in the novel by Ruth Rendell) we are made to fathom the bad that may befall the good.Claude Chabrol's direction is clean, crisp and uncluttered--which isn't always the case, witness his Madame Bovary (1991), which is a bit too leisurely and L'Enfer (1993) which muddles a whole lot. Maybe it's the editing. Anyway this is more like his quietly brilliant Une affaire de femmes (1988) with a fine script and striking performances by Sandrine Bonnaire and Isabelle Huppert, handsomely supported by Jacqueline Bisset, Jean Pierre Cassel and the very pretty Virginie Ledoyen.Bonnaire plays Sophie, an intense taciturn woman harboring dark secrets, whom the Leliévres have hired to cook and keep house at their country home. Bisset is Catherine Leliévre and Cassel her husband. They exist in bourgeois heaven avec matrimonial bliss with two teenagers, a family so closely knit and so charmingly together that they watch a two-part production of Mozart's Don Giovanni on TV, just the four of them cosily on the couch.Well, this sort of unobtainable happiness doesn't sit well with Jeanne (Huppert) who is a lowly postal clerk living alone whose past includes the (accidental?) killing of her four-year-old daughter. Jeanne takes a fancy to the Leliévre's strange new maid with the idea of showing her something besides work. They strike up a fateful friendship that we know is leading to something horrible.Huppert is as good as I've seen her, which is very good indeed. She is particularly striking here in an uncharacteristic role as a spiteful, working class woman with a heart of vengeance against anybody better off than she is. There is just a touch of sly irony in her performance suggesting that she is having a particularly good time playing the nasty. Bonnaire's stark performance as the unbalanced and humorless, reclusive Sophie will remain etched in your brain. Apart they are like inert, harmless chemicals. Together they catalyze one another and become brazen and explosive. The story, filled with little foreshadowing of the tragedy to come, gilds the lily of our tristesse by making the Leliévres so very, very nice. We are reminded of the violent hatred by the proletariat toward the privileged classes, in this case acted out by two loonies against an innocent, but representative family, echoing not only the Russian Revolution but even more so the French Revolution, now two hundred years old.What I am trying to figure out why this is called La Cérémonie. Maybe it is a ceremony of execution.(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"Inferiority killed the fat-cat","Date":"16 February 2006","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I think that by the end of this film there can be no doubt that both women carry homicidal tendencies. Their 'revenge' on the family was brutal and thoroughly undeserved in my opinion.The family themselves are a paradigm of a modern, loving unit. The parents are happy to let their children drive, smoke and have boyfriends back to the house, they dine together and occasionally sit down together to watch opera on their enormous television. They are well off and bourgeois, but they do not treat Sophie with disrespect. Even upon discovering her illiteracy Melinda is sympathetic and offers help, although it could have been perceived as patronising by the ever victimised Sophie. If there has to be a villain within the family then it is the father. He complains about her once or twice and tries to ban Jeanne from the house. It is he, also, who fires her in the end, but this decision is justified in my opinion after her underhanded behaviour towards Melinda.If the family are innocent then Jeanne and Sophie certainly are not. At first Sophie is presented sympathetically struggling to pronounce 'pouvez' alone in her room with a children's' reading book, and we share in her relief when the note she is agonising over is read aloud. This sympathy is instantly lost, however, when she is discovered and tries to blackmail Melinda.It appears to be Jeanne's influence which turns her into such a rebel. It is Jeanne who instigates the ridiculous purging of people's donations in the name of the 'Secours Catholiques', and it is in reference to Jeanne's ban from the house that Sophie remarks 'Je ne vais pas l'obeyir' (I am not going to obey him). They also ransack the house at the end as a pair. They are capable of acting as rebels alone Jeanne's reaction to the father's complaint at the post office, Sophie eavesdropping on Melinda's conversation, but the end proves that it is when they are together that they become the most extreme. It is Sophie who fires the first shot, suggesting that she is not just under Jeanne's influence, but that she is also a driving force in the couple's actions.As regards an 'us vs them' ideology, possibly alluring to some sort of socialist revolutionary slant on the film, there is some evidence certainly the contrast between her rickety 2CV and the cars that the family drive, and the fact that Sophie is under their employ to begin with shows a level of social hierarchy. But as for the oppression of the proletariat, there is no evidence that Sophie is shown any disrespect, their revolution to me is more of a cold blooded massacre. In order to have an us versus them scenario there has to be some opposition on each side; this situation appears more of an 'us ambushing them unprovoked'. The fact that Jeanne is killed and that the tape recorder is found is not to show the plight of a futile revolution, but instead to provide justice, to show that shooting a whole family for no good reason does not go unpunished.Instead of the idea of an 'us vs them' struggle, I saw the film as a played out inferiority complex. Sophie was convinced they were out to get her because of her illiteracy, and she built up such a victimised view of the world that it was impossible to conceive of that people were prepared to look past it. Although obviously capable of violence on her own, given her suspect past, it is the meeting with Jeanne, who has an irrational hatred of the rich, and a similar paranoia that they hate her back, that acts as the catalyst for the blood bath finale. "},{"Title":"Complex Psychological Thriller","Date":"6 January 2005","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Based on Ruth Rendell's Judgment in Stone, French auteur Claude Charbol transplanted this quintessentially English thriller about class and guilt to France, where he can fire more bullets at his favorite target - the French bourgeoisie. Without giving too much away, the story unfolds at a slow pace to reveal the class divisions and complex psychological issues that drive the characters' motivations. Centring on an illiterate maid, Sophie, who goes to desperate lengths to hide her disability from her employers, the wealthy Lelievre family, she eventually strikes a bond with the local postmistress who has mysterious grudge against her friend's employers. This film provided Chabrol with plenty of opportunities to criticize the disaffected bonhomie of the Levlievre family, but at times his presentation of some members of the Levlievres actually enlists our sympathy and therefore strikes a blow to the validity of his critique of French bourgeoisie values. Perhaps this was his intent to create more ambiguity than most psychological thrillers in this genre would allow. It's worth watching for the climax alone which has a delicious twist worthy of a mass-market Hollywood sequel. "},{"Title":"Contrived Thriller","Date":"22 March 2011","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A rich French family hires a mousy maid who has some peculiar traits. It starts out as a nice character study, with Bonnaire creating a sympathetic figure as a young woman who struggles with her illiteracy but is too ashamed to to let anyone know about it. In the last act, however, the film goes south, turning into a silly thriller. The ending is particularly contrived and ridiculous. Bonnaire is quite good as the maid, as is Bisset (speaking in French) as her kindly employer. In fact the whole cast is fine. Chabrol is regarded as the French Hitchcock, but he lacks the master's skill for building suspense with wit and subtlety. "}{"Title":"A long, slow ride to an implausible destination.","Date":"6 December 2011","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Lelievre family is cultured. In case you missed that there is an extended scene towards the end where the family gathers in full formal evening clothes to watch Mozart?s Don Giovanni in front of the television. Their new maid and her postal friend, not so much. Sandrine Bonnaire plays the shy, illiterate new maid under the worst haircut since Jim Carey and Jeff Daniels in ?Dumb and Dumber.? As Walt Disney has taught us, beware of those with bad hair and teeth - they are the bad guys. Sophie and Isabelle Hubert as the postal Jeanne spend the first 95 minutes of the film building a Thelma and Louise feminist empowerment through senseless violence relationship which finally boils over in the last extended scene. Although the film suggests both characters have come to their present positions after murdering an employer and a daughter respectively in their past lives the long, slow build-up to the fin does not give enough hints to make the naked violence they eventually commit seem keeping in character. The Lelievres, including the radiant Jacqueline Bisset, are neither snooty enough to give a sense of schadenfreude when the inevitable happens or likable enough that we are rooting for them to expunge Sophie before it is too late. In short, this is a slow boil in the extreme, nearly nothing happens in the first 50 minutes and when it finally does, we are not emotionally committed enough to care. "},{"Title":"Still Impressive After Watching for the Third Time Sixteen Years Later","Date":"30 December 2011","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The upper-class owner of a gallery Catherine Lelievre (Jacqueline Bisset) hires the efficient and quiet maid Sophie Bonhomme (Sandrine Bonnaire) for working in the family manor in the countryside of France. Her husband Georges Lelievre (Jean-Pierre Cassel), who is an opera lover, her daughter Melinda (Virginie Ledoyen) and her teenage son Gilles (Valentin Merlet) welcome Sophie and appreciate her work. Sooner Sophie befriends the postmistress Jeanne (Isabelle Huppert), who is a bad egg and encourage Sophie to rebel against her employers, but the maid stays submissive. However, Sophie is ashamed of a secret and feels uncomfortable in many situations, finding a way to hide her secret. When Georges tells to Sophie that he does not want Jeanne in his house, Sophie stands up against him. Melinda discovers her secret and Sophie blackmails her, but Melinda tells her parents what has happened. Georges fire Sophie and she returns to the house later with Jeanne on the rampage with tragic consequences.La Cérémonie is one of the best films of Claude Chabrol and it is still impressive after watching for the third time sixteen years later. The unexpected violent conclusion is probably the source of inspiration for Michael Haneke's Funny Games of 1997. It is impossible to the viewer to be not affected by the despicable behavior of Sophie and Jeanne. My vote is nine.Title (Brazil) Mulheres Diabólicas (Evil Women) "},{"Title":"resentment of deep-seated anger and guilt presented upon two working class women with not so nice backgrounds and their revenge","Date":"8 April 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Did anyone see Murderous Maids? I saw that before I saw this and felt it had the same sinister undertones. Murderous Maids, also French and yet a true story came out a few years ago in 2002 I think and La Ceremonie came out in 1995. I honestly felt extremely disturbed when I watched this movie,(maybe because I saw the aforementioned one first!) esp. when the two women went back collect Sophie's things from her former employer after she was fired for both women to become this Thelma & Louise to get revenge on the family. That is the product of good acting of course and the rest of the cast was perfect. Jacqueline Bisset spoke French like a native speaker. Also you knew they were both up to no good when they seemed to bond closer to the beginning of the movie although Sophie is more reluctant to reveal much about getting away with murder which wasn't proven than Isabel Huppert's character. Both admit their sins to each other in a dry accusatory way which makes them trust each other. It seems like the characters were all connected in a commentary of class, charity and the attitudes present in this very homogenous (to use Jacqueline Bisset's character to describe the opera they later watch) French society-- like the priest, the people donating old clothes and the sort of hypocrisy of the Catholic Church feeling guilty about helping the poor--characters over and over saying it's good to help the poor yet the two main bad girl characters are volunteers at a church not because they are religious but because they want the old cast offs from the rich. Nevertheless the resentment boils over from all the suspicions from the outside and deep seated in them so that they want to get revenge on the richer than they are as some sort of twisted justice which only results in non-fulfillment and frustration, symbolic first as in Sophie's inability to read and write and brings them nowhere. "},{"Title":"Did not watch ending","Date":"15 May 2010","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I did not watch the ending because I was so disappointed. Towards the end, things became ominous, as Sophie and Jeanne, the maid and the postal clerk, happened to have both been, coincidentally, accused of crimes and were acquitted. This coincidence just wasn't believable, and was a contrived plot twist that didn't belong. it spoiled the nice characterization in the early part of the movie, which I found thoroughly enjoyable. There was no judgment on the characters, initially, just the tension between the household and the servant, which is pretty marked in a French household, apparently. Sophie was intermittently treated as if she were not even there, and then as if she were a distant, poor relation. That the movie degenerated quickly into a disturbing us-versus them joke was extremely disappointing. Unfortunately, many writers seem to think that readers or audiences will not be satisfied without lurid, exploitive plots.The acting was good, but, again, actors should be careful not to choose roles that are so stereotyped and really ridiculously prejudiced. "},{"Title":"Another intriguing thriller from the great Claude Chabrol","Date":"29 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" La Cérémonie is a strange film and difficult to pigeon-hole. The film is directed by the great Claude Chabrol and based on the novel 'A Judgement in Stone' by Ruth Rendell. The location for the film has been moved from the UK to Chabrol's native France, and most of the film takes place in a small, isolated village. The film is a rather slow burning drama, but the interest is kept up by the intriguing characters and social study. The story itself really allows the director to do what he does best; as it provides a handful of intriguing characters that are able to manipulate their situation into a thrilling climax. The film focuses on the well-off Lelievre family. They hire Sophie as a maid. She's a strange and quiet woman, and is harbouring a dark secret; her illiteracy. While out in the village one day, she meets Jeanne; a post office worker jealous of anyone who is of a higher social standing than herself, and the two strikes up a friendship that eventually has a tragic result.The setting that Chabrol has chosen for the film really benefits the story as the isolation allows the director to focus purely on the characters. Sandrine Bonnaire is suitably strange in the lead role and while we are never allowed to learn a great deal about her character; the actress plays a very good part. Isabelle Huppert co-stars and really steals the show with her anarchistic character that provides a catalyst to all the mayhem. The film is very much of the slow burning variety but it's interesting throughout and we do get a good payoff at the end. The film has a point, although it does have to be said that it can become a little muddled at times. Chabrol does do a good job of showing the characters for who they are and getting the audience on the side of the right characters to allow a strong ending. It has often been said that this film isn't among the director's best work, and when a director has previously directed films such as The Breach, This Man Must Die and Wedding in Blood; it would be rather difficult for anything to break into that pack. La Cérémonie is a very good film, however, and certainly is recommended to Chabrol fans. "},{"Title":"A psychological thriller that you may not detect as such initially","Date":"9 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This 1995 Chabrol film is one of the dozen plus selections in the A tribute to Isabelle Huppert program in the Le French May festival in town. Depending on how you look at it, Huppert could be seen as a co-lead or supporting (albeit a BIG supporting) role. Those who are familiar with Sherlock Holmes stories (not that this one is along the same line) will recognize the assertion that something that initially looks odd or bizarre may ultimately lead to things much more ominous. The taciturn housekeeper Sophie (a chilling Sandrine Bonnaire) just hired by an upper class family is indeed a little odd but ordinary enough. Later, her strange behavior makes more sense as we discover that she is dyslexic, and hence withdrawn. Nor is her friendship with the nosy, busybody postal clerk Jeanne (an uncharacteristic but absolutely brilliant Isabelle Huppert) any real cause of concern for her employer, other than being a nuisance. More I will not say. The pleasure of watching this film is in the gradual discovery of the dark, sinister inside of the human mind and the almost imperceptible but very real mounting of tension culminating in a devastating conclusion.One additional bonus to me, who is not a regular follower of the French movie scene, is seeing Jacqueline Bisset (playing the elegant, chic employer) still retaining much of her charm 25 years (the time this movie was made) after Airport (1970). "},{"Title":"good but not exactly surprising","Date":"27 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This was a pretty good movie and it was interesting to see Jacqueline Bisset in a French movie where she spoke exclusively in French (unlike in Truffaut's DAY FOR NIGHT). But, the conclusion of the movie was not exactly surprising for two reasons--first, the dust jacket of the DVD says the movie is about murder and secondly, even without that, it seemed obvious that the movie would end with a bang. I can't blame Chabrol et al for the problem with the dust jacket!The first half of the movie was rather dull and not exactly involving. Despite the occasionally ominous music, nothing materialized. The second half picked up steam, but was also marred because, on occasion, the people just seemed a little too stupid to be believable. There were ample warnings that these two women were potentially dangerous but the victims blindly walked into harms way. Because of this, the movie just misses the mark. "},{"Title":"Sophie, serve more quiches to the guests","Date":"6 July 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" These are Mme Bisset's words to their servant Bonnaire who is paid a pittance to fetch and carry for this refined family on her day off when she is supposed to be visiting postwoman Huppert. Sophie just leaves anyway when Bisset's back is turned. Without descending into pastiche, Chabrol manages to portray the class struggle between the wealthy Lelievre family and the humble aupair and employee of La Poste in a highly realistic way. The Lelievres do not even know when they are putting on Sophie and Huppert just hates them because they are rich and she is poor, Si j'avais une dixieme de ce qu'ils ont... Such is modern France even today where the wealthy are despised and the poor wallow in envy and self-pity. Yes, it's obvious that matters will come to a head and the sting in the ending is superb and quire faithful the Ruth Rendell novel. What is especially interesting about this film is that you end up genuinely wavering between sympathy and dislike for both sides of the class struggle. The Brittany landscape is portrayed quite bleakly to great effect setting the tone for this grim and superbly executed tale. "},{"Title":"Perfect... but heartless","Date":"3 March 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" How far can a chip on your shoulder take you?, could be this film's alternative title! What can I say... it's stylish, immaculately acted (the two lead actresses, Sandrine Bonnaire and Isabelle Huppert, are outstanding. But then, that's not saying much as we're talking about two of the world's most talented artists), the pacing is perfect, the plot unravels without ever a hitch or a loose end, the script is top class... but it has a quality of coldness that to me, makes so many of the Claude Chabrol films I see fall short of memorable. In its perfection, it's a heartless film. I don't mean that the story is heartless, but the execution of it. Perhaps, after all, it could have done with a few flaws, with a touch of imperfection, something which is the mark of a work of art created by human hands. Perhaps, Claude, the slickness has been mastered too well lately? "},{"Title":"The greatest film of the 1990s,period.","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"23 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Claude Chabrol may just be the best and most underrated filmmaker working today. This masterly thriller is miles above the childish junk that passes for suspense today,like THE TALENTED MR. RIPLEY. The performances, especially by Isabelle Huppert and Sandrine Bonnaire, are magnificent, and Chabrol's direction is masterful and rigorous without being showy. The film gathers force as it moves inexorably towards its violent and shattering conclusion, stopping along the way for delicious moments of black comedy. The influence of both Alfred Hithcock and Fritz Lang can be felt in Chabrol's mis-en-scene, but he has long since come out from under their shadows to become his own man cinematically. A classic. "}{"Title":"Subtle Social Criticism Embedded In Taut Character Mystery","Date":"20 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is a deliciously fiendish film, an unusual mystery film which does not focus on plot or suspense, but on character development, on the difference in social classes. Very odd relationships evolve when a quiet young girl who seems enormously pliable is hired by a very smart, liberal woman in need of help at her isolated estate; the acting is first rate, with Sandrine Bonnaire quietly unsettling, and quirky Isabella Huppert disturbing as her friend, a nosy post office worker. The music of Mozart floats through the elegant setting where Bonnaire is hired, contrasting with the garish noise that emits from the second hand television which she has been loaned for her dark attic room; Director Chabrol assumes his audience is adult, isn't after explosions and graphic sex, but be warned that there is disturbing content in this film which might disturb some viewers "},{"Title":"One of the best Chabrols there are!","Date":"14 July 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The duet Jeanne-Sophie, like the one of Natural born killers, is one difficult to understand from normality, but in the hands of two gifted actresses and a malevolent script, it is so believable it rises to perfection. I see no drawbacks in this charming gem. Of course the Lelievre family deserves accolades for being so haughty and predictable, we all know or have befriended people like them. Georges overacts a bit, but is so funny one forgives him. Jacqueline Bisset, we all know it, is one of the most elegant women on earth, which makes her fit to her role like a comfortable glove, or one of her splendid dresses worn by her. Just as beautiful Virginie Ledoyen, from En plein coeur among others, plays here a character completely different from the aforementioned film, a rebellious daughter with a social conscience. Dr. Cleckley on his famous treatise on psychopathy, Mask of sanity, writes about how a schizophrenic can be used/ predated by a psychopath who uses her as a muscle to do the criminal acts, while she masterminds everything. Having watched the film again, it is my contention we witness an alliance of the sort in this film. Use of classical music is intelligent you'll never listen to Mozart's Don Giovanni or Britten's Cello Concerto again without remembering this film and probably, feeling some tension (if you're like me at least).My favourite character is the Priest. Like in most Chabrol's films, you can expect his portrayal of the church to be far from unbiased, but in this case at least it's so ridiculous it's funny. Watch his spectacles, and pompous way of talking and you can almost see old man Chabrol winking at us. I agree with IMDb reviewer epeck15 that Sandrine's jerky and stiff physical mannerisms plus that we can also feel her almost childlike panic creates a bond that's hard to forget afterwards. He/ she mentions sociopathy twice in the review too.Watch twice at least, leaving some time in between. Like a sip of fine Indian tea, this film only gets better each time you view it. "},{"Title":"An excellent and intriguing film.","Date":"1 March 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Chabrol's film is a clever dissection of the French bourgeoisie and its foibles. Bonnaire and Huppert are brilliant as the two social misfits whose individual peculiarities form into an unnerving and unsettling friendship. Sophie's illiteracy affects her pathologically, and we are never sure if it is her or the postmistress who have been opening the family's mail. The film has a violent and climactic ending which is the gradual result of the two women's alienation and eventual degeneration into killers. Outstanding.  "},{"Title":"Best Marxist Movie Of All Time","Date":"6 April 2016","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Story goes on two possible reading. There is one rich family and they hired a maid. They're always kind and worm to their maid. But she is always cold blooded, not welcoming the family's politeness. Then she meet this girl, become a good friend. As their friendship grow they become dangerous. They both have criminal history to their family etc. It seem like the story of outsider, mentally abnormal girl kill the harmless and also good family. Other reading is a Marxist one. And like Chabrol put it, actual reading of movie. On the one hand there this family who rich, never got any problem with the economic stuff, they just had problems about family stuff or food is not good enough. On the other hand in the same house, they have unhappy maid. There is always exploitation goes on. She is so unhappy or unsatisfied. And the family's kindness not effect the real situation in there. Family's polite attitude just about make their conscious feel good. There is no real effect to real situation. Then maid meet this joyfully friend of her, she find real peace. But more importantly she confront the real position of her. She will be hungry when there is no food. She needs to pick up mushrooms if she had to. Because kindness not fill her stomach. And that's the simple thing and if you'r not looking at the movie closely, you're gonna miss that point. Like Sophie can't realize that before meet Jeanne. That is the Marxist structure of movie and the life.And the Chabrol's work is so different the all Marxist movies and so hard the make it. Of course, Chabrol's method always about the making at least two possible reading to his films. But this one is so special among the Marxist movie. In my opinion, one of the best movies of all time. "},{"Title":"Different layers of psychopathic killing","Date":"19 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I indeed saw this movie about 20 years ago. At that time, I was shocked by its storyline and left me forever fear. I did not know it was one of the best films then. Now I watched it again and understood why. It brought me a lasting formidable memory beyond its time. I kept thinking about the difference of this movie among other psychopathic thrillers. Then it struck me that there was one layer i.e. social class inequality existed which others did not. Although, it had little bearing with the movie.Depicting psychopathic behaviors is always a fascinating subject to filmmakers. The reason might be it can portray human dark sides tensely without dramatizing the events. This movie made audiences chill to the bone because of it. It's a little eventful story until the last killing. However, it depicted the psychopathic behaviors correctly and truthfully. If you ever read those true crime stories committed by pairs like Cold Blood, Judgement Ridge, you would find the similarities between them. The intensity of fear gave to audiences was realistic enough to cause nightmares.There were no reasonable causes for those murders happened. The only reason they happened was because those psychopathics wanted to kill. They are human predators who always look for their next victims when the opportunity presents they would follow their animal instinct and take it. That was what happened in the end of the movie. The pretentious kindness and nice personalities were the cover for their demons. They took leisure from miseries of others which were also well documented in this film. It might be not understandable for normal mind sets. However, it's all too obvious to psychopathic ones.Somehow those reviews tended to pin the differences of social classes contributing to the killing. Nevertheless, I would differ from that. The reason is psychopathics might commit crimes without causes. Something triggers their nerves to commit heinous crimes most likely. As the unexpected tragedies unfolded, you can witness Sophie and Jeanne's apathy. It did not only give you why and also how. It's a powerful movie. "},{"Title":"a sterling slow-burner with a vicious message","Date":"9 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I have the most polarised feeling towards this Claude Chabrol's 1995 crime-drama based on Ruth Rendell's novel A JUDGEMENT IN STONE, it is a sterling slow-burner charting the irreconcilable contradictions between upper class and working class, and climaxes with a real unsettling crime asking for shock value, but one cannot immune to Chabrol's rather deliberate demonisation of proletariats by bluntly depicting those two low-class women, the maid Sophie (Bonnaire) and the postmistress Jeanne (Isabelle), as such nihilistic sociopaths, especially Sophie, who is so preoccupied by the shame that she is illiterate (which seems to be utterly unnecessary for a young girl, it is never too late to learn from the scratch, but no, she doesn't want to overcome her shortcoming, instead she hides it as if this is the final defence towards the collapse of her entire world) and acts like a complete ingrate, contrasting the benevolent Lelievre family, at least no one can nitpick their behaviours are over the boundary. Even for Jeanne, the rancor between her and Georges Lelievre (Cassel) is mutual, but his wife Catherine (Bisset) doesn't refuse her ask to a free- ride and his daughter Melinda (Ledoyen) even voluntarily fixes her engine malfunction for god's sake! It is enraging to watch a film flagrantly showboat its malign hidden agenda, but on the other hand, I adore the performances, Bonnaire, ever so reservedly emotive in her subdued character, once we are aware she is illiterate, viewers can appreciate more about the accurate nuances she conducts whenever there would a possibility to unveil her clinging secret. And sardonically, the Lelievre family doesn't care that at all, it never occurs to them illiteracy will be such a deal-breaker in Sophie's own recognition of self-worth, they only feel sorry for her, which shows Chabrol is relentless to disseminate the irony of these two classes' poles apart values, but really it is not sensible of him to resort to such a radical method to play up the revenge, it only reflects his narrow jaundice of the chasm between the rich and the poor, with a tacit leaning toward the former. Jeanne is the black sheep in the local community, a bad influence to antagonize Sophie against her employers, but unsubtly, they both have inexplicable accident/murder precedent, Jeanne seems be more like a fuse than an enabler for Sophie's final outburst, Huppert casts her versatile magnetism at her own sweet will, freewheeling in her loosey-goosey scorn towards the bourgeois-and-religious sanctimony and naturalistic-ally eloquent in her insinuating and sweet-talking, a proficient scene-stealerJean-Pierre Cassel and Jacqueline Bisset both tread a fine line between sympathetic and supercilious as the typical upscale couple, to contrast their ultimate victim identities and illicit compassion, so are Ledoyen and Merlet, who plays Gilles, Catherine's teenage son, they are no saints but together stand for a perfect family borne out of a second marriage, so Chabrol slyly brews the upshot which they don't deserve, not afraid to take aback his viewers, but at the end of the day, it is a cheap trick for his own tunnel vision of the class schism, a pessimistic and distorted view of humanity and a fair game doesn't match the excellency of its cast. "},{"Title":"Party likes it's 1789...","Date":"6 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Claude Chabrol's La Cérémonie, starring a few big names in French cinema, is a modern-day depiction of class warfare in all its glory. Remember 1789? Conditions have improved for low-class workers in French society, but rigid divisions are still firmly anchored in place. A maid and a postal worker team up to scream to the world We're not gonna take it anymore! in a bizarre twist on In Cold Blood. Here, too, the two killers would never have killed had they not become friends and found themselves in a place where the circumstances (including rifles ready at hand...) permitted their commission of ghastly crimes despite a total lack of premeditation on the part of either agent.This film is very well made, which is no surprise, given the director. It is also a scathing critique of classism while at the same time offering grist for the mills of those who find the persistent rifts in French society to be grounded in biological fact some people really are more intelligent and gifted than others. This depressing message can be heard above the din of gun shots mediocrity is and always will be mediocrity.Well worth watching by anyone interested in class divisions. "},{"Title":"Elegance in technique","Date":"9 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This was a masterful movie. I could relate the treatment with the earlier Chabrol movie - Masques. The movie starts off with very everyday sequences of a maid being hired into a very rich family. A post office worker befriends the maid and they start doing crazy things. For reasons of economic frustration and envy, the post office girl and the maid starts off with pranks and ends with shooting the family. The lower class is frustrated and hates the more well- off higher class. That is a truth that can arise unanticipated. The shooting scene was completely shocking. What did I find masterful? The way the movie starts off on a very everyday theme and suddenly assumes mammoth proportions and keeping the integrity. The way the movie brings out an uncomfortable overlooked truth - the truth of class hatred. The ending of the movie where the postal clerk picks up a tape recorder where the family was recording a ceremony and also ends up recording the shootout. The clerk gets killed , the cops arrive, find the tape, plays it while the maid walks out in the night. When the movie credits are being shown, the cop is playing the tape and the maid is trying to escape without being conspicuous.I don't think I have seen that kind of a scene earlier - there is a mastery to it. "},{"Title":"The housekeeper","Date":"30 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Elegant and sophisticated Catherine Lelievre is in a bind. She has been without a housekeeper for quite some time. The prospect of getting someone to come work in her suburban home as a live-in maid, appears to be Sophie, a young woman she interviews for the job as the story begins. The quiet Sophie shows promise, although Catherine does not emphasize she is taking her on a trial basis. Sophie turns out to be a terrific worker and a good cook to boot. There is one problem though, we realize she is an illiterate young woman who cannot read. Little written reminders pose a threat to her because she has no idea what is being asked for her to do. The generous LeLIevres offer to pay for her driving lessons, something she refuses because she has bad eyes. No problem, they will pay for an eye checkup! One day Sophie meets Jeanne, a woman that is a gossip and a snoop. She has the perfect job working at the post office where she is able to open the mail to her heart's content. Jeanne sees in Sophie a kindred spirit. What's more, she has discovered a secret the Lelievre's maid has told no one. Sophie was involved in a fire in the house where she was living with her older infirm father, who died in the sinister. Sophie, who might have done the deed, is not accused of anything. Yet Jeanne knows about it. Jeanne, a woman with a shady past, becomes Sophie's ally.In the meantime, things begin to change somewhat for Sophie at the Lelievres. One day, she decides to leave Catherine to fend for herself during a birthday party at the house because she must go out with Jeanne. Daughter Melinda discovers the problem with Sophie. Thinking the maid is dyslexic, she offers to help her, but Sophie overreacts by telling Melinda she knows she is hiding her pregnancy from her parents.Georges Lelievre finally explodes when he learns that Jeanne, the woman that has been reading his correspondence is being entertained at his house by Sophie. He fires her, but lets her stay for a few days. A bad decision that will backfire on him and the family. Jeanne, clearly upset by not being able to come to the house, visits one night as the family prepares to watch Don Giovanni on a televised broadcast which they are also recording on a portable device. That visit comes with terrible consequences for all the people involved.Claude Chabrol's adapted Ruth Rendell's novel A Judgment in Stone with Caroline Eliacheff, transferring the locale from England to his beloved Brittany. The adapters put more emphasis on the class differences between the well-to-do Lelievres and Sophie, even though the employers were more than generous. The novel had another flavor, but for those that have not read the original text, this is a wonderful way to get acquainted with the Ruth Rendell work. In fact, having read the novel years before the film came out, we went back to reread it after we watched the film.Sandrine Bonnaire is quite a contrast for the original Eunice Parchman. In the novel, Eunice is a vulgar woman whose attitude toward any kindness the people she worked for bestowed on her was received with resentment. The Sophie in the film version shows a more sophisticated approach, in comparison with Eunice. Ms. Bonnaire, one of France's leading actresses does what the director wanted of her, but it is hard to believe her Sophie could be illiterate. Working with Isabelle Huppert came easy for Claude Chabrol, after all, they collaborated a lot in the films they did together. Some of Ms. Huppert's best work can be seen in films directed by Chabrol. Jacqueline Bisset and Jean-Pierre Cassel are wonderful as the Lelievres. Virginie Ledoyen and Valentin Merlet play Melinda and Gilles respectively. Bernard Zitzermann's camera photographs the area in vivid detail, enhancing the film. The music score is by Matthieu Chabrol, the son of the director, a frequent collaborator. "},{"Title":"They couldn't prove anything.","Date":"15 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Claude Chabrol has made his share of brilliant (and just decent) human thrillers in his time - human as in mostly deliciously and mostly focused on characters, possibly more than the central plot - but few have been as nasty and dark as this is, La ceremonie. You think it might go somewhere in its tragic direction, but it's not so simple. Chabrol is toying with class here (he was a lifelong Communist, though opting to make these Hitchcock-inspired films as opposed to the kinds of films Godard made), and has a story that is a slow-burn. Slow-burn, I mean, that it doesn't start out looking like anything special a maid is hired by a wealthy French family in a village, with a family (mother, father, son, sometimes-around daughter) who are decent folks but, let's face it, rich. The maid is compliant and attentive and a great cook, and soon is befriended by the local post-master. It's suddenly becomes clear, as scenes go on bit by bit, that it's really an us vs them parable. And, as it turns out, it's something of a domestic horror film.The two of them become thick as thieves- or, rather, the maid looks to the post-master like an older sister, rebellious and 'I-don't-give-a-bleep' attitude that she responds to like a magnet. It's not that Sophie (Sandrine Bonnaire) is really a 'bad' person. That is, however, depending on what can be proved (she, along with Jeanne, a delightfully wicked and unconventional femme fatale played by Isabel Hupert, has some skeletons in the closet), and looking back at her character it's hard to tell who she really is. Is she really just a kind but illitterate girl taking odd jobs as a maid and housekeeper who gets put down a path that she can't escape but finds all too absorbing, or was she really bad from the start and she happened to find an outlet with Jeanne, a similar but more outgoing spirit? Chabrol leaves these questions about her in little slivers, like a cake of character left here, a little there.It's tricky, because in the first half hour of the film, when it's mostly just Sophie at the house with the Lelievre family, she seems decent enough, if a little 'odd' and hooked on watching TV, no matter what it is. But when Jeanne enters the picture it starts to unravel bit by bit, until Sophie, after blackmailing the daughter of the household (both have things to hide but Melinda is blood so that trumps all), is let go, just says 'screw it' and does whatever she wants with her best friend. It's in this last reel that we see a sense of evil happen that is not the usual kind seen in most movies, almost akin to the kind of banal, pleasant if still psychotic sense of self, that one saw in Haneke's Funny Games. Except this time Chabrol has a lot more respect for his audience's sense of the story and characters, and the horror is amplified by how matter-of-fact it appears on screen while put to a Mozart opera in the background. It's maturity chills to the bone, and the surprise- really in the details of chronological order- is a stunner.The performances help a great deal to get at Chabrol's intended mood. The family characters are made up of actors in a mode that is pleasant and cordial and understanding with the oft-subtext of rule of law and the father with his attitude towards Sophie (played by Jean-Pierre Cassel in just the right note of stern, commonplace superiority). In a way it helps that Bonnaire for the most part has a blank expression. She's never too sad, or too happy (save for around Hupert), or too angry. It's simply 'oh, that, yeah, I was fired, so on', so it makes sense, through the performance, that Sophie could be so impressionable. And it's thrilling to see Hupert in a role like this, where she gets to cut out and be as open as possible as an actor, tough and sarcastic, mean and rude, raw and emotional when Jeanne reveals the details about her son's death. It's once again really brave work from one of France's finest actresses.The tone by the end of La ceremonie is a far cry from a happy ending. Chabrol may attempt at giving a sliver of bittersweet, or perhaps (without trying to spoil too much) shared tragedy on display. But even if it is pessimistic about the human condition, it's nevertheless masterfully shot, written, paced, scored, acted, and directed. It never shouts out that it's a controversial movie, but it speaks to the 'Down With the Ruling Class' mentality that never loses its power. Without assuming too much or being flashy, it's one of the best uncompromising French drama-thrillers of its time. "}{"Title":"Engaging and intriguing","Date":"7 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A wealthy family hire a quiet maid, Sophie, who never really fits in with the household. She is clumsy at first and tries the patience of the man of the house. His wife, played by Jacqueline Bisset, is more understanding and gives her a chance, then Sophie meets the town's post office clerk, Jeanne, who is coarse and a rebel and dislikes the family. She starts to have an effect on Sophie with her ideas and ways influencing her. Her duty as the maid starts to deteriorate and she starts to become like Jeanne, being rude and stubborn. It is like a time bomb that has to go off, the tension in the house becoming unbearable, and the conclusion is shocking. It is engaging with good acting all round and a film that holds your attention. "},{"Title":"Uninspired","Date":"18 March 2013","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The performances were fine, Huppert in particular was a lot of fun to watch, but the camera direction was awful, completely chilly and remote like the worst of Haneke's work. The remove and coldness, this intentional distance leaving room for judgment from the filmmaker (and the audience) rather than more fluid and closer shots encouraging closeness and empathy, really made the whole thing lackluster, at best. Also, there were some very heavy handed and poorly drawn moments used to bash us over the head with the weight of Sophie's secret. Having not read the source material, I'll reserve my opinions on the script, but it felt to me like a completely uninspired outing and can only imagine Chabrol took the job only for the money as he seemed to never find anything that interested him in the story. "},{"Title":"A Study of Two Virtueless Individuals","Date":"12 December 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I find it difficult to recommend this film to anyone, though I am certain some will enjoy it, as evidenced by the reviews on IMDb. First there are those who consider the director, Chabrol, to be the French Hitchcock. Well, Hitchcock was the master of suspense. Does Chabrol display mastery in this film's portrayal of suspense? No, not even close, though the viewer might wonder throughout most of the film what possible point the film might have. I do not mean that in a necessarily negative way. Truly, the director's point of view, which might be revealed in the film's resolution, remains shrouded in mystery throughout, mostly because the film's story centers on two young women whose personalities appear to be monolithically hateful and purposeless, respectively.Then there are the film's views on social/economic classes. Whatever message Chabrol hoped to deliver about disparity between the classes, and the moralities inherent in those distinctions, is undercut and betrayed by his depiction of the two main characters, who have no moral viewpoint. A much better film for exploring the morality of class strata is Lina Wertmuller's Swept Away.Maybe Chabrol's other films come closer to Hitchcock's canon of suspense, but this one shares non of the master's touches. Hitchcock's Rope has a pair of antisocial protagonists, but they have purpose and a point of view, and that film is an intellectual game of wits. La Ceremonie is anti-intellectual and its inspiration for rebellion comes via a criminal misanthrope and her witless sidekick. "},{"Title":"A captivating adaptation of one of Ruth Rendell's best books","Date":"7 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A JUDGEMENT IN STONE is one of my favorite Ruth Rendell thrillers. She has a unique way of setting up a plot, frequently involving a main character with a flaw or pathology that drives the rest of the action to its inevitable conclusion.Interestingly, in this case, Rendell gives away the big ending AND the motive in the first sentence, and uses the remainder of the book to explain how they are related. But Chabrol chooses to let the story develop differently, taking his time to let us discover the motive for Sophie's discontent, and leaving the ending as a grim surprise.Chabrol jokingly refers to LA CEREMONIE as the last Marxist film, because it deals with the perceived conflict between the haves and the have-nots. (I thought more than once of the Leftist rhetoric that creates the kind of attitude shown by Sophie and her friend the hatred of the rich simply because of what they own, the emphasis on the unfairness of class differences, and the feeling of entitlement to whatever one can get by whatever means.) But it is really more of an anti- Marxist film, because the bourgeois characters come across as fairly normal, orderly, likable individuals, while the lower-class characters are petty, jealous, and most definitely unhinged. When we first meet Sophie, she seems a bit sullen and withdrawn, but as the film progresses we sense that there is evil at her core that is rising to the surface, spurred on by her friendship with the hostile postal clerk. I highly recommend that you read the book as a companion to viewing the film, because it will give you a more complete understanding of the characters. But Chabrol's version is meticulously paced, and expertly acted by an experienced cast. "},{"Title":"Good, but I felt it was classist","Date":"23 July 2012","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Sandrine Bonnaire stars as the shy, odd new maid of the Lelievre family (which includes Jean-Pierre Cassel and Jacqueline Bisset). She has some big secrets. She ends up befriending the local postal clerk (Isabelle Huppert), a gossip who has a grudge against the Lelievres and has some dark secrets of her own. I quite enjoyed this film, at least for a long while. Bonnaire and Huppert are very good in it. But it really started to bug me in its shocking final act. It seems to me the whole point of it boils down to poor people are awful. It feels like someone still had a chip on their shoulder about that whole French Revolution thing. It left just an awful taste in my mouth, and I'm not that sure I liked it at all. "},{"Title":"Interesting yet disturbing film","Date":"2 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I was intrigued by this French film, not least because of its unexpected climax.The performances are more than competent but not outstanding, although Jacqueline Bisset and Isabelle Huppert stand out.There are many interesting social comments within the film and it leaves the viewer with a sense of unease at the open-ended questions it poses. "},{"Title":"simmering sense of darkness","Date":"11 December 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Catherine Lelievre (Jacqueline Bisset) hires quiet Sophie Bonhomme (Sandrine Bonnaire) as a maid to her isolated family country home. She gives the postmistress Jeanne (Isabelle Huppert) a ride but apparently Catherine's husband Georges doesn't like her. The couple doesn't have any children together but they each bring a teenager from their previous relationship. Jeanne befriends the illiterate Sophie and helps read for her. Secrets are revealed and the situation boils over.The first act is slow. It should stick with Sophie more in the beginning and bring in Jeanne's friendship with Sophie earlier. Isabelle Huppert has great simmering depths. I would love to have more of her. Sandrine Bonnaire plays it quietly but she needs more buried anger. If she actually plays it even quieter, I think I could imply more of her hidden violence. There is a constant simmering sense of danger that slowly boils over. "},{"Title":"surpasses all that chabrol has ever done before or since","Date":"26 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The underdogs finally have enough and, partly taken by surprise, they act. This does not happen often. In fact, as long as the underdogs have anything to preserve in their lives, it is not likely to occur but how can you be sure when that is the case? Is it the case when the rich have ten times more than the poor or is it first when they have a thousand times more and what is left for the poor is not worth having no matter how you swing it? The strong urge for justice can be suppressed, maybe even for hundreds of years if it is done intelligently with the participation of religion and whatnot. But when that doesn't function, what then? Well, this is one such what then?. Maybe it was intended to be something else but fortunately that did not ring through too much and instead a little masterpiece was saved for posterity. "},{"Title":"Amusing, fascinating and deadly","Date":"18 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A fine film that runs at a leisurely pace and allows us to gradually grasp just how deep and venomous is the divide within modern society and perhaps particularly in rural France where not a lot seems to have changed. The poor misfit taken on as housekeeper/skivvy, art first has all our sympathy but soon we are made aware of darker things. Isabelle Huppert skips along and lightens the mood before, ultimately having just the opposite affect. The rich family do not seem evil but it is just that now and again it is apparent just how they do look down upon their 'robot'. but robot she certainly is not, as all will find out. Amusing, fascinating and deadly. "},{"Title":"Masterfully directed Chabrol thriller.","Date":"28 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Taken as a psychological thriller, this is a marvellously well-made piece of work. Chabrol is a master of subtle storytelling, and even though you know exactly how the film will end right from the first few frames, he still manages to work up some suspense and creepiness. Taken as a serious social statement about class distinctions, it's a complete failure (the supposed target of the film, the bourgeois family, comes off as very likable). So take it as a thriller, and you'll be fine.   (***) "}{"Title":"An unlikely lumpenproletarian rebellion","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  If this is what class war might look like I don't want to take part in it. It reminds of the old adage that no one can hate one's own sort than oneself so with the veteran bourgeois film maker Claude Chabrol and his social class. I really prefer the goofy irreverence and comical petit bourgeois rebellion against its own a la Godard in his more salient 60's films. Still, this is one of the most coherent, well executed and unsettling of Chabrol's innumerable films. The three grand dames of French cinematography are all phenomenal, especially the unlikely cast lumpenproletarian bitches Bonaire and Huppert. I always marvel at how natural European but French actresses in particular are when compared to so many Anglo-American ice queens. In comparison American actresses look and act dead and lifeless as if dollar schemes are the only things circulating through their clogged chakras (including the secret ones!). Vive La France! One other thing why this title La Ceremonie? "},{"Title":"A perfect description of everyday envy","Date":"6 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A wonderful movie to teach us a lesson about the destructive power of everyday envy and a covered psychosis.  Both women are psychotic, and the psychosis and a powerful envy is covered - as usual - by a common and simple life, one as a maid and other as a post office worker in a small village. The movie tell us how the killer instinct of human race is powerful and prominent, even under certain disguises! Don't miss the scene of the books being shot by an ignorant woman, a perfect symbolism to a great movie! "},{"Title":"Maid Made to do everything.","Date":"1 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A Best Actress César for Isabelle Huppert, and six more nominations including Best Actress Sandrine Bonnaire, Best Supporting Actor Jean-Pierre Cassel, and Best Supporting Actress Jacqueline Bisset, along with nominations for writing, directing, and Best Film. There were a lot of great films in 1995, and no one dominated. This film is in great company. There weren't any categories left for Virginie Ledoyen (8 Women, The Valet), who was also great in the film.Sophie (Bonnaire) goes to work as a maid for the Lelievre's and tries to hid the fact that she is illiterate. She makes friends with the postal clerk (Huppert), who gets her into trouble.Things really get ugly at the end, with all indications that Huppert was a psychopath.I'm still trying to figure out the ending. "},{"Title":"adult little girls with shotguns","Date":"21 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This film starts with a quiet woman, Sophie, landing a house-keeping job with a rich bitch. Nothing too exciting about that. Well, then she befriends a postal bitch, Jeannie, (=a woman with a job at the post office who opens and reads all the mail coming her way). The two then form an unholy companionship and start holding a grudge against everybody, especially Sophie's employers. They start acting like little girls who have a secret (and it seems both of them have, they are arsonists that haven't been caught). They don't seem to have a lesbian relationship, more like some little girl bonding thingy against everyone. I don't want to reveal everything, in case someone reading this hasn't seen it (I did warn about possible spoilers), but the ending still comes as a bit of a shock surprise. 9/10 from me. "},{"Title":"A perfect example of the first class of European cinema","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Rating ***1/2 out of ****La Ceremonie reminds me another great film, Heavenly Creatures, which is one of my personal favorite films- certainly one of the best of the '90s. Both films show the strong relationship between two female people, and how one is influenced by the other getting to a dangerous limit. If Ceremonie doesn't have the absolute perfection of Creatures, it comes very close, resulting in an intriguing and more than surprising crime drama.Based on a novel by Ruth Rendell, the film tells the story of a maid wonderfully played by Sandrine Bonnaire, who is hired by a rich family to work at their house. She looks a totally bland person, until she meets Isabelle Huppert's character, and they begin a friendship that will have some unpredictable consequences, from opening mails to... Well, watch the film to see.Most of the merits of this picture are thanks to its direction. Claude Chabrol builds a more than surprising story, with great character development, complexity, some twists and a simply fabulous ending, which remains in the mind of the audience for some time.La Ceremonie is a must-see for all its qualities. It is a great example of the modern French cinema. "},{"Title":"The Postwoman Always Shoots Twice","Date":"4 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Isabelle Huppert picked up another 'Best Actress' Cesar for her role here which cast her slightly against type as a sullen, resentful, postal worker with a built-in grudge against anyone more affluent. When Sandrine Bonnaire comes to work as a 'domestic' at the local Gotrocks Manor it's only a matter of time until the two oddballs start comparing the chips on their respective shoulders and it all ends in tears and the faint aroma of cordite. However most of the movie is concerned with the journey rather than the arrival and Chabrol finds himself in the position of having to more or less justify to the viewer why Jacqueline Bissett would employ an obvious kook like Bonnaire on the spot - okay, she was desperate for a maid but this is ridiculous. On the other hand Bonnaire is no slouch in the acting department and fully capable of more or less holding her own against just about the finest French actress currently working so the upshot is that we put our reservations on hold and watch how Chabrol progresses the action. It's not the finest Chabrol film by any means, in fact it's not even close but neither is it chopped liver. "},{"Title":"A dark and Interesting  drama/thriller!!!","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Great direction by Claude Chabrol and the acting is brilliant by  Isabelle Huppert and Sandrine Bonnaire as the two social misfits. The film is a class drama and I had a feeling that it was going to end as it did.The end is shocking and I don´t like it at all.But the film is still very good acted and the direction by Charbol is great.4-/5 "},{"Title":"An austere plodding Euro-flick psychodrama.","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  La Cérémonie is an ordinary film in every way with the exception of the foreboding, unrelenting stealth with which the ominous story unfolds. Tedious at first, this film packs a punch at the end. However, in the final analysis, with more questions asked than answered, one has to wonder if the conclusion was worth the wait. Probably not worthy of its critical acclaim but a worth while watch for Chabrol fans and those into Euro-flick head trips.  "},{"Title":"Is it Ruth Rendell or Claude Chabrol work?","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Chabrol's plan was similar in la ceremonie to that of la rupture (1971).Take a detective story (Charlotte Armstrong for la rupture(the balloon man),Ruth Rendell for la ceremonie(A judgement in stone),then give it a social satire flavor.He did it all right in Armstrong's case which was a pure thriller.Rendell's case is much more different,since she is a much superior writer than her late American colleague.A judgement in stone is a captiving novel,very subtile,with interesting characters.The social critic is implicit,but sitting on the fence;the bourgeois are sympathetic people,their daughter's proposal to teach the maid to read is sincere.But Rendell makes us feel the gap between this cosy intellectual life in which you enjoy operas and the illiterate world of the maid where books are enemies. A lot of the psychological side eludes C.Chabrol.First of all,Sandrine Bonnaire was not the character.She's much too beautiful.(A young Shelley Winters would have fit the bill quite well!)In the novel,the heroine was some kind of village idiot with empty eyes who was not realizing her social condition.The same goes for I.Huppert,much too attractive to play her crude friend.Jean-Pierre Cassel and Jacqueline Bisset,on the other hand, are credible bourgeois and make up a bit for the weakness of the casting. Chabrol's work is not bad,by a long shot.But,while explaining what should be implied,his wholesale massacre loses some of its strength. "},{"Title":"Tres ho-hum","Date":"16 April 2008","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I thought it was totally predictable from the get go and could have been economically done in about a half hour, but instead it dragged out for the duration until the obvious finale. Thelma and Louise take on the French upper crust with a bang. Yawn. The two psycho woman are very good as are the doomed family but this thing just seems to lumber on and on trying desperately to reach a viable conclusion. The gimmicky maids shortcomings and the the postal clerk's obvious nutsy behavior all seem comical and not in a black way, just sort of silly and contrived. I actually fast forwarded at the end to get the thing over with and be finished. There is no suspense here for me, I knew exactly what was going to happen and it was even made easier with the awful gloom-doom cello soundtrack. "}{"Title":"Everybody's got a secret...","Date":"23 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Hidden secrets, parricide, upper class families, revenges, hatred... These are some of the common elements from Chabrol's last films such as La Fleur Du Mal, Merci Pour Le Chocolat or La Ceremonie (the one I'm commenting here). La Ceremonie is not an astonishing story, there're not big drama in it, nor big frights... Everything seems normal, almost boring. We see a quiet and peaceful family (J. Bisset is the wife, V. Ledoyen is the daughter) which lives in a quiet and peaceful little village somewhere in the french countryside. They hire a new house cleaner, such a serious girl (a little mysterious as well) called Sophie (Sandrine Bonnaire). After a few days Sophie meets a girl who works at the village's post office (Isabelle Huppert) and they become close friends. As the movie advances we realize that both of them hide terrible secrets in their past, terrible tragedies that have drive them a little deranged... As in other Chabrol's films nothing is as peaceful as it seems. And so the story goes till we get to the final sequence (that, of course, I'm not gonna mention here)...I can't be that objective about a movie made by Claude Chabrol and performed (god bless her!) by Isabelle Huppert; but I'll tell you that this is not one of my favourite films from the french filmmaker. Everything's OK about La Ceremonie, except for the script. It's a little slow at some points and a little senseless too. The characters are well defined, the actors do a nice job (specially Miss Huppert and Sandrine Bonnaire), and the capacity of Chabrol as filmmaker is beyond reproach. But I guess the story wasn't strong enough (it is a novel-based script), though he did his best.My Rate 7/10  "},{"Title":"A portrait of perversity","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Chabrol in this film like Thank you for the chocolate,explores wickedness as a latent hidden thing,we will never know the intention of people,we can't categorize people,good and evil,kind and bad person just for references and appearance;it's a more complex subject and i thinkle ceremonie shows that.Isabelle Huppert coldness is perfect for the role, and Claude Chabrol proves once again,that he is the best of French Cinema. "},{"Title":"Quirky French Hitchcock","Date":"9 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Claude Chabrol's films can be a bit hit and miss, but this is an odd thriller which does not suffer the usual burden of being French 'art-house' (i.e. it has a plot which actually achieves some degree of cadence).A grudge bearing local post-office girl befriends the nanny of an almost feudally noble family in the village. Together they address the prejudices and attitudes that the family represent. Isabelle Huppert is almost miscast as the postie but as usual carries her part with conviction. Sandrine Bonnaire's extraordinary Nanny 'Sophie' is that which establishes the film as a psychologicl essay worthy of comparison with Hitchcock's most complex female leads.Look out also for an early outing for Virginie Ledoyen, because she's worth it, and Jacqueline Bisset as her mother lending her legendary status to Chabrol's project. You may need to suspend incomprehension at the entirely French humour at times, but it's a thoroughly worthwhile film.Pseud's Corner Alert if anyone who has seen this knows if there is a special reason for using the Cologne Production of the Opera that structures the denouement then post it here. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Chabrol is slipping","Date":"9 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Claude Chabrol has made many excellent films and I count myself as one of his great fans, but I have been disappointed in not only this film but also L'Enfer. Another commenter said you are never sure who is opening the family mail, it never occured to me that it might have been Sophie, nor does it now that I have thought about it.The story of the two misfits fails because they too quickly brought together with a wasted sexual undercurrent (this is what we are not sure of). The reclusive employers of Sophie are likewise not quite approachable. What is their secret why do they have so much trouble finding maids. Why does the husband want to fire Sophie so quickly.In short there is no good motivation for the charaterizations and when the big moment comes we are saying finally.Compare that to the early Chabrol film Le Boucher. In this film we are aware of the butcher's probability of guilt and wait with growing tension as the inevitable confrontation takes place. Meanwhile the couple inexplicably but surely falls in love and the scene for tragedy and betrayal is well set. Oh yes there are unanswered questions, why is the teacher alone, why in this town, but these questions are not central to the stories movement.Oddly enough the only great moment in la Ceremonie (and where does that title come from?) is the final scene as the steel doors (figuratively) close tightly around the remaining character. "},{"Title":"Predictable and pointless","Date":"21 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Predictability is the cardinal sin for a thriller, and La Cérémonie has certainly sinned.  Any viewer can easily predict that something will go wrong from the first scene, and the foreshadowing is all too transparent, so that by the time something does the viewer can even predict precisely how it will happen.In the meantime the movie does not build an ounce of tension or suspense, so when it ends predictably it is with a whimper, not a bang, as if the air had been let out of an already flaccid balloon.The characters are not interesting in the least.  The acting is banal.  One wonders why this movie was ever made.  Calling this movie a waste of time would be an understatement. "}]