[{"Title":"ONE OF THE COOLEST FILMS EVER","Date":"24 September 1999","Score":"39 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Alex de la Iglesia has got to be one of the coolest directors ever.  I liked Accion Mutante but I LOVED Day of the beast.  It is a shame this movie has not been played in america because it's one of the best movies in a long time.  It's funny...very funny if you have a weird type of humor.  It's not really bloody and gory like people have stated but some scenes have a shock value to them.  Visually Day of the Beast is wonderful it's darkley filmed and has cool production designes.  The actors for the most part do a good job only sometimes they go a little over the top.  The only thing wrong is that this movie begins to run out of steam at the end and the ending is kinda confusing and when satan appears it's a let down.  But all in all a cool movie and a good time.......if only our awards were like spain's "},{"Title":"A cult classic in every sense!","Date":"7 June 2006","Score":"31 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" When you consider all the elements that have gone into this movie, it's hard to deny that it really shouldn't have worked. Spanish director Álex de la Iglesia has put together a film that fuses ideas of the apocalypse and the antichrist with heavy metal and one of the blackest streaks of humour that I've ever seen. Day of the Beast starts off with a string of blackly comic happenings, which see such things as a man crushed by a cross and a priest pushing a performer off his perch. Amazingly, the director manages to keep the laughs coming throughout, while at the same time ensuring that the apocalyptic tones aren't lost to the comedy side of the film. Personally, I didn't think that much else could be done with the idea of the antichrist - but I've been well and truly proved wrong by this totally unique horror flick! The plot follows a priest who believes that he has found a secret code of some sort, and that he has to commit evil acts in order to get an audience with Satan himself, so that he can kill the Devil's child, which he believes will be born on Christmas Eve. Aiding him in this quest is a drug-taking heavy metal fan, and the host of a paranormal TV series...I've got to say that I'm really looking forward to seeing more of Álex de la Iglesia's films, as this guy has an absolutely great sense of humour; and even though this movie is only half a comedy, it's far funnier than many films designed only to make its audience laugh. The laughs are very dry indeed, and are guaranteed to appeal to people who appreciate jokes that are aimed at offending people. Aside from a great sense of humour and an interesting storyline, Day of the Beast also benefits from a plethora of great performances from a talented cast of Spanish actors. Álex Angulo, Armando De Razza and Santiago Segura are brilliant as the central threesome, and offset each other nicely with their defined and very different characters. While the film definitely is a comedy, it's obvious that Álex de la Iglesia is a horror fan; as the atmosphere is morbid and suspenseful, and many scenes are extremely suspenseful and well laid out. The special effects are hokey in true demonic horror style, and the light use of them ensures that they work well when used. Overall, I don't hesitate to call this a masterpiece. Day of the Beast is everything you could want from a cult horror movie and more! "},{"Title":"Satan,priest and Death Metal...","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"32 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  After watching this brilliant movie,I came to conclusion that(besides Braindead)this is the best horror/comedy of the 90's.The acting is great,the characters are captivating,the photography is nice and the humour scenes are excellent.This is the first horror/comedy from Spanish director Alex de la Iglesia.Hey guy,I hope to hear about you soon.The funniest sequence is when the priest is looking for the blood of the virgin to summon Satan.On the other hand,this creative film beats any of these expensive pseudo-horror movies from Hollywood.If you are a real horror-fan like me you should check it out. "},{"Title":"Instant Cult Classic!","Date":"5 December 2005","Score":"23 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" On rare occasions, a movie appears that successfully mixes elements of comedy with those of horror without being silly, cheesy or vulgar. Alex De la Iglesia's superb El Día de la Bestia is definitely one of those movies.With an interesting plot, very likable characters, good SFX(considering the low budget) and a great cast, this formidable movie from Spain turns instantly in a cult classic by it's own merits.Alex Angulo stars as father Angel, a priest who is also a scholar of theology, and that has discovered that John's revelation contains encoded the date and place for the birth of the Antichrist Christmas Eve of 1995 in Madrid. With that knowledge, he decides to turn himself into a satanist in order to discover the exact place of the birth. With the aid of metal-head Jose Maria(played by Santiago Segura) and the fake psychic Professor Cavas(played superbly by Armando De Razza), he goes on his quest to kill the baby before the anti-Christ's reign begins.The story is filled with very dark humor as the priest has to sin in order for him to be convincing enough as a satanist. Alex Angulo really carries the film and gives a great performance, but is Armando De Razza who steals the show; Cavas and his girlfriend(played by beautiful Maria Grazia Cucinotta) have a great scene and Maria shines on her small role as the dumb blonde who dates Cavas.De la Iglesia takes us on the roller-coaster that is this movie, as it never drags and goes on with a fast-paced rhythm. A great camera-work makes the film even better and the bizarre beauty of it's photography, contrasting the colorful Christmas with the dark gritty violence of the streets of Madrid.Overall a near-perfect film, El Día de la Bestia will keep you entertained with it's irreverent(some would say blasphemous) dark humor.10/10. Very recommended. "},{"Title":"This film is Dark, Horrific and Comedic.  It is also very visual and in the tradition of Evil Dead 2 and Re-Animator!","Date":"26 November 1998","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  When you hear Spanish films, Aldomovar is always brought up.  Unfortunately, films like Dia De La Bestia suffer.  This film is a treat to people who like their comedy dark and have a weird sense of humour.  The Apocalypse never looked more interesting than in this film.  Visually the film is darkly lit and the appearance of Satan changes the whole mood of the film.  Next time you see this film in a film festival, DON'T MISS IT!!! "},{"Title":"Clearly underrated","Date":"27 June 2006","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" A complete cult film in Spain.I think Alex is one of the most original talents in nowadays cinema. And not only in Spain, all over the world.You have to realize what it means to issue such a film, and what a danger you take. How he uses black humour and keeps tension on every scene is incredible. And he has shown that in every one of his films, specially in The perfect crime (a pearl of how to use black humour), 800 bullets and Common Wealth. These are films to take with an open mind, no previous thoughts of what are you going to find. I'm still surprised at each one of his new films.A masterpiece, but not a film for everybody. "},{"Title":"Highly recommended mix of chills, thrills and fun.","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"16 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I have become increasingly dissatisfied with most of Hollywood's output, horror or otherwise. Too many movies are either highly cynical commercial products, aimed at teenagers with no discernment or real love of movies, compromised messes that please no-one, stale rehashes of previous works, or just plain STUPID. 'The Day Of The Beast' is none of these things! I was almost put off by the packaging with it's description of a horror action comedy, expecting some kind of juvenile 'Army Of Darkness' crap (a movie I have no time for). Surprisingly, it DOES have horror, action and comedy, but blends them in original and exciting ways Hollywood hasn't dreamed of. Just compare this to recent supernatural themed thrillers like the brain-dead 'End Of Days' or 'Stigmata', and you'll see that director Alex de la Iglesia is working on a much more intelligent and provocative level.'The Day Of The Beast' concerns a naive priest's attempts to summon Satan so that he can try and prevent the birth of the Antichrist and Armageddon. He befriends a hilarious acid-gobbling Metal fan (the wonderful Santiago Segura), and with the reluctant assistance of the host of a TV show dealing with the paranormal, the two comrades bumble through a series of adventures while trying to complete their task. The whacky humour and general silliness is balanced with a genuinely dark vision of Madrid and this is what gives this movie such a unique flavour. It juggles comedy, horror and social criticism marvellously, and never loses sight of it's themes of faith, evil and moral responsibility.I can't recommend this movie highly enough as the antidote to the onslaught of contemporary asinine horror and fantasy movies. Make sure you track down the original undubbed Spanish version to fully appreciate it. 'The Day Of The Beast' ranks up with Mexico's 'Cronos' and Canada's 'Ginger Snaps' as one of the most imaginative and original horror movies of the last ten years. Don't miss it! "},{"Title":"An enjoyable experience","Date":"29 March 2003","Score":"21 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  While El Dia De La Bestia had some logic errors, such as easily finding a virgin at her late 20's, it was a good film overall. It's designed as a thriller-comedy so you can't expect everything to be perfectly logical anyway. The only film I've seen with a similar plot was The Devil's Advocate, and I have to say this one was a few million times better. It's time dear Americans see it takes not only expensive FX but also and more importantly soul to make a good film. Probably 99.9% of the spectators of the film didn't pay attention, but Maria Grazia Cuccinotta shines in the bimbo role more than any other part of the cast does. But the general cast is quite flawless too. I have to say there's some good music in the film also ) I don't care if it's associated with satan, it's still good to hear metal in films like this one. If you've watched and liked The Devil's Advocate, and just like me, you think the film seems to have everything necessary to be a good film but something's terribly missing, you'll see that missing thing is right in its place in El Dia De La Bestia. Brilliant comedy, brilliant thriller, absolutely unique. 9/10. "},{"Title":"Stylish, Smart,  and Cool Genre Hybrid","Date":"4 December 2007","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Over a year ago I accidentally bought Day of the Beast off Ebay with no subs. Finally after a long wait I got the chance to check out this flick, and what a damn shame I wasn't more safe when buying it the first time, because this was a really good flick.El Dia De La Bestia is a comedy/horror/action hybrid that really meshes on a level that few movies have. It's Xmas Eve and a Priest, Metalhead and a TV Host band together to try stop the Anti-Christ from being born. Sounds like the beginning of a joke, but it's the truth and these guys go through some ridiculous stuff trying to accomplish their goal. The acting, cinematography, directing and especially the screen play were all great. The writing was fast, realistic and smart, just like how the movie played out. Day of the Beast has barely has any dull scenes, it's funny, and moves at a pretty fast pace. I suppose it's not gonna be everyone's cup of tea, but hell, for me, there's nothing in it worth complaining about.I really hope this film gets more popular, because it definitely has the opportunity to have a large fan base. Hopefully someday it will get some more recognition and you'll be seeing it in Best Buys and so on. And the best part is the director has many more flicks that are supposed to be just as good. If you're looking for a plain old good flick, look no further, Day of the Beast is it. "},{"Title":"Sin, To Defeat The Devil","Date":"26 December 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" As films like Perdita Durango prove, Spanish director Álex De La Iglesia is a specialist for macabre humor. One of his earlier films, El Dia De La Bestia aka. The Day Of The Beast of 1995 is a perfect example for this director's talent, a macabre and hilarious black horror comedy that entertains highly from the beginning to the end. A catholic priest (Álex Angulo) goes to Madrid in order to prevent the birth of the Antichrist, which he believes to take place there on Christmas Day. In order to find the exact place where the Antichrist is to be born, the kind-hearted priest is forced to commit 'Sins', and furthermore associates with the surprisingly friendly Death-Meal lover and Satanist Jose Maria (Santiago Segura)... Angulo and Segura both fit very well in their roles, especially Angulo is very hilarious as the priest. Armando De Razza is furthermore great, and hilarious as Cavan, a hypocritical TV psychic. Director De La Iglesia did a great job making this film a hilarious Horror-comedy and still maintaining a dark and somehow gloomy atmosphere. If you like satirical Horror, make sure not to miss El Dia De La Bestia, and enjoy 100 minutes of macabre humor and originality. Highly Recommended! "}{"Title":"The Devil is around... and he is very welcome!!!","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I can't believe how good and enjoyable this film is. Watch it with low expectations, that way you will like it. It's good acting, great direction, a kick-ass and effective score, a good cinematography makes this movie one of the best horror movies of the 90's. No Kidding.The plot centers on a priest that's obsessed with the upcominng birth of the anti-christ. He has to intentions to kill the devil's son, in order to save the world. He's aided by a heavy-metal fanatic, and a tv star that supposedly predicts the future and knows about mystics. The fatality day comes and the anti-christ is born, could this priest save the world?! Could it be possible that the anti-christ exists? or is it a product of the priest's imagination?... Discover by yourself in this cool chilling movie.Yes, this movie has great moments! It has plenty of demonic themes, gore, and some creepy settings. The ending will shock all those who don't believe in the devil, and will surprise any horror fan. This movie is recommended for everyone!!! The word cool describes best this movie. "},{"Title":"thoughts on the retarded ending","Date":"11 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I'm focusing on the ending and leaving the rest of the movie for others to discuss. If you haven't seen the film yet, you definitely DON'T WANT TO READ this.The ending is abrupt, confusing, problematic, anti-climactic and unnecessary. It's way out of step with the gratuitous movie that precedes it. It's near impossible to follow on the first viewing and if you do manage it then you're still left with a heck of a lot of questions Was the homeless baby the child of Satan? If so why did the thugs kill the child? If the thug boss is supposed to be Satan, was he always Satan or did Satan possess him only this night? Following this enigmatic confrontation scene we get an enigmatic conclusion. Why are the surviving characters living as bums? How have they escaped public attention? Why don't we get more insight into their own interpretation of events? It may be the writers were going for an art house European ending, designed to make us think about the nature of fascism. However that could have easily been accomplished without derailing the whole birth of Satan narrative. Personally I suspect the editors accidentally destroyed 90% of the ending footage and patched what remained together as best as they could.Here's some more problems with it (basically everything feels wrong!!!) The heroes see the homeless couple trying to sleep with their baby under some cardboard. Suddenly the thugs attack - one thug, apparently holding a revolver, shoots a dozen shots without reloading. He misses the heroes at point blank range. You would imagine the couple would panic and desperately protect their baby but inexplicably they remain trying to sleep under the cardboard and are killed by the thug.Next the priest and the metalhead jump in an elevator which immediately takes them to the top of the building site. Why is this apparently important building site completely unguarded? Why is the elevator switched on and fully functional? The elevator seems a little bit too fast for a typical work site in my opinion. And why are the heroes completely relaxed at this point? Shouldn't they be panicking or planning their next move? Wtf? The next scene or two play out passably. The metalhead plunges to his death, the priest grabs a gun and heads downstairs. He surprises the two thugs and shoots them dead. He sees that the couple have died with their baby (they have died face down with the baby on top of them? Surely not). Next up Satan tries to sneak up on the priest with a baseball bat, knowing full well the priest is armed with a pistol. Is Satan really that stupid? Terrible anti-climax. There is zero suspense, the scene is over before we can even understand what's happening. You would imagine that Satan would at least have the courtesy of exploding away into some hell vortex. But no, nada. "},{"Title":"A great movie that changed Spanish cinema.","Date":"11 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" A priest (Angulo) discovers that the Antichrist will be born on December 25 in Madrid, thus starting the Apocalypse. In his quest to find the place and preventing it will be helped by a heavy druggie of Carabanchel (Segura), and for a host of esoteric program success (De Razza). Second feature of Alex De La Iglesia after less than satisfactory Mutant Action, which leads to the big screen his own script in conjunction with Jorge Guerricaechevarría, who acted as co-writer on most of the films of the Basque director . In the election of the first great success cast Alex Angulo, Santiago Segura, Armando De Razza, Terele Pávez, Nathalie Seseña, Maria Grazia Cuccinota and a cameo by Gran Wyoming. Public success at the time, 13 nominations took for the Goya Awards, for which he won 6, the best director (De La Iglesia), Actor (Segura), art direction, hair and makeup, sound, and the special effects. A little of each genre is in El Día De La Bestia black comedy, horror, action, complaint (to the TV), all masterfully filmed by De La Iglesia opened horizons perfect way to put high up playing with the Spanish cinema elements like suspense (the part at the hostel) or psychological horror (the daily view Devil Seed Polanski), ending the film with some scenes of pure spectacle and form part of the history of Spanish cinema better (invoking the devil, the Getaway by Schweppes sign ...). Part of merit is the same script and the idea that the end of the world as close as can be to succeed in Madrid, offering a frame to be more as you go movie by combining these with other serious moments laden delusional humorous gags and phrases that gripped a generation,. In that line's award-winning art director and Flavio Laviano photography also moves, creating conviction of Madrid with dirty atmosphere, dark, violent and grim, seconded by Battista Lena apocalyptic music and songs of bands that may like more or less, but they fit like a glove in the film Def Con Dos (with cameo), Ministry, Ktulu, Sinister ... This film marked the beginning of the change that has suffered in recent years the Spanish cinema, served as confirmation of the talent of Alex De La Iglesia as director and screenwriter. "},{"Title":"Devilishly funny terror-black comedy about two hapless individual become involved into incredible situations","Date":"18 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" A devilishly dark comedy/horror movie about a priest who moves to a big city where happens fantastic as well as horrifying deeds . Frightening and twisted film by the king of black comedy , Alex De La Iglesia . Outrageous movie with odd characters , touches of amusing humor , surreal imagery and thrilling plot . Alex De la Iglesia is an excellent and outlandish Spanish director , he had much success as Accion Mutante ,  La Comunidad , Perlita Durango , ¨Crimen Ferpecto¨ , among others . Here deals with a Basque reverend (Alex Angulo who gives an engagingly subtlety to his strange role) finds by means of a Cabalistic study of the bible that the anti-Christ is going to be born on Christmas day in Madrid . The priest searches for clues among the lyrics of 'death metal' and the city's human detritus . There the reverend , a theological inspired madman , befriends a heavy-rocker young (Santiago Segura brings funny acting as a record-shop assistant and HM fan) and both of them confront numerous terrifying adventures . They kidnap a famous TV psychologist (Armando De Razza) and then caught up in an impeding cataclysm . Meantime , somewhere out there , El Diablo is waiting to be born . This is a full-on surreal terror movie that blends thrills , a lot of fun , suspense , tension as well as an intriguing script full of underlying seriousness , horror , comedy and embarrassing situations . Packed with scenes of fantastic nature , robust humor , this story is a exciting as well as frightening , as we follow the strange situations of a peculiar couple whose destination is dictated by terrible events . Good acting by the starring couple , Alex Angulo and Santiago Segura , who will soon discover that the Antichrist will be born on Christmas Day and then forced to face dangerous happenings . The narration is so filled with quirk characters , crazy violence mixed with diabolic elements and an underlying sense of horror , and it is so excessive and plenty of surprises, one can't help but keep watching, much as it is over the top in many an occasion . Alex De La Iglesia has created a good picture here that in all honesty is very difficult to categorize in terms of genre , as there's a little bit of gruesomeness , quite a lot of horror , a good deal of suspense and a host of amusement ; but it does not fit into any one genre very well at all, in truth this is one of the things that makes it nice . Álex De la Iglesia claims the story's origin was the image of a apparently harmless man doing horrible things . De La Iglesia reigns in his style this time around and gives an utterly watchable takedown of horror/comedy that certainly delivers a few madly inspired moments . During shoot, crew and specifically Álex De la Iglesia received various death threats from so-called satanist groups . Acting personnel all do excellent work in bizarre roles , but special notice needs to be made for Alex Angulo giving an enjoyable acting along with Terele Pavez as an unsettling landlady . Excellent plethora of secondaries as Jaime Blanch , Maria Gracia Cuzinotta , Saturnino Segura , Natalie Seseña , Antonio Dechent and De La Iglesia usual's  Antonio De La Torre , Enrique Villen , Manuel Tafalle and El Gran Wyoming as Nuevo Cavan , among others . Interesting screenplay Alex De La Iglesia and Javier Guerricaechevarria who usually work united . Excellent special effects by Reyes Abades and great production design , including the neon Schweppes sign on which the protagonists are hung from is at number 41 of the Gran Via in the heart of Madrid, Spain . Atmospheric as well as glamorous cinematography by Fabio Martinez Labiano with a good camera work . Suspenseful and thrilling musical score , the soundtrack flows great with the film in every way, and creates fantastic atmospheres in every moment , including satanic sounds by Def Con Dos . The motion picture was well directed by De La Iglesia . He's a cool director has got much success as ¨Accion Mutante¨ ,¨Dying of laughter¨ or ¨Muertos De Risa¨ , ¨Baby's room¨ , ¨Oxford murders¨ , ¨Balada Triste De Una Trompeta¨ and ¨Perdita Durango¨ is probably the weirdest Javier Bardem film ever made . And of course 'La Comunidad' obtained the unanimous praise of both the critics and the public and results to be a lot of fun, especially for those who enjoy surrealist humor , it won several Goya prizes and a turning point in his meteoric career ; from then on he became his own producer, beginning with '800 bullets' (2002) through the Pánico Films company . Winner of several Goyas (Spanish Oscars), however his movies have not yet reached box office in USA, but he has strong followers , as his films have a kind of comic edge to them . Nonsense, ridicule , laughters , absurdity , disturbing scenes and many other issues ; you can find everything in this flick . ¨The day of the beast¨ captures the essence of the best Álex De La Iglesia, a filmmaker who, at this point in his own story, is respected and admired worldwide and has the most committed fans in the film universe . This is without a doubt a thrilling and enjoyable movie to be enjoyed for terror buffs and Alex De Iglesia fans. "},{"Title":"Yes, A Masterpiece!","Date":"16 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Sure, I'm a cynical old man. I've seen it all, believe me. I like to laugh but rarely get a chance to laugh in today's batch of crap films. I love this film. I laughed out loud a dozen times. One of the few times I miss the old days of sitting in a theater full of people all laughing to beat jeebus. No spoilers here! I won't say a word about the story. Just that I enjoyed this film immensely. The lead characters are fantastic. At the end of day, warm, funny, and quite touching. That makes two Spanish films that have really impressed me lately. This one, and REC. For different reasons of course. REC I found genuinely frightening the first time through. This one is genuinely hilarious. Two hooves.. er.. thumbs up! "},{"Title":"Unbelievably funny.","Date":"20 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is an awesomely funny take on the concept of the birth of the Anti Christ. A priest comes to know 2 days before Christmas that the Anti Christ will be born on the Christmas Day. It is the story of the two days when he searches for the devil on the streets of Madrid. Aiding him in this endeavor are a heavy metal fan and a fake clairvoyant who hosts TV show about the future. There are many ironic sequences like the search for the blood of a virgin. The scenes involving the family of the heavy metal fan are unbelievably hilarious. One of the few movies which I have seen recently where I was genuinely unhappy that the movie had to end because the experience was too freakin great. 4 out of 5 for this comic masterpiece from Spain. a must watch for the movie lovers who enjoy their foreign cinema. "},{"Title":"Clean Up Madrid - A cult classic","Date":"21 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Holy schmoley! How did this movie ever escape me? - I couldn't believe that it was made 17 years ago, and I've never even heard of it. Thank goodness for Pirate Bay or I never would have. What a great blend of story, characters, humor, and of course being on a mission from God! I'm buying this one. I wonder why it hasn't been picked up yet by American producers. You know, like they did with The Grudge, Dark Water, and a host of others. I'm kinda glad they didn't. They would probably screw it up. - Along with the priest the fabulous sidekick Jose Maria. - I'd love to see these two together again. - Anyway, it you haven't seen this yet, hunt it down and enjoy. If you don't it might just be the end of the world. "},{"Title":"Total fun","Date":"24 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" What a surprisingly brilliant film this is! Surprising if you are one of those who haven't heard of Alex de la Iglesia as I hadn't, and go by just the poster and the name. Brilliant because you shouldn't just go by the name and poster, and Alex de la Iglesia has made a super cool film.The imminent arrival of Antichrist worries a priest to such an extent that he believes the best way to prevent the tragedy is to step into devil's own shoes. Hilarious and edgy by parts, it is perhaps the only horror film which has made me want to watch it again. Apart from the scarily believable performances, it is highly energetic and doesn't slacken one bit.It is not for everyone though. The delicate-hearted might find it too violent. I wonder if religious people would take kindly to it either. For everyone else, it packs a great amount of fun. "},{"Title":"Among the best of its kind","Date":"2 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is the film from De la Iglesia I hold in the highest regard. I don't know if it's his best, but I certainly love it the most.Basically, the plot centers around a Spanish priest who thinks he has decoded a message from the Book of Revelation foretelling the date the Antichrist will be born December the 25th, 1995. And so, during Christmas eve, knowing his Enemy is powerful, he embarks on a mission to prevent it... During the course of the night he most prominently meets a fat, irreverent and dirty heavy-metal fan on the one hand and the host of a TV program centered on the paranormal (who is of course a farce) on the other.The movie first and foremost is riddled with dark humor (right from the very first scene), all the while, we will be treated to several scenes so well crafted that they will have you on the edge of the seat either gripping your nerves or scaring you to hell.Acting (the protagonist trio is excellent), plot (the ending will leave you thinking!), pacing (some will argue it drags a little towards the ending), characters (a priest, a heavy metal fan and a charlatan teaming up!), the heavy-metal soundtrack... everything is perfect.I think we can safely say that if you like Raimi's/Jackson's horror days, - minus the slapstick and absurdist gore - you will love this one. Or, for example, 'Shaun of the Dead' has an scene which is essentially the same to one in this superb film. Horror fans simply have to see it. "},{"Title":"Horror comedy masterpiece","Date":"9 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" A Catholic priest and theologian, Father Cura, believes that he has discovered through numerical values in the bible, the exact date of the birth of the anti Christ. Believing the only way to stop this happening, is to become evil himself by doing evil deeds, he sets off on a pilgrimage around Madrid looking for a sign that will direct him in the right direction. He teams up with a Death Metal shop assistant and a TV host of a phoney paranormal show to make his meeting with Satan come about. Day of the Beast is a hotch potch of ideas that in all truth shouldn't work at all, but de la Iglesia's excellent script and dark sense of humour guides this hybrid film into the realms of a real classic. It delivers in spades in every department, the three main performances are exceptional and they spark of each other to perfection. The opening sequence is pure slapstick you might expect from someone like Benny Hill, but it sets the tone perfectly for what follows, a comedy masterpiece, that also delivers on suspense and horror "}{"Title":"Classic 90's Horror. The perfect combination of Horror and Comedy in a pre-Apocalyptic world.","Date":"3 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" El Día de la Bestia is a transcendental movie, maybe that important that it's hard to admit that it started a revolution. To begin with, Spanish Horror cinema is one before and after this movie.Let's think about the same situation that happened with Evil Dead. This film is a diabolical mix of black humor, gore, a scary plot, plenty of action, and a look of a comic book.With the aforementioned description, it seems that the film shouldn't be taken seriously because most of the mentioned elements make a hint to black humor cinema. But the movie doesn't concentrates specifically on any of those aspects; no, it follows an intense pace with the purpose of solving a sinister plot through black humor and horror. It executes those elements as complements without keeping in mind it's objective.We got scenes of black humor that tend to be cruel, hilarious, and sinister. For example, the giant cross crushing a priest. Or what about the priest chasing Jose Mari's sister and dispatching his mother? The scenes with most tension and terror deal with the satanic ritual where a black goat appears and when the devil makes a terrifying appearance (standing up confronting José Mari and throwing him out of the tower and then confronting the priest) I understand now how Drag Me To Hell got inspired in the use of shadows and the talking goat. You saw it first here! ;) The on-screen duo conformed by the priest and José Mari is hilarious and gives you an idea of a very sui-generis friendship based on religious obsession, heavy metal, insane dialogs, and more.The dialogs have a little for something. For some moments the demonic references may creep you about because most of them are very accurate. Other moments will make you laugh out loud mainly because of the irreverences of the crazed priest and José Mari, or because of their physical humor (it plays an important part).But those elements couldn't be accomplished without a talented cast. The three principal actors were born for their roles. Álex Angulo delivers a comedic, creepy performance filled with anxiety but conviction to follow his ideals. He is in charge to change the pace of the movie when it reaches levels of surrealism. Armando De Razza is perfect and believable as Professor Cavan, a charlatan in disguise who enjoys making money and success (and hot women) through the ingenuity of the audience. A versatile actor. Santiago Segura becomes an instant favorite of the audience as the loyally obsessed partner of the priest. He delivers the perfect dosis of humor and with his heavy metal knowledge he gives you an idea of how irreverent he is.Special mention for the extreme hottie María Grazia Ciconotta. Wow, she is very hot, extremely sexy. And those are real ;) The score is great. The movie has an official soundtrack with songs of heavy metal, rap, hip-hop.The Direction by Alex de la Iglesia is spectacular, great. We got dynamic sequences, other elegant takes that need a high budget, and the movie always looks dynamic, radiant. The world never looked this dark before the Apocalypsis.The Cinematography and Art Direction is perfect. Just very rich and dark.This is a prime example of black humor, horror, and quality. Other films like these? I can only think about Evil Dead, Drag Me To Hell, and Mucha Sangre. The word cool better describes this movie.To sum it up, this movie is an entertainment production, it's funny, and rough for any Horror fan. It's a black comedy that should please any fanatic of Horror. "},{"Title":"A Very Good X-Mas Film For The Whole Family...","Date":"23 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" DAY OF THE BEAST is a film that I've had in my possession for quite a while but just never got around to. Thanks to the prompting of a few adamant friends, I finally threw this one in. Having only seen de la Iglesia's ACCION MUTANTE (which I wasn't a real big fan of...) and PERDITA DURANGO (aka DANCE WITH THE DEVIL - which I did like very much...) I wasn't sure what I was in for with DAY OF THE BEAST. I must say that although flawed, it is one of the better horror/comedy hybrids that I've ever seen.It's Christmas-time, and a priest has learned through his studies the day of the anti-Christ's birth. His goal is to invoke the Devil by performing whatever bits of Satanic mayhem he can in order to eventually realize his goal of summoning Satan and killing his spawn. In his quest, the holy-man calls upon the knowledge of a death-metal obsessed record-store clerk, and a cheezy talk-show host to further his cause...A truly funny and well-made production - DAY OF THE BEAST is a fun and twisted black-comedy that should appeal to most horror fans. It's not a graphically gory or sleazy film - but the solid performances, excellent camera-work and solid story-line should keep your interest. The ending is a big anti-climactic which was the only real drawback to me. An otherwise great film that should be at the top of your list...8.5/10 "},{"Title":"The best of the beast.","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Hello dude, salute from the Glorious Germen's cine club. This movie is like a dream come true, or a nightmare come true, its phenomenal and very very very españolada. You can see in this master piece the vision of Alex about de Armageddon (a very bad movie, don't see it), this vision its a latin vision, whit no heros, no muscle guy beating Satan, no, this movie it's about a priest who discover the day and the place where the evil will come, and whit the help of a fat heavy metal and a false exorciser tv showman KILL A BABY, a baby named Satan. This movie have a very goods gags, like the priest killing her friend family by error, and others. This movie it's excellent. Good bye and good killing.  "},{"Title":"Fantastic!","Date":"5 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A great horror comedy! I just saw this the other day and had to rave about it! As entertaining a movie as I've seen in awhile! Nowhere near as gory as some people say. It has a great blend of comedy and horror. Fabulous atmosphere. Alex de la Iglesia has done a terrific job with this film! The only complaint I have is the ending. It's quite confusing. Still all in all a terrific film. A marvelous piece of Spanish cinema and a new entry into my all time favorites! "},{"Title":"Wild comic-book-like visuals, scary and funny","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A movie you will not soon forget!  Day of the Beast is a breathless End of Days film that veers confidently from unsettling horror to farce to fantasy and back again.  Truly unlike anything I've seen before, yet it is never so weird as to be unaccessible to the average viewer.  Almost the entire film is shot at night and the director/cinematographer take great advantage of it.  Madrid looks like something out of Blade Runner, sporting deep forbidding shadows mixed with bright neon and blues.  The visuals very much reminded me of Europeon comic books.  From the complicated and busy compositions to the use of colors which are vibrantly eye-catching yet never so bright that they seem happy or completely artificial like music video. The art direction is excellent as well.  It further realises the Euro comic atmosphere with its unusual buildings and slightly skewed view of reality.  Definitely a must-see for the eye candy junkies.Try to see this film widescreen and subtitled if you can.  You lose a lot otherwise. "},{"Title":"Inconsistent","Date":"28 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The Day of the Beast is supposedly a comedy about the end of the world and a priest doing as much bad as he possibly can to summon the devil in order to stop the apocalypse. Basically that's what this movie is. And I will say there is enjoyment to be found in the film, but that enjoyment doesn't last nearly as much as it should. First of all I didn't really find any of the characters to be relatable. I think the fat guy that works in the record store is supposed to be the character that the audiences should feel at least remotely connected with, but it's not really the case. Even with this I was enjoying The Day of the Beast until about the last half of the film. It just feels forced and uses some filler for some reason and a lot of things don't even make sense.There is some enjoyment to be found in the Day of the Beast, but it's not enough and it doesn't hide the fact that the movie is an incoherent mess. "},{"Title":"Oh Good Lord","Date":"20 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I really don't know how to review this. I saw it on VHS in the late 1990s & if you get the chance, try to find that old VHS English dubbed version. The movie is oddly, hysterically, paced & that pathetic dubbing just added an extra level to the hilarity.If you don't expect much walking in & don't expect it to be a horror movie than congratulations, you found a rare gem of a film.Parts of it are dry & parts of it will make you do a spit take. Yes, you just heard that, yes, that did happen & it happened out of the blue.It's a B-Movie & if you understand that walking in than the sky is the limit it will be worth your time. "},{"Title":"I Love This Movie!!!","Date":"9 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I first saw this movie in the classroom during Spanish lessons (in Spain). So this was the first movie in Spanish that I fully understood. I was in my 20's then and it really appealed to me. It's a great trip we make alongside a priest on his way to confront the devil. We get to meet a lot of strange characters and we get to witness some really violent scenes.It's got a good soundtrack (very heavy). It's my guess that if you're into Tarantino/Rodriguez movies, Cheech & Chong stuff and (violent) cartoons that you'll like this one too. I loved seeing it. I went through quite some trouble getting it on DVD. Now I can watch it whenever I want. Thank U very much. "},{"Title":"Cool idea","Date":"6 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This movie is a classic example of a great idea suffering from low budget. It is like a B-movie by Tarantino. Or Kevin Smith maybe. Or a crossover of both meeting a film by John Carpenter. This is definitively a B-movie of some sorts, but a well-made one.The whole thing is a bit strange (which in my opinion is not a bad thing), and the characters are... well, unusual. And the story has a nice twist to it. Many, many good ideas, although violence and humor are not always too well-balanced sometimes they simply clash. But at the end, it works quite nicely. Don't mind the few gaping holes in the plot, just sit back, relax and enjoy the ride. "},{"Title":"A funny spoof horror movie.","Date":"7 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" It should not be taken too seriously.It was about time someone paid a tribute to all the Antichrist movies which thrived in the seventies (and end of the ninetiesend of days ).Even a short scene laughs at the exorcist!As an user points out,the priest is closer to Don Quixote (after all,it's a Spanish effort) than to Gregory Peck,Georges C.Scott ,Ah'nold and all the Antichrist heroes.The film even allows himself to be sometimes disturbing (the goat) and even scary (the last scenes in Satan's building).Heavy metal fans will be delighted.The priest 's motto must be the road to hell is paved with good intentions!Worth a watch. "}{"Title":"A DEVILISH DELICACY","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  ***SPOILERS AHEAD***Padre Angel, a scholarly priest, figures out the exact date of the birth of the Antichrist and, totally alone in his discovery (a gigantic cross casually drops over his only confederate), decides to embark on a suicidal quest to vanquish Beelzebub (while learning how to do some evil while he's at it, naturally).  The fact he is a mild-mannered pedantic theologician who has never been exposed to the outside world and that he measures less than 5 ft. apparently is of little importance; he might be an innocent, but he carries the greatest of weapon of them all an obstinately unyielding, Old Testament belief in Him.  Along the way he meets, picks up, forces into recruitment, and avoids the bullets of a weird assortment of frauds, fascists, Heavy-Metal fanatics, and other indiscriminately demented weirdos who inhabit the lunar night world of the beautiful city of Madrid. This wickedly funny horror satire was given the short-shrift by the critics and by audiences who expected a terrorific scare-fest like The Exorcist and its other corporate-assembled brethren.  In its stead, we get a sweet-natured sadistic comedy about the paradoxical nature of faith.  It moves very fast; so fast, in fact, that some of its action sequences and special effects are a tad confused (at times we are not sure how we got where we are or what are we supposed to be seeing), but even these (frankly insignificant) details doesn't detract from the zesty charm of this small unpolished jewel.  It's a wonderfully entertaining movie.  With Alex Angulo as the heroic Padre Angel, Armando de Razza as the intrepid Profesor Cavan, Santiago Segura as the handsomely gallant Jose Maria, Terele Pavez as the dangerously deranged Dona Rosario, Nathalie Sesena as the fair proletarian maiden Mina, and Pololo as the wacked-out Abuelo Terminal.Alex de la Iglesia directed, and co-wrote the screenplay with Jorge Guerricaechevarria.    "},{"Title":"There's a lot to like in this movie","Date":"7 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I liked this movie, but thought that it could have been better. I loved the three main characters and the whole premise of the film, but certain things don't make sense- like, they spend most of the movie trying to summon the devil, but when he comes knocking they all run away. Then there's a point in the movie where the story just kind of treads water, and not much happens for a while. And then at the end, when the devil (who looks pretty cool) shows up, terribly confusing things happen.But over all I recommend this film. From the excellent opening scene to acid-dropping old man with his penis hanging out, this movie is very enjoyable. The three main characters are very likable, and a ton of funny stuff happens. I hope to see more from this director.Heavy! "},{"Title":"The great tradition of Spanish irreverent sense of humor","Date":"12 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The Spanish cinema is often overlooked and under-appreciated.  Yet a tradition of Spanish cinema has brought to us so much wimsycal treatment of traditional subjects, including religion (a reaction to a strict religious conservative tradition).  A truly great film in the post-apocolyptic setting in the modern-day Madrid.  As a student of Almodovar, De Iglesias has done his homework.  "},{"Title":"If only Hollywood were this cool","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  What a great movie. Clever in the way that Hollywood never seems to manage. Only ONE little point the ending is 'wrong'. It's easily missed because of the pace and confusion, but look closely and there's a completely non-sensical event. Look who kills the baby- but these guys would want the baby to live, so why does that happen? That aside, a bloody great movie. More like this please. Hollywood could really learn a lesson from movies like this. "},{"Title":"Excellent Horror","Date":"21 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I loved this movie.**** Spoilers below ************It has the the supernatural going on all around while no one can see it. Is it really happening or are they hallucinating?  A priest with a number running around high on LSD and virgin's blood.The play on all the popular satanic subcultures was funny.  A priest, trying to do evil like an amateur and then getting beat up at a death metal show. Drug guzzling death metal loser who lives with his mom saving him at every turn, not to save the world, just hanging with his new pal.It made me laugh while keeping me on the edge of my seat the whole time. "},{"Title":"An excellent movie for all genre fans!!!!!!","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"   This movie is the one that I can say I'm proud of having in my collection, I remember a long time ago in 1995 walking into a movie theater not knowing what this movie was about and not expecting anything from it, I was BLOWN AWAY! This movie is a real trip, and I mean it, it takes you places you've never expected to be, it places you in positions no other movie can, its a terrific thriller and full of suspense and funny lines, Alex de la Iglesia´s masterpiece if I may, Alex Angulo as Father Angle Berriartua, a priest who just found out the anti christ is going to be born again in Madrid at midnight on Christmas eve but he doesn't know where, so he has to go bad, he has to turn to the dark side so satan can trust him and for him to kill it and save humanity, now, who is going to help him? Enter Santiago Segura as a heavy metal, drug addict with a satan taste of himself who will help father angel or get him in trouble, now theres a psychic named Professor Cavan who is a master of the occult and who may have the key to get them to the prince of darkness.This movie is huge and the ending is a thinker. I really recomend it.  I'll give it a 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Unclear ending for an otherwise enjoyable little film.","Date":"13 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The plotThe movie revolves about a theology professor that discovers the date for the coming of the Anti-Christ (December 25, 1995), and tries to kill him in order to save the world, he is aided by two unlikely allies a brain-dead metal-head and a bogus TV psychic.The Good Stuff1.- The opening title, those first 3 minutes and the comment by the other priest are worth the price of admission alone. 2.- The Darkly lit imagery. 3.- The hiding of the devil in plain sight. 4.- The revelation of who REALLY kills the devil (Ooops, gave it away). 5.- Proves that a short, balding little priest looks more believable as a Satan-killer, with apologies to Mr. Schwarzenegger. 6.- María Grazia Cuccinotta in a skimpy red dress, need I say more?.The Bad stuff1.- The movie rambles a little in the middle. 2.- The escape by the building façade is unpolished.  3.- The Satan killers look all over for him, yet when he appears they hide away, quite realistic, but anti-climactic. 4.- Satan's first appearance as a goat, when being summoned.The VerdictShows Hollywood that you do not need a trillion dollars to make a decently entertaining movie with good imagery, if you watch it with an open attitude you'll find lots to like.   "},{"Title":"The ending explained","Date":"14 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Many people complaints about the ending of El día de la Bestia, most of them are north Americans, used to no-thinking Hollywood plots/endings.Well, for all of you from me, with love If you look with attention, you'll notice all over the movie a group of racists who kill homeless and foreigners.Those are the devil's henchmen (one of them the devil himself) It's a metaphor, WE (human race) are the antichrist, there are not supernatural entities such as gods or devils, certain human behaviour is what father Berriortua ends finding as the devil Regards "},{"Title":"Biggest pleasant surprise in years...","Date":"17 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I had never heard of this before, I didn't read reviews or thoughts or anything about this movie and I didn't even read the small texts on the cover of the box...This could have gone very wrong but instead of that it became 100 minutes of pure fun. So, now I'll do my best to recommend it to as many other people as possible. El dia de la Bestia was made in Spain, or the new great home of horror these days. Spanish directors proved themselves a lot lately and I think this guy, Alex De La Iglesia , deserves some extra credit. This guy obviously is a big lover of horror and the whole cult atmosphere around it. In a genius kind of way, he mixes a lot of appropriate elements in his movie like heavy metal music and fortune-telling. Angél is a priest who just translated a disturbing writing. He found out that the Antichrist himself will be born on Christmas day of 1995. In Madrid, because all the signs of apocalypse looks like it. To avoid this horrible event that would mean the end of the world, he has to face Satan himself. So, he travels to Madrid and commits a lot of sins, which is pretty funny to watch. He meets a heavy-metal freak (sorry  Death Metal!) and a fortune-teller who fooled many people by faking an exorcism. But when all preparations are set, Satan doesn't show up ! Did they make a mistake ? One thing is certain, they have to hurry because Christmas is only one night away... It wouldn't do much if I named all the actors of this movie because their names don't ring a bell. But, I can say they're all very good actors and they clearly did their best work in this film. Like I said before, this film contains a lot of humor but it never spoofs the genre. There's always a lot of respect present and I think that's a great achievement. Also, I would have thought there was a lot more gore in this film. To my surprise, the gory scenes are very limited and overall short. Gorehounds be advised because the cover and the title may make you think it's one big blood fest. Good film, nice change, great fun...highly recommended if you need a break from all the typical nowadays slasher-films. "},{"Title":"A darkly funny adventure film... with a d...evil twist","Date":"21 January 2001","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This interesting film from Spanish director De la Iglesia is a road trip that is fun and action packed, as it is obscure. A great premise taken to the extreme, in which a servant of god, has to get in touch with the evil side, in order to save the world.  The comic relief comes in Chema, a rock-store clerk, who, along this priest takes this trip to it's ultimate consequences. "}{"Title":"What happened to the plot?","Date":"30 January 2003","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I'm all for a nice bit of blasphemy, but sometimes that just isn't enough to make a good movie!During the first half of EL DIA DE LA BESTIA I thought this was shaping up to be a fantastic film. There are some funny scenes with the priest who must summon satan and his unlikely side-kick, a heavy metal stoner. But before long the plot starts to unravel until, by the time we get to the climax, it is effectively meaningless.Alex De La Iglesia has made some good films (particularly La Communidad) but this is not one of his best. The lack of a coherent plot overshadows the movies merits and makes this an unsatisfying watch. Perhaps if the script had been given a few months more attention it would have been an excellent film.3/10  "},{"Title":"Diabolism, heavy metal, and comedy... the perfect blend","Date":"19 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is a must-see for anyone who enjoys devil flicks. It manages to be very funny throughout, and yet has room for some truly scary moments (the occult summoning in particular). It also has a strong message about the rise of fascism in Madrid hidden in there somewhere. I can't recommend it highly enough.  "},{"Title":"disturbingly funny film.","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I loved this film. I really liked how it shows how a priest of all people must commit evil so that he can save the world. How clever is that!?But the part that made me really fine this film chilling was that throughout the whole movie, there is no real proof that what the preist says is true! There are hallucinations he sees, and at the end a coincidence, but other than that nothing. His only allies are a stupid insane heavy metal guy and a con artist who was probably driven so insane that he believed the preist' holy war. It's sort of a modern-day disturbing remake of Don Quixote. Highly Reccomended! "},{"Title":"Some What Disappointing Black Comedy Involving Redemption","Date":"31 October 2012","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I'd only heard good things about this Spanish film  Instant classic etc  and went in to it knowing that it wasn't a full blown horror film . I'm guessing that most of the poor reviews on this page were by people who expected a full blown horror film and were disappointed by THE DAY OF THE BEAST being something it patently isn't ? However after seeing the movie I too was feeling some what let down too . Not by what the film wasn't but by what it is - a black comedy that ran out of steam The first third is excellent . Catholic priest Father Angel Berriartua decides if he commits enough sinful acts then he will meet the anti-Christ who will be born on Christmas Day in Madrid . In effect it's an anti redemption plot and there is much amusement to be had as he conducts a one man misanthropic war against passer bys . This sets up the introduction of two more characters Jose Maria a death metal salesman and Professor Cavan a TV host on the occult and at this point you think you'll be enjoying a sort of Spanish Catholic version of MONTY PYTHON as all sorts of anarchic tasteless anti establishment gags come to the fore as a sort of La Vida El Brian The bad news is that the plotting and story telling does indeed become anarchic but is also a bit too screwball . The tasteless biting black humour of the first third of the film disappears and we're subjected to more and more over the top humour . You can believe the situations of Father Angel taking place earlier in the film but when more and more characters take place the credibility disappears . Tight corners such as a shoot out with the police are resolved by very lazy scripting and perhaps the greatest sin the film commits is that it does become a film about redemption at the end "},{"Title":"Flawed but Fun","Date":"6 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A good idea, but a limited movie. Suffers from being small in terms of both storyline and budget.A priest has twenty-four hours to stop the birth of the AntiChrist. He tries to sin along the way and be evil, though he isnt very good at it (his sinning is mainly just some petty theft, three minor assaults, and one accidental death) The milquetoast priest having to sin is a great device that the movie doesnt fully take advantage of, it could have been far more complex, like having to break the 10 Commandments, and, subsequently, funnier and sacrilegious.He gets help from a tacky t.v psychic and a death metal druggie, the latter, for some unexplained reason, taking an instant liking to the priest.Many of the sequences work great, such as trying to get the blood of a virgin, the invoking of the Devil, but some fall flat, like a scene in witch they have to perilously walk on the outside of a building (it definitely ISNT Hitchcok), and the finale when they face the Devil. Overall, it just isnt paced as well as Sam Raimi's Evil Dead 2, Darkman, Army of Darkness, or Peter Jackson's Bad Taste and Brain Dead, and its not as slick as a Dario Argento movie (no doubt these film makers are an influence on De Iglesia). It is very fun, far too clumsy, but, in the end, completely enjoyable, just not great. "},{"Title":"Could and should have been better. It may contain spoiler","Date":"28 June 2005","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is a perfect show of the Spanish movie industry's way take a good idea, add some ironic and surreal sketches... but don't take it too seriously, NEVER finish it by doing a good, clean job. The exaltation of mediocrity has been a common place for European movies in general, and Spanish ones in particular. This would have been a mythical movie just with a little more professional spirit and a higher level of self-esteem. The story itself has a deceiving end, because, after all, the Beast is coming as an adult, and not as a newly born child. It's a shame that a good movie ends as a perfectly forgettable one. I won't be able to consider Álex de la Iglesia as a true director as long as he feels satisfied with poor outcomes like this "},{"Title":"Somewhat sick, somewhat twisted, somewhat funny","Date":"1 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  But unfortunately only somewhat.  In trying to be horrific and funny, the movie stays squarely in the middle of both without really succeeding in either.  A few scenes stand out, especially in the beginning when the priest begins trying to turn evil, and at the end with the appearance of Satan, but the middle section of the movie simply does not go far enough to really be satisfying.  Well worth watching, mostly since I doubt we'll see anything like this again, but don't go into it with high expectations.  "},{"Title":"good movie, sometimes funny, suspenseful, best movie on tv in awhile","Date":"30 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  good movie, although sometimes its hard to see the subtitles. the movie is about a priest who finds a secret message in the book of revelation, the day the anti-christ will be born. this movie is well paced and interesting. this movies interpretation of the devil is that of baphomet, a god the templar knights worshipped that priests accused of being the devil, though adapted by satanists to be used as the devil (search on the internet for baphomet and you can find a picture) throughout the movie alot of cult sybols are shown such as the pentagram and the eye of horus, showing that the director did at least a bit of research, they also mention a few bands at the beginning, one of them being iron maiden, and they play with the belief that a record played backwards can contain secret messages, but kind of mock it.anyway i would recommend this film to anyone interested in horror/mock horror/ or movies about the apocalypse/satan. the only problem i have with this movie is the ending is too clear for this kind of movie, it should have left the audience thinking about what happened. "},{"Title":"confused writing and direction wastes a promising plot","Date":"11 January 1999","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  confused writing and direction wastes a promising plot, that would have played better were the sinister not larded with comedy & a banal depiction of the effects of LSD. the muddle that results has the forces of evil (a gang of vigilantes) without irony kill the anti-christ, and a few late-night benders sorting out the symbolism (and on the cutting floor finding a pace) would have done the film a world of good. entertaining; but lost within it was the potential for much more. "},{"Title":"Cool visuals and decent dubbing","Date":"24 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I thought this was a very well done movie even though it had one of those disjointed plots that are so common with European flicks,(the ending had me totally confused). I thought that the dubbing was well done and the movie was quite nice to look at. There was also a death scene that came right out of nowhere and kind of reminded me of something out of a Dario Argento film. I would give this movie 3 stars. *** "}{"Title":"A Day of Confusion","Date":"19 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I got to admit that I really could not follow this film. What I did follow and understand, I really liked. The special effects are admittedly very strong in some points and then stunningly simplistic and shoddy in others. The story centers around a fallen priest who learns about the coming of the anti-Christ and then, frankly, I lost track of things. Satan shows up as a goat. People hang from the side of a building. This is not for the general American audience. It's very Euro-horror-centric. I would recommend it highly for the audience it's intended for but all others should stand clear. This is the kind of film that is so quirky that if you are disappointed by it, it may not be the fault of the film maker -- it's just not necessarily your cup of tea. "},{"Title":"Take a mad ride through murky perversity","Date":"1 May 2004","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"    To tell the truth, I nearly did not bother with this one; to tell the truth it's all the same anyway; I gave up on Perdita Durango, haven´t bothered much with other titles by this very singular Basque director, but have at last sat through an entire film.Using satire to the nth degree, even going to the extremes of including a take-off of `the Exorcist', `El Día de La Bestía' is a mixture of horror, comedy and spoof, and most definitely a cock in the snout at anyone remotely religious. Rolling along at an intrepid pace, the film is an insight into what a feverish mind and overheated imagination can cook up. I mean, the story is impossible, but that is the magic of cinema...........isn't it?Anyway, everyone is rather round the bend, off his rocker or stark, staring bonkers as we British youngsters used to say near half a century ago. Whilst unravelling Amharic scrawls the Right Reverend Father Ángel Beriartúa discovers that the antichrist will be born on Christmas Day in Madrid. From there to a blood-letting search of the most bizarre in which all kinds of weird goings-on are coming off, normally at hell-bent speed, which is probably where everyone should end up anyway, the film is a debauch into trivial skylarks, heavily dosed up with all the gruesome products of horror and perversity liberally mixed into a comical cocktail of doubtful parentage.What I cannot fathom is how they managed to get Maria Grazia Cucinotta to fall down those stairs so spectacularly, without any parts of her anatomy plopping out of that dress...............If you like this kind of nonsensical black humour, I suggest you give `Airbag' (1997) (qv) by the also Basque director Juanma Bajo Ulloa a try.  "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"25 April 2011","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This movie is definitively awful. I watched it on Easter evening in 2011, hoping to see a good movie, after I had seen films like L'Aldilà of Lucio Fulci, They live of John Carpenter and The Brood of Cronenberg, but all I found is a mix of a comic movie and horror elements. These, however, aren't in the typical style of Splatters or Bad Taste (by Peter Jackson), made up as comic and horror movies. I think this was a pathetic tentative of the author of making a good horror, after felt in the comicality. The first scene, as I saw in the commercial, showing a big crucifix falls on a priest, made me think about a good movie, but the crescendo was awful Maria Grazia Cucinotta seems idiot, and the Italian magician is totally pathetic. In a second you can even see a picture of a young Berlusconi. Don't see it. "},{"Title":"Mighty powerful flick","Date":"9 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Great movie with a pretty s****y ending I must say. During all the movie you´ve been looking forward til the end when the devil will appear and it´ll be a hell of a fight. And what do you get, 1 shot and over !? That was very lame... But all the other things was super cool, that´s for sure. Could be a 10 if it lasted all the way, too bad it didn´t.But it gets 8.5 anyway. "},{"Title":"waste of time .....","Date":"25 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" being a horror films fan when i went through IMDb users good rating i thought this would be a good horror movie for sure , but believe me i would like to warn all the horror fans that if u r intending to download this movie u better kick ass ... its one of the most worst horror film / film in any way and all the way .the name el DI DE la ... gives a big kindaa impression but its a hell to watch this fu****g movie . it shows nothing according its name there is no such beast and even nothing at all....i don't understand why these morons gave huge high rating and good comments ? so its a total waste of time ....... i would like to rate - 0 / 10 "},{"Title":"Terrible!","Date":"21 January 2005","Score":"6 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I somehow expected this movie to be hard and dark, but it turned out to be a comedy, which seriously lacks humour. Therefore the bestial scenes of the movie are terrible, with the antichirist at the end, and so is the humour which just can't make you laugh.If you like to watch a confused priest, who wants to act funny and prevent the apocalypse to happen then maybe this is your movie, but definitely not the movie for me P My personal opinion is that this movie really sux, and i had to write that down, because i saw the ratings here on the movie and expected something good.BTW I also know the heavy metal scene in Madrid and death metal concerts never looked like this! D "}]