[{"Title":"what the detractors are missing about this film","Date":"25 July 2004","Score":"72 out of 82 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The following was excerpted from a wonderful essay by Momus, and nicely highlights the themes that this film is all about (which are totally missed by the complainers here who called it boring).Isolated, impulsive heroes, nocturnal locations, cool music... a violent world in which sensitive people nevertheless continue to dream romantic dreams indifferent to the surrounding carnage.In 'Fallen Angels' this happens quite literally Agent girl Michelle Reis moons and munches dreamily in the wideangle foreground while in the background a triad fight happens in slow motion.It's the Walkman syndrome, a thing you notice when you visit the orient. The bigger the population, the more busy the city, the more people develop the ability to retreat into an inner isolation, the space of a snackbar, a tatami mat, a computer screen, a song playing on headphones.In the next century we will all live like this.Wong Kar Wei maps out a perfectly postmodern, perfectly oriental psychogeography of small, busy places which nevertheless become the spawning ground of ultra-private obsessions and infatuations. Love in his films is more likely to be expressed by someone breaking into your apartment and tidying it, or by masturbation, than a healthy clinch. It is the mindset of ultrafetish, and cinematographer Chris Doyle puts it into images a clear plastic sheath worn over a Chinese silk dress, a mute riding the corpse of a pig in an abattoir, a blow up sex doll with its head stuck in an elevator door, being kicked insanely by a couple of ultra-romantic maniacs.And there is the real star, the traum-city itself. Corridors, subways, neon, time lapse, travelators and low flying jets, trains, shopping arcades, Chung King Mansions stuffed to the gullets with sullen, sweating people cooled by antique electric fans, the scheming tattooed triads, outbursts of random violence, warehouses, chopping knives, video cameras, motorbikes speeding through tunnels, the multi-racial hand in hand with the super-commercial... Hong Kong insinuates itself into our imaginations as the ubertraumstadt, the place of ultimate nightmare and ultimate romance, where beauty is all the more poignant for its dark, cheap, pitiless setting and dreams are all the more necessary.  "},{"Title":"Romantically Detached","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"36 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Wong Kar-wai's Fallen Angels dives headfirst into the cultural alienation and milennial dread of modern-day Hong Kong. The film has a distinctly detached feeling about it that is certainly close to what its characters must feel. Some scenes are hypnotic and dreamlike, while others seem brutally real. The film's characters always seem to be wandering, or, perhaps, simply going through the motions of life. The voice-overs - which Wong uses as effectively as any director since the heyday of Terrence Malick - effectively add an extra dimension to the characters. The ending of Fallen Angels is one of the most beautiful, poetic, and true ever filmed.While this film's predecessor, Wong's Chungking Express is a wonderful, exceptional movie, Fallen Angels is ultimately superior - a masterpiece that Wong only surpassed with his last film, the astonishing In the Mood for Love. Still, while In the Mood for Love may be Wong's best film to date, Fallen Angels remains (as it probably always will) the quintessential Wong Kar-wai picture in that it perfectly embodies the bold, Godardian, recklessness that the name Wong Kar-wai immediately brings to mind. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Powerful, stunning work","Date":"29 September 2003","Score":"32 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Wow.  Fallen Angels really surprised me.  I rarely read reviews or synopses of movies before viewing.  So, I expected to see classic Hong Kong shoot 'em up gangsta film.  Instead, I was intrigued and stunned by this incredible movie.The characters are the focus as they each tell their stories.  Literally, the title Fallen Angels gives you an idea of their plight.  The film doesn't glorify the criminal lifestyle and shows aspects like isolation and loneliness.  It's funny how the killer even tries to imagine how happy he'd be trying to live a normal life working a 9 to 5.  Unfortunately, life's placed him in his predicament and must deal with the ramifications of it.  Add to it his agent (played by knockout Michelle Reis) who is really enigmatic in this one.  Her scene at the jukebox is one that displays the pain, agony, and confusion that she is going through.  Plus, that song is like joy and torture for her at the same time!Then, there is He.  A man of few words who's story may be one of the most moving.  Who could've thought a video could be so powerful and sentimental?  This may be one of the most strangest, complex, yet fascinating characters I've ever onscreen.  His silent nature, line of work (which is the oddest form of coercion I've ever seen!), and his struggles are really played well by Takeshi Kaneshiro, especially his scenes with his dad.Wong Kar Wai's direction really makes the film.  I really loved the dark, trippy music soundtrack which helped glaze on a slick, surreal coating.  It sounds like something that would've been produced by Tricky, Massive Attack, or Portishead.  While this may not have a bloody, high body count, the story told here makes this such a worthwhile movie and can be appreciated after repeated viewings. "},{"Title":"One of my favorites.","Date":"18 December 1998","Score":"30 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Absolutely brilliant. When I first saw Chung King Express, it quickly became one of my favorite movies.  It still is, but Fallen Angels is even better. It encompasses so much.  There is such a potent mix of action, drama, humor, love, music etc. that it overwhelmed me and left me in a state not unlike post-orgasmic ecstasy.  Since I've seen it four times now and the effect hasn't been diminished one iota, I'm convinced that this one oughta go down in the record books.  My extreme gratitude to Wong Kar Wai for creating this masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Just to repeat myself","Date":"11 October 2004","Score":"30 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I already wrote a comment on this one some years ago. A couple of months ago I ordered the Brand New digitally cleaned up Australian DVD (the French are also re-releasing, as part of a Kar-Wai box), and people, would you believe it! Despite having seen my VHS until it decomposed, reincarnated and went to live in a buddhist monastery for videotapes broken out of the circle of continuous play, it was a revelation. But I'm drifting off here. The thing is simpleThis film is superb; the final 5 minutes are among the most gripping things ever translated into some perceptible entity. It would already suffice to make it a masterpiece. The rest of the film is bonuses bonuses. Don't miss, please. "},{"Title":"Everything you have seen before and nothing like anything you have seen before.","Date":"26 December 2005","Score":"19 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" One thing is for sure - it is everything you have seen before and nothing like anything you have seen before. As a Wong Kar-wai junkie, I have to admit - it is getting harder and harder to find a favorite - Fallen Angels is among the top three. In one sense I really loved Fallen Angels because it is full of the same urban angst brought up in Chungking Express. There is something utterly and strikingly gorgeous about Wong Kar-Wai's movies. The mise-en-scene and backdrops his characters inhabit in that give each scene a particular almost brooding feeling. Wong Kar-Wai's are lost and lonely in a world that is dark and full of despair. Fallen Angels is no different.Fallen Angels' Hong Kong is alive in the evenings. One could argue that the cinematography captures a dreamlike state, pure urban neon, and erotic. In Fallen Angels we travel the gritty back alleys (reminiscent of Chunking Express) into underworld dives, dreary dive bars juxtaposed against a brightly-lit McDonalds. I have to say this... Wong Kar-wai does somewhat put me off with his product placement - but we have to finance our projects somehow, I guess.Leon Lai's is a lazy hired killer. His portrayal, it can be argues is weighty and conjures up a sense of gaudy (almost caddy) persona. I am reminded of Yuddy in Days of Being Wild. Lai is wonderful as a contradiction of apathy and poetry. Lai plays it with a languid air. Every move is deliberate - smooth. Conversely, Michelle Reis' is his doppelganger - his manager. She is obsessed with him, becomes emotionally attached to him. I would argue that a sense of betrayal set the stage for the hit man's final demise. A nighttime ride in the back of a motorcycle with He Zhiwu (Takeshi Kaneshiro) leads me wonder is she has comes undone. Love though, and its many forms of cruelty is a recurring theme with Wong Kar-wai. Oh that sweet betrayal... He Zhiwu is a potent character. The relationship He Zhiwu develops with his father is proof positive that even in the broken world of dysfunctionality there resides a lotus from the marshes. The videotape sessions, at first almost humorous, forms yet another center of love shattered - sometimes we need to really treasure what we have lest it slip by so suddenly... he Zhiwu is a symbol of the lyricism of youth.One has to admit, even after Chunking Express, Fallen Angels is different from any Hong Kong movie. Driven by inner monologue (much like the later much acclaimed The Follow from The Hire series) it draws one in. The languid tone and deeply erotic tale is one that will stand the test of time. Fallen Angels according to Teo takes over from where Chungking Express leaves of. I argue that it brought Chungking Express to a whole new realm. Fallen Angels is Chungking Express on steroids.Miguel Llora "},{"Title":"Wong Kar Wai's best!!!","Date":"27 July 1999","Score":"18 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Wong Kar Wai's films are an acquired taste; either you like most or all or else you don't like them at all. Having said that, this is his best film and one of the greatest and most important films to come out of Hong Kong. It moves along at a faster pace (though still a little slow) than his other movies. Like his other movies, photography work is excellent and very stylish. He give you the feeling of being in Hong Kong without having to catch the plane.  Fallen  Angels features the story of a hitman as well as other restless people in HK. Leon Lai Ming is very good in this movie; his acting has come a long way since Wicked City. Overall, a 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"caleidoscopic and near hallucination","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"19 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Almost manga-like in camera style and story telling (I mean manga as in Akira and Ghost in The Shell). Very colorfull yet dark, explicit yet tender, soft and violent. Your sucked in by the nostrils, visually shaken about and taken for a very exciting trip into hyper-subreality.  The daylight at the end has the same effect as the dishcleaning and lights on after a very good party. Very sobering. The movie leaves you with the feeling of having had a vigorous massage and wanting more. More Wong Kar-Wai. "},{"Title":"cause I'm cool","Date":"20 September 2000","Score":"24 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is probably THE coolest film ever made. It has a real trippy soundtrack and is shot like no other film has been made before. The characters, such as killer and his partner, cruise around with an I don,t give a fudge attitude which works really well when Wong Kar Wai switches the pace into slow mo. With Wong Kar Wai he really shows you that even with a small budget film you can still match blows with the 100 million dollar films such as the matrix with only your imagination. Wong Kar Wai is the coolest film maker on the planet Quentin Tarantino  "},{"Title":"In the World, Our Birthday Gift","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Fallen angels are those with extraordinary gifts of life who, through some accident, find themselves in incongruously irrational worlds. This filmmaker is extraordinary in his commitment to not just show us some events in such lives, but to bring the very experience to us. Here, we ourselves are simultaneously turned into angels by being given higher powers of observation than normal. We are thrust into an unfamiliar universe, one which sweeps us in unexpected ways.The blessing of hyperperception is where the real talent and skill is. Here we have four interweaving narratives. These are not just stories in the Andersen or Altman tradition, where we just passively observe. These are unconnected strong desires that we are roped into sharing. Each of these characters is less someone to watch than a vehicle in a thrill ride we inhabit. That this man is making films today enriches my visual imagination immensely.Welles, Kurosawa and Tarkovsky were able to largely invent. Or rather, they were reinventing theater in the new medium of film. Wong has the luxury of reinventing film, reacting to all the expectations we have when we enter the theater. So he can orchestrate cameras that linger too long, that slip off the frame, that switch color or resolution, that dice the pace in jarring ways. Cameras that go where no one expects or wants, and all this registers on us. `In the Mood for Love' exploited a single technique of the camera that couldn't stay pointed. It wandered as the characters wandered. The lack of deliberation is massively effective.In this film we have something more ambitious, a camera that slowly enters the film and becomes its own narrator. This is the most amazing of notions. Many self-referential films have been made but in this case the effect is unique because the whole project is about cameras not being where they are supposed to be. It is a camera operated by a voiceless man, someone whose `job' is to appropriate the work of others, someone who one he gets a customer it becomes his victim for excessive consumption of whatever is offered. It is, of course Wong. And this film is our birthday gift before we leave the world of obfuscation for another.I am tentatively making this a three, but may elevate it to a four on reseeing all his work.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 4 Worth watching.  "}{"Title":"Another of WKW's beautiful masterpiece","Date":"8 January 2006","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" WKW strikes back again with this wonderful - and different movie. The Hong Kong director brings us a unique story about loneliness. As other movies of WKW, this movies represents a wonderful visual experience. Great directing for 3 stories The story of an assassin, lonely and living day to day deciding weather it's really worth continuing with his profession or not; the story of his partner, a beautiful woman who relies her loneliness on her obsession with her partner; and the story of a mute guy that works at night in all the closed stores and markets, and with the different encounters with a woman and his relation with his father. All three stories are stories of loneliness, of love affairs impossible to fulfill and of the wish of each one to find a meaning to their existence. Like in all movies of WKW, all characters are solitary. This movie is another one of the directors masterpieces, trying to describe all the lonely souls in Hong Kong and the impossibility of finding a meaning to their life, their professions and a meaning to love. A bizarre and great soundtrack, such as the great photography and stylish directing makes this movie a must-see in the Chinese's director. "},{"Title":"Uneven but Deeply Affecting","Date":"31 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" We follow the lives of five isolated and desperately lonely people who will cling to anything that will make them Feel.One is a Hit-man (Leon Lai) who does his job in a messy but workmanlike fashion. He kills several people at once, then he switches off the light as he leaves and hops a bus to go home, just like those who work 9-5. On one of these bus rides, he is recognised by an old friend from school, whose 'normal life' reminds him of how much he hates his own. He wants to get out, but he doesn't know how to do anything else.Another is the Partner of the Hit-man (Michelle Reis), who sets up his jobs for him and cleans his flat when he's not there. They have never met but she develops an obsession with him that includes taking his garbage home and rifling through it, going to his favourite bar and sitting in his favourite seat, and masturbating on his bed, because it makes her feel close to him. He is aware of what she's doing, but doesn't know how to handle it. He arranges to met her but can't bring himself to show up.A third character is a Man-Child (Takeshi Kaneshiro) who lost his voice eating a can of rotten pineapple. He roams the streets at night, breaking into shops and imagining he is working there. He also forces goods and services on people, who as often as not give him money just to get rid of him. He lives with his father in a small and stuffy apartment in a large and run-down building that also houses Michelle Reis's character. They know each other by sight, but they never speak.The fourth main character is a Girl (Charlie Young) who finds out over the phone that the man she loves is marrying someone else. In her rage and brokenness, she latches on to the Man-Child, who then fancies himself in love with her. She is all he has. But just as quickly as she appears, she leaves. Later he sees her on the street, cleaned-up and apparently leading a better life. He tries to get her attention but she ignores him. She doesn't want to be reminded.The fifth character (Karen Mok) is a bleached blonde who is close to having a nervous breakdown. In an otherwise empty McDonalds, she insinuates herself on the Hit-man, who it turns out was once her lover. He doesn't recognise her, which seems to be the story of her life. He tells her straight out that he doesn't want anything other than a companion for the night, and in the absence of anything better, she agrees. She imagines she will woo him into changing his mind and staying with her.This film left me with an internal atmosphere I couldn't shake for days. It's claustrophobic, meandering, chaotic and at times very indulgent, but overall it's a sad, moving study of loss and emptiness, and people's inability to connect with others. "},{"Title":"Night in the City","Date":"12 October 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Wong Kar-Wai is the modern cinema's premier poet of loss and longing. His characteristically enigmatic films capture the erratic rhythms and ephemeral nature of memory and torment fleeting, fragmented, wandering only to return obsessively to its central foci.While Wong's debut, As Tears Go By, was a relatively straightforward commercial riff on Scorsese's Mean Streets and the 'heroic bloodshed' style of Hong Kong street opera pioneered by action maestro John Woo, he would establish with Days of Being Wild and Chungking Express a signature style characterized by visual bravura mixed with interwoven and intensely introspective tales of emotionally isolated young people adrift in the shadow kingdom of urban postmodernity. Eschewing more traditional narrative formats for an elliptical self-referentiality that mirrors memory itself, Wong's films are rarely instantly accessible, but reward the patient viewer with intoxicating moods and contemplative brilliance.Fallen Angels was originally conceived as something of a 'nightside' sequel/companion piece to Chungking Express. Structurally and thematically it mirrors the latter with two separate plot lines, each centering on a pair of twentysomethings (a hit-man and his female 'agent' in one and a strange, mute confidence man and the girl he takes a shine to in the other) in search of love but unable or unwilling to find it in each other. Assorted camera tricks, fish eye lenses, slow motion sequences and the strategic use of a gloriously bittersweet pop soundtrack all help to capture a mood of frantic desperation and the distortions of memory and longing.Wong also invokes the first of his 'art' films, Days of Being Wild, returning to its concern with the loss and meaning of identity in an impersonal world. Leon Lai's hit-man and Takeshi Kaneshiro's petty criminal both try - and fail - to remake their lives on this straight and narrow. One of them manages a peace of sorts with his failure - the other goes out out in a bittersweet blaze of glory. Wong also explores the way in which longing (mis)identifies others his characters view each other through the distorted lens memory and desire - what they see is not reality, but a projection of their own dreams - and when the truth is made manifest, it is always the cruelest blow. "},{"Title":"boring and pretentious","Date":"2 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" OK, I like ChungKing Express a lot. I get this movie. I understand what he was trying to do and say, but I don't like it one bit. It's boring, pretentious, and predictable once you've seen enough of the pop films from Hong Kong. He tried too hard to be stylish and original, but unlike Chung King Express, it didn't work. On top of this, just from looking at the film, it looks as if he was high on drugs the whole time he was working on this movie. It might have been cool back in the heydays of drug culture but looking at it again today it just plain silly. The acting was awful and predictable, which is typical of most movies coming out of Hong Kong. The whole thing looked like a collage of clips copies from other films. I rank this as one of the worst movies I've ever seen. What a waste of film. "},{"Title":"From Hong Kong to the world","Date":"22 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Is a shame that here in Mexico city the cinemas are full of American films, i love a lot of American films but i prefer a film like Fallen Angels or Chungking express than films like The day after tomorrow or Rocky Balboa. Here is very difficult to find a film of Hong Kong in the cinemas and also is a little difficult to find it on a DVD store.But i have the luck to buy Fallen Angels and i consider myself a very lucky person because i have the chance to watch a film like this.Fallen Angels is perfect.........for my is the best of Wong Kar Wai (i haven't see all his films but by now i think that this is the best).Fallen Angels is the story of a couple a hit-man and his girlfriend, the other character is a mute and a girl that he meets in a store and finally there's another character that is a young lady that spend some time with the hit-man.This film is about love and also about relationships.There are two stories the one of the hit-man, that show to us that he only see his girlfriend for work and also show to us the lonely life of the two....the hit-man meets this young lady and spend some time with her but nothing serious.Finally the hit-man gets killed.The other is about the best character of the film and maybe the best character in a Wong Kar Wai film  a young mute that in the night have a lot of different jobs like sells ice cream or a work as a barber but the problem is that this aren't his business so he enter like a criminal to this places. Later he meets a girl that always is fighting with her boyfriend and the mute fells in love. He has very good times with the girl, goes to a soccer match and also his hair has become blonde because of the love. Finally the girl never come to the other soccer match because she never love him.Also show to us his relationship with his dad, and how he spend most of the time recording to is dad.......Great character and awesome played by Takeshi Kaneshiro (Chungking Express).Finally his dad die and he spend a lot of time watching the tape of his dad........finally he meets the hit-man's girlfriend and he starts to hanging around with her.Well this is a great story but i love a lot all the characters and for me that is the best part of the film.If you want to see one of the greatest love stories and one of the best films ever you must see Fallen Angels...another masterpiece of Wong Kar Wai.Also the best scene in the film is when the mute is watching the tape and remembering his father and also when he meets a boy in the barbershop and later he meets the same boy with his family in the ice cream truck.FALLEN ANGELS 10/10 "},{"Title":"The Daddy of the Kar Wai Canon","Date":"20 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Fallen Angels could have been so named due to its dropped origin as part of director Wong Kar Wai's previous film Chunking Express, emerging afterwards as a follow up. To hear the critics tell it, 'Express' is his masterpiece, regularly making the 'best movies ever made' lists along side such exalted company as your Citizens Kane's and Casablanca's. But for me Fallen Angels is, to date, the daddy of the Wong Kar Wai canon.Fallen Angel tells of a not quite burnt-out hit man, Leon, who begins to tire of the whole 'gun for hire' malarkey and decides to quit on account of his burgeoning feelings for the female operative who he has never met, but who plans his jobs for him. The female operative, Michelle, also emotes for our existential assassin but somehow they both realise that if they ever did come face to face the fantasy would evaporate. The unrequited love thing is Kar Wai's forte but here it is more a case of As long as you don't look at it, it won't disappear. So their love continues on the basis of ensuring that it never really exists. Anxious to avoid an inevitable unprofessional encounter, our navel gazing killer goes off on an adventure into the Kowloon night where he crosses paths with a series of likable reprobates before embarking on that fatal one last job. This takes us not so neatly into a 'mad as a hatter' subplot about a petty criminal who was rendered mute as a boy by a can of 'out of date' pineapples. He goes out at night and gets up to a range of activities such as massaging a dead pig and kidnapping a family and forcing them to eat ice cream. He to falls in love, with a girl who believes she has been beaten to the altar by someone called Blondie. He helps her go in search of the usurper of her affections resulting in a hilarious beating up of a blow up doll! Cinematographer and Kar Wai regular Christopher Doyle engages a warped and gaudy neon look throughout; something of a trade mark in Kar Wai films. This is the world from inside a Wurlitzer juke box &#150; or, at least, through the eyes of a tranquilised goldfish and this, incidentally, is not a complaint. The other thing I like about this film is that it walks the line between the art house 'heart warmers' of the best of European cinema and the 'Glock Opera' pyrotechnics of John Woo and Ringo Lam. Genre clash &#150; it's the future. "},{"Title":"Suffers from Sequel-syndrome","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I loved Chungking Express, so I did enjoy this movie.  However, Fallen Angels suffers from what many sequels suffer from--too big a reliance on things that worked in the first film.Chungking Express showcased Wong's trademark stylized camerawork.  But Fallen Angels went over the top.  I felt like I was watching a prolonged music video.  The oblique camera angles, quick pans and other assorted camera tricks detracted from the stories.  At times, the story didn't progress at all.  Chungking Express had two distinct plots where you really cared about the characters and where they were headed.It also seemed like Wong tried to reproduce the quirkiness of his previous characters in Chungking Express, but this time with tedious, over-the-top excess.  Watching Takeshi overact got really tiresome, whereas in Chungking Express it was funny and charming.Nevertheless, I enjoyed the movie.  Perhaps it was too much of a good thing (after Chungking Express)?  Wong Kar-wei is still the master, though. "},{"Title":"The dopest of the dope.","Date":"1 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is super dope! There's nothing more intellectual to say. So I will just ramble on about all of the cool things about Fallen Angels. First the music is tight. It says I'm cool a bunch of times and has a really cool beat. I really liked the part where they are walking in a lobby and up an escalator. This movie is both funny, and sad. It made me very sad and reevaluate my life, and the things that I have that I take for granted. I guess that's kind of an intellectual thing to say. But that's it. On to more superficial reasons why I like Fallen Angels. The people where cool clothes. The entire film was shot in a wide angel lens. There are multiple spontaneous fight scenes. One of the Characters name is Blondie. The lighting is not very realistic in some parts, especial in the kitchen with the mute boy because there is a lot of green light seeming to not come from anywhere in particular, but anyway..... even though the lighting is not very realistic it's COOLER that way. This movie is basically just a cool work of art. It's DOPE. "},{"Title":"Magical, stylish and unpredictable!","Date":"13 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" 'Fallen Angels' is one of the most exciting movies I've seen in a long time; interesting camera work (not what's everyone used to), fantastic script, impressive acting, funny, erotic with style. I am not sure what I was expecting from this film but the great mixture or genres sure did make me laugh and cry at the same time. Simply amazing! This is not a gangster film; it is a story about individualism and loneliness, very emotional. This is one of those films where none of the actors needs to say 'I love you' or 'I miss you' to let everyone know what they feel. The looks, the music and the moves even the camera work tells everything. You simply feel what they feel. I absolutely loved the soundtrack; powerful and sentimental This movie is purely the work of genius, don't miss it! "},{"Title":"An Experimental Film About Self-Overcoming","Date":"14 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It¡¦s a film quite experimental, no matter in sense of storytelling or visual concept.  No nonlinear narrative we can find in this film, and the form is also very different from conventional continuity style. In fact, conventional is only the content, and the form is alternative. A strong causality is contained in this movie, but not so easy to be grasped, and thus a deep thought is required. To a large extent, it reminds me of some works of existentialism - the freedom to choose our life¡¦s direction brings us not only independence but also responsibility, and the latter gives such freedom a burden very heavy. The self-indulgence of the figures shows us an escape from bearing such responsibility, and thus they also reject the freedom.  The killer¡¦s attitude to life reminds me of Sartre¡¦s bad faith.  His agent and so-called girl friend can do nothing but living in the past, in fact both of them reject ¡§change¡¨, although slightly different is the attitude they take. The agent's longing for communication is shown from her voice-over in the ending, but too scared is she of being hurt, and therefore isolation seems inevitable.  Her relation with the killer also reveals this point clearly. Almost everyone undergoes a complete transformation in this movie, but no one other than the dumb-boy can solve the problem radically.  The girl he fancies just becomes to be normal but not to be herself. The unwillingness to recognize the dumb-boy shows us she is still an escapist.  The killer finally has intention to make his own choice, but too late.   Merely the dumb-boy, who is brave enough to bear the responsibility of his past and future, can control his present, and thus also the direction of his life.  A very positive message is conveyed by this movie, and the loose structure no doubt makes it more enlightening.  In fact, without a refreshing form of storytelling, nothing can be learned from the truth people have heard more than thousand times, although they are still suffering from those problems.  The alternative cinematography gives a surreal look to the film, and hence makes it also visually very refreshing.  The music is good, but the acting is just ok.  I also like the editing very much.  Wong¡¦s sense of humor also makes the film very entertaining. In the past decade, Wong¡¦s films to me are very experimental, and ¡§Fallen Angels¡¨ is no exception.  Difficult to regard it as a masterpiece, but absolutely worth seeing.   To the people who are also interested in the rewards of those experimentations, please don¡¦t miss ¡§In The Mood For Love¡¨ (2000).   "}{"Title":"Ahh, Fallen Angels. What a lovely, sad film this is","Date":"10 July 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I was first introduced to this film about ten years ago (man, its already been ten years!!), along with Takeshi Kitano by a friend who was really into Asian cinema. At the time Beat Takeshi and Wong Kar Wai were not well known in the US at all. All the little fan boys (myself included) were still stuck on John Woo. My friend handed me a bootleg of Fallen Angels along with a copy of Beat Takeshi's Violent Cop. I went home and put them in and thought, what the hell am I watching!!!?!?? Fallen Angels had to be the weirdest, most unorthodox, most elliptical piece of film I'd ever looked at. EVERY SHOT looked weird and wrong. It seemed the director looked at every rule in the Hollywood filmmaker's guide and did the exact opposite! Also, it looked like the whole thing was shot with a security camera. Everything was fish-eyed. Too strange. But something about it made me keep watching. It actually took me a couple of tries to get all the way through it. It was just so odd, and hallucinatory.Then finally, I was able to get through the entire thing in one sitting, and that's when the magic happened. You MUST watch this film all the way through till the end in one sitting in order to get it. The very end of the film is when the illuminating flash happens and when the film suddenly makes sense. If you do, I promise you, it will be a magical, sad and sweet, and extremely rewarding experience. This film by miles transcends the gangster genre. It is so many things at once. More than anything, in fact, it is a love story. But a love story in the same way (odd as it may sound) that Last Picture Show is a love story. It's about being madly in love with someone who will never be able to love you back.I actually liken this film to some of Sam Shepard's absurdist theater pieces from the 60s and 70s. Where for much of the duration you don't quite understand what you're looking at, although it seems the director MUST have some sort of plan, and then, at the end, all of the strands come together and it makes total sense. "},{"Title":"Great Movie!!! Wong Kar Wai's best and maybe HK's too!!","Date":"21 July 1999","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a GREAT MOVIE!!!! Wong Kar Wai's movies are an acquired taste, but if you like his other ones, you should like this one.  Has the usual excellent photography work from Chris Doyle. Wong Kar Wai's films make you feel like you're in HK without having to get on the plane! With Pulp Fiction, This is one of my favorite movies of the 90's;  Leon Lai Ming's acting has come a long way since Wicked City. I bought this movie on tape the first day it was priced for sale; The movie covers the usual angst felt by people (in Wong Kar Wai's films) living in HK and their trying to find their true meaning/calling in life. Enjoy this one. "},{"Title":"Into the electric night..","Date":"5 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Some movies are tableaux observed from a fixed distance, a remnant of old theatrical ways they don't whisper so we will get up close and listen they shout out at us in our seat, their motions stopping at the edge of that figurative stage created by the camera. A Wong Kar Wai movie throws itself at you, or it stays the distance and invites you to climb the stage and take intimate looks, and none does it better from what I've seen so far than Fallen Angels. This is a movie that sends us hurling at top speed through the electric night of Hong Kong, blurred neon colors bleeding by the camera in splashes of light and shape, then it holes itself up in cheap fleabag rooms or dingy bathrooms to stare itself at the mirror or lie in bed exhausted and inert. This is stylish and cool but Wong Kar Wai is so terrific he goes the extra mile, he makes his stylish awfully poignant. And I like how he can make his films funny without breaking up the tone, without the movie making it seem like it's stopping in its tracks to relieve tension, it's all part of the journey.As with previous films, Fallen Angels tells us a vibrant expressionist story of lonely souls aching for connection, now when the normal folks go to bed the movie's characters crawl out of their holes to call out in the dead of night to anyone who might listen, even those who won't, each character only a moment's stop in another's journey through life. It is frantic, in a constant flux and motion and search for something, as though driven by instinctive Bedouin locomotion. The movie is motioning towards a sense of destination, a warm place those characters can call home and finally rest in, but it starts and finishes before that destination can be reached, hanging in the existential middle like the blurry snapshot of something that moves. The snapshot here is not simply the memento of something come and gone, it's something to be celebrated for its own momentary fleeting beauty. They might go on to reach home or not, but a girl is riding on a motorbike with a man she doesn't know, she knows the road is not that long and that she'll be getting off soon but at that moment she feels good. Then the movie comes out of a tunnel into the break of dawn, and it would be years (maybe not until Mann's Collateral) before we'd get another movie that takes us on a ride like this through the electric night. "},{"Title":"Not even half as good as I have expected...","Date":"11 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" **Very Little Spoilers** Knowing that Shirley Kwan's 'Forget Me', which I absolutely love, is in the soundtrack of this movie with an interesting title like 'Fallen Angels', I kind of expected this to be quite a masterpiece, especially with the good reviews I read in both Amazon and IMDb but alas, it's one of those over-rated movies again.I wasted S$20 of my money on this DVD since I can't rent it anywhere, and the Code 1 DVD cost S$63, almost a robbery.I like seeing Leon Lai, who plays a hired assassin, at the start even when he starts shooting at people with no purpose as who hired him and why. Then there's Michelle Reis, with fringes so long I can hardly see her face at all, no thanks to the shaky camera, which is very irritating.Just when some bits may get interesting like the guy massages the dead pig, the camera switch to a new scene and there's literally no story.It has a feeling that it's trying to be a cool movie but there's no story and character development and I don't care about all the people in it but I'm just waiting for the movie to end since I've already paid for this DVD.Rated 4/10 due to one of my favorite song in the soundtrack- Forget Me Both Leon Lai and Michelle Reis are among my favorite stars. I was anxious to see them both together again after watching the TV series 'The Legendary Rangers'.But even with this 2 gorgeous actors, the film is wasted because it has not made full use of the enormous potential from the main title and only worth one viewing for the factors mentioned above. It could have been made like Leon The Professional but it's just a piece of crap. Rent it if you must, but not to buy at all. I regret buying the DVD. "},{"Title":"A Nutshell Review Fallen Angels","Date":"11 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I've got a strange affinity with Wong Kar-wai's movies, and they seem to somehow present themselves in reverse order to me, where often I find myself visiting his earlier works backwards. Like watching 2046 first before In the Mood for Love, or right now, watching Fallen Angels before Chungking Express, where I have both movies on DVDs sitting on the shelves, but decide to pick Angels before Chungking, knowing jolly well that this one came after, and was like the film that expanded itself so much that it had to break away and stand alone on its own two feet.Deciding between Chungking Express and Fallen Angels also boiled down to pure laziness on my part to want to pop a Region Free DVD into my default player, hence the latter. And I can't help but to chuckle at how Leon Lai's killer character Wong Chi Ming paralleled this laziness of mine, in wanting things on a sliver platter, of getting the preparation work all set out for him, and he just enters the scene with his swagger as the executioner. And the woman behind him acting as his agent and cleaning lady, is played by Michelle Reis.As his agent, she gets the contracts, does the legwork to draw up plans, and with time as she hangs out at his apartment to clean it up, she nurses an aching heart, knowing that perhaps in their profession, to fall in love would spell doom. And it doesn't take one too long to identify with such longing, of being so near yet so far, and she exorcises her unrequited passion by either visiting the places he visits just to hang on to his lingering presence long after he's gone, or by pleasuring herself on his bed. Kinda kinky, don't you think?While Chungking Express dealt with the relationship issues that two cops had to experience (from my fuzzy knowledge of it anyway), Fallen Angels seemed to be its evil twin, again dealing with relations of the heart, but now from the viewpoints centered on two criminals, one in Lai's character, and here the other in Takeshi Kaneshiro (who was also in Chungking Express) with his mute He Zhiwu, who breaks into shops and plays plenty of make belief. In his story arc, his unrequited love stems from his chance encounter with Charlie Young's Charlie, who too suffers a broken heart, but goes over the bend. In fact, I would have thought that Eating Air took a huge leaf out of certain aspects of their courtship, especially with the lovers on a bike careening through Hong Kong's underground highways. And Charlie Young I thought did substantially more than the flower vase roles she's more famous for perfecting.While Zhiwu can't speak, it is perhaps this arc that has a lot to say about love in classic WKW pathos. We listen in to the thoughts of Zhiwu as he narrates them in Mandarin voiceovers, such as topics of relationships having their expiration date, and the keeping of someone's memory alive. With Chi-Ming, he consciously rejects someone who takes an extreme liking of him, to go for a random, temporary lover in the form of Karen Mok's Blondie, who again might be another throwback to a similar character back in Chungking Express. But being cautionary here, is yet again the tale of not incurring the wrath of the wrong woman, though I chose to interpret the events in his story thereafter as being one of a set up, or a fix, versus just being a case of coincidental bad luck.And you cannot get away with not talking about frequent WKW collaborator Christopher Doyle's cinematography in this film, with its obtuse angles like a fish eye twitching all around with plenty of kinetic energy, boasting of shots within shots with its use of captured mirror images. Time lapse also gets used quite frequently, giving it a sense of broad fast forwarding motion, with the devil in the details treated quite casually. With a variation of Massive Attack's Karma Coma by Roel Garcia featured in an eclectic soundtrack, it already bowled me over with its collection of songs featured, whereLove stories that don't go anywhere except to serve as personal reminders, familiar pathos as presented by WKW, a star studded cast and excellent visuals and music, easily make this film one of my firm favourites. I suppose I shouldn't waste too much time before embarking on my journey onboard the more illustrious Chungking Express. "},{"Title":"An incredible film","Date":"15 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What I love most about this film; the acting and the characters. The style. The strung about, disorganized night life! Perhaps it is a bit romanticized, and some of the situations unrealistic, but it is the character, who are profoundly human, that make this so great.The plot does not really matter; the story follows two sets of characters as they go through love and loss. A hitman and his female partner; notice the juxtaposition of shots. As the man is walking, he seems to be quite the womanizer, giving sly smiles to women as they walk by. His partner, on the other hand, gives an almost mean sneer to men, although she dresses very sociable and even says I know how to be easy going. Notice how she has a deep love for him, and how he couldn't really care less.The other story, on the other hand, follows a mute (who happens to be played by Takeshi Kaneshiro, who played a character of same name in Chungking Express) and his brief encounter with love.An interesting note is when the two main male characters cross paths, in the most subtle ways. It is complete coincidence; each character is completely oblivious to each others stories. Or when the mute and the female partner cross paths. It is so subtle that one watching the movie for the first time would not notice it.Again, I must state that the acting in this movie is incredible. Perhaps it is because of the structure of the film that the characters are given such room to grow and develop.The cinematography is also incredible. Some of the shots are just ingenious.And yet, it seems that the whole point that this movie is trying to point out the utter randomness of life, the utter coincidence that we just so happen to be in a certain place at a certain time, meeting people that just so happen to be there at the same time too. This movie is said to be a disjointed sequel to Chungking Express, and considering that Fallen Angels offers the same style (in both characters, cinematography and romance) it is. When comparing the two, Fallen Angels handles some of the camera work better, such as the shots where the characters are in slow motion whereas the backgrounds are going in fast motion. Fallen Angels also blends the characters stories together better, rather than having one story go and then end abruptly to start another characters. In fact, that was the biggest flaw in Chungking Express, because it puts less emphasis on the cop character and gradually one puts little value and forgets it, despite the character being rather well developed.It is important to note, though, that one should probably watch Chungking Express before seeing Fallen Angels. There are subtle references to it, although any similarities between characters are coincidence. "},{"Title":"autumn in HK? an urban adventure with claustrophobic and violent moments","Date":"24 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  We do not see the daylight in Fallen Angels.  It is a tale of some young people in search of sincerity and safety filmed with moody hand-held cinematography (Christopher Doyle).  The story doesn't develop very fast and the motifs aren't always clear, but the images are entertaining enough to keep watching and the two voice-overs clarify the situation of the protagonists (one of which BTW is a fan of Ruud Gullit and another drinks Heineken).  Michelle Reis is known from Kiddo in the great fantasy-movie Swordsman 2 (1991).  There are few violent scenes in Fallen Angels, but still more than WKW's other movies outside As Tears Go By (1988).  I saw this movie accidently and it induced me to see many more of WKW's films, that BTW are more coherent and emotional.  For those of you who didn't know Wong Kar-Wai movies are not to be confused with those of John Woo (action), Tsui Hark (fantasy) or even Ang Lee (romance).  Also, Fallen Angels is not set in the fifties as some other WKW movies.The over-acting doesn't annoy, neither do the cheap video-effects.  They are used with a kind of bitter-sweet humor, including the surreal colors and angles.  In a way this could be compared with work from (former videoclip-) directors like Spike Jonze (Being John Malkovich), David Fincher (Fight Club, the Game), Jonathan Glazer (Sexy Beast), because of the dynamic camera-work.  But that virtuous style is only really completely stunning in Happy Together (1997).  That film is also superior in music here is a score of reggae and avant garde music with african elements and sometimes a cheap synthesized clone of a saxophone.  Used very subtle though.  We do not see the daylight, until the very last seconds.  Dawn breaks.8/10 "},{"Title":"One of the best hong kong movies.","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's definitely on the top of my list of the best Hong Kong movies ever made.  I never knew how great of a director Wong Kar Wai is.  I have yet to see his other films like Chungking Express, Happy Together, In the Mood for Love, and the others, but this would be a great introduction movie to this director.I really loved how the story was told.  There are many French New Wave elements in this movie. Great cinematography that consists of handheld shots. Lots of voice overs to get into the thoughts of the characters in the movie is very effective.  Also the three interelating stories work because it has so much emotion.  I love the relationship between the Hitman and his agent and the Mute and his father.  The acting was very good, especially for a Hong Kong movie.  A lot of Hong Kong movie actors seem to overact.  The actors in this movie are very naturalistic.  There are even a few action scenes in this movie for you hardcore Hong Kong action movie lovers. One action scene consists of eerie Jamaican music and slow motion is very well done.There isn't any flaws i can think of.  So you're looking for a great film to watch, I recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"a real funny movie well worth seeing","Date":"27 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I must admit that I would probably never have given this movie a second glance on a video store shelf. However I saw this funny movie today in a Film and Media class and loved it. The story is a bit hard to follow at times until you get used to the stories pace and quirky cast of characters. The story is interesting because of the way it goes from being serious with Wong Chi-Ming to being so funny with He Zhiwu and his unique approach to business as he never takes life too seriously, he is also the only character in the movie I found you could really like again this is probably due to his take on life. And the ice-cream truck now that was pure comedic insperation and the line  I don't want to die by ice-cream. to funny for words. This movie rates a big 8/10 and is well worth the 95min to watch it, and probably any other WongKar-Wai movies as well. "},{"Title":"High-speed retinal agitation.","Date":"4 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is one of the few where I've seen hyperactive ADD-baby camera work used well.  The camera is very jumpy sometimes, and wobbles around drunkenly at other times.  There's lots of color, noise, and movement, and best of all, interesting characters underneath it all.  One of the main characters is a hit man, which leads for a few scenes where he's going in and doing his hits -- the camera work is really psychedelic then, absolutely top notch stuff.  The 'ice cream' scene is very funny, and the various love entanglements the happen throughout the movie are all possessing of an affectingly deadpan ennui.  Highly recommended; this movie was a lot better than most of the boring trash I've rented recently. "}{"Title":"Lonely at Heart","Date":"10 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Damn good movie.  The killer, portrayed by Leon Lai, illustrates a cold and aloof form of male.  This character reflects the callousness and aloofness you can find in many men, especially their insensitivity and carelessness of the people who care and love them.  The agent represents all the broken hearts out there who their lives changed after their lovers' desertion. Also you can find the happy-go-lucky girl who is lively and feisty, yet lonely and insecure.  From the parallel story you can see the loneliness and demand for attention from the intentionally jolly but neglected youngster, who is mute, portrayed by Takeshi Kaneshiru, who opens his heart and mind through his narration of his life.  Overall, this movie definitely deserves a second or third review. "},{"Title":"Gorgeous and interesting","Date":"30 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is definitely one of the most beautiful movies I've ever seen.  The director goes way over the top visually, but pulls it off.  There's all sorts of very modern, very MTV techniques - lots of intense close-ups, lots of fast editing, all sorts of hand-held, shaky shots, all sorts of dim, grainy shots.  If it sounds visually chaotic, well, it is, but it's all done so artistically that it's almost magnificent.Plot-wise, don't expect too much.  I'm still not sure how one character was related to the two other main characters.  But narrative doesn't drive this movie - image and emotion does.  The first comparison that comes to mind is Apocalypse Now, but with a much more modern, indie, and artsy quality to it, perhaps a bit like the french film Diva.Oh, and did I mention that it has great music, too - some very sexy, some very foreboding, much of it very prominent.Very entertaining, and even though the narrative is confusing, you come to really feel for the characters as well. "},{"Title":"Thematic yet un-startling","Date":"4 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Desperate account of Hong Kong's subculture of criminals trying to make it is a painfully meandering, thematic piece that disjointedly makes its way to its un-startling conclusion.Wong Kar-Wai draws his picture out far too much, and the viewer will spend most of a long 96 minutes trying to figure out what the writer-director is up to. His cast seem to do exactly what's required, but what that is, is pure conjecture. Odd camera angles and black and white photography add a touch of art, but again no reason seems apparent.Kar-Wai's main theme appeared to be relationships, though I was so confused at times I could be wrong.Monday, July 20, 1998 - Hoyts Croydon "},{"Title":"Kar-wai Wong is a genius","Date":"11 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Kar-wai Wong is lately the only reason why I think that movies are art. This is the only videotape that I ever bought. I watched it so many times and every time the effect gets stronger. One thing so special about this film is the range of emotions and its abrupt changes in the mood. By the way, I actually saw two different versions, one in Cantonese and one dubbed in Mandarin (I don't speak either but I think I'm right). The Mandarin version has a somewhat different ending the song at the end is different (same as the the one from the first part of  Chungking Express), which makes the whole ending somewhat less sentimental. Can't decide which ending I like better.  "},{"Title":"An uninvolving messy affair that looks great and is directed with considerable style","Date":"13 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" After yet another bullet wound from a tough job, Wong Chi-Ming decides it is time to quit the hit-man trade and decides to break off the business partnership with his agent, unaware that she loves him. Meeting the wild Baby offers him a chance at happiness but he soon finds that the Agent is not going to let him go so easily. Meanwhile the mute He Zhiwu makes his living re-opening closed shops overnight until he finds Charlie, who is trying to find her ex-boyfriend's new lover. Helping her sees He falling for Charlie himself and ending up hunting for her when she disappears.Thanks to a really poor service recently from my cable TV provider, I had a poor reception on this film and that may be part of the reason that I found this difficult to really get involved in. I say this from the start because I think the film has major flaws and I suspect that newly converted fans of Kar Wai Wong will just dismiss my opinions as those of a fool (maybe they are right). With his newest film about to be one of his widest releases yet in the UK, I chose to step back for a minute and view an earlier film just to allow me to view his new film and see how he has changed (if he has) from early days, through Mood For Love up to his present state. The first thing that hits you about this film is really the thing that is the main reason for watching the film &#150; the visual style. Kar Wai Wong is undobutably a great stylistic director and this film is beautiful to look at and features some really imaginative shots. Chris Doyle's vision of Hong Kong is excitingly fluid and works well with the direction and the film is visually consistently engaging.The problem I had with the film was that the material didn't get anywhere near this sublime level and I found the whole thing to be rather messy and unengaging. The plot is delivered with energy but it still doesn't really hang together and it almost feels silly at times. I must admit that I gave it as much time as I could but after an hour I didn't care about the characters any more than I had before I saw the film; I still watched the film but was interested by the style a lot more than the story. Reflecting this I didn't think the cast had a great deal to do and that Wong, as he seems prone to do, stole the film from under them by becoming the reason for the film and not the deliverer of the film. Lai and Reis are good despite the material but for the most part I just didn't get into Kaneshiro or Mok at all.Overall this is not a bad film and it is worth seeing; sadly it is worth seeing mainly because of the direction and cinematography. Outside of this we are left with characters it is hard to really ever understand or care about and a plot that is energetic and has some value but is too messy and unengaging. Wong has done better and there are examples of his films where his direction doesn't overly impact on the story &#150; this isn't really one of them. "},{"Title":"I'm a Kar-Wai Wong fan but...","Date":"30 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Let me start by stating that I'm a true Kar-Wai Wong fan. I've seen In the mood for love, Chungking Express and My Blueberry nights. I know his films are different and are not made for the mainstream consumers, they must be analyzed differently.I was looking forward to watching this movie because I do love his art and so far I had never been let down.This movie definitely has some of the typical Kar-Wai's trademarks (e.g the deep and awesome soundtrack, the slow motions, the amazing colors, the cruel portrait of Hong Kong, the intriguing characters). But it stops there.The movie is boring, tiresome and the plot is very weak.If you're a fan I would recommend skipping this one and trying another one of Wong's masterpieces. "},{"Title":"Haunting, atmospheric, brilliance.","Date":"27 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is so good. When I say that, I do not mean it has a gripping riveting story, not that the story is boring or sub-par. In truth, it has an interesting story with amusing characters, but that is not what makes this a fantastic film. What makes it fantastic is its vivid and dreamlike atmosphere. I can't decide if it is better than Chungking Express. While Chungking Express had slightly more interesting stories, Fallen Angels has such a rich night atmosphere. Watching this film is like entering another world. Some shots are so spectacular that they will be burned into my brain forever.Nuff' said. "},{"Title":"Buddha said, If I don't descend into hell, who will?","Date":"22 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Fallen Angels like the companion movie (Chungking Express), it's a pure cinematographic gem born unexpectedly. Wong Kar-Wai and Chris Doyle were working on Ashes of Time, and the project was exhausting. They decided suddenly to put Ashes of Time on hold and to produce quickly something light, unpretentious, just to warm their spirits. There was no script, just a loose idea some slices of life in today's Hong Kong, kind of romantic comedies with young heroes hanging around Chungking Mansions and Midnight Express. Two vignettes were made this way, with young cops falling in love, drug dealers wearing sun glasses and blond wigs, barmaids becoming flight attendants and flight attendants returning from San Francisco this was Chungking Express, released in 1994.As the third vignette was unfolding, it became clear for the director that the mood of the story was different, and it deserved a separate movie that was Fallen Angels, released in 1995. Two completely distinct plots evolving in parallel, and intertwining only in brief moments and only by hazard. A young hit-man getting his assignments through a fax machine and a sympathetic and totally immature mute (played with irresistible charm by Takeshi Kaneshiro, who was also an irresistible cop-in-love in Chungking Express).Well, a mute cannot talk, everybody knows it, but what happens in Fallen Angels is that actually nobody seems able to communicate through human speech. The agent (Michelle Reis - I saw her also in Flowers of Shanghai) who gives the assignments to the hit-man (and even visits his narrow apartment when he is out) is a gorgeous girl, unconditionally in love for his subordinate. However she never meets him and prefers to masturbate instead. It is a terrifying impression of loneliness in a frenetic city, everybody is alone there, on her or his own, deepened in her or his own thoughts and dreams, and everybody's dreams seem crazy while only dreams keep you there to not get crazy.I remember the cabs in a region I used to live for many years the driver had a small computer on board and all communication with the dispatcher was through the screen, no room for bargaining of any kind, no space for any human feeling, of joy or sorrow, of sympathy or sarcasm. Here in Fallen Angels it's the fax machine, the same sensation of alienation, of loss of humanity. Humans transformed in robots, keeping their human condition for themselves only, through masturbating dreams of impossible love.And it remains the city itself. Mark Rothko has a great observation about the relation between foreground and background in an art work sometimes the personages (or the objects) have only the function to glorify the background (... may limit space arbitrarily and thus heron his objects. Or he makes infinite space, dwarfing the importance of objects, causing them to merge and become part of the space world). The same observation is somehow made by Malevich when analyzing the way Monet had rendered the Cathedral of Rouen ...when the artist paints, and he plants the paint, and the object is his flower-bed, he must sow the paint in such a way that the object disappears, because it is merely a ground for the visible paint with which it is painted. Is this movie about people alienated by Hong Kong, or is it here a meditative poem about the city itself? One of the personages in the movie has an unexpected sentence, Buddha said, If I don't descend into hell, who will? The sentence passes quickly and seems at first sight without any meaning in the logic of the story. Maybe it offers the clue Hong Kong, this space of hyper-sub-reality (as one of the reviewers puts it), this Űbertraumstadt of ultimate nightmare (apud another reviewer), actually offers the image of hell, and the heroes of the story descend there, why? To follow the archetype? And if we go again to the observation made by Malevich on Monet and Rouen Cathedral, here in Fallen Angels subject and city disappear in the gorgeous cinematic language a great movie pushing the cinematic language to its ultimate expression. A couple of great creators Wong Kar-Wai and Chris Doyle. Let me add here that another great contemporary cinematographer was also part in the team Mark Lee Ping-Bin.And if I were to choose an image from Fallen Angels, this one would be the city in the night with its endless traffic and movement and changing lights, near the narrow apartment where the hit-man inspects quietly the fax machine. "},{"Title":"Not one of KWW's best","Date":"4 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Fallen Angels feels like an art house film made by a young director trying to find his voice. The fact that it was made by the same established director that had in the previous few years released Days of Being Wild and Chungking Express made it all the more surprising, and frankly, disappointing.But don't be misled - this film has KWW's signature all over it. While the nostalgic aspect of some of his historical flicks is completely absent, the sense of unrequited love, alienation, and tragic inefficacy of human communication are central themes. Doyle's cinematography is creative as always and for the most part it contributes, rather than distracts. The music is quite good.The main problem with Fallen Angels is that it is awfully difficult to feel a connection for the characters. The plot does not move forward with much intention and the disjointed mini vignettes were a detriment to getting the audience emotionally involved. The characters are very difficult to relate to The partner is a character that is drawn too sketchily and is not given enough dialog for the viewer to relate to deeply. The mute is meant to win us over with his innocent charm, but it is at times an overacted role which makes the character somewhat annoying. Blondie adds some comic relief (though also in an overacted manner) but is a bit easier to relate to and feel sorry for. Lastly, the killer is very apathetic about his life which does not endear the viewer to him. He is more cool than likable. Though that his inability to make decisions ultimately does not serve him well in life is a message that may resonate strongly with some viewers. There are moments of tenderness between characters, though few and far in between. This was undoubtedly KWW's intention as a mechanism for underscoring the loneliness of urban life. I can't help but think his point would have been better made with more realistic, normal characters as he has done so effectively in his other films. Overall definitely worth a viewing for all KWW fans, though this is certainly not where I would start if I were just discovering the director.For reference, this is how I rate some of this other filmsChungking Express 9/10 (the second half 10/10) ||| 2046 9/10 ||| Days of Being Wild 9/10 ||| In the Mood for Love 8.5/10 ||| Happy Together 8.5/10 ||| Fallen Angels 6/10 "},{"Title":"Wong captures urban malaise","Date":"23 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Although I had seen several of his films before, it wasn't until I saw Chungking Express a few months ago that I encountered a Wong Kar Wai film I found above average. Fallen Angels is loosely connected to that work and it uses a similar structure but it always feels original and unique.The most impressive part of Fallen Angels is the cinematography. Wong, working again with the great Christopher Doyle, breathes life into the garish urban nightscape of modern Hong Kong. Exhilarating shots such as the high speed motorcycle trip through a tunnel lit by green neon are so great on their own that they almost overshadow the visual mastery of the more stationary shots.The characters are less successful in their attempts to make connections here than in Wong's previous film; coupled with the violence, this makes for a darker, less optimistic viewing experience. The most effective scenes here deal with loss as when He Zhiwu, one of the film's two male protagonists, makes a spectacle of himself in front of his ex-girlfriend who completely ignores his antics.With Chunking Express and Fallen Angels, Wong established himself not only as one of the most eminent film-makers of the 1990s but also as the single greatest visual chronicler of modern urban malaise. Not since the heyday of Michelangelo Antonioni has a film director examined alienation with such skill. "}{"Title":"A Supercharged Feast for the Eyes","Date":"14 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Strapping neon lights in the dark underbelly of Hong Kong sets the stage for this uber-hip tale of isolationist tragedy of love-shorn, fallen heroes as they try to make their way amongst the cold heartless throngs of civilization. Where connections of life are hostile, our players literally create from scratch a method to link a distant humanity to their otherwise meaningless lives. The result is pure visual bliss. To not be pleasurably mesmerized by this flick is a treason best left without a conviction. The story is a haphazard scramble of lost souls loosely linked by a cinematic art form best left undefined. The direction is just as indescribably perfect, like putting into words the puissance of Mona Lisa's hinting smile. The camera man must have enjoyed a cocktail of methamphetamines washed down with steroids, the result being a wonderfully frenzied complex of voyeuristic energies and incongruous situations whose symbolic import are indelibly brought together in this flick's perfect ending. The only problem was that, as in all of life, the good times all must come to a painful end, a lustful need for more conjugated to an emptiness that life verite' seems unwilling to fulfill. Genruk of Evil Eye Reviews "},{"Title":"It is not the P. Word","Date":"31 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" One of the most, overuse words in the internet is pretentious. In the IMDb boards, with art films, it is rare to find a thread that does not critique the film on the ground of being pretentious. The overuse of the word has rendered it meaningless, in both film criticism and discussion, since for the most part, it is wrongly utilized. However, it does not follow that there are not films that are pretentious. On the contrary, there are tons of awful and misguided films that fit the label.At first glance, Wong Kar Wai's Fallen Angels might appear to fit the negative label -- with its eccentric, unnatural, and unorthodox direction and storyline. Yet, the film does not&#x97;since there is a purpose to the bold, artistic elements. Pretentious only applies to films that include nontraditional elements, simply to be different, or to appear more intelligent than then it actually is; in other words, films that try to be arty for meaningless and for shallow purposes. Wong's daring decisions are not pointless they actually enrich the film; the film will be an inferior product, without the auteur's aspects. There is not a movement in the work, that the audience does not separate the fact that it is simply a film. But what Wong accomplishes with the film medium -- like the famous painters Picasso, Matisse, and Monet did with painting medium -- is to make an abstract work that still manages to emotionally connect with the audience. Watching the characters interact is an enjoyable experience. They may be caricatures, but they make sense in Wong's Hong Kong. Despite all of them being quirky, they all have their own personality, and thus, feel organic. It is a hung out film it feel as if you are transported to Hong Kong, interacting with the characters. In comparison to his rest of filmography, the film is not anywhere near the top -- those spots belongs to In the Mood of Love and the Chungking Express. Its story does not match In Mood of Love; its energetic, free spirit does not match Chungking Express&#x97;mainly because it is a lesser sequel and it does not include the fabulous Faye Wong. A lesser Wong's film is still a must see, and Fallen Angels is no exception. Do not be afraid of an Impressionistic, ultra cool Hong Kong. "},{"Title":"Arguably the apotheosis of the Hong Kong auteur's hyper-kinetic, pop-informed style.","Date":"13 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Fallen Angels is an exhilarating rush of a film, with all manner of go-for-broke visual bravura that expresses the free spirits of bold young people. A disillusioned hit-man and a former convict look for love amidst the frenetic street life of Hong Kong.The film is a speedy, adrenalin-filled journey though neon-drenched Hong Kong, and encounters with its beautiful people. Its style trumps its story and fittingly, first impressions count for everything. Fallen Angels can be seen as a companion piece to Chungking Express (1994). On January 21, 1998, the film began a limited North American theatrical run through Kino International, grossing US $13,804 in its opening weekend in one American theatre. The final North American theatrical gross was US $163,145. "},{"Title":"more images than story","Date":"22 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have seen several of the directors other films and I must admit I find them beyond boring. This film stands out as his almost singular watchable movie as it contains action and the best shots in a film set in the real world-aka-not SF- I have ever seen. The images are truly excellent, gritty, realistic, and beautiful in a strange kind of way. The story leaves much to be desired in terms of the bombastic acting style in many places, real hyper stuff that will grate on the nerves, like a lousy martial arts movie made on a budget of 20 bucks. I think this film is worth seeing just for the visuals-you know what they say- a picture is worth a thousand words, well, in this case, I would say a picture is worth a million words. I have enjoyed many other films that are Asian Cinema, I just think the directors other films are plain bad. "},{"Title":"A provocative film about relationships","Date":"19 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Beneath the seemingly superfluous violence, cool imagery and stage persona inherent within Wong Kar Wai, lies a deep character study between five people A hit-man and his partner, an old classmate of the hit-man, and a mute with an eccentric woman. However, like the previous film that was supposed to be included with Fallen Angels, titled Chungking Express, what the director is more than likely intending is a clever romance film, despite the former being of much more traditional standards.This film is recommended for those who like the concept and genre of hit-man films, though by no means does this fall in the cookie cutter cliché of such better known films as The Godfather, Goodfellas, The Professional, and The Untouchables. While not mainly focused on the actual killings performed, the relationships are where the real substance lies.With amazing cinematography (as should be expected by Wai) and a soundtrack that adds to the flavor and ambiance of the film, fans of Hong Kong cinema, foreign cinema, and even those who have never been exposed to this niche within films, will more than likely enjoy it.| Plot 7.8/10 - While not extremely gripping, the plot adds as a vehicle to move the story along. | | Script 9/10 - Filled with mildly humorous | dialogue, the meat of the script lies in character interaction and occasional philosophical contemplations upon the human condition. | | Characterization - 9.8/10 The characters, as Wai is wont to establish, are eccentric and memorable. | Soundtrack 8/10 - A stellar soundtrack, used well in conjunction with the cinematography. Some songs are used to establish themes, which is always effective though rarely used in the majority of films | | Cinematography 9.9/10 - Simply amazing, colourful and aesthetically pleasing, the cinematography helps in enmeshing the viewer and also in building the already stellar development of characters. | Overall 9.2/10 - An enjoyable film. Fans of his work have absolutely nothing to lose! Score not based on average of hitherto listed scores. | "},{"Title":"Hong Kong By Night","Date":"4 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Wong Kar-Wei is an acclaimed film director, with many incredible films to his credit, such as Chungking Express, In The Mood For Love and 2046, amongst others. This story is mainly about Ming. a hired killer who tires of the game. This stylish film is set at night, and its sinister overtones are effective. Hong Kong has never looked this forbidding. That being said, to me, its not one of Kar-Wei's essential works. You are not supposed to like Ming, but you are also supposed to care about him as the main character, and I don't. By the end, I grew kind of tired with the style of the film, possibly too much of a good thing. By all means see it, but just know that there are veritable classics Mr. War-Kei has done. While good, the film doesn't reach that platitude. "},{"Title":"Well worth seeing.","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Kar-Wai is a master of cinematic style, and this film illustrates the point the bravura use of the camera, the elliptical narrative structure, the quirky characters, and the driving soundtrack.  What marks him out from other directors who are just flashy, is his ability to bring to this style something that has real depth, and a power to move.  This film is populated with the usual city dwellers who are essentially lonely and looking for connection with someone or something real and meaningful.  And yet, amongst all the quirky behaviour, and choreographed violence, Kar-Wai takes the time to illicit out sympathy for these people in some surprisingly tender moments.Well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"a real funny movie well worth seeing","Date":"27 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I must admit that I would probably never given this movie a second glance on a video store shelf. However I saw this funny movie today in a Film and Media class and loved it. The story is a bit hard to follow at times until you get used to the stories pace and quirky cast of characters. The story is interesting because of the way it goes from being serious with Wong Chi-Ming to being so funny with He Zhiwu and his unique approach to business as he never takes life to seriously, he is also the only character in the movie I found you could really like again this is probably due to his take on life. And the ice-cream truck now that was pure comedic insperation and the line  I don't want to die by ice-cream. to funny for words. This movie rates a big8/10 and is well worth the 95min to watch it, and probably any other WongKar-Wai movies as well. "},{"Title":"Wacky, funny, tender, surprising","Date":"21 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought this was going to be an action film, but I was pleasantly surprised.  Following the plot was challenging, but so many unexpected scenes unfolded that I soon stopped worrying about it.  The relationship between He Zhiwu and his father touched me deeply.   "},{"Title":"Transformation","Date":"13 December 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The ending is perfect.Man loved darkness rather than light, because their deeds were evils. (John 3  18) Through the tunnel she knows what light means and feels good to see it now. Every relation implies a promise, implicit or not, because the future always gets involved. Expectation is based on information. Her partner knows much more now. A big change thus follows. But so sad he makes no plan. Anger dominates her and darkness is her choice.The kid finally grows up. He suffers from almost the same. But in him we see nothing but light. Through the tunnel he makes her transformation complete also.The ending is perfect. For a very long time the song meant only a pop song but here we find something different...Looking at the window above, it's like a story of love. Can you hear me ? Michelle Reis looks gorgeous. A must see. "}{"Title":"An acquired taste","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I must admit, my only exposure to Wong Kar Wai's work (so far) is Chunking Express & Fallen Angels, often referred to as bookends by friends who are much more into his work. If you've seen one, you pretty much know if you'll like the other... though I'd recommend Chunking Express as the first of the 2 to see. It seems to me Fallen Angels is a bit more intense, so seeing it after CKE would turn the experience up, where seeing Fallen Angels first might make CKE seem a bit anticlimactic. I can't believe he shot on 35mm - the look is so gritty & saturated I thought it was shot on a variation of 16mm. This is NOT a criticism! The visual effect is a big part of the impact of this movie. I'm intrigued enough by what I've seen to seek out more of this director's work. He certainly has defined a very distinctive look & style to his films. Love 'em or hate 'em - he's very consistent, and has carved out a unique niche. "},{"Title":"Good, but not exceptional","Date":"16 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  An arty, pretentious, foreign-language film with subtitles? Normally this sort of cod-meaningful, film student work would be right up my navel-gazing street. However, I'm not sure if Duoluo tianshi (Fallen Angels) ever hit the spot for me. At least, not as much as it did for Michelle Reis.The film revolves around three characters in separate areas of Hong Kong's underworld. Leon Lai is Wong Chi-Ming, a hit man and sometimes debt collector, who works with the masturbating Reis as a partner in crime.This element is probably the least successful, if in part due to its overstated direction. Most of it is shot in a fisheye/keyhole lens style (i.e. whatever is nearest the camera is larger and distorted). This is interspersed with slo-mo, crooked angles, high-speed, black and white and killings heavily indebted to John Woo's pre-US work (Ying Huang Boon Sik, et al). Credit must be given, however, for the documentary-style realism, particularly the way blood spatters on the camera. Not a gore-enhancing spray, but minute specks, giving a subliminal illusion that what you're watching is real.Takeshi Kaneshiro appears as the most likeable character, an insane hyperactive who talks to camera and runs after-hour businesses. That is, when the shops are closed, he breaks in and does his own thing &#150; be it molesting a dead pig in a butcher's, tearing off a man's clothes in a launderette or force-feeding a family in a stolen ice cream van.However, when the gimmickry settles down and you start to become involved with the interwoven storylines, any reservations start to fade. The coldness of two of the three central characters is displaced by the minutiae of the supporting cast. Karen Mok as Blondie adds humour to Lai's otherwise steely interpretation, while there are touching moments between Kaneshiro's He Zhiwu and his father, played by Chen Wanlei. Many of these scenes are shot with Zhiwu filming his father on videotape, meaning that writer/director Kar-wai Wong gets to intersperse real camcorder footage with the rest of his hand-held studies.Not a first-class view, then, but a worthwhile look at urban violence and inner city alienation. A very well done perseverance, but how cool can something be that ends with a song by The Flying Pickets?  "},{"Title":"You'll be mind boggled in a good way","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I can't recommend this movie enough.  The camera work is simply astonishing, as is the story and the acting.  The first time I rented this movie I watched it twice in row, then twice more the next day.  It manages to put onto the screen the essence of isolation, and the wistful hope we all have in every interaction with another human that we might somehow make that connection which will somehow fulfill us.  I think this movie makes some people angry because its very sad, but not at all sentimental.  "},{"Title":"Soul-searching among street thugs, while in a state of Heroin induced frenzy.","Date":"30 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is absolutely straight-up bonkers, nuts, crazy, insane. To say the cinematographer's fueled by a combination of drugs is an understatement. Seeing a few of Wong Kar-Wai's other features I really had high hopes for this one, however at the end I found it disappointing as it doesn't capture the same charisma or structure of his other films, for example like As Tears Go By or Chungking Express. The biggest problem in my opinion is Michelle Reis' character as the set-up girl. She isn't given enough screen time to establish a decent bond with the audience, the charm surrounding her is flat. Karen Mok's character of Blondie is unfortunately average, she comes across as annoying rather than afflicted and thus fails to capture the audience's interest too. The women in this movie just don't tote the same amount of power as in other Kar-Wai films. The females are cold and don't intend to change, which goes against the male characters and flow of the movie. Again the cinematography feels overzealous and at some moments, even pretentious which I never thought I could say about Kar-Wai. Complaints aside, Takeshi Kaneshiro steals the show with his bizarre character, and I would actually watch the movie again just to see his portion. There's a lot of great themes here, and the sense of grittiness and isolation is done extremely well. Overall I didn't enjoy Fallen Angels, but I do understand the attraction. Other Wong Kar-Wai fans may love it. -6/10 "},{"Title":"Like a breath of fresh air in a stagnant room full of sick, world weary patients.","Date":"29 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" It is rare for movies to elicit a feeling, that I can only describe as, cinematic cathartic release. As though the movie is a living breathing element that has some how reached into the very heart of the viewer and pressed a cinematic button or released a cinematic lever that has laid dormant for so long. Very few movie over the years possess this ability, but Fallen Angels (along with Wong Kai Wai's Chung King Express) has successfully achieved this.Many people have panned Fallen Angels as being a confused, incoherent, meandering mess of overly stylised visuals and sound. Although this can be granted (though we shouldn't really listen to such comments), I feel that it is the wrong way to approach this movie. Fallen Angels doesn't merely use hyper kinetic camera movements and vivid imagery to create an avant garde narrative. I feel that there is something more important being said in this movie. If you look closely enough you will notice that there is something in Fallen Angels that is telling the viewer about the power of cinema and the power of images.There is something in the spontaneity of the direction, the merging of story lines, the fast paced editing, the changes in camera angles, the eclectic soundtrack, the varying perspectives, the merging of genres. What I feel is being said, is that cinema is designed to invigorate the soul. Cinema awakens feelings that has been left numb by a sterile waking life. The writer Brecht said, 'art is not a mirror to be held up to reality, but a hammer in which to shape it'. It is with this thought in mind that I approach Wong Kai Wai Fallen Angels. Unlike the works of Brecht, Fallen Angels isn't a movie that is overtly political or making a political statement of any kind. But, like Brecht's work, it is a remedy to the state of inaction that many people feel is conducive of there everyday lives. It is a cry for attention in order to remind the viewer that despite the inherent vulgarity of the world around us, if we look at the world with the right eyes we can see a glimpse or even just a flicker of beauty, which by itself can change the course of our lives.Wong Kai Wai has put experimental cinema at the forefront and has woven a dark and brooding story about the absurd underbelly of life in pre-handover Hong Kong. It is a comic/tragedy, but all the whilst-like all great tragedies- there is a feeling that life's richer more undefinable elements will come through by the end.Overall, without losing myself in too much metaphysical fornication, Fallen Angels is a master class in cinematic flare. "},{"Title":"flash","Date":"16 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  this movie is a really entertaining and stylish mixture between smoke2, gibsonesque sci-fi hong kong feeling, and a bit of the killer.the film consists of different episodes, which in the end intermingle with each other. this movie really has a great story about love, crime, urban lowlife, and is supported by its fabulous soundtrack. it's really worth seeing. "},{"Title":"MY FAVORITE MOVIE","Date":"30 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is fantastic.  The cinematography is captivating, the characters are painfully human, you laugh, you cry...just watch it--that's all I need to say, it's that good. Chungking Express is just the beginning of the story... "},{"Title":"Neon, funk, retro killer.","Date":"12 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Well first off, i love this film and its director. Fallen Angels i saw late one night, flicking through channels it caught my attention, then didnt lose it for another couple of hours. It has an eerie sense of being to it, the killer doesnt know why he does what he does, his loneliness never fully self realised yet fully on display. I cant begin to write an in depth, detailed review of this like so many others have, because i wouldnt be able to stop. In short, if you like films that make you think, laugh, cry and most importantly feel, then this is certainly your next rental! "},{"Title":"From Where Did They Fall, These Angels?","Date":"21 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've only been to Hong Kong once. But from what I could see it must be a bit of a strange place to live.And judging by most of Wong Kar-Wai's movies I'm not the only one to think so.Normal cinematic convention has it that we get know the characters through their needs and desires. And there's no doubt that every single person in this kaleidoscopic merry-go-round is searching for something. But exactly what that is, is left for each and everyone of us to figure out ourselves. Densely layered the movie speak of alienation, loss and search of identity, and coping with not finding yourself in the position where you'd like to be. We meet most of the people in sort of a middle space - they're trying to leave their old places and selves but hesitating to move forward - not knowing where to go.As far as story telling goes this is some of the most purely visual stuff I've ever seen. Chris Doyle's cinematography is mind blowing. The visual's are the first and foremost - dialogue and the excellent VO's serve like tinted glasses, giving colour and mood to what we see, slightly altering our vision but always allowing the visuals to be the leader. "},{"Title":"Wong Kar-wai He So Crazy.","Date":"2 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Like an overzealous gourmand of the French New Wave Wong Kar-wai has greedily shoved down his cinematic gullet the worst examples of Godardian excess and has been forcedly regurgitating it in movie after movie ever since.  Now, I've never been to Hong Kong but I have more than a vague feeling that Hong Kong T.V. ads probably look a lot like Wong Kar-wai movies  brooding Orientals wallowing in overbearingly dated French-chic.If all there is to making a movie is conjuring up a couple of wacky characters doing wacky things for no rhyme or reason then I guess anyone can do it.  Strike that.  Only Wong Kar-wai is this contrived.  Let's just hope his own worthlessness finally dawns on him before he vomits up more bad ideas. "}{"Title":"best surprise in ages","Date":"27 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I expected to see just another mediocre japanese-style shootout when I was renting this. Was I wrong! That's by far the best unexpected discovery I've seen in years. The movie is both artsy surrealistic, cruel, action-driven and almost sentimental at the same time - quite an achievement. Beautiful formalistic sets are right in their places and actually do convey the mood of the movie, not the director's ego. "},{"Title":"An exercise in mundane surealism","Date":"15 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Like many Wong Kar-Wei movies, this one has a really slow nauseating tempo and a running narrative from each of the characters throughout the entire movie.  The narrative exists becuase there is no script and these types of experiments usually don't turn out so well.  The story focuses on the lives of 2 groups of characters a killer, his partner and some blond haired girl, and a mute, his father, and a girl on the rebound who plays the mute's love interest. The killer played by Leon Lai, was poorly cast as he has neither the physique nor intensity to make his character believable. The mute, played by Takeshi Kaneshiro, acts a lot like Charlie Chaplin but his tormenting of people in the night (which the movie is entirely set) hardly makes him a likeable character.  All the characters are miserable and is miserable for those who have to watch them.  One may wonder if there are people actually do live like this and I certainly hope not.  To think that Chinese culture that once produced profound thought, classics, and poetry now produces the degrading angel (Duolou loosely means degrading. How fitting the title is!) is a travesty.  There are several particular scenes where Michelle Reis masturbates for a good duration of time which serves no high purpose. How any director can make a human being act indecently in front of a camera is a mystery.  With that in mind, Wong Kar Wei is like the mute character a lot -doesn't have much to say and forces his actors into doing things they want to do. "},{"Title":"Ridiculous, Sentimental, Sillier than hell, and paradoxically transcendent on a modern mythological trip","Date":"25 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  'Fallen Angels' is one of the silliest GREAT films you will ever see. It's deliberate absurdity throughout is like one big middle finger in the face of all those who require from or automatically project SERIOUSNESS onto any film they instinctively feel to be great. With Wong-Kar Wai they'd do better to just relax and rest assured that silliness here ultimately becomes the highest profundity! A comic book poet is still a goddamn poet; and poets are very hard to come by Jack! As an example of the projection of seriousness, look at all the people who confuse the 'genre' of something as silly-trash-great as 'Pulp Fiction' with 'The Godfather' or 'Goodfellas' or even 'Reservoir Dogs' (which was pretty much a non-straightforward, quite realistic, heist film, with some touches of silliness thrown in, which most directors would've left out to achieve EVEN GREATER SERIOUSNESS and ultimate mediocrity). PF only uses the 'hardcore' post '70s action/gangster format as a pretext to float between as many genres as it can (comedy, musical, blaxploitatioin, just to name the more obvious ones)without seeming too ridiculous; that is it always maintains its hardcore edge and tie to a certain very frightening, not necessarily 'surface' reality which is what draws the Scorsese fans, as well as the action fans and other macho ticket buyers.  Wong-Kar Wai's flicks do the same, except they step over that line of ridiculousness into total absurdity--but you know what?--it doesn't really matter, because his style and unique sensibility pull him through with flying colors. Mr.Wai as well as Mr.Tarantino are very deeply into the early '60s New Wave classics, in particular of Jean-Luc Godard, without whose influence their films would not be anywhere near as interesting as they are. Godard (as well as Truffaut in 'Shoot the Piano Player' for instance) used to take a bunch of characters and analyze them through the cinema from so many angles that no matter how silly they were on paper, on film they became 'realer than reality,' paradoxically multifaceted 'types,' mythologically potent and transcendent. Wai isn't as original as those New Wave guys working with minuscule budgets 40 years ago, but he is UNIQUE in making fully realized Chinese New Wave films; something that is not easy to do and takes a lot more understanding than just a talent for imitation. To make a Hong Kong film that even approaches a classic like 'Pierrot Le Fou' or 'Breathless' requires a deep communion with the highly complex, unconscious process that fermented in the brain of Godard at that unique time in his life (pre-Karina separation), something Godard himself is completely unable to do anymore (as evidenced by his mostly mediocre output in the past 25 years). 'Fallen Angels' and to a slightly lesser extent 'ChungKing Express' are what Godard would be making today if he had stayed a romantic and moved to capitalist Hong Kong instead of sinking in the quicksand of Maoist commie claptrap. "},{"Title":"a messy movie, but not a mess, this is a film with an attention to its method of its unconventional style","Date":"27 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Wong Kar Wai doesn't play by the rules, and those who respond positively to his films wouldn't want it any other way. While he's recently gone a little more measured and controlled with style (relatively speaking) with In the Mood for Love and 2046, it's mostly in that he's now using things like dollies and steadi-cams. Looking at Chungking Express and, particularly, Fallen Angels, he reveals himself as a filmmaker total in trust with a style that in other hands would be simply amateurish. His camera, led on by Christopher Doyle, follows along these characters like in a slightly feverish documentary, with the accompanied narration adding the emphasis on inner thoughts and details. It's a crime drama, but it's also a fresh way to look at material that has a little bit of quirk, a heap-load of attitude, and at least a good lot of romance, or the lack of it or the pining for it with these characters. It's equally sweet and rough-edged, like an adorable motorcycle.For plot, there's not much two male characters, one is a hit-man who's starting to feel the pressure of his job (ironically, he describes it as being a good one early on as I'm a lazy person. I like people to arrange things for me), and breaks off from his partner, a woman who cleans up his 'messes' of mass destruction, and then falls for a strange blonde girl. The other is a mute ex-con who robs people by being obnoxious at various one-night-stand type of jobs, and in the process meeting a girl whom has a freak-out one night (there's an amazing scene, I should add, where in one shot we see him fall completely for this girl with a soft blues song playing behind him describe this as his first love). At least, that's as much as I gathered from the essentials; there's also a sub-plot with the mute kid, He Zwhiu, and his father as he starts to videotape him all the time. But Wong isn't interested in plot mechanics as two central facets mood of a scene on technical fronts, and a sensibility that's close to poetic intent.Wong's camera moves in a way that is a little dizzying, and it feels like it should be a shamble, a fiasco of an art-house item that doesn't transition well to the US. But it becomes apparent that its form is, at least, consistent to the intent at hand. We're so aware of the style that the characters are seemingly organic from this urban, post-modern spread. They're more than a little alienated (watch that shot where the woman is in the café, and the fight breaks out behind her without flinching an eyelash to the situation), and they have the tendencies of youth trapped in a situation they can only break out of (for one it's a way of life as work that gets mixed up due to emotions with the partner, the other with his father and going past disrobing the homeless and conning a family with ice cream).Wong Kar Wai presents this amusingly at times, a brisk sense of humor dropped in to let the audience know 'it's OK to laugh here and there, they ARE human after all with all their idiosyncrasies'. But at the same time there's a sorrow to the material that is given life by the hand-held, by the shots of characters in mirrors, by mixed media, by black and white shots thrown in, by editing that cuts off the head of the 180 degree rule here and there, by pumping in sad music and it does come close to diluting the emotional impact of the characters's fates. And yet, Wong has the soul of a romantic at heart, so to speak, and despite the fact that there's some pretty violence scenes in the picture (done in that hyper-speed style that is a little slow, a little fast in a way, as one has seen in many HK crime films) there's an intelligence that steers it from being TOO sloppy.This may be arguable, to be sure, in either direction; some may even call it a masterpiece of post-modernism as well as those who can't stand it period. I don't necessarily think it's even Kar-Wai's best film. But it inspires so many fresh images and thoughts I can't discard it as a warped slip-up from an otherwise avant-garde darling. If anything a film like Fallen Angels lifts up his reputation as the Chinese answer to Godard (minus, of course, the Maoism and the reading excerpts of books on camera). "},{"Title":"Tiresome","Date":"20 February 2004","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I watched `Fallen Angels', (Duo luo tian shi), after seeing director Kar Wai Wong's excellent `In the Mood for Love', (Fa yeung nin wa), and I was very disappointed.  `Fallen Angels' had some quirky and evocative camera work and the story was of interest in the beginning but the movie went nowhere.  After the first third of the movie most of the remaining action was a repeat.  Scenes of bored looking people sitting in a bar and the endless cigarette smoking were tiresome.  I ended up fast forwarding through many scenes and they were still too long.  I wouldn't waste time watching this movie but be sure to catch `In the Mood for Love', a sensual pleasure. "},{"Title":"Art in the violence.","Date":"12 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Another one of those intelligent assault senses(!) movies that should have been a short film. This film has a mixture of genres but leans heavily on the dark side. Christopher Doyle's photography is basic but the very wide angle lenses he uses works a treat on this. The music is another extra bonus. "},{"Title":"Disappointing follow-up to Chungking Express","Date":"30 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  After being exposed to Wong Kar-Wai's masterful work, Chungking Express, I expected this sequel to at least match or exceed that great work of art bestowed upon us.  This film is merely a rehash of its predecessor that failed to live up to my expectations.  Sure, it has its funny moments and quirky characters, but I guess Faye Wong's cute and lovable character from Chungking Express was just too hard to top.The quirkiness of the characters in this film, especially the part of He Zhiwu (played by Takeshi Kaneshiro) seemed forced here and too way over-the-top to be believable.If you're going to take your chances on this film, have yourself a half-gallon tub of your favorite ice cream and watch for that ice-cream scene.Rating 4 out of 10 "},{"Title":"i didn't really like this one","Date":"25 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  i really had trouble getting into this film.  The camera work is all over the place in parts & the characters are hard to connect to and have any feeling for.  My personal highlight of the film would have to be a pig carcass receiving a message.  Great soundtrack though.  A film that will divide opinions so i recommend you watch it for yourself to make up your own mind. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Morose and monotonous","Date":"27 November 2003","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Fallen Angels is outwardly a jittery, nervous, ambiguous, poorly filmed artie with clumsy English subtitles which appears to be a failed attempt to make up for a lack of story with moody visual style. Mostly shot with short lenses (for fish eye type distortion) and video which is either poor quality on purpose or not (does it matter?), the film follows a quartet of lonely night people with some narrated reflections on life from one of the players, a hitman. Bulked up with lots of filler, dull stretched out moments of nothingness interspersed with sudden bouts of action, Fallen Angels isn't much of a movie but may have some appeal for Asian film freaks who care more about atmospherics than story. (C+) "},{"Title":"Crap - waste of time","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a pretentious and experimental movie with a crappy story line - it is boring, boring, boring. If you are interested in odd filming techinques this may be for you, but for me it just don't do it. A lot of scenes are way too long and gets boring quickly. Acting and story is not realistic.A few scenes are funny/interesting, especially the one where one of the main characters gives massage to a dead pig.I enjoyed his previous movie - Chongquing senlin - but this one was not even worth the time spent in the theatre. I was about to leave a couple of times and I regret that I didn't. For the pig scene I give it a 2/10. Take that away and it is a 1/10. "}]