[{"Title":"Comedy?!","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"21 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I caught this one zapping around during morning television. I saw a bunch of my favorite actors (George C. Scott, Kathy Bates) and decided to sit it out.My conclusion, Angus is an overlooked gem.One thing baffles me though this movie is listed as comedy, but I found not much to laugh about.Angus is in fact a rather painful movie to watch sometimes, because the strongest subject matter it deals with is bullying.It deals some very real and emotional issues, about parents' frustration about their inability to protect their children all the time. The acting is superb, and to be honest, the comic relief was a tad out of place.The movie contains some very good acting and some excellent scenes and dialogue. It also features a heart wrenching monologue by Angus (played by Charlie Talbert) when he confides in his grandfather (George C. Scott), who's about to be married.So, see beyond the awkward comic elements and Angus is an enjoyable, actor driven movie that did not get the attention it deserved.You'll probably enjoy the soundtrack as well. Whatever happened to the obviously talented Talbert anyway? "},{"Title":"What a surprise!","Date":"25 March 1999","Score":"22 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  My wife and I rented this movie just because we couldn't find anything else at the time, and did we get a surprise! Great, funny movie, anyone should enjoy this one. "},{"Title":"Why is this movie not on DVD?","Date":"25 December 2002","Score":"23 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a great flick!  Funny, touching, well acted.  A nice little dramedy. It's a shame how something this good can't get onto DVD, and a piece  of crap Britney Spears flick can!  What a sad society we live in! "},{"Title":"What an underrated great movie!","Date":"5 January 2000","Score":"16 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Angus, this is one of my favorite movies. It has such a good story, and the actors were picked perfectly. The first time I saw this, I was amazed! I said That was great. The story of being brave and living with the life you have taught a good lesson. Charlie Talbert Was great for Angus, as was George C. Scott for Ivan. Ivan was part of the comedy, as was Troy. James Van Der Beek was perfect for Rick Sanford, and Ariana Richards was well-picked for Melissa. The story made me think. I liked how it was through the thoughts of someone who was unpopular, and was picked on and had jokes played on him. I liked how his Grandpa told him to screw em! And I also liked at the dance how Angus told Rick off, that was a good scene, and the rest of this movie was just as well, filled with laughs, and pity for Angus and Troy. This is a great movie to see. I definitely recommend it for anyone! 9/10! "},{"Title":"Great!","Date":"21 August 2005","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film is an excellent example of the pressures of High School hierarchy. It is realistic and very funny! It has been one of my favorite movies for a long time now and I still am not tried of it. Kathy Bates and George C. Scott (as usual) display their versatile abilities as their hilarious characters trying to cope with Angus' (Charlie Talbert) problems with him as much as work out their own issues. Of all the High School teen flicks, I believe this to be the most dramatic and sophisticated in storyline. James Van Der Beek plays the classic quarterback that everyone has met before and just loves to hate. Angus has always thought that the key was to be more like Rick (Van Der Beek) but then realizes that he truly needs to be himself. As it turns out, Angus' chelating crush, Melissa (Ariana Richards), is just as frightened of other people as Angus is. As a cruel joke, Angus is nominated to be Winter King at their school. Angus realizes the intentions behind the nomination and turns the situation into a positive experience. This movie is full of humor, classic characters we all knew and underwear up the flagpole. I deeply recommend this film. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"a truly memorable film...","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"11 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Angus was a wonderful movie. it followed the most basic of plot lines, but what i loved about it was the acting, writing, and directing, because those were what made Angus extraordinarily good and unique. chris owen was a triumph, and let's not even talk about charlie talbert. Angus also has a quality to it that was very reminiscent of the story it was based on. the exchanges between Angus and Troy were literally the best i've ever seen. they are truly the original dynamic duo of disaster. with luck, other characters hoping to achieve that particular brand of fame will be measured against them for years to come. ps read the short story if you haven't. pps james van der beek gave a great (though small) performance, very uncharacteristic of the kid's movie villain. "},{"Title":"A Great Movie","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It is a shame Angus never got the high praise or exposure it really deserves. At times gut-wrenching in its portrayal of high school cruelness, at other times sweetly heartwarming in its portrayal of high school innocence, Angus is an endearing good guy trapped in a waspy, snake-pit-like high school in Anytown, USA. The strength of Angus is its believability; of course it's far-fetched at times, it's a movie, and yet it still works amazingly well. Charlie Talbert and Chris Owen, Angus and Troy, respectively, are a real treat to watch as the pair of outcasts. Their chemistry radiates offscreen, and they become both heroes and comic relief in a combination that drives them to the audience's heart. Some of the film's best belly laughs, in fact, are direct results of their all-too-believable dialogue.James Van Der Beek is one of the most hateable bad guys I've seen in some time, and boy he plays it well. What a deliciously different role, compared to his often annoying Dawson's Creek persona! This is some great work by him, even if its not a lot. Strong support from George C. Scott and Kathy Bates; it was fun watching them in a heartfelt film like this, especially Scott, General Patton himself. Please, if you ever get the chance to see this film, SEE IT!! You will not be untouched nor remorseful. You'll have a new favorite way to pass an hour and a half.  (Great score by David Russo, I'd love to see a release of it!) "},{"Title":"A flat-out revelation.","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What makes the teenage years so vexing is how a young person's line of thinking evolves from the logical, unadultered mannerisms of childhood to the obstinate, interpretive idiosyncrasy of adulthood.  As children, we might remember seeing things and make a simple yet direct remark about it, yet, as adults, we might see things, stop to think about it, taking into account all our past experiences and teachings, and make an observation, when we soon realize that there are other people that have their own observations.  Worse yet is how the young person does not immediately see this transformation.It is during these years where we begin to contemplate a new reality, one based on indifference and hopelessness.  It is here where the young person begins to interpret ideas, histories, and ideologies of all sorts, however good or bad they intend to be, and have the option of either rejecting or accepting them.  This is where our hero, Angus Bethune (played flawlessly by Charlie Talbert) is thrown in.  As a child, he has always been the butt of jokes and, along with his best friend Troy Wedberg (Chris Owen), the target of bullies.  His protection has relied on wit, humor, and physical prowess. His love for Melissa Lefevre (Ariana Richards) is just as strong as his hate for Rick Sanford (James Van der Beek).Yet, showing his affection to his yearning love is, in his opinion, an unreasonable goal.  What could possibly make Angus reason like this?  Could it be Rick?  By the time we are done with the first act we see that Rick has already managed to mentally, emotionally, and socially control Angus.  Rick is also highly manipulative, as he uses his bullying tactics over Troy to betray his own best friend.  As if that wasn't enough, he's the good-looking quarterback and the head of the class, which yields ostensible power to him. He shows no compassion to whoever he feels is not normal, that is, whoever does not follow his concepts of physical and social beauty. Although the film does not demonstrate how Rick obtained such line of though, his mind is no-doubtedly locked in to this ideology.  Aptly would Camus describe Rick and his cronies no longer represent men, but an idea raised to the temperature of the most inflexible of wills.What about Angus?  What about his influences?  He seems to have a very supportive and eccentric family composed of his truck-driving mother (Kathy Bates) and his active, unrelenting grandfather (George C. Scott).  Troy, equally eccentric, provides support at school.  Yet nothing works  In his mind, his positive traits (good at science, excellent tackler, full of heart) cannot overcome his negative ones (overweight, timid, reclusive). He doesn't open his blinds in his bedroom to let the sunlight in, and he already has plans to transfer to another school, where he can be accepted for once.  He wants nothing to do with the outside world, which, he feels, doesn't want him anyway.When Rick forces Angus to come into this world, by rigging an election so as to make him dance with Melissa, Angus becomes really confused.    Will Angus go to the dance or not?  He can have his moment with Melissa, yet he will risk humiliation, knowing that Rick had set this up.  However, the real question this second act is this  If he makes a decision, what will it be based on?  How will other people and their ideas affect his decision.Hereafter, his support group will aggravate Angus' confusion by bombarding him with ideology.  His Grampa says Screw 'em to anybody who opposes what he wants (of which includes marrying a woman thirty years his junior), demonstrating that Angus should not fear what others think of him, thus he should go.  His mother wants Angus to focus on his studies, so that he can get his ticket out of Owatonna High, thus he should not go.  Troy, in his whimsical self, thinks Angus needs to change his image and manner in order to find acceptance, thus he should go.  Angus himself thinks that, in spite of the opportunity to dance with the girl of his dreams, he knows that Rick will make a fool out of him, thus he should not go.  How can Angus make sense out of all this?This is where Grampa comes in.  He knows his grandson very well, and he has faith in Angus' warm qualities.  He even goes out to get him a nice tuxedo, albeit a plum-colored one, but Angus refuses to wear it.  Angus loves his Grampa, but Angus feels weak upon the implications of the dance.  This all changes, however, when Grampa dies.  Early in the film, Grampa wished that Angus could talk to Melissa just once before he died.  Sadly, he will not live to see this.  When Grampa's fiancee April (Anna Levine) brings the plum suit to Angus, Angus realizes he has betrayed Grampa's faith in him.  He will say Screw 'em, and set out to attain his goal as well as his self-esteem and self-determination....Thus, Angus no longer sees Rick as a bully, but as a danger to his well-being.  Melissa is not merely a love interest, but a token for being courageous and brave.  He has a label for these people now, based on numerous levels of reasoning.What's so amazing about this film is how it is richly paced.  You can take delight in the visual aspects of the film and show compassion for these people.  Composition creates a moving experience with the story, using the warm colors of autumn.  Music also plays an important role, as it balances teenage angst with feelings of longing and disillusion.How sad that you truly can't enjoy a film like this if you see it quickly! Angus warrants a deeper study into the nature of bullying, use of power, teenage confusion and conditioning, obesity, and the power to overcome, themes that lie much deeper into its after-school-special facade.  Don't let the theme of acceptance thwart you off!  I must warn you  If you felt alone and alienated in high school, this movie won't disappoint.  If you didn't feel alone and alienated, either avoid this film or stop denying it, take the bitter pill, and see, no, observe it.Now go have another. "},{"Title":"Movie about my life","Date":"16 July 2006","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Of all things, in my freshman year of high school this movie came out and I was stunned. It was about a guy whose own life mirrored my own I just got up and applauded (literally) through the whole thing. Angus was me in school, right down to his geeky friend/sidekick. I was a different kind of person from the rest of the crowd. I was big, and smart, kept to myself mostly but that was so I didn't get into trouble. The biggest difference? I have Tourrette's Syndrome, and was only beginning to show the major ticks associated with it when this movie came out. It was nice to see that people like me could be shown on the big screen in so positive a way. So of course I had to write a review on it here.The movie is about a fat kid, who like me was good at science and fair at football (though I truly despise football, thanks Coach!) who has a single mom and lives with his grandfather, both played marvelously by Cathy Bates and George C. Scott. Angus wants to get with the popular chick, who just happens to be dating his arch-rival in school that has suffered numerous broken noses over the years from Angus' wrath.You grow to love his grandad who gives him advice on how its OK to be different, to just Screw 'em! If you're looking for a realistic movie about high school and you were different from the rest of the crowd like I was, then Angus is your movie. And his mom, once more like me, seems to be one of the only people who truly ever understand him. Top it all off with his big science project to be able to attend the Magnet School in town, and you've got something spectacular! Add the soundtrack for extra points and I give it a 10 out of 10! Go for it Angus! God, I love that line! "},{"Title":"Not on DVD ???  Another act of Hollywood Stupidity","Date":"26 April 2009","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I couldn't remember the title to this movie at first, but I remember the plum tux as plain as day.As a few other people have written and I'll re-iterate, why does Hollywood mis-label movies so much? Are they as insecure as Angus when it comes to picking a genre'? Although there is some comic relief ( as in life - there also is ), this is not what I would call a comedy. This movie should be shown in every single school district in this country when bullying is being discussed. It is the best case for anti-bullying efforts in school that I have ever seen.So why the bleeping bleep is this NOT on DVD? Considering all the TRASH that Hollywood puts out every year, here you have a golden gem that would make a ton of money as more kids who are first timers in school would buy.This isn't the first movie that Hollywood has mis-labeled in the name of sales and won't be the last - but for pete sakes PLEASE put this on DVD ? My kids would watch this in a heartbeat !!! Hey - anyone at Disney listening ??? Snap this film up while it's cheap and re-release it. Guaranteed money maker every year.The only other film that I've seen come even CLOSE to showing a kid standing up for themselves is Sleepover - while I like that one too, it's not anywhere near as real as this.10 out of 10 for the movie, ZERO out of 10 for the idiots who haven't gotten it put to DVD yet. "}{"Title":"Not your typical Teen Movie","Date":"3 June 2006","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I grew up with this movie, I enjoyed it so much. I watched it every week of my childhood. I wasn't really one of those kids who got picked on, I just thought Angus was a true (real life) hero and I looked up to him. There isn't too many one dimensional characters in this film. Everyone has feelings and the movie does a great job of showing their feelings. I have not read the short story, but if it's anything like this movie it'll be great.Like all teen movies it has a strong message that is spelled out for everyone. Unlike other teen movies this one seem to show everyone's side of high school life, even though the two main character's are outcast they're not really nerds. they both play on the football team and one of them is really good. You don't really expect that from losers. The whole movie has great gags that everyone can enjoy and they're really funny.Charlie Talbert plays Angus Bethune (Great name, right?) his best friend Troy Wedberg is played by Chris Owen (Can't Hardly Wait) and he is just hysterical throughout the whole movie. George C. Scott (Patton) plays Angus' grandfather that is always falling asleep and he plays the role of dad to Angus giving him advice. Kathy Bates (Misery) does a great job as Angus' mother, Kathy Bates is just a great actor. Then we have James Van Der Beek (Varsity Blues) playing the bully and he does do a great job at it and Ariana Richards (Jurassic Park) plays Melissa Lefevre which Angus has a crush on.Overall I recommend this movie to anyone that likes teen movies such as the breakfast club, can't hardly wait, and sixteen candles. As longs as you went to public high school this film can't get old. "},{"Title":"Finally a realistic high school movie","Date":"25 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Not that I dislike those other high school movie, but this one is so realistic. Angus is overweight and he fines ways to deal with it. He doesn't try to lose the weight to make everyone like him. Charlie Talbert does a great job, in the only thing that I've seen him in. The acting really is great and as a huge James Van Der Beek fan you get to see one of his earlier films. George C. Scott and Kathy Bates are also at their best. I give it an 8/10! "},{"Title":"An inspiring movie","Date":"20 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is not a masterpiece but for people who are different, abnormal or rejects from society because of what they look like or how react, this movie can change a life for the better! It did for me. Since I watched this movie, I decided that I will try to reach for my dreams...That I will go even if people (who are mean) try to stop me or discourage me... Until I found My Moment like he says in the movie. This movie inspired me and today and I try to do the same around me.Another part of the movie made me realize that we (the not normal people), are braver than those who have it all because we have to face adversity (Superman is not brave because he is invincible... you're not...)The music is excellent (most of it by Green Day), especially after his grand-father's death in the park. The emotions are so real and I tell people to watch the movie if they want to understand what I've been thru... and I'm sure that It will do the same to many more.Whenever I need a cheer, I watch the movie again! "},{"Title":"A heartwarming tale with a strong message to just be yourself.","Date":"19 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I really think all teenagers should watch this at the beginning of their high school days.It will make things a lot easier for them due to the message of this film.Its about saying screw'em to the world and to just be yourself and that its OK to be abnormal because there is no normal.Every teenager suffers from Self Esteem problems but after watching this film they should feel a lot more relaxed within themselves.From touching scenes to funny set pieces it has something for most people and will leave you with a nice feeling inside,how many movies do that these days where its all doom and gloom and ridiculous scenarios.This is also a very well acted movie and is lovely piece of work overall. "},{"Title":"Under Rated Movie","Date":"24 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I never heard of Angus until it came on television. I watched it and loved the movie. I then went to Best Buy only to realize that Angus is not sold on DVD and VHS is near impossible to get a hold of. Thats when it hit me.Angus is a very under rated movie. It depicts a very real world of the years of Highschool. The main character is Angus, hence the title. An overweight, fat kid who has dreams to leave his town, while constantly thinking about his Dream Girl. His grades are good enough to go to a college out of the town to escape his outer demons. Demon, that being the star quarterback of the school and most popular kid, Rick, who picks on him and his friend. His main good relationships are with his Mom, Grandfather, and best friend. The plot point of the movie comes when Angus is chosen (by Rick as a joke) to go to the dance with his dream girl. Angus then must face his insecurities and step up. *At the end of the movie, Angus overcomes the troubles of high school and humiliates Rick, to get a kiss from his dream girl.The movie is just brilliant, with good character depth on all the characters. Even the dream girl, admits to Angus that she has an eating disorder. It is a shame that this movie has not been released on DVD yet. But if it is on TV, check it out. "},{"Title":"Typical Under-Dog.","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Watchable little coming-of-age film that stars Charlie Talbert as the titled character, an overweight teenager who is constantly humiliated by the more popular kids in school. He is genuinely shocked when he wins the opportunity to dance with the girl of his dreams (Ariana Richards). Naturally he was set up by those who always torment him (a group of cruel boys led by a young James Van Der Beek). Kathy Bates shines as Talbert's mother and George C. Scott is the greatest attraction as the boy's wise-cracking grandfather. Not a total waste, but nothing really overly impressive here. A good way to pass some time. 2.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Worth a look...","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Although to me it couldn't make up its mind whether it wanted to be a snidely funny adolescent comedy or an Afterschool Special, Angus definitely has its moments, especially Angus' speech at the film's high point. I wish I'd had the opportunity to utter such words when I was that age (I'm way over 30).I have to give good marks to the performances, especially George C. Scott and the two young men in the leads (the not-all-that-fat Charlie Talbert and the adorably geeky Chris Owen) and a really good soundtrack that includes bands like Pansy Division and The Muffs. This film (in somewhat edited form) turns up on either TBS or TNT at some point or another ... worth checking out when it does show up. "},{"Title":"Screw 'em","Date":"11 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It is such a shame that very few films like this exist. It is a poignant coming of age film that does not revolve around sex. Angus Bethune's transition into his teenage years is about fitting in, and being comfortable with yourself, NOT about getting laid. Perhaps it's just me, but this seems more reflective of the concerns I had growing up than other cheap laugh Hollywood films. Great movie. I laughed, I cried, I had a good time.  "},{"Title":"Anti Bully Film.","Date":"5 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Angus (1995) Dir Patrick Read Johnson / Cast Charlie Talbert, Ariana Richards, Chris Owen, Kathy Bates, George C. Scott Average teen comedy aimed at those who have been looked down upon because of some sort of physical defect. Angus is overweight and the bunt of fat jokes at school. He is on the football team where he hopes to impress a cheerleader who is dating his worst enemy. He is adored by his mother and seeks advice from his live-in grandfather. It is arranged that Angus and the cheerleader are prom King and Queen. Predictable yet with a wonderful message directed by Patrick Read Johnson. Charlie Talbert pulls off a comical performance as Angus despite an outcome viewers will likely predict before he does. Chris Owen as Troy is bullied because of his large ears but he is Angus's best friend and offers assistance in preparing him for the dance. Ariana Richards plays the fetching cheerleader but the role is typical and only seen largely through the fixation of Angus. Kathy Bates plays his mother in a role she does her best with but it is standard issue. George C. Scott plays an uncle who cannot find the energy to stay awake although he attempts to deliver sane advice to Angus. Theme bashes bullying while honoring one's uniqueness resulting in a film that should appeal to teenagers with a message for adults in preparation for that time in life. Score 7 / 10 "},{"Title":"Charming and Fun Winner","Date":"19 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Angus (1995) *** (out of 4) Charming gem about an overweight teenager named Angus (Charlie Talbert) who is constantly being tormented by the kids at his school. This eventually leads to him being the target of a prank that gets him elected homecoming king where he's going to have to dance with the Queen, which just happens to be the girl of his dreams (Ariana Richards). Through all of this Angus has his grandfather (George C. Scott) and mother (Kathy Bates) there trying to do what's best for him. ANGUS is a truly charming little gem and it's really too bad that it never found a bigger audience because it's really a good little movie. Of course it's going to have a big message going throughout but what really makes this film work are the performances and the relationship that Charlie has with the people around him. The main focus is the relationship between Charlie and his grandfather with this here getting some of the most heartwarming scenes in the picture. Talbert is excellent in his role as the abused teen as he really has a lot of passion in the performance and I think it's fair to say that he perfectly handles the emotional challenges of the role. Bates is also good in her supporting bit as is James Van Der Beek and Richards. The real scene stealer is George C. Scott who is just so tender and fun here as the advice giving grandfather. The film certainly borrows some from CARRIE but this here is just played for laughs and its message. The film isn't a masterpiece but for its type it's very charming and fun to watch. "}{"Title":"One of channel surfing's most rewarding moments","Date":"1 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I was surfing around and was immediately sucked in by this film. By the time it was over, I was pumped to have stumbled on to it.Angus Bethune is such an easy character to like and to pull for. I loved how, at the climax of the film, they way Angus stands up for himself isn't really what we wanted to see, but it turns out to be even better.His mom and grandpa are great, and their dinner table banter is awesome. The way the two of them support Angus in their own ways really works out for him well in the end.Van Der Beek is great as the high school villain. I haven't seen a ton of his work--most of what I've seen has been his self-effacing Internet stuff, so I find him to be a likable guy. It is a testament to his acting ability, then, that he was able to portray such an unsavory character so early in his career.I love the way that Angus' secret crush, Melissa, was treated. We see a lot of her, but don't hear a thing from her for most of the film. We make assumptions about her based upon her standing at school, and when she finally opens her mouth, we are proved wrong.The flag pole scene is such an apt depiction of an embarrassing adolescent moment--we get glimpses of what it looks like through Angus' eyes, and just when you think it couldn't possibly get any worse, holy ****! We've all had moments like that.All in all, this was just a fun movie with a great message. Screw 'em! Easy to say, tough to do. The world would be a much better place if we were all better at doing it. "},{"Title":"Moving, funny, ... mixed feelings.","Date":"18 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A memorable movie for the wrong reasons. The first time I watched Angus I thought  what a great movie! it will be among my favorites!. Now, every time it airs on cable I try to avoid it. But don't get me wrong, I avoid it not because it's a boring or bad movie, it's that it provokes me mixed feelings. There are many comedic moments that suddenly crash with dramatic situations that could make anyone cry. I mean, the warming relationship between Angus and his grandpa is tear jerker (specially before grandpa dies), but then it picks up the teenager situations.Angus is a story about a boy that suffers from being bullied, betrayed by his ONLY geeky friend, and then loses the most important person in his life  his grand father.Now, this is an entertaining movie but it carries some difficult situations like bullying, death, loneliness, etc.Recommended. "},{"Title":"Very underrated film","Date":"23 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Most people who've seen this film agree that it's an overlooked classic in the teen angst genre. I'm not a fan of after-school-type movies, but this one is far from it. Everything comes together so well -- the writing, the acting, the soundtrack -- that it easily holds its own against darker angst-ridden films like the Breakfast Club or Donnie Darko. It's not full of four-letter words, sexual exploration, drug abuse, or any of the other cliché problems of teen life, but rather deals with the more day-to-day high school drama of bullying and crushes in a way that's both more innocent, yet more disturbing because of its accuracy. Similar to Pretty in Pink, but better because I think there's better chemistry between the actors.It amazes me this movie is not on DVD, but I'm guessing it will be someday. If you have a VCR and can get a copy, check it out. Any movie that features Mazzy Star's Fade Into You at the high school dance can't be all that bad. "},{"Title":"Who is normal anyway?","Date":"12 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Angus is an overweight high school student who is great at science, has a crush on a popular girl named Melissa and is bullied by Rick. As a cruel joke, Rick rigs the ballot box so that Angus is nominated for king of the winter ball. Angus also has a side kick little friend named Troy.Rick makes Angus life a living hell but there is a great scene where Angus gives him the tough lecture on who is normal? I thought that it was great because for once, Angus was fighting back.A part that I didn't like was when Rick and his friends hurt Troy. That just broke my heart but other than that, I liked this movie a lot. So, if you are not normal, this would be a great movie to see. "},{"Title":"One of the most under rated films ever","Date":"14 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Firstly, I just want to say that that I did not dole out that score lightly. This film was charming, funny, compassionate and really well scripted. The story isn't ground breaking and the little IMDb summary sums it up nicely. I just thought the performances and characterisation were excellent. I would have given it 10/10 but I felt James VanDer Beek as the popular but mean jock was a bit too two dimensional. Believe it or not the key reason I saw it was due to the clip of a dance I saw on Film'96 with the Mazzy Star song 'Fade Into You' being played. This song is exquisite, and they also used Love Spit Love's 'Am I right' in the movie. I go with my gut instinct a lot with films and I was not disappointed. I know this was a small release but I honestly think if you trust me on this one you won't regret it. Angus is a lovely gem of a film for anyone who wanted a movie were the boy with a heart of gold gets to have his day. "},{"Title":"An excellent view of geekdom...","Date":"5 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If you've ever been on the receiving end of being the geek in class you can relate to the story of Angus... and if you've ever been the fat kid in school, this story is about you.  ANGUS is an excellent film with sensitive issues that relate to the outcast group of us that felt we were the odd individuals everyone hated.  And yet, it turned out that we were the majority, and the minority that were popular held rule over us.  We now know that we had the power to rebel, but too late to take advantage of our skills and too late to requiet that love that we felt was beyond our grasp. Angus takes the chances that we never did, and excels in the courage that we never realized we had.  Open your mind, free your soul, and live that dream you had when you were young... be Angus for a day and you'll never again feel you were looked down upon.  You will realize that now... you're the one they look back upon.  Be proud, be different, be Angus. "},{"Title":"An underappreciated kid comedy","Date":"17 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film is great for people of all ages. Angus Bathune plays the underdog in this comedy about an unpopular fat kid who loves science. Growing up with his biggest enemy Rick (Van der beek), Angus continues to resent the fact that Rick is the most popular guy in school with the most popular girl -and Angus's biggest crush- Melissa on his arm. This is a lovely comedy and i'm proud to say, it brought a tear to my eye. A simple comedy about the geek that wins the girl, I give Angus 4 out of 5. "},{"Title":"succinct","Date":"6 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  An underrated gem of a movie.  I first came across Angus on a Saturday with nothing else to do.  What a pleasant surprise.  Angus tries for nothing more that being what he (it) is; just someone trying to live their life and find some joy and accomplishment in it. Growing up is difficult, but the teen years have got to be the hardest; Angus endures what most of us have forgotten, though. A misfit who is led by his heart, Angus just tries to be a good guy, but the world is cold and indifferent. By the time Peter Gabriel's Washing of the Water is playing, I'm usually eyeball deep in tears.  Angus lays the king down, acknowledging another momentous change (something this movie handles quite well.) Loss spurs growth, and Angus gains confidence, taking the steps into maturity that now seem inevitable defiance, resistance, accpetance and independence.  We all find our own selves, and Angus finds his.George C. Scott and Kathy Bates should be recommendation enough.9 of 10, 9/10, Almost Perfect, Very Highly Recommended  "},{"Title":"A much-needed update on my thoughts","Date":"10 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  As I look at some of the reviews posted here, many view Angus as an Oh, look! Fat kids can fit in too! kinda movie.  It's NOT!  It's about a boy with low self-esteem finding it. At first, he thinks fitting in will make him happy, but as the story progresses, he realizes it's not about fitting in, it's about accepting himself as he is, and not letting what others think of him dictate how he feels about himself.  By standing up to Rick, Angus does not suddenly fit in. He simply asserts that HE is control of his life and how he feels, not others. It's this self-realization that boosts his self-esteem, not fitting in. That said, it's still a funny, touching, and leave-ya-feelin'-good kinda flick.  And that's why I luv it!  "},{"Title":"take a trip to that heart-warming uncomfortable place","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Angus is a film in which some might identify with...you have all those fun issues as a child..angus addresses a few with respect. I could watch this film over and over. The cast is great, not too over-acted ..just right. First time I ever wanted to hear what George C. Scott had to say..and now I must watch again to hear him again..Point is this movie is a gentle look at the life of a kid with a few problems that only others seem to have. Ohh..and great soundtrack also!! "}{"Title":"I was touched by this movie!","Date":"27 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Well, as the prevous review mentions, this movie has a subject matter that could easily come out trite or sappy -- BUT I feel the people involved did a fantastic job of going past that and making the characters and the story more realistic so that the story rang true.  I don't remember this film having come out, and had really never heard of it before, but happened to catch it on television and immediately enjoyed it.  I stongly recommend this film to anyone who has ever felt like an outsider... "},{"Title":"A Blessing Of A Movie","Date":"21 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie changed my life in so many ways, that it makes me upset when I read some of the negative reviews of it, declaring it just another Teen Movie, This is so much more than that, I have read comments by viewers on websites, saying this movie changed their life and I cannot agree more, I really think Charlie Talbert is destined for stardom, he is just sensational, but unfortunately, he has never gotten the recgonition, or the parts he deserves, he has so much range as an actor, I  definitely think Hollywood should take a closer look at him, and start sending scripts his way, and the rest of the cast is fantastic,  This movie is truly a miracle. "},{"Title":"Excellent use of symolism","Date":"25 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The director and producers of the movie used symbolism to truly make a statement beyond just the obvious.  The movie begs you to come and see it again because of the truth that it shows.  The casting was well done, and the scenes, especially that after the death of his grandfather, brought even the hardest audience member to an emotional breaking point.Amanda Leigh Brozana, Wilkes University "},{"Title":"A real movie about high school","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is special, not just for its quality, but for what it is not. It is not filled with 20-something actors pretending to be teenagers. It is not filled with the latest pop culture references.  It does not threaten to break out with an MTV montage designed to push music product.  Instead, it is a well-crafted, gentle movie with an overweight hero, kids who look like kids, and the kind of dialogue that might have been taken from real life.  The plot itself is a fantasy.  Who hasn't been the high school underdog and dreamed of having your moment?  Then again, it is a lovable fantasy because it contains so many of our hopes and dreams. Hollywood used to do this kind of movie regularly, before each one had to become a roller-coaster ride for the $100 million payoff. Watching Angus is like going back to a gentler time, when a finely acted moment counted as much as a special effect.  Watch this movie, recommend it to your friends, and watch it again.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful Film! Good Acting, Story-Line, and Humor","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Angus is one of the most true to life, humorous and dramatic films I've seen in a long time.  Talbert did a very good job portraying Angus and so did Kathy Bates and George C. Scott as Angus' mother and Grandfather.  It was good to see Ariana Richards in a movie besides Jurassic Park and Tremors.  I have no clue on why she doesn't do more acting.  She did a very good job.  All in all, the film was wonderful.   "},{"Title":"Amazingly sweet and intriguing.  Talbert has Talent!","Date":"31 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What's there to really say?  Absolutely enjoyable!  Where should I start?I think it's best to start with Angus Bethune, the fat kid who just doesn't seem to get a break, until an age-old enemy, Rick, rigs an election so that Angus can dance with his long-time crush, Melissa.  Angus is played by Charlie Talbert, who was reportedly discovered at a Wendy's in Illinois.  Talbert plays the role with warmth, heart, sarcasm, and conviction, and he does it so wonderfully (and this being his first film!), he can potentially be one of film acting's best-kept secret.  He is sure to have a successful career in acting, pending that we do see him in another film.  Angus' interaction with his granddad (played by George C. Scott in possibly one of his most memorable, though short, roles since Patton) is very interesting to pay attention.  The supporting characters, geeky Troy, beautiful Melissa, and Rick the pest (played by a more credible James Van der Beek), form part of the fabric of appealing characters that dot the film.  The film would have been better though if we knew a little more about these people, so as to make it a character study.I've read some comments from expert reviewers about this film.  Most agree that Charlie Talbert has a great future in film ahead of him, but that the film itself is formulaic and predictable.  This is quite true, and that was one of the fears I had before watching this film.  Yet after watchng this film I'm now absolutely convinced that even formulaic and predictable films can be great, provided that they're executed properly and with heart, as it was with this film.  In the case with Angus, it's a mix of originality (a tongue-in-cheek script and direction) and tried-and-true motifs.  There's even a character twist (I won't say who) that threw me a bit off-guard near the end!In this case, it's Patrick Read Johnson's direction that made this movie very memorable.  The cinematography was vivid (or blight) and colorful.  The dance sequence at the ball with Melissa and Angus is one of the most beautiful (and beautifully shot) in my memory.  The soundtrack is excellent Green Day is at their top of the game; the Goo Goo Dolls still haven't made the grade; the songs form a nice snapshot of great alternative and punk music reminscent of its time.  My personal favorite is Ash's Jack Names the Planets.  Even some of the camera shots (especially with the irises to open and close the film) are dazzling.Although admittedly it's not destined to be a classic (or at least any time soon), Angus is a genuinely warm, funny, bitterly sarcastic, though strictly Hollywood, picture of that ever-so-turbulent, confusing, and questionable time of our lives known as high school.  Watch it and you'll at least enjoy it.  I did!  I gave it a nine. "},{"Title":"sad and funny","Date":"10 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Angus made me laugh and cry many times during its short hour and a half. Yes, I was a fat teenager. Maybe that's whyI loved this movie so much.But it's about the strugle, the will to live, that we all face. No matter what age.  "},{"Title":"a bit formularic and corny..but has a killer soundtrack","Date":"25 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  the reason i watched this film was because i had heard that green day were on the soundtrack. the song impressed me, the film did not as much. it was okay, for a typical high school film, but the idea had been over used.you know the scenerio, fat kid gets bullied, fat kid fights back with out fist, fat kid gets girl. an idea that has been over used and is simply incorrect. this simlpy does not happen. if the fat kid made a speech at my prom about not carring about being an outside...trust me,there would be no clapping from everyone at the prom(small spoiler) some credit must be given for the fat kid not actually going out with the girl ( boyfriend girlfriend type thing). just gets to take her home, i think that them hooking up forever might be pushing itangus's sidekick was very funny and had a good impact in the film. he brought up some good issues about unexceptance. and that it isn't just fat kids that wish they look different ( which sometimes we are made to believe).overall it was an okay.. good advice..buy the soundtrack i is brillant. "},{"Title":"Beautiful","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Angus is a beautiful movie. Although it sounds like an overused storyline, (outcast who is not accepted by peers), this movie does a lot with it. Charlie Talbert is genuinely believable and Kathy Bates and George C. Scott are fine in their roles. James Van Der Beek is great in his role as the villain. The movie has some good plot turns as well. If you go see this movie, you will truly enjoy it. **** out of ****.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful Portrayal of Fat Kid  *Contains Very Small Spoiler*","Date":"30 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This was a wonderful movie that I've loved since I first saw it.  One thing that I absolutely loved about Angus was that the title character was not your typical Hollywood fat kid.  He was not a pervert always munching a bag of chips, reading porn, and piling it on at dinnertime. As a fellow fat guy, I totally understood his ordeals trying to make in in 9th grade. It's not easy.  This movie will make fat kids feel better about their cards dealt to them, and maybe the jerks who torment them will not be so quick to judge them.*Very Small Spoiler Ahead*On a side note, a fun comment to throw in when Van Der Beek breaks Troy's arm and kicks his books all over is to look at your neighbors and say in an almost apologetic tone You know, I just don't like that guy!  It's fun!  "}{"Title":"A pleasant surprise","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I remember sighing as my brother rented this movie, but it turned out to be quite good.  And it has one of the funniest lines in a movie that I've ever seen (the shocked response of Troy in the pep assembly).The acting is excellent in spots, and very good overall.  Of course George C. Scott and Kathy Bates deliver on their performances, especially Scott.While the ending may have been a little cliched, it still is a enjoyable movie, and much better than your usual teen flick..I'll never understand why people enjoy Clueless when there are movies like Angus that offer far more accurate portrayals of high school life.This one gets a solid 3 1/2 out of 5 in my book "},{"Title":"Awesome! Charlie Talbert is GREAT!","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the sweetest movies I have ever seen. Yes, maybe it sort-of follows the standard plot of this type of film, but there's something about it that makes it stand out...it has heart. And lots of it. The characters are played so perfectly that you think you are actually watching a real group of people.Charlie Talbert is absolutely wonderful as Angus - no one else could have played him better. Chris Owen is hilarious, especially when he finally gets his revenge on Rick at the dance! Ariana Richards is great as Melissa and James Van Der Beek plays the nasty/popular/jock well. And lest I forget George C. Scott and Kathy Bates - they are awesome in all their movies.SEE ANGUS! It rocks. You'll feel so happy and ready to conquer the world when it's over. 10/10! ~ Peace out ~ "},{"Title":"What a great movie!!","Date":"28 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is such a wonderful movie.  I saw it for the first time in September of this year and remember thinking that this is such a great movie why hadn't I heard of it.  It is a very touching story that made me laugh and made me cry.  I hardly never cry at movies.  This movie is special. "},{"Title":"What a great movie!!","Date":"28 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is such a wonderful movie.  I saw it for the first time in September of this year and remember thinking that this is such a great movie why hadn't I heard of it.  It is a very touching story that made me laugh and made me cry.  I hardly never cry at movies.  This movie is special. "},{"Title":"love it","Date":"17 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of my favorite movies. I can relate to it! I'm not overweight, but I was an outcast when I was in middle school and I got a truckload of pranks pulled on me.Angus is about an overweight young freshman named Angus Bethune, who is a science whiz and a great athlete, but he is constantly tormented by golden Rick Sanford, played by the great James van der Beek, since the wound. He is also in love with head cheerleader AND Rick's girlfriend Melissa Lafever. As a joke Rick and his buds rig the votes and Angus ends up being winter ball king. And from then on it is total chaos.Angus has laughs, tears, hopes, and satisfaction when the movie ends. I give Angus 9/10.    "},{"Title":"Great Film","Date":"27 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I really liked this movie.  It was a great reflection of what it is like to be a teen and be different.  It was well acted and well written.  Also the soundtrack was awsome. "},{"Title":"An under-appreciated gem","Date":"21 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This was Charlie's first movie after literally falling into the role. Charlie, a native of Kenosha, Wisconsin, did an outstanding job as an overweight teenager who finally has his say at the end after being the subject of often cruel practical jokes.  A very strong supporting cast including Kathy Bates who played his mother, Angus deserves far more notice than it received.  A pity as this is one of those little gems that deserves a look and appeared to be a victim of lack of proper publicity by the studio.  Hopefully more people will have a chance to view the video and appreciate the excellent acting that Charlie did. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies ever!","Date":"20 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie for the first time when I was eight-years-old and after all these years, it still remains one of my favorites. It's one of the rare teen movies from the 1990s that isn't truly terrible. I'm surprised it wasn't talked about on Vh1's I LOVE THE 90S. It's an unwritten rule that if a movie starts with a voice over, chances are it is going to suck. There are a few exceptions to the rule, but for the most part, if a movie starts with a voice over, you as the viewer, are screwed. ANGUS is one of the exceptions in which the voice over doesn't hurt the movie. Could the movie have done without it? Probably, but Charlie Talbert has such a good voice that the voice over didn't bother me.Based on a short story written by Chris Crutcher, one of my favorite authors, ANGUS tells the story of a fat kid. At first glance, it may seem like just another movie in which a series of fat jokes ensue. However, unlike those movies, ANGUS has heart. Angus is not a target for fat jokes. He is an actual character. Well developed and wonderfully played by Charlie Talbert, Angus is one of the most memorable characters in film history, making this the stand-out movie of 1995. **** "},{"Title":"Entertaining to a point","Date":"3 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  ANGUS started out with good intentions and a good premise. Unfortunately, somewhere along the way, the script ran out of fresh ideas, and started sticking in a lot of old Hollywood tripe.The leads (Kathy Bates, George C. Scott & Charlie Talbert) give it the old college try, but can't overcome the fumbling script. The last half is so predictable, it was almost unwatchable. Despite the razza-mattazz hype from the studios, ANGUS is a pretty mediocre outing.  "},{"Title":"A predictable, yet somewhat interesting dork vs popular movie.","Date":"23 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"     There is nothing really special about this movie that would make it stand out from the hundreds of movies that deal with a fat kid in high school. All the predictable and unrealistic stuff happens (smart,stays mentally stable, and the hot girl ends up liking him). What kept me in the movie was the genius decision of having George C. Scott in this movie. His protrayal of the grandfather was the kind of typical Scott display that gave the movie it's best scenes. As soon as he leaves the movie, the fate of this flick being in the forgotten category arrives. It's also kind of funny to see VanDerBeek in an evil role before he goes into teenage soap opera stardom. I gave it a 4 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Angus represents the high school outcast!","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Angus is an overweight teenager who only wants to be accepted by his peers. Much like reality, Angus is a nerd but a likable one with a great personality. Rather than lose weight, Angus does become an unlikely hero without changing himself to please others. That is the part of the film, Angus, that makes the difference. It is a wonderful film overall and children and even adults of all ages can identify with Angus' plight to overcome acceptance. High School was hard for some of us while easier for others. Angus points out that it's difficult feeling unaccepted because of his weight. Ironically, we live in a society where childhood obesity is an epidemic and they think by removing salt from the lunch packets that they would help solve the problem. I ate lots of unhealthy food and drank plenty of soda during my days but I also exercised regularly. I rarely spent an entire day inside until I became an adult. I walked, rode my bike, swam, ran, and played games with the neighborhood children. I think it's awful that children are going to gyms as if they were adults. That was what was fun about being a kid is that we imagined ourselves as adults. "},{"Title":"A funny and moving movie about adolesence","Date":"1 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie and i was amazed how this was a funny movie for both adults and children. The movie is about a obese kid who fancies a cheerleader, but believes that she wont like her. Also he is continued to be bullied by the perfect althete. So he wants to lose weight, with the help of his friend. This movie was very moving at sometimes and very funny at others. I recommended this movie a lot   "},{"Title":"One of the best TRUE looks at teenage life!","Date":"23 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Angus is a great film.  It is the exact opposite of the Clue less, teenage film reign and I love it.  It looks at the life of a freshman teen who is un-popular, over weight, and un-apreciated.  Just like most of the REAL teens in High School today.  Chris Crutcher (who wrote the short story this film is based on) knows exactly how a real teenagers life works who is not popular.  This is terrific. "},{"Title":"not bad","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  angus wasn't bad,but wasn't great either. some of this movie is slow,but still entertaining. if the pacing of this movie was handled better it could've been a great movie,but it was still all in all pretty good. i give angus **1/2 out of ****  "},{"Title":"One of the best movies ever!","Date":"20 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie for the first time when I was eight-years-old and after all these years, it still remains one of my favorites. It's one of the rare teen movies from the 1990s that isn't truly terrible. I'm surprised it wasn't talked about on Vh1's I LOVE THE 90S. It's an unwritten rule that if a movie starts with a voice over, chances are it is going to suck. There are a few exceptions to the rule, but for the most part, if a movie starts with a voice over, you as the viewer, are screwed. ANGUS is one of the exceptions in which the voice over doesn't hurt hurt the movie. Could the movie have done without it? Probably, but Charlie Talbert has such a good voice that the voice over didn't bother me.Based on a short story written by Chris Crutcher, one of the my favorite authors, ANGUS tells the story of a fat kid. At first glance, it may seem like just another movie in which a series of fat jokes ensue. However, unlike those movies, ANGUS has heart. Angus is not a target for fat jokes. He is an actual character. Well developed and wonderfully played by Charlie Talbert, Angus is one of the most memorable characters in film history, making this the stand-out movie of 1995. **** "},{"Title":"This was not high school in '95, more like '75.","Date":"17 December 2011","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Great soundtrack, great actors, terrible movie. How did these great, established actors get duped into this terrible, obvious and worn out script? I graduated in 1993 and let me tell you, this was no example of what high schools were like during that time. Im sure there were schools this movie might relate to but for the most part all the macho-jocks were gone by 1990, a few stragglers aside. The 70s and part of the 80s were horrible because these kinds of school bullying situations were still going on but by the 90s they were 98% dead. I've COME TO REALIZE THAT TEEN MOVIES ARE MADE BY DIRECTORS WHO ARE USUALLY 10 YEARS OUT OF HIGH SCHOOL. SO ALWAYS KEEP IN MIND A TEEN MOVIE IS MADE BY SOMEONE WHO WAS IN HIGH SCHOOL 10 YEARS BEFORE AND IDENTIFIES WITH SITUATIONS THAT ARE USUALLY NOT AS RELIVANT NOW AND THEY USED TO BE. My kids envy what me and my wife got to do in middle and high school. Not to mention the fun relationship we had with our teachers. Now, principals and teachers are so terrified of getting sued they cannot make friends with their students and school days absolutely miserable. The whole bullying thing has gotten so ridiculous and overblown that underclassmen don't interact or even see 7th or 8th graders during the day, after school or even on the bus. My son got suspended for 2 days for stopping to drink water on his way to class after getting off the bus in the 7th grade hall when he was a 6th grader. I couldn't help but think; who's the bully? The kids or the teachers? Don't even get me started on the CRCT, which is more about teachers keeping their jobs versus kids not getting left behind. Sorry, Ill get back to the movie.Bottom line is this is a periodic movie that doesn't even relate to kids in the time period it was made. If you liked SHES ALL THAT (UGH!)than you probably will like this movie. Its just a little sad that after my kids watched this movie I had to have a talk with them stating that although I was the quarterback, starting pitcher and small forward for my high school teams, this movie was in no way the way I, or anyone else I knew at my school or any other schools in my county ( I lived in Gwinnett County, Georgia. The fastest growing county in the world 3 or the 4 years I attended high school) acted as jocks in high school. But then again, as much fun as the 90s were, they really started a trend of over-reacting that has ruined school for this generation. "},{"Title":"A comedic Carrie for under-achievers...","Date":"10 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Misguided, unfunny film adapted from the short story by Chris Crutcher concerning an overweight high school boy who struggles to gain respect from his peers. Eventually he's invited to the school dance, but it may be just a prank at Angus' expense. Sloppy direction from Patrick Read Johnson sinks a decent supporting cast (including Kathy Bates and Chris Owen), and George C. Scott has a completely routine role as grandfather to Angus (his scenes look as if they were shot all in one day). This kind of cafeteria-comedy manages to tickle some, but the script is wholly uninspired and unoriginal, and the results are crudely obvious instead of interesting. * from **** "},{"Title":"Where's John Hughes when you need him?","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I love 'Sixteen Candles', 'Fast Times..' and 'American Pie' and other teen movies even though I haven't been in that age bracket for quite awhile.  I like seeing characters who have not yet been beaten down by the pressures of adult life; they are generally funnier than most movie characters cause they can be.  Of course growing up is a disaster for many people...like Angus, in 'Angus.'  His mother is a trucker, his grandfather means well and therefore receives a fair amount of Angus' frustration, which is considerable.  Not only is he overweight, but he is angry (I don't think the kid smiled once) and, according to him, 'I don't sweat, I rain.'I can't recommend or like a movie that has so little regard for all its characters.  There is cruelty galore, and not just to Angus.   "},{"Title":"Worse than spilling acid on your groin","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If I had a choice between watching this movie again or eating my own ear I would opt for a nice ear sandwitch every time. Angus is one of those rare film that make you want to hunt down the director and force him to shoot his own pet dog. Angus deserves everything he gets, the evil pantomime baddies make you want to shoot yourself and dont mention the little sidekick. The comedy makes you cry, the romance makes you laugh and the overall message of the film is possibly the most sikening aspect of the whole movie (Fat people can fit in too)I enjoyed other teen movies like american pie and road trip cos they didnt waste time with preachy messages and pointless sentiments. The movie almost is worth watching for James van der Beet's (Dawsons Creek) foul hair. Interestingly this is the only film rated 12 that contains the word F*** I've seen. (but that doesnt justify actually watching it)-1 /10 "},{"Title":"George C. Scott and Kathy Bates should've known better...","Date":"23 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is nothing more than feel-good teen fluff masquerading as a message movie. Not that it couldn't have worked as a message movie, but the ending is so laughably implausible that it ruins everything that came before.I guess the best way to describe this film is to say that it suffers from an identity crisis. It attempts to walk the line between comedy and drama, but fails on both counts. It's not funny enough to be considered a full-blown comedy, but neither is it true-to-life, as most good dramas are. Everyone likes to root for the underdog, but this film's outcome is hopelessly false.If you want a light, breezy teenage comedy, rent Clueless. If you want a portrait of adolescent torment that will actually make you think, see Welcome to the Dollhouse. If, however, you want a movie that pretends to have something to say, yet lacks the you-know-what to give us anything more than a predictable, warm and fuzzy ending...well, I guess Angus is your thing. "}]