[{"Title":"If I were judging this film purely on its content and style, I would call it a ramshackle mess...","Date":"29 March 2001","Score":"15 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" ... the plot isn't even that interesting, just some soft-core pornography dressed up in amateur psychology.  The structure is lazy, the performances done on autopilot, and the suspense virtually nil.  All of this I was expecting, however, and NONE of this was WHY I was watching.  It promised us Alicia Silverstone in her first vaguely steamy role.  Is it steamy?  Not really, but Alicia is cute enough fully CLOTHED for the guys to only feel mildly annoyed that she doesn't whip 'em off.  If you're expecting a great film - or even a good one - you'll be disappointed, if you're expecting a raunch-fest - disappointment again.  If you just want an excuse to ogle Alicia for roughly two hours, it does its job.   Finally, what was J.T Walsh doing in this??  It represents a blight on what was a fine career.  Maybe he was duped into expecting sex scenes with Alicia too... "},{"Title":"Alicia's cute; movie sucks","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Alicia Silverstone is so pretty, so good, I hope she gets some decent material someday. This film wasn't very good. Miss Silverstone was good, but the film could have really used some more exposure (wink, nod). At least she did spend a fair part of the movie in a bubble bath, but she seemed to have a flesh-colored towel in there when she was moving very much. I will have to give some credit to J. T. Walsh and Lee Garlington as the Tuckers. It was fairly fun to watch them get more and more hammered at the party. I've heard that drunkenness is difficult for an actor, but these two made it quite believable. Overall, this film is of interest only to Silverstone fans, (real ones, because she does NO nude scenes here) Grade D "},{"Title":"A turkey.","Date":"7 September 2001","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Babysitter is a bizarre, repetitive and often campy turkey. Most of the film consists of endless fantasy sequences that are never as steamy as they are supposed to be. A fine cast is totally wasted, especially George Segal, whose role couldn't be more pointless. This movie was misconceived all along and is worth watching only if you're curious.... (*1/2) "},{"Title":"Miss Silverstone is never better than the pictures she appears in...","Date":"19 March 2002","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" ...so it's hard to believe anyone is checking out THE BABYSITTER for her lisping, nymphet presence.  What you have here is low-grade, late-night, Cinemax fare trying to capitalize on Silverstone's ability to come off as Lolita to a reasonably capable cast of old pros like George Segal and J.T. Walsh (along with one of those London twins for youthful good measure). This kind of a film needs some sexual momentum to keep it entertaining; and, sadly, this movie is lacking in eroticism...Silverstone more so.  "},{"Title":"Poor Attempt at Surrealism","Date":"4 April 2001","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Has neither the style nor the substance to make it a cult classic.  An erotic thriller without any traces of sex or justifiable nudity.  Jennifer, the babysitter is an one dimensional person without any depth or insight or even any symbolic meaning.  The Babysitter(1995) has a good premise that wasn't explored deeply and the fantasy scenes are bland and surreal less. The Babysitter(1995) is a film that would be much better in the hands of someone like a Luis Bunuel, Nicolas Roeg, Terry Gilliam, or a Abel Ferrara. J.T Walsh's performance is so good that it belongs in a Luis Bunuel Movie rather than this terrible excuse for a motion picture. "},{"Title":"Nudity","Date":"4 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" saw this movie when i was in grade school on the action channel.sliverstone did show her breasts in this movie, the reason it was cut is because there is nothing there to write home about.otherwise the movie was interesting, had a kick ass soundtrack. 'the lie still in the garden' song rocked. jeremy London and the other dude were hott. i just felt bad that the father was arrested at the end. i felt that mark had it coming. the only twisted part was when the little boy was asked by alica to wash her back. but a fanasty, not reality. her character was stupid and so was jeremy's. it was weird seeing the guy that played mark as a tough guy. "},{"Title":"Pretty Weak Story But You Will Still Find Some Pleasure","Date":"5 February 2003","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Babysitter is about this beautiful babysitter(Alicia Silverstone) that everybody adores and has every day fantasies about her. One night, while she is babysitting for the Tucker family, her boyfriend Jack(Jeremy London), her ex boyfriend Mark(Nicky Katt), and Mr.Tucker(J.T Walsh), all want to seduce the babysitter and make their fantasies come true. The plot was alright, i mean, the fantasies were pretty realistic in some way. We all have them at some point. But it gets kinda boring and predictable after a while and the babysitter turns into nothing special. I would give The Babysitter 6/10 "},{"Title":"Avoid like the plague","Date":"9 October 2004","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is the first time that I have felt compelled to share my views on this site but having watched this film I felt so irritated that I had wasted an hour & a half of my life I thought I should warn anybody else who might stumble across this laughable film.It appears that there is a reason that films are shown at 330 in the morning on Sky Movies & that is to try to send people to sleep. This is a tedious, nonsensical piece of tat with hysterical performances & an inane storyline. The flashback sequences (which take up most of the film) damage the flow of the film to such an extent that you end up not caring what is happening in the actual 'plot'.Alicia Silverstone does little wrong & just tends to wander around with little on. It is a testament to the stupidity of the American film industry that any of the others were allowed to work again & it is testament to my own stupidity that I watched this piece of rubbish to the end.  "},{"Title":"Forbidden fantasies","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Babysitter hasn't got much in the way of a plot. It explores the mind of (but not limited to) members of the male sex at different ages. This is concerning their sexual fantasies and advances towards a beautiful young girl, both when they are sober and more so when they are drunk. The men involved include the husband, his young son, the babysitter's boyfriend and his old 'God's Gift' friend. "},{"Title":"an unnoticed gem","Date":"23 January 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I first saw The Babysitter when it was released all the way back in 1995, and it still holds up well today. This sleeper stars Alicia Silverstone as the babysitter, who is the obsession of many males in the film. Mr. Tucker (played by J.T. Walsh), the father of the children she babysits, lusts after her, as does her boyfriend, Jack (played by Jeremy London), and a neighborhood rebel, Mark (played by Nicky Katt).Based on a short story by Robert Coover, The Babysitter goes like this After refusing a date with Mark, the babysitter goes to the Tucker residence on a Friday night to babysit the three children there. Jack is reading Catcher in the Rye in a diner when Mark comes along and begins to coax him into hanging out with him, which leads to the two of them spying on the babysitter while she is looking after the children. The Tuckers are at a party but Mr. Tucker finds any excuse to go home, much to the dismay of his wife, Dolly (good performance given by Lee Garlington) who herself fantasizes about Bill (played by George Segal), the party host. Many of the characters consume alcohol, and the combination of booze and their own obsessions leads to a deadly climax.The Babysitter contains many dream sequences which may be difficult to discern from the actual happenings if you are viewing for the first time. All of the players in this movie do a great job. It is very different and I recommend it. "}{"Title":"The Babysitter","Date":"12 March 1999","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I don't know if I didn't get what the director was going for, or the director failed to deliver his vision (my vote). Although I'd watch Alicia Silverstone in an insurance info-mercial, this movie never got any steam going. Making for an amazing let down at the film's end. The story, although plausible (I certainly fantasize about Alicia Silverstone), it is pretty pointless. A good cast wasted. I can not think of a more frustrating film. All the ingredients are there good actors, a usable plot, and a suspenseful look to the film. The damn thing never delivers. Only recommended for die-hard Alicia Silverstone or J.T.Walsh fans, just to get a fix on your favorite star. "},{"Title":"A predictable bomb...","Date":"8 May 2007","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Babysitter is about as imaginative as its title (both appear to have been recycled). It's just one of a handful of low-profile movies Alicia Silverstone made before her career took off. Here, she's a solemn, sexy-in-spite-of-herself teen trying to earn some bucks by babysitting, seemingly unaware that she has male teenagers drooling and male adults fawning. Uneven drama with ham-handed flickers of surrealism. Executive produced (for some unknown reason) by Joel Schumacher, who later directed Silverstone in 1997's Batman and Robin. This one is strictly amateur night, despite a good supporting cast including George Segal and Lois Chiles. NO STARS from **** "},{"Title":"Am I on drugs?","Date":"3 June 2003","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I caught this on a boring summer afternoon on, surprise!, Lifetime. The story itself COULD be promising- an innocent teen babysitter is unwittingly the object of obsession for virtually every man she encounters in one night- but the filmmakers try to turn it into a masterpiece of surrealism that it obviously is not. The acting is pretty shallow and most of the 'fantasies' are just downright creepy, not thought provoking. The movie will leave you feeling like you just dropped a massive amount of acid. Don't waste your time. "},{"Title":"Another 90's Guilty Pleasure","Date":"8 July 2004","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The majority of movies and TV shows that came out during the 90's were awful. But there were some that were so bad they were good. This movie here falls into that category, and it's perfect for late night viewing. The reason I find this movie so bizarre and hypnotic is not Alicia Silverstone. As a matter of fact, I've never found her to be that hot, compared to other actresses. The reason this movie draws in the viewer is Nicky Katt. Before I saw this movie I had never even heard of this guy, yet he's been acting since the early 80's. I could not stop laughing whenever he was on screen. What makes it all the more strange is that he wasn't even trying to be funny. His character in the movie is supposed to be a neighborhood bully, yet when he's walking down the street with Jeremy London and smashes the bottle on the pavement trying to act tough, I laughed so hard I fell off the couch. The rest of the dream sequences throughout the film feel like TWILIGHT ZONE visions. This makes the movie all the more bizarre and fun to watch.Score, 5 out of 10 Stars "},{"Title":"Who would want to see that anyway","Date":"14 June 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I rented this direct-to-video movie because there's Alicia Silverstone in it, and honestly I really don't understand at all the choice of making bizarre things such as this or her movie True Crime for example... Who would want to see that anyway, these are the kind of things I wouldn't be surprised to see if coming from writer/director Roger Vadim and actress Brigitte Bardot during the 60s before he made quality things, but not from the actress who made Clueless in the 90s... The tone of this one is really more inspired than Roger Vadim's movies of the 60s, it's an imitation who's more artistic and less serious, but still... In any case anybody who like rough sex or seeing a babysitter named Jennifer (played by Alicia Silverstone) in a bath full of white bubbles should watch this, otherwise it should be skipped at all cost; there's no story and no acting at all except for Alicia Silverstone... "},{"Title":"No good.","Date":"15 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A baby Sitter named jennifer, is so gorgeous that she has all the men around her fantasising her to all of their desires. this includes her ex boyfriend, the tuff guy swho hangs out with him, the father of the kid that she is baby sitting and one of the kids that she is baby sitting.boring, poorly made film that wreaks of that early 90's film feel. my definition of early 90's film feel? here it is a film in which is virtually unknown to most people; actors that you will never see again after the movie you're watching; and character's personal problems that do not relate to the plot. Much of that is in this film. Nothing to see really.*/****   "},{"Title":"Why Did I waste my time?","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Why I wasted my time watching this movie is beyond me....well actually it's not, it's because of this beautiful, talented actress named Alicia Silverstone who has gotten in the habit of making terrible acting choices. I had heard tons about this movie so when I saw it at Hollywood Video I was thrilled! After about twenty minutes I knew I was stuck watching a stupid movie. The whole thing is a bunch of dream sequences of various men dreaming about Alicia Silverstone aka The Baby-sitter. It's actually really confusing and hard to tell when its a dream and when its real. Recommended only for hardcore Alicia fans who will sit through stupid bull for her. 3/10 "},{"Title":"Don't Tell Mom The Babysitter's Hot!","Date":"17 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Babysitter stars Alicia Silverstone as Jennifer, object of lust for her ineffectual bookworm boyfriend Jack (Jeremy London), colossal teenage jerk Mark (Nicky Katt), married man Harry Tucker (J.T. Walsh), and even Harry's randy pre-teen son Jimmy (Ryan Slater). As Jennifer innocently goes about her duties as a babysitter, the males fantasise about the young woman and desire eventually turns to obsession with fatal consequences.There was a time when teenage temptress Silverstone was shaping up to be a major player in Hollywood, her role in hit teen comedy Clueless seriously boosting her bankability as an actress. But then she appeared in the abysmal Batman and Robin (as Batgirl) and pointless drivel like The Babysitter, an erotic thriller that is neither thrilling nor erotic (largely thanks to a no nudity clause in Silverstone's contract). Her star rapidly faded.To be fair, Silverstone is perfectly adequate in her role, but the film's script goes nowhere slowly, its study of the male libido being neither enlightening (everybody knows how horny we men can be) nor all that interesting. Unappealing characters (Jennifer aside) also serve to make this film hard to endure, with wet-blanket Jack making unlikely boyfriend material for a hottie like Jennifer, Mark being a total tool, and Harry a slimy perv. Director Guy Ferland ends the film with a downer of a finale that sees one family losing a son, and another losing a father, making this not just boring but rather depressing too. "},{"Title":"I really liked it.","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Most people thought this movie sucked. I guess they just couldn't get into like I did. Let me ask you this, and answer honestly. Did this movie intrigue you? Were you anxious to know what would happen next? If you answered yes, then this movie delivered on one of its purposes and you can't say it totally sucked. I personally was fascinated by the original narration, and the depiction of carachters as seen by the world, and how, because of the filmakers, we get to see them how they really are, on the inside. All three of the main carachters were connected with their obsession with the babysitter. I was very interested on how their mere fantasies would move their actions through the movie. I was also in suspense, wanting to know how the three competing actors would face eachother during the climax of the movie. And how the repurcussions would be with their lives. Another interesting is how more and more intense their fantasies get, they evolve as they get more obsessed on the babysitter. You can feel the tension rising as the fantasies get stronger, and where they no longer decide to keep it just that. SPOILERThe ending, I have to say, is a let down. It had nothing to do with the rest of the story, while I expected there would be a big conflict to settle things, i was dissapointed. Still, not too terrible.SPOILER ENDIn general, a very intense,suspenseful, psychological thriller. I really like it. "},{"Title":"Did this film have a purpose?","Date":"5 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I don't believe so (to answer my own question). I watched this movie because I wanted to see Alicia Silverstone, who I adore. In fact, her presence is the only reason why I would ever watch the movie again (which isn't something I plan to do right away). J.T. Walsh's character had no interesting characteristic other than the fact he was a pervert. And an unlikable one at that. I give this movie 5/10 simply because I would probably do the same thing every male character did in this movie fantasize about Alicia Silverstone. "}{"Title":"Don't be Fooled!!!!","Date":"28 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Well how can I put this...? Shall I pretend I didn't invest 90 minutes of my life in the hope of seeing a less-than-scantily-clad Alicia Silverstone? Shall I claim to be interested in the acting, the music and the photography of the film? Well I don't think anyone would believe me if I did, and furthermore I think I would be branded a bigger fool if I did. This film is awful!!!!! Hundreds of people on rolling rolling credits have contributed to make a piece of celluloid that's success is based on a single assumption - that 'guys wanna see that bird from CLUELESS naked'! As one of those guys who connected the words Alicia and 'contains sex scenes' to make an afternoon's viewing, I have to warn anyone else that feels they should do the same. If AMERICAN BEAUTY had a less-successful younger brother, then this would be it. Poor acting, a dire script, and an ending which makes you wonder whether alien abduction really does exist (did I miss something??) combine to make a truly awful movie. The flashbacks are cringe-worthy, and my only sense of satisfaction was to see JT Walsh actually smile, although I bet his skies have never been as dark as this!Still, at least there was the lovely Miss Silverstone in her 18-certificate movie! But wait a minute - have I not watched the entire film to see no nudity whatsoever??? Oh wait, there was a brief flash of a waitress getting her just desserts from Mark - a cheap and cheerful way of getting that one clause which will continue to sell this movie - WARNING contains nudity! Hur-flippin'-rah! "},{"Title":"Strange....................","Date":"24 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Yes, this movie is quite out of the ordinary, but worth a look anyway.  As usual, Alicia Silverstone is in top form, this time playing an object of desire, and a feature of many fantasies to various men. Unfortunately, there is one off-putting scene where Alicia's character kisses the putrid J.T Walsh. "},{"Title":"Most people seem to miss the point of this movie, it's about men vs hormones","Date":"5 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Babysitter reminds me of one time when my daughter was 15, we were walking out to the car in a parking lot, and a young man probably 20 y/o or so drove by, swiveling his head as he passed. I pointed out that he had been looking, and my daughter said Ewww! He's old! Teenage girls think their attractiveness is like a bullet, only affecting their intended target, when in fact it's more like a hand grenade, and goes off in all directions.The movie is different from Robert Coover's short story (Google Robert Coover the babysitter, there's a PDF titled 184 ° Robert Coover), which was mainly a vehicle for an idea about how a story could take different plot lines as characters choose different pathways. It's not really better or worse, because it's apples and oranges.The Babysitter is about The Male Gaze. It's about how males of all ages react to a pretty, nubile young woman who's just trying to babysit some kids, and not completely aware of her affect on males, therefore mostly indifferent to it.Fantasies for each male, from age 10 to age 60, play out during the film, making it difficult to keep track of what's going on in reality. The screen play seems voyeuristic, as if to try to pull you into fantasizing about Silverstone yourself (if you're a male), but time and again her character shuts it down, and reveals just a regular, no-nonsense, non-sexualized person going about her business.In the end the fantasies of three of the characters become reality, and play out as they would in real life instead of a male fantasy land, so things get messy quickly as the three disrupt their own lives within moments. Two males, the youngest and the oldest, escape perplexed but unscathed.The end of the movie is a disaster scene, apparently with a single cause, but in reality the confluence of bad decisions by three men. The last line is like a punch line that sums up the entire proceedings of the evening. "},{"Title":"How NOT to make a movie","Date":"22 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Absolutely one of the WORST movies I've ever watched. Pointless is the word. Utterly pointless. The movie follows one night at the Tucker home where we find Alicia Silverstone's character having a rather uneventful night babysitting two kids Jimmy and Bitsy. The movie is about... well.... three horny and drunk men having fantasies about having sex with the babysitter. But that's all it is.... FANTASIES! DAYDREAMING! IMAGINING! If only this movie spent more time on actual events rather than imagining alone, maybe it would have had a shot at 2/10 rating. But this junk deserves -0. This movie is listed under psychological thriller on Netflix. The only thing 'The Babysitter' did was psychologically bore me and thrillingly annoy me. I want my 90 minutes back. "},{"Title":"Underneath","Date":"3 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" A suspenseful movie from the nineties is always an apparently good choice. However, it is not the case in The Babysitter. Once the film begins, we don't know which way it is going to go, considering the characters are mysterious and directing is undecided. One character to be noticed is Mark, whose actions are questionable all the while, being very similar to Kelly from 2004's The Girl Next Door. After 30 or 40 minutes, I started getting bored, since nothing much really happened, and I also couldn't care less about the story, given that the movie was all about everyone imagining banging with Jennifer all the time. In the end, the movie ended pointlessly and felting like a big waste of mine. Original story anyways. "},{"Title":"Everybody dreams at the nanny","Date":"30 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Harry & Dolly, a married couple with their three children have a nanny Jennifer. One evening when the two go to a party, she comes at their home for what will be again a ordinary day of work. Her boyfriend, Jack meets Mark, a lover that Jennifer had a relationship before. They have fun that night until he tells to give his girlfriend's a call to ask her if he can go at her workplace. How things are not going well between them, she refused saying it needs more time to figure out their relationship and where it goes, anyway she can't let him come because she must take care of children. Mark not satisfied with this answer and convinces him to go there and let him still inside. But this time Jack it's not lucky, it is rejected and Mark offered him to spy her so they can see what she does until he comes to the idea wondered if she forget the door open when it was closed in the nose. The strange thing is that in reality the door is open so that the two can easily enter the house. Meanwhile, the owners are busy getting drunk at the party and Harry thinks at the nanny has his fantasies with her and looking for any excuse to go home. Find one saying that his head hurts because of so much alcohol and have to return home in order to take a pill. Meanwhile between good guy and bad guy altercation occurs which Mark wins for a moment. Drunk husband manages to reach home with the car, hit Mark, the police arrives, nanny got into the car and the question is what were you thinking? That is, what we thought when we decided to watch this movie?Of course the best are those few smiles in this movie during the dreams. But even so to see one at every 10 minutes is not quite right.Can not say anything about this film than continue to dream and change it. "},{"Title":"A truly bizarre but awesome thriller, that's quite fascinating to watch, with a unique story and fantastic performances! *spoilers*","Date":"25 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is a truly bizarre but awesome thriller, that's quite fascinating to watch, with a unique story and fantastic performances!. All the characters are great, and it has some bizarre imaginary scenes as well, plus Alicia Silverstone is simply amazing in this!. The finale is very suspenseful and shocking, and all the characters fantasies were really quite twisted and sickening but still fascinating all the same, plus for a direct to video film this is top notch!. Nicky Katt is excellent as the asshole trouble maker as he sickened me with his actions, and some scenes really disturbed me (like the kid walking in the bathroom door to see Alicia naked in the tub, and she let him do it), and this is pretty well made and written as well, plus this should be much higher then 4.0 in my opinion. Jeremy London is also great as the lead, and I am glad I taped this on the scream channel as well, plus it Doesen't have your usual forgiveness type ending. This film will not be for everyone, and I liked the atmosphere it had in it too, plus J.T Walsh was also awesome in this. This is a truly bizarre but awesome thriller, that's quite fascinating to watch, with a unique story and fantastic performances, and I say it's a must see!. The Direction is awesome!. Guy Ferland does an awesome! job here with excellent camera work, adding some good atmosphere, and keeping the film at an engrossing pace. The Acting is excellent. Alicia Silverstone is amazing as always and is amazing here,she is incredibly gorgeous, vulnerable, extremely sexy, seductive, and also very mysterious, her character was a really good one as this is one of the most interesting roles she has played! (Silverstone Rules!!!!!!!). Jeremy London is awesome as the guy who is attracted to Alicia he was very likable, even if he did go to far at times. Nicky Katt is awesome as the asshole, he really sickened me with his actions, as I was glad he got what was coming to him at the end. J.T. Walsh is really good here, he had a bizarre but great role, his fantasies were very disturbing. Lee Garlington is decent as the wife. George Segal is rather wasted as a parent. Rest of the cast are fine. Overall a must see!. **** out of 5 "},{"Title":"Tops TRUE CRIME as the worst Alicia Silverstone movie!","Date":"31 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" At least in my opinion it does. Made before she hit big time with CLUELESS, this film was released to capitalize on her then success. She plays a pretty babysitter who is the object of pretty much every male character in this movie When her boyfriend shows up & his friend at the house she's at we are then set for what appears to be an endless succession of sexy fantasies that all evolve around her, all of which stems from the imagination of the Father of the kids she is babysitting, the Boyfriend, his Friend, & the Father's young son. All this is just one of the things that adds to this confusing mess of a movie! THE BABYSITTER is just to uninteresting & boring to be any good, there's no actual plot surrounding the movie & no surprises, it's just a series of fantasies the revolve around Silverstone's character. The film also switches back & forth between fantasies & what's really happening so much so that at times it's very hard to tell which scenes are real or which is fantasy, while Silverstone is sexy & plays the part well, she just can't save this flick & neither can the rest of the good actors who deserved better material to work from than this, even the most dedicated of Silverstone fans may have a hard time in defending this from it's bad reviewers, since even they will be confused & bored at what's happening on screen, heck even voyeurs will find this film hard to swallow, since if they are looking to see Silverstone nude, they will be greatly disappointed in that she never once gets naked in the film, the film from my understanding had plenty of nudity in it, but it was all chopped out of the script before shooting because Alicia would not accept the role if they weren't cut out (As any Alicia fan can tell you, She don't do nudity!) so the film makers instead of choosing another actress who would do the nudity, caved in to Silverstone's demands. The ending was also poorly written & flat & the party scene that the Wife & Husband are attending seems out of place in the film (Not to mention the Wife's fantasies about a Gentlemen she sees at the party) If you're an Alicia fan & have not seen this yet or if you're into erotic thrillers, skip this one, you will be greatly disappointed with it, not to mention bored, best to save you're money & see one of Alicia's other films, since they are so much better than this one! 0 stars "},{"Title":"Horrible, and Makes No Sense","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Some Lifetime made for tv movies can be quite good, this one however just stunk.  The few second preview (which made it look legitametly like the babysitter would fall for the homeowner) inticed me to stick around and watch this, however as the movie unveiled it just didnt make any sense.The movie starts out with one guy (supposedly the babysitters ex) following around her current b/f, which is actually ex friend of his.  Just this part alone is so unrealistic.  Soon enough the two concoct this cheesy plan to go and visit the babysitter.In the meantime the homeowners are away and in that plot alone there is just fantasizing going on back and forth which is so cheesy.  The father daydreaming about the babysitter in the bathtub, and the wife daydreaming about the guy who's house party they are at.  Boring and unispired.Back with the two other guys and the baysitter, the WHOLE mvie here is just basically them fantasizing back and forth -- either about the baysitter, or one of them being the victor over her, or one of them beating the hell out of the other.  Totally stupid.  There were no real erotic scenes and nothing was done even along the lines of those late night HBO B erotica movies which actually have a plot!!This movie stunk but even beyond that, it makes you scrambling to try and make sense out of everything.  Simply put -- it doesnt make sense!! "},{"Title":"A movie about the sexually frustrated&#133;","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  for the sexually frustrated. There really is no plot in this film whatsoever and I would say it is a cheap erotic film if there was any eroticism to it. This is just one stupid film. Really one to avoid. I kept hoping this would turn into a good thriller but it didn't so after an hour or so I stopped watching. This is really one to avoid. The main characters are dumb and horny (the male ones that is). No plot, no action no thrills, no scares NO GOOD.3 out of 10 "}{"Title":"FUNNY!!!!","Date":"8 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Alicia Silverstone has never seemed to be really a great actress to me, just a sex symbol teenager.So, without her, this film is STILL quite funny!The characters of Mr.Tucker and Mark are terrifically funny, with black humor and sex jokes.It's a FUN film-not to be taken seriously, but hilarious.Not believable, so just sit back and listen to the smart dialogue and wild soundtrack! "},{"Title":"A poorly written movie clearly aimed at adolescents","Date":"13 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is to be loved or hated. Loved if you are an adolescent looking for an hour of bizarre sexual fantasy with no requirement for a true plot, hated if you were looking for what could have been a good plot dealing with the danger of obsession. From the beginning, it appears that Alicia Silverstone's role in the film is to be the object of desire for a variety of male characters, from a young child to a middle aged tragic character; and therefore to be filmed as often as possible wearing as little as possible in the dream sequence type fantasy scenes. None of the actors was really given a chance of a stunning performance given the poor script and lack of plot which could have easily been condensed into a fifteen minute gap-filler for late night, low budget Television - eliminating the drawn out and tiresome first twenty minutes or so. Throughout the remainder of the film, the viewer can find it not only difficult to distinguish the fantasy scenes from the real-time scenes - but also to distinguish one scene from another as there is little variaton in the last forty minutes of the movie, which appears to be on a continuous five minute loop to the casual observer. Unfortunate to have an 18 certificate in the UK for a movie that would appeal more to the 12-15 age group. One to avoid otherwise. "},{"Title":"Teases the Viewer into Thinking the Film is Erotic","Date":"5 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Babysitter(1995) is one of the worst films that Alicia Silverstone has ever appeared on.  Her character is badly underdeveloped and not full of depth.  The so called erotic fantasies are poorly conceived and are not very sexy at all.  The Babysitter(1995) would have been a much beter and more interesting film if it was done by someone like the late Luis Bunuel, or other filmmakers...I.E., Abel Ferrara, Nicolas Roeg, or Peter Greenaway. The fantasy scenes with George Seagal are very unerotic and repulsive. J.T. Walsh gives the best performance in the entire film and his performance here would have been more suited in a flick by the late Luis Bunuel.  "},{"Title":"In A Word? Confusing","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie made absolutely no sense to me. Maybe because I'm only fourteen, but I watched it with my mom and I have to say I think you'd have to be a genius to follow along. Everyone seems to have some sort of obsession with Alicia Silverstone...sure, she's pretty, but how can at least 3 guys have such similarly perverted visions about the same girl? I mean, even the kid had a vision of her and he's, what, TEN? She's pretty but we can't over-exagerate ((sorry, I'm not great with spelling and grammar, I'm still a kid)) on it. Whoop-di-do what's so great about her? Maybe it's because I'm a girl? Well whatever it was, I personally found this movie unbecoming and confusing. "},{"Title":"The fantasy sequences are strange and not really necessary, but there's a great movie here.","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Babysitter stars the brilliant Alicia Silverstone who plays Jennifer, obviously the babysitter, who has the affections of the father of the children she's looking after and two guys she knows. Alicia Silverstone is one of the best actress' out there and she plays and suits the role very well. This is a strange movie, but still really good and if you like babysitter thriller movies or if you're just a fan Alicia Silverstone, then I'm sure you'll enjoy this movie.  "},{"Title":"Edge of your seat suspense","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I was glued to the edge of my seat, never knowing whats going to happen next. An erotic thriller.Chilling suspense and horror.This is what alcohol does to teens.I was scared to see what happened to the babysitter with the boys and the dad. It's a sick world we live in these days. "},{"Title":"Eye Candy","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Eye candy, it's an important thing in life. Alicia Silverstone is the only reason to see this movie. Alicia Silverstone could make church sermon bearable. She is such a hotty. And as a bonus she gets naked in this. The plot is about two teenagers who are obsessed with her and try to meet up with her while she babysits two children who's father is also obsessed with her. They all have various erotic visions of her (as do most men). The acting (with the exception of Mrs Silverstone) sucks. The directing could be better. A few extra nudy scenes would have moved this movie along quicker.  "}]