[{"Title":"Best Bad Date Scene","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I am a single dad and I enjoyed this movie a lot! I laughed and I cried. I loved the bad date scene with Randy Quaid and Jeanne Garafalo. She played the bad date to perfection. The movie was not perfect but it was a commendable attempt to bring some humor to a subject which seems far from humurous when you are going thru it. Very entertaining! "},{"Title":"Single fathers and their hang ups.","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A look at modern day divorced American single fathers and their attachment to McDonalds! It has some sincere and funny moments that make it worth the while but as always, when Hollywood gets to close to the truth, it turns to a TV soap style of resolution. "},{"Title":"For those starting over, this film is a touching and truthful inspiration for things to come","Date":"7 August 2007","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Dave (Matthew Modine), Vic (Randy Quaid), and Donny (Paul Reiser) are a trio of friends and divorced fathers. Dave has a beautiful new young girlfriend named Kim (Maria Pitillo) but still sports a wandering eye. Vic, whose soul was definitely bruised by his ex-wife, is just agreeing to go on a blind date with Lucille (Janeane Garofalo). As for Donny (Paul Reiser), he is also having severe trouble moving on, holding his former wife in high esteem, even though she has remarried. All of the men have children that they love deeply and who fall into their custody at the appropriate times. Yet, meeting their former mates at such places as McDonald's, in order to exchange their children, still gives everyone a pang of hurt. Will Dave learn to commit himself to one woman? Will Vic let go of his resentments and take a chance on a new love? And will Donny realize his ex is never coming back and give himself permission to love someone else, even if it is Dave's former wife (Amy Brenneman)? As for the kids, will they be able to weather their parents divorce, too? This is a truthful and touching film about divorce in modern America. Yes, it is very common now, making life complicated, especially when children are involved. But, even so, it is not the end of the world, as all of the men, women, and kids discover in this movie. All of the actors are wonderful, with Quaid, especially, giving an extremely humorous and thoughtful performance. Special mention should also go to Garofalo for her drop-dead-funny, neurotic-yet-lovable portrayal of a divorcée. Then, too, the California setting is lovely, the costumes very well chosen, and the production values quite high. Most of all, the script is funny, original, and brutally honest. If you have been down the divorce highway, you should definitely make time for this film. It will help heal wounds with its laughs and sensitivity. But, even if you just want to find a film that will let you yuck it up, this one is a terrific choice. "},{"Title":"Well done","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a very enjoyable little movie and after seven years and numerous viewings, I still watch it every time it's on TV. Of all the movies I've seen dealing with divorce and broken homes this one comes the closest to portraying what it was like (at least for me and my family). Best of all, it's not a depressing downer of a movie. It's fun to watch and emotional at the same time. The most effective part of the film for me was the relationship between Paul Reiser and his daughter since it reminded me so much of my dad and sister. All of the actors are extremely well chosen (minus the very bland Mathew Modine). It handles the topic of divorce responsibly and doesn't load on the melodramatics. For anyone who's gone through a divorce and wondered Now what?, or a child of divorce... you should get a lot of this movie. I really, really liked it. "},{"Title":"Touching, in a humerous way. . .","Date":"13 September 2001","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  WARNING This review contains a couple of PLOT POINTS andSCENE SPOILERS; if you do not wish to find out too much aboutthis movie, then please DO NOT READ.This film is often billed as a comedy on television, but in fact this isnot entirely accurate. People often associate comedy with filmssuch as Airplane!, or Hot Shots, but anybody looking for thiskind of humour is going to be a little disappointed. Bye Bye Lovesimply tries to bring the subject of divorce, with all the benefits andthe costs it can have, in a comical fashion, admittedly, but it doesnot let the production be ruled by laughs and gags. In fact, it isdoused with only a sprinkling of laughs, particularly in the middleof the film itself.The film itself is also incredibly effective at relaying the message itbrings, and leaves the audience with some doubt as to whetherdivorce is the answer to an unhappy relationship - but it alsoenforces that it is not the end of the world.When the jokes do come in, to relieve some of the tension in thefilm, they are usually quick and simple, and all the cast deliver withskill. The real star of the show, however, has got to be RandyQuaid (Vic), who plays a spectacular performance and brings outthe best comical content in his scenes, particularly those involvinghis wife's porch, his date (played by Janeane Garofalo, a good foilagainst Quaid) and his reactions to Dr. David Townsend (playedsuperbly by Rob Reiner).In all, the film tackles some important issues about married lifeand the problems that can happen, without ever taking itself tooseriously, and in the end, it's hard to say how the film might haveimproved itself. "},{"Title":"Divorce American style","Date":"10 April 2006","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Divorce is a pervasive fact of life in our society. The three men at the center of the story, Vic, Donny, and Dave, have recently been divorced. It appears that all three have gone through friendly separations, as in all three cases, children are involved. Since the kids are under the mother's custody, the fathers have the right to get them for week-end visits.All three friends seem somewhat adjusted to their new realities. Vic, looks as the most grounded man of the trio. Donny, is the saddest case, and Dave, who is a wishy washy man, is trying his hand at a new relationship with a much younger woman. The wives, on the other hand, have moved on with their lives. The three women appear to have no problems with their new status.The exchange of children occurs in a suburban McDonald's, a neutral territory. This is a type of brand placing that Hollywood films love to show. Fast food, alas, stands for an allegory of what's missing with most marriages these days when most families don't even share a meal together. There is also the talk radio personality who is in the air taking calls from divorced people and advising them what to do, yet, he doesn't even have a clue about what he is talking about; after all, he's been married five times! The acting is adequate. The best thing in the film is Randy Quaid, who as Vic, makes the most of his role. Janeane Garofalo appears as a date from hell, in a funny sequence. The ensemble cast does fine work under Sam Weisman's direction.The sad fact of this story is that all these children, we see in the film, will probably go through divorces in their own lives. "},{"Title":"Not just about divorce, but about fathers.....","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Call me easily amused, but I think this is a movie more likely to be accepted by those who can relate, having had similar experiences - both hilarious and heartwrenching.  The three main characters are divorced dads, each with their own trials in dealing with the ex-spouses and their teenage and young children.  My favorite is Randy Quaid, although he is the most bitter.  The scene with Our House cracks me up everytime I see it; Go Red Sox and of course, The Date.  Matthew Modine portrays the ever insatiable Playboy; he, his kids and his Ex, Amy Brenneman, all have some great lines.  And last, the longingly in denial and reluctantly divorced Dad, Paul Reiser, aka the BIRTH FATHER.*SEMI-SPOILER* In response to a comment posted by Sherlock regarding the Mickey D's worker and the old guy sub-plot, the old guy is a father with his grown children far away and the young guy has no father in his life; basically, they are both lonely and forgotten people who find their mutual needs help each other remedy their unhappy situations.Definitely a feel good movie, see it for Randy Quaid, if nothing else. "},{"Title":"Very likeable picture of modern American life","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  My love for this movie is a bit of a mystery.  It seems Bye, Bye, Love would appeal most to divorced parents looking for some redemption for their messed up lives.  But I'm a single guy in his thirties who grew up in a very healthy family.But every time I catch this movie replaying on one of the movie channels, I just can't switch away.  I guess it appeals to me because it does many things well.  Bye, Bye, Love has strong, well-developed, interesting characters.  It has comedy, romance, and tension.  It makes good use of music and includes some great familiar tunes.  The acting is superb.  And it paints a pretty realistic picture of what it's like to be a divorced parent in modern America (I assume) while being quite entertaining.I'm surprised this movie hasn't gotten more attention as it remains one of my all-time favorites. "},{"Title":"Underrated THIS MOVIE IS A GEM!","Date":"19 September 2004","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I loved this movie from the start and I still love it.Fifty times no make that 100 times beter than Parenthood it had good actors that matched their character's personalities to me.I'm a huge fan of Mathew Modine but the two best actors were Randy Quaid and Janeane Garofalo.Both were adorable and funny.All the kids were good too and kudos to Paul Rieser for a heartwarming performance with screen daughter Eliza Dushku.One bad thing-the pairing of the best friend with his buddy's ex-wife.Bull! They didn't have to go there.I bought this movie and I can watch it everyday.Funny,sweet, and I'm sure all families of divorce wish it was as easy as the movie made it.9/10 stars  "},{"Title":"Very funny!  Wonderfully cast","Date":"19 January 1999","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Good chemistry between the characters - whether it's friends, parents, ex's, or lovers.  The timing was right on, and everyone delivered.Great casting from the Radio Psychologist (Rob Reiner) down to the last little kid.Randy Quaid is one actor that usually needs tempering in his roles.....but not this one.  He managed to be outrageous, testosterone laden, and rough-cut without sacrificing the depth of his character.This was also the first movie in which I'd seen Janeane Garofalo (aka The Date), and I immediately added her to my list of favorites.  I've since rented several other of her films, all of which I've enjoyed - especially The Truth About Cats & Dogs.Also keep an eye out for Mae Whitman (Michele) - She needs a little more seasoning, but someday this kid is going to have Oscar-winner in front of her name.A thoroughly enjoyable film.   "}{"Title":"A Poignant, Touching, Believable Look at Dads After Divorce","Date":"1 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This film really explores the roles that children and fathers are placed in after divorce. It is far more than a comedy as it explores some of the situations and feelings that are present in the divorced family that includes kids. This is a truly likable, wonderfully enjoyable, fun movie with enough comedy to make it laughable, but enough perspective to make a someone examine the roles of a family before and after divorce. This movie is a true keeper for our family. We watch it about 3 times a year. Highly recommended in my opinion. "},{"Title":"Brats R Us","Date":"30 June 2006","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Janeane Garafalo and Randy Quaid are the only bright spots in this flick. Ed Flanders (in his last role) has some good moments, but is basically wasted.It was hard to feel much empathy for the victimized children of divorce here. Ben, the screen son of Matthew Modine's character, needed his butt torn off and his mouth nailed shut in my opinion. And Emma, the screen daughter of Paul Reiser's character, was nothing but a spoiled, miserable brat. She could have used a trip on the clue bus to the land of reality.Randy Quaid's kids were actually kind of cute. Maybe because Randy Quaid's character was more believable as a father than those of either of his co-stars. "},{"Title":"I Love this movie","Date":"2 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is one of the nicest, funniest and touching movies of it's kind out there. I believe that it's down rated by the pseudo literary snobs. Baloney. If you've ever lost a marriage and had to deal with the kids in a caring way, you'll appreciate this movie. Jenine Garafolo and Randy Quaid are hilarious in their restaurant vignette and I think that the acting is really fine all the way around. This may not be a major Oscar winner but I like this movie personally better than most of them. The background music is tasteful and adds to the emotional effect of the movie overall. Actually this is a very funny movie about a very sad subject and it's honestly one of my absolute favorites. "},{"Title":"I love this movie...","Date":"8 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I think this movie is highly underrated. Being a kid from parents who divorced (and thankfully, my dad only came around once after he abandoned us), I can totally relate to these characters.Paul Reiser is wonderful. Randy Quaid is outrageous! Matthew Modine is the quintessential guy...And the kids are utterly typical and crazy!And of course, the radio doc? Insane. This movie must be watched again and again to be appreciated--and those who say it's a crappy movie have not seen it.If you want a boring movie, this is NOT it. This movie is by turns funny, sad, outrageous and will make you laugh hysterically, cry, and pull your hair in frustration or say ha! I'd do that too!The insults between the exes fly unabated, but they're classy insults. And while you would totally pull a stunt like the several shown in the movie, be grateful if you have a civil divorce. As this movie demonstrates--divorce can totally stink. And so can dating after your divorce.P.S. Jeanine Garofalo is outrageously funny! "},{"Title":"Funny and touching look at a man's life after divorce","Date":"30 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Watched this on cable and found it a good relevant comedy with laugh out loud moments and some touching parts. This is a realistic and witty look at divorce from the man's point of view. The dialog isn't dated at all even though it's about 16 years old and it's better and more meaningful than some of the silly comedies they make nowadays. Good screenplay that avoids clichés. Even though there are quite a few characters ex wives, girlfriends and kids it isn't confusing.The cast is likable Paul Reiser, Matthew Modine and Randy Quaid. Randy shows a lot more range than he usually gets to show. A young Eliza Dushku plays one of the daughters. Amy Brenneman plays one of the ex wives. Watch out for a brief shot of Jack Black.Overall a pleasant feel good comedy about divorce. Watch it. "},{"Title":"Film about why never to data a parent.","Date":"5 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Not a horrible film, but no real moments of genius either. Sickeningly domestic, saccharine Hollywood puppet-show that might be entertaining to goody-two-shooed fluoride-poisoned Homonis-Domesticus Outraged Fathers and Mad-Mothers but, to the rest of us, will reek of suburban-ticket-sale-pandering. Still, the script was decent, and the acting was fairly solid. It was better than most movies of it's kind and I must shamefully confess to having laughed a few times. Overall, it was a good movie with a good script and good actors; it's just a shame it was centered about such pedestrian and urbane material. "},{"Title":"Watchable, But a Film That Does Not Know What It Wants to Convey.","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Recently divorced pals Matthew Modine, Randy Quaid and Paul Reiser tackle new relationships, their ex-wives and their disgruntled children in this strange little film that is never sure where it wants to go with the audience. The cast is very likeable. Rob Reiner does some excellent work as a radio talk show therapist who is despised by the key players. However comedy comes and goes and the drama feels forced on too many occasions. On a sad note, excellent character-actor Ed Flanders committed suicide shortly after completing this film. 2.5 out of 5 stars.   "},{"Title":"Stay Single","Date":"5 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is a good example that all men should stay single in America. Its about three single dads (Matthew Modine, Randy Quaid and Paul Reiser)who meet every weekend at the local Mcdonalds to pick up their kids from their ex-wives. They are shown going through the hardships of being single dads and dealing with their former wives spending the child support money on things other than the kids. The ex-wives are correctly shown I feel of how women in America have the upper hand in divorce, as them being first, kids second ex husbands last. Aside from that this film sucks. The three men in this movie are nothing but a bunch of wimps who need to grow up but instead sit through the whole film complaining about who their ex-wives may be seeing, dealing with their own incapacity with seeing new women and how to talk to their children. I know this film comes off as a light hearted comedy but it got no laughs from me. The one thing it does show correctly is what marriage has become in America these days. How selfish grown-ups can be and that kids in marriage are nothing more than part of the deal...Ya know we have a house, two cars, cat and dog and now we need kids. If it does not work than oh well cause its all about me after all.The date scene in the restaurant between Quiad and Janeane Garofalo is so poorly written as to be embarrassing. She was the date from hell that could not make up her mind about what she wanted to order and by the time the scene ended I was so exhausted I wanted to scream. Janeane Garofalo character served no useful purpose except to irritate the audience. She was poorly mis-cast.Stay single guys***This has to be the longest product placement(Mcdonalds)in film history "},{"Title":"A Little Gem","Date":"26 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Y'know when I first saw this I thought it was very TV movie-ish and pretty stupid. It has grown on me since then, now I may tune in and stay awhile when it comes across the screen. Film focuses on three very different male friends, each coping with divorce and juggling kids and romance as best they can. There's a ton of then- and future-notables out there -- among others, we get treated to an absolutely stunning Brenneman and future looker Dushku as Reiser's troubled teen. Ed Flanders in his last film is superb as a oldtimer who just enjoys hanging a little with the kids. The closing credit wrap-up has been overdone but it plays very well in the finale of this one. Can't explain the lousy IMDb ratings, this movie deserves better. "},{"Title":"3 Future Buffy Cast Members","Date":"30 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I loved this movie originally, its just so cute to watch the fathers and their kids relate with one another. Then the film was made even better when I realized that 3 of the actresses would later be on the WB/UPN's Buffy the Vampire Slayer.(My favorite show of all times.) Eliza Dushku (who plays Paul Reiser's daughter) starred in the recurring role of Faith, Amber Benson (Who plays Denis Quaid's daughter) would join the cast as Willow's girlfriend Tara, and Lindsay Crouse, who plays Vic (Dennis Quaid's) ex-wife in the film, would then guest stars as the psychotic Prof. Maggie Walsh. But even without that fact it was still a really great film. There are also a few other future stars in this as well. "}{"Title":"all around good movie","Date":"21 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Best line of the movie is when Susan (Amy Brenneman) says to Dave (after he comments that his new girlfriend is good with the kids,) if it meant that you might get laid, you'd let Hannibal Lector be their nanny... The whole movie has great lines like this one! Hilarious! I love this movie. Saw it when it came out as a college student and ten years later it still cracks me up. I think that although there is a lot of hard truth in this movie regarding divorce in America, it is a work of comedy genius. Also neat to see how some of these actors/actresses have evolved over time. It also has a great soundtrack. Love Ben Taylor's version of I will, better than The Beatles! "},{"Title":"Where is the DVD??","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  My VHS copy of this movie is wearing out; until the DVD come out - I just keep watching the VHS copy. It is (among other things) a wonderfully touching slice of American life, an over-the-top farce, a heart-warming tale of three very different fathers, each finding a new way to deal with the pain of divorce.  "},{"Title":"Harmless entertainment, disappointing family matters. Rate 5/10.","Date":"13 November 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm SHOCKED at the number of comments claiming this to be a great, best, touching, poignant, believable movie or the like. If you treasure shallow, emotionally cheapened drama laced in mostly banal humor then this may be in your treasure chest.Granted, 'Bye, Bye, Love' is harmless entertainment with several anecdotal family or relationship moments strewn throughout. But let's keep it in perspective, folks. It's not garbage, but this is no 'Parenthood' or 'Author, Author' either.This movie may hit home only if you view life from the perspective of a pampered, 14 year-old middle to upper-middle class teenager who learned about life from TV. It is chock full of one-dimensional caricatures of married life, divorce and parenthood. It rarely mimics real life unless you've lived your adult life at the maturity level of teenage relationships and priorities.Grab your wife or girlfriend, even the kids (it's pretty safe), maybe some snacks and sit together for a couple hours of diluted, Reader's Digest-style family entertainment. Expect nothing more.I must agree with others that the scenes involving the characters of Janeane Garofalo and Randy Quaid are priceless, standout comedy treasures, but wasted in a film about adults acting like children acting like adults. "},{"Title":"Janeane Garofalo saves the film.","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Saves it from a whopping '1' rating, that is.  She was the only thing interesting in this film with her great performance as a psycho-date.  The rest of the film was shoddily put together with pointless dramatic scenes, (the girl imprisons herself in a tree house and everyone comes running? Please...) and obvious comedic inserts to break whatever tension that somehow amounted.  Overall it's a crummy film...airlines shouldn't even view it for risk of starting a complimentary peanut-throwing riot. "},{"Title":"Terrible Movie","Date":"24 May 2002","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The first 15 minutes are set in Macdonalds.it feels like an extended advert for them.The plot goes nowhere slowly and as for this being a comedy,its just not funny.i did not laugh once. i had the misfortune of seeing this at the cinema.Pathetic.1 out of 10 "},{"Title":"One giant McDonald's commercial.","Date":"3 June 2003","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I have seen this movie twice now and I have to post my opinions as to why this movie is crap in terms of writing, directing, and editing... possibly even casting.Bye Bye, Love stars the TV star, Paul Reiser, as a guy who divorced his wife for reasons we never really know... and he is still in love with her. Matthew Modine plays an always smiling (never acting) charmer.  Randy Quaid plays another odd character that never is well developed because the movie has too many plots and characters to really focus on anyone in particular.One thing that sickens me about this movie is how much blatant advertising is done within it.  Off the top of my head, I remember Kettle Chips, Minute Maid, and last and certainly not least, McDonald's.  I bet MickeyD's patroned the entire movie, to show that divorcees should meet there every weekend to trade their kids, seeing as the divorce rate in America is over 50% of all married couples.  What a demographic to hit for!  I never heard of people meeting at fast food restaurants to exchange their kids for the weekend before this.Next thing, Eliza Dushku hitting on the guy who works at McDonalds?  How realistic is that?  Yes, I realize all of you Buffy fans that she is Faith but it doesn't make up for the fact that her character was undeveloped and weak.  For example, when she gets drunk and screams at her father and says all of that typical i broke up the marriage crap... where did any of that come from?   We are given no clues as to why she's angry except for Reiser's that age between 13 and 36 quote.The chronology in this movie was hard to follow, too, because most of the scenes played independent to the others, while going back and forth between the 40 stories going on.  The music montages added to the story, making it even worse than it already was.  The lovely wrap-up at the end really made the story feel like it ended at a very awkward place.  The climax was very... semi-climatic.  Quaid's character is a rollercoaster of uncertainty. He's not a dynamic character... he's a schiz.  So is his lovely date, Garafolo.This movie doesn't give insight as to what men are going through after a divorce... it gives what women want men to be like.  I would only recommend this movie to people who want to be brainwashed by Dr. Laura-esque psychology and the mesmers at McDonalds. "},{"Title":"An interesting Buffy the Vampire Slayer tie - in","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a really sweet and touching film. The other comments say it better, really. On an interesting Buffy the Vampire Slayer tie-in note, this film features three former(current) stars of the series. Amber Benson played Tara the witch in Seasons 4-6, 7?, Lindsay Crouse played Professor Maggie Walsh in Season 4, and Eliza Dushku played Faith the Vampire Slayer in Season 3.  "},{"Title":"OK but at times it seems tired","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This kind of film has been done so many times before that it becomes kind of predictable. The film follows the lives of three recently divorced friends (Matthew Modine, Randy Quaid, Paul Reiser) and how they're coping with the aftermath of divorce. A great cast and a few amusing moments but it's not highly recommended as many earlier films have done more justice and originality to this kind of story. "},{"Title":"Great interaction among the cast filled with small truths about life.","Date":"4 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a great film if you are interested in films with personal interaction that is believable (for the most part).  There is some Hollywood Glam there, but it is all enjoyable to watch.  It also looks at a wide variety of interesting social issues although divorce with kids is the focus.  I liked it. "},{"Title":"To Get On With Life","Date":"15 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  	A sometimes humorous, but more often poignant look at the trials and tribulations of divorce and trying to get on with life is covered in `Bye Bye, Love,' directed by Sam Weisman.  Told primarily through the perspective of three divorced fathers, it offers an overview of what has increasingly become a significant segment of family life in America.  Donny (Paul Reiser) hasn't yet accepted that it's over between himself and his ex, Claire (Jayne Brook); he still feels too much for her.  He tells his friends he'll start dating again when it feels right (It's been three years).  At the same time, he's having trouble communicating with his fourteen -year-old daughter, Emma (Eliza Dushku), who, according to Donny, is in `That difficult age group  twelve through thirty-five.'  Dave (Matthew Modine) has a fairly amicable relationship with his ex, Susan (Amy Brenneman), but still shies away from commitment, and has a string of girlfriends.  At one point his son, Ben (Ross Malinger), asks if they could wear name tags to make it easier on him.  Vic (Randy Quaid) has the hardest time of all; he and his ex, Grace (Lindsay Crouse) are barely civil to one another, which, of course, makes handling the situation with the kids all the more difficult. 	The film does a nice job of addressing the various dilemmas faced by all involved, including the children, without ever delving too deeply or getting so serious as to take the story in an entirely different direction; from the Friday transfers of the kids from mom to dad, to the attempts at weekend `bonding' with their children by the fathers who desperately want to stay close, to the needs of all the adults to find the love and relationships necessary to move on with their lives.  There's some memorable moments, as well, here; one is a thoughtful sequence played against Mary Chapin Carpenter's wistful song `Stones In The Road,' and another is an especially hilarious scene in which Vic has a blind date with a young divorcee named Lucille (Janeane Garofalo), which starts off badly and goes downhill from there.  Their dinner together at an Italian restaurant is priceless; pure classic comedy.  Another nice touch to the overall story is using a young man, Max (Johnny Whitworth), who works at McDonald's and is training Walter (Ed Flanders), a seventy-year-old working on the `adopt a geezer' program, as a kind of before and after contrast to where Donny, Vic and Dave are currently at in their own lives.  Max is just entering the arena of romance; he has an eye for Vic's daughter, Meg (Amber Benson), while Walter is a widower who lost his wife after forty-eight years of marriage, and still pines for her.  Interjected throughout is another nice bit, as radio talk-show-host-marriage-counselor Dr. David Townsend (Rob Reiner) of station KGAB dispenses advice even as he prepares for his own fifth wedding. 	The supporting cast includes Maria Pitillo (Kim), Dana Wheeler-Nicholson (Heidi) and Pamela Dillman (Sheila).  The performances are good all around, most notably Reiser, who conveys his angst and frustration particularly well, and Quaid, whose bitterness and caustic sarcasm are almost tangible.  The real standout here, however, is Garofalo, who takes hold of a lesser role and absolutely shines, creating a singularly unforgettabe character in Lucille.  This may not be a masterpiece, but it's a good movie, and one you're going to want to see more than once (or even twice).  Anyone who has ever been married, divorced, a parent, a kid or any of the above, will find something here with which to identify.  `Bye Bye, Love,' is sometimes funny, sometimes bittersweet and touching, and one you're going to remember and, I think,  appreciate.   I rate this one 8/10. "}{"Title":"a looooong Mcdonald´s commercial why?","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Nothing closer than anarchy than an easy comedy (remember the great comedians- Chaplin, Marx brothers, Keaton). Nothing closer than dumb comedy than a normal one. It seems that for this film (Bye bye...) McDonald´s gave the money and ideas- everything was orange color... Although, there´s some funny situations in Bye, bye..., the entire film is gross and dizzy; there´s not much reality in plot   and characters. Just a deep male self piety, sick and fool. Men are victims again, but are not valiant enough to love each other, the reason are children. "},{"Title":"One reason to watch this movie","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Jaenene is the only reason to watch this film.  If you rent it fast forward to her part and then turn it off because it is not a good movie.  There is one other funny bit with Paul Reiser but other than the movie is terrible. Not suprisingly it has Mathew Modine in it who for someone reason keeps turning up in movies.  I figured Ethan Hawke would suck up all his roles since the two are almost indistinguishable or however you spell that word. So if you are huge fan of Janeane like I am then watch for her small but very funny role and then keep watching at your own risk just remember that you were warned. "},{"Title":"A feel-good movie, if you've never seen anything better","Date":"12 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" To begin, I'll admit that I bought the movie because Eliza Dushku was in it. Plus, I find Paul Reiser funny for some reason. When I started playing this movie, a weird feeling hit me, and it never left me after that point. It was a feeling of dread, perhaps. Bye Bye Love is trite. It's hard for me to call a movie trite because I find myself being one-note on occasion. The movie was a long string of inconsequential one-liners punctuated by stressed emotional moments. I really liked Janeane Garofalo here, as a crazy blind date for Randy Quaid, who was the most genuine of the three father-actors(Matthew Modine, Reiser, and Quaid). The B-plot of the movie seemed to shift focus between Rob Reiner's lousy radio psychiatrist and Ed Flanders as an old man trying to find use for himself as a McDonald's employee(in his last role, wasted on this movie). Reiner provides the psych evaluation of divorcées, and the segue into the weekend ritual of swapping kids(at the corporate sponsor of the movie, McDonald's, whose ominous flags and arches loom in the background of too many of the exterior shots), and gets his comeuppance at the end of the movie, at the hands of Quaid. This seems like a good John Hughes movie gone terribly, terribly wrong, complete with silly montages and the expository scene at the end where everybody has a revelation and warm feelings. I think someone was trying to package this movie as a The Big Chill 'the next step,' with the requisite soundtrack(including much Everly Brothers, hence the name of the movie). One thing that creeped me out about this movie was the presence of both Amber Benson and Lindsay Crouse, and Dushku, who all worked together again in the fourth season of Buffy the Vampire Slayer. Danny Masterson was also present, as the stereotypical stoner/drunk kid, and in blink-and-you'll-miss-them roles were Jack Black as a party DJ and Steven Root as a disgruntled neighbor. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Realistic!","Date":"21 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I really enjoyed Bye Bye Love. While many films have been done to death about divorced families and the trials and tribulations of their ex-spouses and kids, Bye Bye Love creates a very realistic chemistry of bickering couples, couples who still love each other, and single dads who have trouble dealing with divorce in multi-dimensional ways.It's all there The day planning, the little league games, the dates, where everything that can go wrong often does go wrong. Mix all of this with the loud kids and spouses! Many people can deal with these issues in their own dysfunctional families. Watch for the best scene in the movie, where one of the Dad's has a Date from Hell at an Italian restaurant! Some critics and reviews have negatively discussed how the film personifies McDonald's as an ad endorsement for the fast-food chain. But, I didn't see this at all. Many people of divorced families will often meet at a fast food place for lunch or dinner to talk about their issues with their spouses and kids. Another element to the realism of the movie.The only minor downfall is that the ending is a little too pat and preachy with the Just love your kids routine. But there are many strong subplots and situations that anyone going through a divorce can understand. I recommend this movie. You might find something in it if you are going through a divorce, especially with kids involved, that you can relate to it in your own life. I always made a point to watch Bye Bye Love whenever it is on. Now I can watch the movie anytime I want. I own the DVD, and learn something new from the movie after each subsequent viewing. "},{"Title":"10/10","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I rate this movie 10/10.  I finished watching another film and this was just starting.  I ended up staying awake till 3am to see the conclusion.  I think the movie is really well thought out and gives a true insight on the lives of divorced parents.  "},{"Title":"A great film","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is great film about the lives of three divorced men and their ex-wives and kids.Eliza Dushku (Faith in Buffy the Vampire Slayer) who is younger here and plays Emma the daughter of Donny in one of her best movies. Recommended for Eliza Dushku and Buffy fans. 8/10 "},{"Title":"A guilty pleasure","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Okay, I know I shouldn't like this movie. Modine acted avg at best. Reiser seems to only be able to play one kind of role. It's so sappy I thought I was sitting under a tree while viewing. And why is the sub plot about the Mickey D's worker and the old guy even here? I guess to just make it longer. And really the only good thing about the movie is, the date part. But even with all of this against it, I don't care. I still enjoyed it. Not because it's great cinema. Not because it's even good cinema. Just because it made me laugh and feel good. 6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"At last, A movie for the whole family!!","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Bye Bye Love follow the story of 3 male friends, all being divorced with kid(s). Reiser, Quaid and Modine are all absolutely amazing in what is one of the best, down to earth movies of all time.The lives of all characters, being either parents, children and everyone else is followed strongly throughout the whole film.I strongly recommend this move to those who need a laugh or a cry as it is that sort of movie.A solid 9/10 "},{"Title":"Not a guilty pleasure, a great movie","Date":"2 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Why does everyone who liked this movie feel the need to apologize? Before they say they enjoyed it, they have to leave a disclaimer saying that they realize it isn't a great movie, or that it's silly or stupid...but they liked it anyway. I love this movie. I'm not going to say it was dumb or silly, or corny and sappy, or anything else. The movie is great because it makes me laugh every time I watch it. It's heartwarming, it's surprisingly true to life and suburbian divorce, and it's entertaining. Not every great movie has to be The Godfather or Gone with the Wind. Some great movies are not epics. They are simply entertaining. "},{"Title":"Loved this movie!","Date":"23 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Ok, I love sappy silly movies and this is one of the best! I have watched it over and over and really have laughed and cried every time. Great performances and I think an accurate picture of real life. Randy Quaid and Janeine Garoflo are fantastic. I've been on dates like that one! )I gave it a ten!  "}{"Title":"Divorced with children from the male point of view!","Date":"6 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A great soundtrack augments a wonderfully warm and funny story of three divorced fathers and their relationships with the children, ex-wives, and single women in their lives. Credibility abounds with the cast here as no one player stands out but all support one another very well.Paul Reiser, Mathew Modine, and Randy Quaid are the father's here. How they handle life after first love is both poignant and insightful. The use of radio host, divorce specialist Dr. David Townsend(played by Rob Reiner), is a wonderful backdrop to the story.Most stories of this nature have looked at the issues from the woman's view but in our increasing desire to explore both sides experiences we have seen this issue, the divorced parent, from the male viewpoint. A good example, and a movie I'd recommend, is One Fine Day. It stars George Clooney and Michelle Pheifer and explores the issue from both the male and female sides. But OFD is a story of 2 divorced parents finding love again. Bye Bye Love shows the various ups and downs these father's go through in moving on with their lives. Performances by the supporting cast is terrific, especially Amy Brennerman and Lindsey Crouse.All in all a good feel good movie which is on cable regularly but is worth the rental to see once or the purchase if you enjoy this type movie at your disposal. "},{"Title":"Although Sometimes Boring or Mushy, This Irregular Comedy Entertains","Date":"9 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Dave Goldman (Matthew Modine), Vic Damico (Randy Quaid) and Donny Carlson (Paul Reiser) are best friends and divorced of Susan (Amy Brenneman), Grace (Lindsay Crouse) and Claire (Jayne Brook) respectively. They have sons and daughters, who live with their ex-wives and share part of the time with them. This dramatic comedy intends to show, mostly in a comic way, their relationship with new mates and their former families, especially with sons and daughters. Parts of this movie are very funny and great when, for example, Donny says to Dave that his teenager daughter is in the age when girls become problematic and complicated and Dave asks `-Which age is that?' Donny responds `-From twelve to thirty-five (years old)', I really laughed a lot! But other parts do not work well and are boring, such as the dinner between Vic and Lucille (Janeane Garofalo) or mushy, such as the final dialog between Donny and his teenager daughter. Probably the fast food chain Mc Donald is sponsoring this movie, since its advertisement is a shame! Although forgettable, this film entertains. My vote is six.  "},{"Title":"A film that tries to convey what it really feels like to pick up the kids - and does it well.","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Few films these days accurately convey the emotions and difficulties of divorce, such as it is in Hollywood that no film director likes to touch it with a barge-pole.This film does it well, albeit a little inflated at some points this is a sound and undemanding portrait of life after divorce, represented in a way that makes it easy to familiarise yourself with the leading roles.The only point it suffers in my opinion is when - in order to bring a climax to the end of the film - there is a moment between Donny, played by Paul Reiser (aka Burke in Aliens) and his daughter Emma, played by Eliza Dushku (aka Faith in Buffy The Vampire Slayer.) Although it does the job, I personally hate such devices to bring climaxes to films.But alas, this is not Shakespearean tragedy, but more of a modern-day misfortune which is aware of its position and is more then good at the latter.  "},{"Title":"A fair film at best.  A bit forced.","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It wasn't a bad film, and some parts of the premise were treated with sensitivity and honesty.  Much was quite contrived, and sometimes the acting showed up far too much (as being forced, or strained)  Some of the sub-plot lines were thin and seemed almost as if they were padding just to lengthen the movie...(much like writing term papers!) "},{"Title":"Wonderful, witty and entertaining","Date":"15 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Randy Quaid at his comedic best, not to mention emotional roller coaster performances by Matthew Modine, Paul Riser, Janene Garafalo and Eliza Dushku. Quickly ranking in my top ten comedies. In addition, the heartfelt performances of the actors who portray the good, bad and ugly of divorce and all it brings to the proverbial table.  This movie should be mandatory for anyone considering divorce.Also, Eliza Dushku's first very good performance should be noted as she is to become one of Hollywood's leading ladies in the near future. "}]