[{"Title":"An underrated movie altogether...","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"50 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  When this movie was first released, I refused to line up and watch it. I thought it was another of those simplistic and popular - love the teacher, fight delinquency - movies. In fact I refused to be taken for granted by clever Hollywood people who, usually, produce very sweet and educative movies. Well, a couple of years later, while I was refurbishing my own movie collection I stumbled on a special LaserDisc sale and bought this one as well (just to see what all the fuzz about it was really about). First of all, I was amazed to know that it is based on a true story, just like Lean on me and what caught my attention was that the teacher in question didn't belong to that profession she was a discharged and unemployed USMC officer. I expected a war between her and the pupils she would drill. What I received in return was an education on how one can be prejudiced, in more than just one way... Having served in the Swiss Army and having been a teacher myself, I could really empathize with the Character played by Michelle Pfeiffer. My first teaching approach, unlike hers, was disastrous to say the least... The entire movie deals with LITTLE, REAL, EVERYDAY problems and not with the big issues of life and this is probably why this movie was summarily discarded as being second rate. But when we consider how children consider and perceive our world nowadays, it's exactly what they expect us, the adults, to do as well. That's to say, take our time to explain to them the everyday happenings in their little worlds. Why mom and dad went their separate ways, why do they have to cope with homework they cannot understand and so on and so forth. This movie is a teaching lesson for teachers, not a moralizing or preachy one. It shows us how it should be done, nothing more. In Drama one says less is more, why shouldn't it apply to life? We always want to set standards and a higher example to the students we are supposed to tutor, but what about our commitment to give them what they really want lend them an ear when they talk, a heart when they feel sorrow, and sometimes, when required, a firm authority to look up to? Many colleagues I have met have forgotten what teaching is all about. It's not a simple profession to earn your life, it's much more than this, it's a mission, a passion, a drive, a call, just like the one an actor or a director have. In this instance in my own opinion, Dangerous Minds has amply achieved its goals. For the detractors of this tiny movie I would suggest to take a better and closer look, they might still learn something... But please, take your time and concentrate on it. This is really not a Popcorn and Beer movie.  "},{"Title":"As Good As It Gets","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"41 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  For anyone who's lived the life portrayed in this movie are the only one's who truly know it's essence and value. For those who call it 'questionable' apparently haven't lived life outside of a plastic bubble. Dangerous Minds is an excellent adaption in its own and holds many memories for me and for others as well. I can't imagine someone not taking to this film. and being infinitely inspired. People tend to forget where movies originate from, they mainly based on real events and real life itself and what life is really about. I'll never forget what this movie has taught me and what it won't ever let me forget. Dangerous Minds is about love, hate, fear, and strength. Dangerous Minds is about life. "},{"Title":"very inspirational movie","Date":"28 November 2002","Score":"37 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  One thing I've learned through th years is that use your own opinion when it comes to movies. Just because someone says it a bad movie doesn't quite mean you wont like it. Dangerous Minds is an excellent movie. I've read reviews on this movie and saying that this was just another Hollywood movie. Their wrong! I watched this movie and I was really impressed by it. For me it was truly inspirational. Michelle Pfeiffer was excellent in this movie. There are some who says that Michelle isn't  tough enough to play the character, but sorry to burst their bubble but it's called acting. You can be the weakest person on earth but if your truly a good actor then you can make anyone believe your a tough guy or girl. The music was awesome.  The cast was great. The Plot and script was exceptional. I recommend this movie to anyone. You wont be disappointed. I sure wasn't.  "},{"Title":"A simple and basic statement to its viewers.","Date":"30 October 2002","Score":"29 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" As a critic, I have no basis for saying a movie is aesthetically sound or not. However, I believe there is a quality to this movie that deserves to be acknowledged. The fact that so many people are willing to trash the film based on the fact that an Inspirational Teacher Movie just is not real. Says a great deal for the need of a few teachers who fit that bill. Yes there are a few things that are old hat about the movie but you have to appreciate the fact that this movie has an honesty in its simple and basic statement to its viewers.If you like the choices or not they have to be made. Maybe if a few more people, not just teachers, realized that we don't all live in Emerald City, of Wizard of Oz fame. Some of us actually survive each and everyday. Only to do it all over again in the morning. "},{"Title":"I Really Liked this Movie","Date":"29 December 2006","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" This movie gives us a little hope that there are people in the world prepared to go to extreme lengths for the good of others. This is a heart warming story, and although at times it's quite tragic, it shows a growing bond between a group of socially discarded students and a very special teacher.Michelle Pfeiffer's performance is simply wonderful, she captures the passion and warmth of her character perfectly. The rest of the cast are a little mixed, but there is plenty of strength in their performances to cover any cracks.Overall this is a highly emotional and educational journey, that is enjoyable to watch.8/10 If you enjoyed this watch 187, its even better. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Inspirational","Date":"27 September 2007","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I had no interest in seeing this movie when it came out in 1995. It just seemed to be another movie about angry inner city youth struggling to graduate from high school. So running into this tonight, I finally decided go give in and give it a watch.My final assessment is that although this movie bears comparison to a long list of great-teacher-inspires-kids movies, I now embrace the movie because Michelle's portrayal brings it over the top, also, I was positively impressed with Renoly Santiago's honest and sensitive reading.It is easy, as I am ample testament, to dismiss movies that appear to be clones, but since this was reportedly based on a true story of an ex-military woman, it either demonstrates that the story does not emerge from the minds of banal-thinking writers, but from fact, or that the stories like these repeat themselves daily in the fabric of America and need to be told under as many guises as there are stories. WHY? Because all of us need inspiration and hope in our lives. "},{"Title":"Great movie!...","Date":"4 November 2003","Score":"16 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I'm not about to call this movie a feel-good movie or a coming-of-age-tale. What am I gonna do is call it what it really is - a great movie.Michelle Pfeiffer is at her best. She is absolutely fantastic in this movie. The actors in the classroom hold their own against her as well.Basically, the plot is as follows White teacher enters a mostly-minority alternative (read group of kids that act out) classroom and commands respect. In turn, she changes their lives as they change hers. It's basically the story of Raul, Emilio, and Carrie, and how they cope with life as a result of Ms. Johnson.The movie has some really good lines (my favorite You asked me how I was gonna save your life. This is it. This moment.) and really good drama. Sure, some of it is hokey-it-only-happens-in-the-movies, but the majority of it is good. I'm a guy, and I shed a few tears.Overall 9/10. "},{"Title":"Well-intentioned but floundering drama (spoilers)","Date":"22 August 2004","Score":"17 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Based on the non-fiction book My Posse Don't Do Homework (written by Louanne Johnson), Dangerous Minds tries but fails to cut to the heart of the social issues it discusses.  The main problem is that the script depends too much on dramatic convention, and too often chooses to take the easy way out rather than directly confronting the reality of it's premise and characters.Louanne Johnson (Michelle Pfeiffer) is an ex-marine who begins a teaching career in a tough NYC inner-city school.  But she finds her pupils, from the inner-city projects, to be a rebellious handful in need of guidance as much as education.  She then decides to use her own methods to win them round to learning, against the wishes of her bureaucratic superiors...From Dead Poets Society to Sister Act 2 Back in the Habit this sort of plot has been rehashed a thousand times before, and Dangerous Minds is not brave enough to really attempt anything new.  The music (especially the Coolio hit Gangsta's Paradise) has more grit and originality than the script.  Nearly all the stock characters from this sort of film are present in one form or another the gifted but reluctant star pupil, the tragically flawed pupil, the resistant, reactionary parents, the list goes on.  The ending, as expected, is the typical happy-ending copout.The acting, however, isn't too bad and just about saves the film from becoming a complete bore.  Pfeiffer struggles with the central role, failing to give the part significant dimension or depth.  But she's well supported by George Dzundza as a fellow teacher, Courtney B.Vance in an underplayed turn as the by-the-book principal, as well as Renoly Santiago and Wade Dominguez as two self-destructive students.A missed opportunity as a movie, Dangerous Minds was later turned into a short-lived TV series with Annie Potts taking over from Pfeiffer as Louanne Johnson. "},{"Title":"Goes next to To Sir, with Love, Stand & Deliver, etc.","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"19 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I really liked this movie very much, even if its nothing new.  I think every generation should have a movie in this genre - there have been so many, going back to Goodbye, Mr. Chips, that they must mean something to each new viewer.  This is pretty realistic, too, although some of it is a little sugarcoated, it helps to remember that it is a movie.  Pfeiffer is very good as the teacher struggling with several different things all at once.  I must also mention that I appreciate the fact that there was no obligatory love interest for Michelle's character.  I read somewhere that Andy Garcia was edited out of this movie, and as much as I like him, I was glad she didn't have a Supportive Boyfriend Who Understands.   "},{"Title":"very nice","Date":"12 February 2007","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Well..for me it was very interesting to watch a movie like because it shows how a bright person can change a ''dangerous mind'' and make them active rather than rejecting them and drive them to the streets selling drugs and the likes...the ideas is this movie were very awesome and hitting on the core of the American society in the early 90's,so that it criticizes the whole daily life in an inner city as a prototype...family,relationships,fear,fights,power,those are some of the crucial themes the movie .Actually, the teacher did a good job with the collaboration and curiosity of those students,because they feel that there is something special about the new teacher which they lacked with the previous one and also because she gave them more freedom and behaved toward them as friends not students,,,) well done teacher!!! "}{"Title":"Great Remake of To Sir With Love (28 December 2003)","Date":"12 February 2008","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Louanne Johnson (Michelle Pfeiffer) is an ex-marine hired as a teacher in a high-school, where the students are Afro-Americans, Latinos and poor persons. She has recently separated from her husband and her friend and also teacher in this school Hall Griffith (George Dzundza) got this temporary job for her. After a terrible reception from the students, she tries unconventional methods of teaching, using karate, Bob Dylan lyrics, friendship and attention, and gets the trust of the students on her.I like this movie a lot and probably today I have watched it for the fifth or sixth time! It is a remake of the wonderful To Sir With Love, updated for the end of the Twentieth Century instead of England, USA; instead of the Afro-British engineer Mark Thackeray performed by Sidney Poitier in a Caucasian classroom, the blonde ex-marine Michelle Pfeiffer in a Afro-American and Latino classroom; instead of Lulu and the final dance, a rap (music and dance); instead of a museum, an amusement park. The soundtrack is marvelous, but the introduction of the movie in black and white with Coolio's Gangsta In Paradise is overwhelming and fits perfectly to this magnificent movie. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) Mentes Perigosas (Dangerous Minds) "},{"Title":"Different","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"15 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Many comments insist that the plot of this movie is overdone. While the Inspirational Teacher outline has been used many times before, Dangerous Minds approaches it from an entirely different angle. Michelle Pfieffer's character's connection with the students is strong and a pleasure to watch. The issues covered in the film are shown in a straight and realistic way, and are not glazed over by Hollywood magic. Maybe it isn't my favorite movie, but I recommend you give it a chance. Worth seeing.***1/2 out of ***** "},{"Title":"A Little Uplifting","Date":"12 June 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Based upon school teacher Lou-Anne Johnson's novel, My Posse Don't Do Homework, this is the story of her attempt to get a group of students from disadvantaged backgrounds to learn, and more importantly be eager to learn, about English and poetry.Director John N. Smith had little chance of blowing us away, and was indeed up against it following in the footsteps of Stand and Deliver and Lean On Me. He rarely manages to inspire us with Ronald Bass' screenplay, though there are times when the audience will be moved and possibly uplifted; a little anyway.Support cast is reasonable, but really this is a vehicle for the talents of lead Michelle Pfeiffer. One of the strongest female actors of today, she is not at her best here. Occasionally we see flashes of her gifted self, but alas not to the degree we know she is capable.Wendy and Lisa supply the music in a movie that appears void of a conclusion.Monday, June 9, 1997 - Video "},{"Title":"Gorgeous, tough cookie actors & actresses, some unknown.","Date":"24 January 2005","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Michelle Pfeiffer shows how adaptable she is, by playing teacher to problem teenagers Louann Johnson. But I was most impressed by the performance of Marisela Gonzales, who plays the gorgeous Angela. An entirely unknown actress, I don't believe Marisela has had any acting work since Dangerous Minds, which is surprising, as she excelled in her role. I don't get bored of watching this film over and over again, its something a little bit different for America. The casting crew chose kids of different cultures, and gave them a chance. They weren't to be disappointed. I admit I (nearly!) cried when Emilio was killed; this film is both exciting and touching. "},{"Title":"good movie, but NOT at all a true representation of the school","Date":"17 April 1999","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I went to the school, Carlmont High School in Belmont, CA in the late 80's/early 90's which is when the teacher Louann Johnson(?) whatever her name is taught there.  Having spoken with some people who had her as a teacher she rather exaggerated her 'saving angel' effect, at least on her regular classes & one of the people she features as a chapter in her book My Posse Don't Do Homework.  (not to mention as an Eng. teacher, she didn't write very well.) Anyway, the book further misrepresents the school.  Yes, it is a  fairly middle to upper middle class area where less economically disadvantaged kids get bused in from EPA (east Palo Alto)- yes, unfortunately as in most of our society it tends to be split on racial lines.  However, a. our school looks like concrete bunkers, (I heard they filmed Burlingame High).  b. We've never had metal detectors for guns & such.  Our school is not some inner-city LA school like it was portrayed in the film. Granted, I experienced the high school from a relatively privelleged side of it, I don't know what that special program that the film concentrates on was like.  And for a lot of those kids, their life in EPA was comparable to the stories you hear of inner-city/East LA kinda life. It's like any movie where you know the real story. Those who don't know the school/area would probably like it since they don't see the errors. As a fictional story about a fictional school, I liked it.Although it *did* get sort of get close to that stereotype of brave white person coming to rescue the poor Latino/African-American kids single-handedly. "},{"Title":"It is a film that shows the importance of teachers and teaching.","Date":"10 December 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" A good movie! In my opinion, very undervalued. I really liked the character that Michelle Pfeiffer created.It is a film that shows the importance of teachers and teaching. The impact that a good teacher can create in their students and the alert to the need for more talented teachers and committed to building citizens and righteous humans. The school principal and Carla are probably allegorical characters of narcissistic society we live in. That is, they tolerate the others but they don't live with them.Sometimes, there are families who don't support their children and teachers often become the ones who can make a difference. The ones who can recognize their existence, be light, be the Mr. Tambourine Man. Regardless of the intervention of teachers / family, the kids will find a way, a path ... whether it thriving or declining. So ultimately, it is up to the teachers to help them make the choice of going on that bus instead of staying on the outside.As for Coolio song gangsta's paradise I must say that, for me, music is just music, we can fit it in different genres, accompanied by several lyrics. I don'r really appreciate the original Stevie Wonder but I like Coolio's version. It's just a matter of taste ) "},{"Title":"Based On A True Story This is Challenging And Through-Provoking","Date":"9 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Dangerous Minds has often been accused by critics as being too preachy, whilst failing to highlight sensitive and often difficult personal issues and situations the pupils at school were facing themselves. Yet this is a film which is anything but that. This wasn't just about a teacher trying to achieve and maintain trust from her so called 'troublesome' students but it attempted to delve into the efforts Lou-Anne Johnston makes to achieve what's best for the teenagers and to get the best out of them as possible. Dangerous Minds is not a film of which tells teachers how they ought to do their jobs but rather it emphasises the types of issues the students and Lou-Anne embark on in their lives.When Lou-Anne first enters the classroom she is met by a chorus of boos, chaos and anarchy by the students- they don't like her and they all think that she isn't any different from the other teachers in the school. They are often rude, in-yer-face and disobedient. Eventually though, she wins them over by being compassionate, fair and caring but at the same time instilling tough discipline and tough love and warranting respect without having to patronise or judge those students, of which they return the favour. She also shares with them the personal hurdles, obstacles and difficulties she had to overcome and face, thus she shows herself up to be somebody the kids could relate to, because she has been through exactly the same types of struggles they have gone through and are going through themselves.Personally, Michelle Phieffer gives a good performance in her role as Lou-Anne and whilst it isn't up there with her very best, she is very convincing throughout. Considering how much this film was trashed by so many people, the truth nevertheless is that there are certain efforts which strike a chord with viewers and touching them in ways that inspire thought, understanding and empathy on their part, and Dangerous Minds is one of them. It also helped considering this is based on a true story, and so a lot of what takes place within and outside of the academic environment, rings a lot of truth. The so-called teacher as hero(ine)concept of the movie is approached in an almost realistic, dark and serious matter but not in a way that puts viewers off.All in all, this is a very good movie that is not afraid of portraying the gritty and tough suburban outlooks of inner city school life, as seen through the eyes of the pupils themselves and Louanne Johnston herself. Dangerous Minds is at times challenging and through-provoking and whereas it can often be a tad preachy, it still packs a mean punch.Recommended. "},{"Title":"Dangerous Minds inspires teenagers to educate themselves.","Date":"1 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Some movies are for laughter, some are for thrills, while Dangerous Minds is for life lessons. This movie takes the viewers into the ghetto neighborhood of African-American, Latino and the lower class. It takes place at a high school where an ex-marine Louanne Johnson (Michelle Pfeiffer) becomes a teacher from an invitation by a friend/teacher that teaches at that school. After a terrible reception, from the students she tries unconventional methods of teaching, using Bob Dylan lyrics, friendship and attention and gets the trust of her students. After handing out an assignment she rewarded the top three students with the most effort and best mark to a dinner with her to an up scaled restaurant. Louanne started realizing how education was too much for some students to handle because their in a life struggle. It forced some students dropped out of school with so much frustration in their lives because of trying to study education and keep up with life. But others saw it as an inspiration and determination to keep on studying and educating themselves because of Louanne's teaching. I am a huge fan of Michelle Pfeiffer's acting and think she put a terrific performance like the usual. But this time it was the theme message of the movie that really interested me. I got to experiment the life of how teenagers are struggling in life and trying to take education seriously. However, the movie shows that determination, inspiration and dignity motivate us to achieve goals in school and also in life. The movie's soundtrack called Gangster's Paradise by Coolie copied from the original song by Stevie Wonder Past Time Paradise fits in very well with the movie. The lyrics are meaningful explaining that education is an option rather then a priority in a struggle life. In my opinion, this movie deserves 8 out of 10. The movie reveals that life is about love, hate, fear, and strength and that determination and dignity passes us all in life. "},{"Title":"One of the best films I've ever seen","Date":"10 March 2001","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This is definitely my favorite film of 1995, and one of my all-time favorites.  Michelle Pfieffer gives an oscar-worthy performance.  The writing, directing, and acting all get an A+.  We all wish we had a teacher like Louanne Johnson (Pfieffer).  She portrays a teacher who actually gives a da** about the kids that she tries to help and send in the right direction.  She definitely is their light, and their inspiration for caring about their future. Imagine if we all had a teacher like Louanne.  The whole world would be so much better than what it is today, since teachers do influence what people are what they are.  If you're really interested in this movie, you'll cry over what happens in it (I'm not going to spoil it for you, though).  In my book, this is a classic.  We will never see a movie like this again.10/10 "},{"Title":"convincing drama & wonderful story","Date":"30 March 2003","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Last year I saw this film at our English class which was written by LouAnne Johnson and directed by John Smith.In the film, Michelle Pfeiffer starred LouAnne Joihnson, a teacher who starts working in a high school where students don't listen to their teachers and only do the things that they like. So LouAnne has to break the rules and by doing so, she changes their lives. For all this students start to love her.Dangerous Mind is an excellent and common film which doesn't need special effects to catch our attention, because only with the characters, the simple clothes they wear and the wonderful story, as well as a nice sound track, we can get hooked.I recommend people to see this film because it has things that can happen in our lives and the drama the film has is very convincing.Gisella Villarreal, Cutral Co, Neuquen, Argentina. "}{"Title":"Another Inspirational Teacher Movie","Date":"8 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" An inexperienced teacher, Louanne Johnson (Michelle Pfieffer) is assigned to a class of kids who come from rough backgrounds. They seem hopelessly unmanageable and the school management isn't of much help either. But by the end of the movie, the teacher earns the respect of her students through unconventional teaching methods and by showing genuine concern for them. Of course there are few disappointments but it is a happy ending on the whole.The entire movie is a cliché done to death by Hollywood. We have seen this story in To Sir, With Love, Freedom Writers and countless other movies. I understand that these are biographies of people whose tales are worth telling. But, none of these films are any different from the others. If you've seen one, you've seen them all. Michelle Pfieffer is good as the inspirational pedagogue, but she does not bring anything new to the table. The students are a bunch of clichés we come to expect in these movies; there is the big bully, the bullied, the bright one, the joker and girls in bright-red lipstick, all in need of guidance. Not a bad movie as such, but there is nothing new in it. Watch it if you haven't seen any movie using this formula. Give it a skip otherwise. "},{"Title":"Memorable and down memory lane","Date":"1 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" One reviewer said unless you lived the life, and others said what they thought, and yet it got a total of 6 among 72 voices.I'm giving it an 8 and I believe it reverberated as true and truth with one exception teachers often love their students and give them candy, but the likelihood of a teacher overcoming the system is nil; hence the story portrays truth among students and teacher, but totally fails to address how a teacher who cares, and cares as much as this one did, overcame the bureaucracy and went on teaching.The performances were great across the board and a movie worth seeing more than once. "},{"Title":"RIP Wade Dominguez, 13 year anniversary 8-26-98- 8-26-11","Date":"26 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" wow! i have to say this was a great movie, awesome characters and storyline. the saddest part of it was when Emilio Ramirez was killed, no one was expecting that. What made it even more sad was that the actor who portrayed him, Wade Dominguez died in real life on August 26 1998. i couldn't believe it at first when i read about this, he was so charismatic, handsome, charming and great actor. Although he is gone he will never be forgotten and will always be loved for what a wonderful person he was! Today makes it 13 years since he passed, its just so hard to believe its that long already but hopefully his movies leaves us a legacy! LOVE YOU WADE!!! RIP May 10.1966-August 26, 1998 XOXO "},{"Title":"Not very effective","Date":"22 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I've enjoyed dramas about teachers who help their students make a difference, such as 'Lean on Me', 'Freedom Writers', and 'One Eight Seven', but this is hardly one of them. The teacher doesn't come close to being remotely strict, and the students don't seem particularly indifferent. The movie isn't so much about ethics as it is about getting inside the heads of these people. There's nothing at stake here. The amusement park and restaurant scenes aren't earned, and aren't necessary. Movies like this don't have to be conventional, but they should mean something. The parts of the film that do work, are when Pfeiffer's character is interacting with the other adults. The relationship between her and the students didn't work for me.**1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Dangerous Minds","Date":"7 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" The title suggested something like a crime/gangster film to me, and of course the song in the opening sequence is a bit of an odd choice, but it was still a good film. Based on a true story, the story sees ex-marine Louanne Johnson (Michelle Pfeiffer) hired as a teacher at Parkmont High School, for a class of street-wise teens, involved with gangs and drugs. The first day Louanne gives up pretty quickly, but by the second she is determined to get through and try to teach them English, i.e. poetry, but she is using very unconventional methods to do so. Even though she is questioned by the head and stuff, it does seem to be working, and the students are beginning to trust and respect her, and get on with the work. It is only when a student is shot and killed that this ends, and overwhelmed with guilt, Louanne wants to quit her job, and the students are insisting she stays, but in the end, she still left. Also starring George Dzundza as Hal Griffith, Courtney B. Vance as George Grandey, Robin Bartlett as Carla Nichols, Bruklin Harris as Callie Roberts, Renoly Santiago as Raul Sanchero, Wade Dominguez as Emilio Ramirez, Beatrice Winde as Mary Benton and Lorraine Toussaint as Irene Roberts. I think one of the main reasons I knew about this film, besides the performance Pfeiffer, was it featured the song Gangsta's Paradise by Coolio, so I guess there is a little relevance, but the title isn't very obvious, I guess I'm glad I watched it. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"Tried and true","Date":"28 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I don't care if this type of movie has been done a million times I understand it is from a real life experience. It showcases an exceptional teacher doing the MOST difficult task - actually teaching our youth. What makes it even more interesting is that the young students are just short of being thrown away by the very people who excepted the responsibility of guiding them. I would be happy to watch one a day if they were all based on real teachers doing their job enthusiastically and when necessary beating the powers that be back with a stick! It should warm the hearts of parents to know that there really are teachers like that out there. Not to mention serving as a wake up call to current teachers, who have forgotten why they trained for this profession, to get back in the game.I'd say, tried and true, it was tried and it is so true! "},{"Title":"Get ready for some cheese.....","Date":"17 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" This film is corny. If the definition of the phrase 'corny' ever needed to be visually explained or proved, then this movie should be used and showcased, as the front runner of all things 'corny'. From the overly dominant soundtrack, to the exaggerated stereotypes, this cheesy 'dangerous high school meets inspirational teacher' flick can be more than cringe worthy at times.The acting was generally poor, the dialogue was abysmal, the script was flawed and somewhat unacceptable, and the characters were over the top and unrealistic.The whole production was one big cliché, and whilst I can respect that this picture was, loosely, based on a true story, the overall presentation was way too generic. The producers and director chose to play it safe with this one, using all the standard ingredients, straight from the recipe book.The soundtrack was one big overkill. Music should be carefully placed into the mix, to enhance the visual action, and strengthen the emotions. This was not the case here. At times, it almost felt as if the visual aspect came secondary to the music, almost like a fully blown musical. Overly dramatic music was placed in very early scenes and it just didn't fit.The first half of the movie was absolutely diabolic. I was tempted to switch it off, but was stopped by my strict motto, which is that you have no right to review a film that you have not seen in full. Fortunately, the movie did get better, eventually.After getting over the initial shock, of being almost sickened by the overly dramatised fairytale/soap opera approach, the plot started to thicken and I found myself slightly more engrossed and actually began warming to some of the characters - To enable this, I had to accept the movie for what for it was, and stop picking at it.When this feature managed to 'get it right', it provided some touching moments for the viewer. Occasionally, suitable backing music would drop in the right places, with good timing, hence enhancement of the scene.Surprisingly, by what I'd class as some kind of freak of nature, the movie actually managed to, slightly, win me over.As the credits rolled, I decided that I had mildly enjoyed the second half of the film, but my grievances were still strong, and the flaws were unforgivable, in my opinion.I'll give this a generous score of 5/10. "},{"Title":"excellent movie","Date":"31 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" i thought that this was an excellent movie. i really loved it. i could watch the movie a few times. of course, i love any inspirational teachers movies and it's unfortunate/probably not very realistic to have such teacher who can change a group of troubled kids' lives. there are also some things that you can learn from this movie and apply to anything in real life. you may not like the choices, but you still have the choice and you can change your own life. there are certain situations where you truly have no control over, but you can't possibly be a victim in everything.the soundtrack is also very good. "},{"Title":"Yeah, unrealistic, but I still enjoyed it","Date":"19 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I'm studying to become a teacher at my college, I have learned so much so far. Student teaching was one of the best things I ever did in my life because I got to learn even more and it was more visual and personal. A few things for people who saw this film and don't know what I'm talking about when I say unrealistic, number one rule of teaching is that you do not become that personal with students, such as inviting them to stay in your house because you feel that they are in danger. Michelle would have been fired on the spot for several things she did in the film.But still, I really liked Dangerous Minds. It really touched my heart, because I felt for Michelle's character. How hard it is to want to get into a student's life, but you can't because otherwise, you have stepped out of line. She was above the system and was truly a good person who wanted to just help her students. I loved it's message of how a person can either choose to stay down or hold their head high. I would recommend this movie, it's a tear jerker, but a decent flick and much better than today's movies.7/10 "},{"Title":"Good story idea, but....","Date":"11 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" this was miscast; Michelle Pfeiffer a bit too mainstream for this type of story, and trying too hard to be cool. (Also- she is an ex-marine?; please!) Overall though, a good story. The segment with Raoul, and when she tries to interest the class in Dylan Thomas, is pretty good. The soundtrack is very good, and the visuals realistic.For what it is, it at least addresses some problems we have (which are probably now even worse- given the state we are in in the US right now).Bruklin Harris as Callie is worth mention. A talented student who drops out of school to have her child, transferred because the school deems it necessary. While Pfeiffer was great in White Oleander, this film was too out of her scope; they may have used someone like Jennifer Jason Leigh or an edgier, innovative actress, who wouldn't seem to be pandering so much. Overall the message is good, though, so this is worth seeing. A better, more poignant story you may like is Straight Out of Brooklyn written and directed by Matty Rich. 8/10 "}{"Title":"Powerful and meaningful","Date":"24 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" This movie carried a powerful message of hope and Michelle's performance made the movie even better. This has to be one of my favorite Michelle Pfeiffer movies of all time! The movie made me want to get active with underprivileged kids at the time when I first saw it. And since then, I have been more involved in helping out those less fortunate and one of my inspirations is this movie. I can remember that the concepts of endurance and honor despite danger to self, are what make the difference. Also the song Gangsta's Paradise by Coolio was featured in the movie and reflects some profound ideas about the insanity of killing each other. Anyway, thats my two cents, but you should see the movie if you haven't. "},{"Title":"A must see","Date":"21 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" This is a movie that I've seen maybe like 5 times.. Each time I felt the same way I felt the very first time I've seen it. It tells a lot about how to make a difference in people's lives, and how to think outside the box to become an effective teacher.The movie is based on LouAnne Johnson's true story, which is originally a book titled My Posse Don't Do Homework, written by herself. I also visited her personal web page which includes advices and ideas for fellow teachers.Being a teacher myself, I learned a lot from this movie. I strongly recommend it to anyone who is a substitute, part-time, or full-time teacher in the United States. "},{"Title":"Inspiring for teachers-to-be","Date":"23 October 1998","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I've always had a desire to make a great difference in the world, and I've chosen teaching as my career.  I'm planning on teaching English in high school, as a matter of fact, and at one point I wanted to teach in the inner city.  So, this movie really hit home.  It may be a little far fetched, but it was based on a true story, and it is really inspiring for those that feel that making a difference in one person's life is worth the world. "},{"Title":"The Unknown","Date":"25 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" This movie to me showed America at work. An inner city school that all the students think is unknown to the rest of the world. They say you don't understand, where I come from) making the rest of America seem like the perfect place. It shows what actually happens in the big city schools. Drugs, sex, violence, and pure racism. But what is not understood in that movie, WHY IS A U.S. MARINE driving around in a VOLVO for, and with the extensive training required by the marines, why was she so scared in the school, and on the roller-coaster. This movie was rather touching with pity for those children because they made it that way. "},{"Title":"movie","Date":"13 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" this move is great Michelle Pfeiffer is amazing in this film rating by me 10/10 really puts the perspective in it i think it is really good the plot of this film is a ex marine teacher Louanne Johnson (Michelle Pfeiffer) that gets a job at a city high school as a teacher but little does she know that the kids she is teaching are the baddest and the meanest of the school. And she has to do things her own way to get there attention it is a great film. my favourite quote is from the film You asked me how I was gonna save your life. This is it. This moment.) thanks Jordan "},{"Title":"This film is about a white teacher who goes to teach in a black dominated school and ends up learning about a lot of life's lessons in which the kids are being taught.","Date":"5 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I personally enjoyed this film to its highest degrees. It was a very deep, interesting and personal film. It relates to sociological events and delves deeper into the squaller that these students have to deal with growing up. Its the type of film that you have your eyes glued to the screen on. This type of film will be an eye opener to most people in society, as it shows the hurt and the effects certain things have on the students. It opens your eyes to poverty, equal rights, and how family can be torn apart and how friends that you really care about can be lost in an instant and when it does your life comes crashing down. Its honestly a brilliant film and well worth watching. And after watching it you will probably feel the same way as me. "},{"Title":"A Great Movie","Date":"20 October 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" This brilliant and under rated work of art does not get near the credit that it deserves. There is absolutely no reason at all that someone would not like this movie. The acting is great, the direction is great, and it is filmed from one of the best scripts ever written. It is too bad that more people don't look past the negative remarks made about this movie and check it out anyway. I sure am glad that I did. The film is about a woman named LouAnne Johnson, who gets a new job teaching at an alternative school. When she gets there, she sees that she has agreed to teach a classroom full of hoodlums. At first she dreads the thought of this, but after awhile she begins to grow onto them. But it is not smart to grow on a classroom of kids that live the way that these kids do.I just can not understand why so many people don't like this movie. People call it UNORIGINAL. I have never seen another movie with this plot before. People say that the acting was terrible, but this movie has some of the most realistic acting that I have ever seen. A must see, ignore all the bad reviews, check it out. "},{"Title":"It's perfect","Date":"3 October 2004","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  It is really incredible movie. i cried when i watch it. i can express my opinion only saying these words if you are good man, share your goodness with others and you will see the world will be better. I had never seen such a great movie like this. it could be the best movie about people who wants to help instead who wants to get help. i think that always it is better to give either to get, so i love this movie. you never know when you will need a help, so try to help to others and may be they help you too, when you will need it. so i suggest you to watch this movie and to learn some from simple teacher. it is not a just movie it is our life. try to be a man, not an animal, don't be afraid of you feelings.  "},{"Title":"white savior teacher","Date":"8 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" LouAnne Johnson (Michelle Pfeiffer) is a marine getting a divorce from her abusive husband. Her friend Hal Griffith (George Dzundza) gets her a job at his high school. She's shocked to find her class full of problem kids bused in from the poor part of the city. Principal Grandey is uncaring and insists on people knock on his door. Emilio Ramírez is the most problematic student. Callie Roberts is the smart one. LouAnne tries to help Raúl Sanchero as well as her other students. She uses karate, Bob Dylan, rewards and poetry to get to her kids.This is another one of those cliché white savior teacher genre. I don't have any complaints about Pfeiffer or any of the kids' acting. I really like Renoly Santiago and Bruklin Harris. The main problem is the simplistic ideas being presented. The story isn't the most compelling. I am glad that LouAnne doesn't fall in love with another teacher. Her friendship with Hal is quite refreshing. It's too bad that the movie trots out all the old standards without adding anything new. "},{"Title":"Perfect example of a true leader","Date":"23 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" The movie might be simplistic at first sight it's a woman who was a marine and now she decided to teach kids. Little did she knew those kids were trouble makers, but she finds a way to cope with them, and that's a whole movie in a nutshell.But there's more than meets the eye. I know exactly what leader is, and this movie is one of the best examples of great leaders. She tries to convince these kids that it's important to study and succeeds. That would be the main objective, but she does more than that, she engages their problems and tries to solve them. She stands up to them in front of authority and tries to understand them. She takes her own money to pay everyone to go on a funfair, she trusted her own money with that Mexican kid, she tries to save a kids life (which most of the teachers would've let it slip, by simply not listening, in fact they did just that, and because of that the kid was shot). In other words she puts these kids as her main priority, even higher than herself. And that is the description of perfect leader. When she first came into class these kids were like a separate sticks, she tied them up and made them strong. The ending shows that very clearly when these kids acted out all together as one to make her stay in that school (which they wouldn't have done for any other teacher). What these kids desperately needed was a good leader.It's sad how low the score of this movie is. The acting was great, even today's movies has more acting flaws and fans let it easily slip. The soundtrack was well suited, camera work was good. In my opinion this movie is underrated. It definitely deserves higher score than 6.4. I guess most of us finds it cheesy? I don't know, the reason behind the score. "}{"Title":"Simple-minded","Date":"26 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" There are three types of movies that I am really growing weary of and they are (in descending order) The Cop Buddy Movie, The Slasher Movie (complete with iconic killer) and last but least The Inspirational Teacher Movie.This last genre irritates me most because at least the other two genres are made under the impression that it is nothing but entertainment. The Inspirational Teacher Movie appalls me because by it's very definition it has a noble agenda while at the same time telling and retelling the same story from countless other movies while disguising it's intentions with the message that it is 'based on a true story'. It's even worse when it contains a hard working performance by a good actress.'Dangerous Minds' comes with the 'true story' tag but looks, to me, like pure fantasy. Michelle Pfieffer plays LouAnne Johnson an ex-marine who gets a teaching job at The School From Hell, one of those inner-city prison schools where every student is a drug dealing malcontent. I mean no offense while making that statement but to my mind this is the kind of school that you really only find in the movies The standard first-day-of-class scene has her walking into a room full of troubled African-American and Hispanic students who huff at the idea of having a white woman teaching their class. But a one day and a few playful Karate kicks later she has curried their favor.She uses whatever methods are possible to get these kids to learn even going so far as to offer then meal prizes and candy bars to get them to read. Soon she is trying to get them to find a connection between Bob Dylan and Dylan Thomas. I never made the connection but the kids did and never really let the audience in on what it was that they had learned.The kids are the usual sort for this type of movie troubled, gang-related and totally out of step with everything until they begin to learn about Bob Dylan *shrug*. The kids are so standard for The Inspirational Teacher Movie that I sort of started to count down to when one of the girls would end up pregnant.Is there anything to salvage from 'Dangerous Minds'? Yes. Pfieffer who is a wonderful actress in the right roles gives the movie more then it deserves but is forced to settle on dialogue that is of no help. I kept wishing that the kicks that she delivers to get the student's attention would have been in her dialogue. "},{"Title":"Not a bad movie, but...","Date":"12 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" OK, if you have not seen this movie, and you like the genre, you'll like this movie. Pretty realistic inner-city kids, dark and nearly out of control school, pretty teacher.Careful - my sort of spoiler - This is To Sir With Love in modern America.But, it is good, so go ahead and watch it. The dynamics are well done, and the restaurant scene is worth watching if only for the look on the waiters face. Of course, it is rather formulamatic - how could it not be? There are good points, even if you are not an inner-city kid with a limited future and a hard life.We all could take the point that we are not victims, rather, we have the choice to do whatever it is we do. And we ARE choosing to do what we do, whether or not we do it consciously. "},{"Title":"A good movie ... but the end made me mad","Date":"14 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" A fantastic movie, a bit clichéd for today's times but quite breakthrough in 1995. Well acted, well written, funny at times, serious at other times. Altogether well balanced.Except the end. I mean, seriously ... what happened at the end??? I know that she left for her reasons but it is never actually clear what her reasons are. Is she leaving because she's upset at Emilio's death? Is she upset at the 'system' and it's lack of flexibility? Is she bored with helping these kids?? I don't actually know! The ending seems way too sudden, as if the producers ran out of money and had to finish the film by the end of the day. The movie took the perfect amount of time getting itself introduced. The pace was good, until Emilio's death. I don't know ... the ending left me thinking Well, why is she so special? She hasn't actually DONE anything except bribe these kids with candy bars and roller-coaster rides! Overall the message is good, and the storyline is fine. The movie is shot nicely and it works well enough for me. It was entertaining. But it left me wondering exactly why she even bothered trying to educate these kids in the first place if she was so willing to just leave them just at a time when they were starting to appreciate her message! "},{"Title":"Soap Opera With Students From The Ghetto","Date":"28 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Plot A teacher gets a job in a certain high school and hopelessly tries to help a class full of poor students do something with their lives, while they try to survive the streets they were born onto.You'll love Dangerous Minds if You don't ask too much out of a movie like this and of course if you like Michelle Pfeiffer&#x85; it's a movie about a teacher that struggles to teach students that come from broken homes and that are more streetwise than she can handle. You might cry with the lives of the kids and you might get angry with the indifference of the teachers but don't expect too much. While not a fan of Michelle I gotta agree that see does a good job in here although her character is a bit TOO sensitive for an ex-marine.You'll hate Dangerous Minds if You want realism or if you hate soap operas. That's right&#x85; soap operas. Dangerous Minds feels like a long episode of a soap opera. Logic and realism are almost non-existent. The first day the teacher enters the class the students almost ate her and some days later they were all behaving themselves, answering vocabulary questions while the teacher was throwing candy bars at them, (good boy!!!, Woof!). The movie's concept is good, the execution is the problem. The kids will make you feel sad about their desperate struggle to cope up with their lives but the way the teacher connects with them leaves something to be desired&#x85;FINAL VERDICT Won't Change Your Life (3.7/10)+ Decent acting. You might shed a tear at times.- Good concept, bad execution. Not as dark as it should be in my opinion. Too much like a soap opera episode.Also Check Dead Poets Society (1989) &#x96; Good Will Hunting (1997) - Stand And Deliver &#x96; Up The Down Staircase (1967)P.S. My purpose in all my IMDb Reviews is not to say I like\don't like this movie but to help you decide whether YOU will like it or not since everything is all about taste and expectations IMO... "},{"Title":"A horrible movie adaptation of a great book","Date":"26 May 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Having read My Posse Don't Do Homework and having thoroughly enjoyed this heartwarming and profoundly moving autobiographical tale from LouAnne Johnson, I had high hopes and expectations for this movie. Sadly, it proved to be a prime example of a wasted opportunity for a really good solid movie.Having apparently decided that the book isn't interesting enough, the producers of this movie added several twists and turns to this movie that were pointless, unnecessary and irritating. They would have been better off just sticking to the original contents of the book rather than inserting their own Hollywood fiction in -the strength of the book in all its original form was solid enough to provide the foundations for a strong and heartwarming movie Michelle Pfeiffer gives a dull and uninspiring performance but, to be fair, she hasn't got a good script to work with. I really pity the actors and actresses who signed up for this movie -they clearly have so much talent and potential but are given such a bad storyline and script to work with that it is all wastedIf you want to see an excellent movie with the same type of plot and storyline, watch To Sir With Love or Dead Poets Society They do it so much better. Avoid this one like the plague "},{"Title":"Utterly Dreadful, Do not even think about seeing","Date":"24 October 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Cheesy Cringe-worthy Punch-in-the-face-worthy soppy acting from Michelle Pfeiffer Stereotypes blown totally out of proportion Poor camera work Diabolical musical overlay Badly scripted Rushed feel No real closureI cannot criticise this movie enough. While I was expecting a typically dark gangster/student-type movie, addressing the inner-city problems of troubled kids in poverty-stricken areas, and the interesting, inspiring attempts of an admirable teacher to get to the bottom of their various dysfunctions, what I instead got was something so cheesy it would have been better suited to Broadway, if they threw in some hastily written musical numbers. For something (slightly) more realistic, see Coach Carter, but please, please, don't waste the 1 hr 30 mins I did on Dangerous Minds, the mis-titled waste of film roll that it is. "},{"Title":"An excellent movie","Date":"9 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" A very influencing movie. I've seen it about 4-5 times, once in a movie theater, once on TV and a couple of times on video and it still isn't boring. Actually, I could watch it again today... I can't imagine that anyone else would have been as good playing LouAnne Johnson as Michelle Pfeiffer was.And George Dzunza (I'm not sure how to write it..) is really good at his role too. The movie is very touching but still didn't make me weep...The lives of these troubled and misunderstood teens are being described very well and maybe that's one of the reasons that this movie made me stop and think. Everyone should see this movie at least once, preferably three times. "},{"Title":"Outstanding biopic about one of the bravest teachers of all time","Date":"19 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Even though I haven't read the book, DANGEROUS MINDS, in my opinion, is an outstanding biopic about one of the bravest teachers of all time. The performances were smashing, the soundtrack was great, and the casting was just right. I especially loved the song, Gangsta's Paradise, by Coolio. Anyway, if you ask me, it was brave of Louanne (Michelle Pfeiffer) to get her class to learn the way she did. I would probably do the same thing if I were in her shoes. In conclusion, if you are a die-hard fan of Michelle Pfeiffer, I heartily recommend this outstanding biopic about one of the bravest teachers of all time. You're in for a real treat and a good time, so don't miss this one. "},{"Title":"It could have been so much better...","Date":"27 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" The premise of the abstract was great. An ex-marine teacher takes on a class of kids from a ghetto life and tries to teach them to think.Her body language held none of the bearing of an ex-marine. She was tentative throughout the movie with only a couple of exceptions. A teacher cannot present a gingerly face to a class of tough young people.Picky things, like when she sat down next to Raoul instead of sitting on the table near him. At that point in the movie, she should have been keeping her authority above his.Later, when Raoul comes up with a good comment in class, she asks whether the rest of the class agrees with his analysis. This is setting the class against Raoul's opinion, and he is the leader. It is a tough position for both Raoul and the class, and not a learning moment.There were a few good lines in the movie, and some good moments. Those came straight from the book. The director needed to understand the subtleties of human interaction and teacher-student relationships to pull this movie up to the level it should have been. "},{"Title":"Nice Ghetto Movie Within America","Date":"19 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This movie was very good to watch and it has a brilliant storyline. It has a mixture of drama, action and comedy all in one movie. It would be recommended for people of a younger age such as myself at 17 years of age but when i first seen it back when i was about 10, i still thought it was good as and the song gangsters paradise by Coolio was embedded in my mind until now since i downloaded it. This song really suits the atmosphere of the movie in a neighbourhood where fights and deaths are a common thing. A teacher comes in to help teach a school class that really has no hope in getting taught at all. She gets a surprise on how bad the situation really is and she makes games and gives the class rewards for doing good in their work. A nice soundtrack too!  "}{"Title":"Sentiment-driven update of The Blackboard Jungle...and every teen rebellion movie since 1955","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Michelle Pfeiffer works very hard as an ex-Marine-turned-inner city schoolteacher who butts heads with the prim school-board over how she should teach her unruly classes; seems Michelle has been resorting to candy bar rewards and Bob Dylan poetry readings to get her students attention. Apparently heartfelt, but almost embarrassing in its mindlessness, the flick was a commercial hit, though it's tough to believe today's cynical teen audiences didn't sniff out the Hollywood fakery inherent in the script and presentation early on. Perhaps the combination of the cast, the hot soundtrack, and the happy ending helped to strike a chord with the disenfranchised. Still, it is extremely lightweight and almost completely forgettable. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Contrived","Date":"27 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Dangerous Minds is not as original a title as My Posse Don't Do Homework, the name of the book on which it is based, but it is probably a more accurate reflection of the film, anyway.  It hasn't a shred of originality.  The plot is overly familiar, having been regurgitated many times since it was introduced in 1955's The Blackboard Jungle  a sensitive high-school teacher, at a loss as to how to deal with a classroom of inattentive roughnecks, defies the authorities and introduces startling new instructional techniques, and, in the process, wins the students' respect and, yes, love.  This time around, the teacher is Michelle Pfeiffer, who shows up for her first day in the classroom with her hair in a tight bun and her shapely frame in attire meant to conceal her figure.  She is also polite.  None of this gets the attention of the gangstas or their gum-chewing, forever smiling but tough-talking girls.  Pfeiffer reigns them in the next day, though, when she turns up in casual attire, including a black leather jacket, and boasts of her skill in karate, a discipline she learned in the Marines.  You a Marine? one of the stereotypes in her class asks.  Well, it's not long before Pfeiffer proves that not only is she tough and smart, but she genuinely cares about her students, even loaning one of them money to pay off a thug with violent intentions.  It's all a load of hooey, as is Pfeiffer's assignments which include an analysis of Bob Dylan songs compared to the poetry of Dylan Thomas, a task which the otherwise bored and uncooperative students approach with a relish otherwise reserved for fistfights and drug deals.  Why the lyrics of Mr. Tambourine Man should fascinate them as much as they do is never explained.  It simply serves the contrivances of the plot.  This movie made a mint at the box-office but it has only one strength  Pfeiffer.  As always, she invests her performance with a sincerity that isn't evident in the script.  She also looks great, though you don't have to see the movie to appreciate that.  Buy the poster (or the cover of the video, sans cassette). "},{"Title":"Good, but too full of stereotypes","Date":"30 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Good, but too full of stereotypes was my summary and I stand by that.Though not a teacher myself I feel that to portray the idea that all bad kids need is a good teacher is a dangerous one. All the world's problems,  (or those in a class) cannot be solved by a single teacher no matter how good.This film reinforces the steroetype that good teachers work miracles, when all they do is teach well. (Not that this should be underestimated). Having said that the idea of a young and hopeful tacher failing and having a nervous breakdown wouldn't make a good film.Inspiring in the same way that 'The Longest Day' is inspiring, realistic in the same way that 'The Longest Day' is to 'Saving Private Ryan'  "},{"Title":"Good Movie!","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Dangerous Minds was surprisingly good. I recommend it to an older crowd. I just wished urban high schools had a teacher like Michelle Pfeiffer. "},{"Title":"Ah, but WHICH minds are dangerous?","Date":"4 April 2004","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Living in a gangster's paradise? The question becomes to identify the god of this 'paradise'.Michele Pfeiffer does an adequate, not great, job of portraying a tough teacher. Okay, maybe a little less than believable, but like I said, not great but good. The kids are the true heroes of this movie, filling the screen with the emotions one might expect in such a horrid environment. This is education?And so as the movie progresses, the bad guys win (of course). There is no happy ending and anyone expecting one clearly thought that the movie would be a science fiction theme rather than drama. In fact, it's not really true that the bad guys win ... no one wins.But as I walked out of the movies, I found myself feeling that I had 'discovered' who truly possessed the 'dangerous minds'. The movie leads you to think it's the kids - drugged up, carrying guns, street shootings - but the real danger lies in the minds of those in control, the unbending uncompromising minds that refuse to allow anyone to succeed in any other way than via their own rules.Hence in the end, the dangerous minds prevail. "},{"Title":"Here's a spoiler. This film is garbage that doesn't deserve to go to the rubbish dump.","Date":"11 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Luckily for this film the minimum score is 1. I am renowned by my friends, family and colleagues for the amount of films I have seen and the knowledge I have on them. Over the years the amount has become so large that i've long since given up on picking a best film i've ever seen. However about a year ago I watched this film and my opinion on it has not changed and its rating on my list of films has remained exactly the same. It is by far the worst film I have ever seen. It is bad. It terrifyingly, apocalyptically bad. At least Plan 9 or The Room had a turn around point where they began to be so bad that they could be made fun of and you could laugh at them. This film lacks the turn around point. It just grabs as many tear jerking moments it can get its hands on, sticks them in a blender, leaves the lid off and lets the resulting travesty f*** up the decor of the entire room. It's been a year since I have seen this film and I am still struggling to get past this pitiful excuse for a film. Every time I think of it I feel like I am going to shout at someone and that I will soon be put in anger therapy as a result. In conclusion, I recommend that you never see this film so that you don't alter, or altogether ruin/obliterate any love for films that you may have. I know that I didn't mention what I hated about the film so much and that's just the thing. If someone handed me the only existing copy on a computer and to edit/delete what i thought was stupid in the film, I would probably just watch it and then attach a nuke to the computer just to make sure that this abomination and anything within a 10-mile-radius of it never sees the light of day again. "},{"Title":"The intersection of social categories","Date":"9 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" The Character, Emilio Ramirez (Wade Dominguez) faces many educational experiences throughout the movie Dangerous Minds (Bruckheimer & Smith, 1995)that involve issues of social justice and the intersection of social categories (such as race, class and gender). his character is portrayed as tough - a gangster and in a class of his own. When he is detained in school for fighting, The new teacher, Louanne Johnson (Michelle Pfeiffer) attempts to discuss the situation with him. He did not respond well to this and suggests that Ms. Johnson is trying to help him. He offers to help her with this and says. I come from a broken home and I'm poor (Bruckheimer & Smith, 1995) This is another indication of the good teacher trying to save the student - even he sees it as ironic. It suggests here the intersection of class, gender and race, as he portrays dominant male elements- such as day one of class one he confronts her and says, I'll eat you and also through his body language during the discussion (Bruckheimer & Smith, 1995)and in the same way Ms. Johnson who displays somewhat nurturing feminine characteristics. The discussion has a suggest the issue of race as he comes from a Hispanic background (even though he looks white) and class - where another student suggests the same notion, Man, You don't understand nothing, I mean, you don't come from where we live - you come and live in my neighbor hood for one week and tell me you have a choice (Bruckheimer & Smith, 1995). The death of Emilio Ramirez (Wade Dominguez) raises other concerns of class where the Principal soon after this discussion may suggest that her message was not clear. Was this teaching ineffective? By the way - thanks for the tip for the link -It was a great help in forming an opinion on this. Personally, I cant wait until the Aussie film makers make our own heal the world, save the children, favorites teacher movie. Then teacher education students like me will not have to review movies that are outdated and that are based on issues that do not concern Australian Primary (elementary) school teachers. "},{"Title":"I, Anne's bard on a raised hearth, call all the seas to service, that her wood-tongued virtue babble like a bell-buoy over the hymning heads","Date":"12 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Rather in the vein of Meryl Streep in `Music of the Heart', not to mention that classic with Sydney Poitier, `To Sir, with Love', Michelle Pfeiffer's acting out the saintly-goodliness in a classful of no-hopers, largely made up by Hispanics, blacks and other minorities in run-down inner city suburbs, does not portray with much reality the true situation which many teachers in likewise situations have to go through. Maybe that is not the aim of any of the aforementioned films anyway; a more acceptable romantic veneer must be laid on for the resulting product to be commercially viable, and then nobody's feelings are trodden on.Be that as it may, the frail-looking little Michelle Pfeiffer hardly convinces as an ex-marine karate teacher, and even less before a classroom of untameable rebelliousness in Palo Alto, slash The Bronx, slash Tower Hamlets, or any other inner-city suburb densely populated with less fortunate people who do not aspire to being bankers, basketball players, successful rappers, genetic engineers or formula one racing drivers with just a little luck they might land up in a job filling up people's shopping-bags at the cashier's desk in a gigantic multinational hypermarket....This is what our great politicians conveniently overlook, having inherited the great ideals handed down from the Thatcher-Reagan globalization mentality. Not everybody is capable of nor willing to climb up onto the band-wagon of dollar-making success.The success of this film is in part due to the fairly genuine performance put in by the `drop-outs' and other mixed `pasotas', which helps to bring forward, similarly to the above-mentioned films, the message of the social inequality which is rampant in most inner-city suburbs in the overrated `first world' and its hostile megapolis. The world races on to ever more competitive levels, but the inadequate schooling systems do not - cannot - come up with viable answers.`What do you do with the rubble?' Iñaki Gabilondo asked Thatcher years ago on a TV interview programme here. Thatcher had no answer.In today's run-down racially segregated cities in the U.S. and in Europe to a lesser extent, the question remains unanswered. It is not much use having vehicles trotting about Mars while on the other hand you have your cities overflowing with violent delinquency of all kinds as the so-called `misfits' do not fit in with greater ideals perpetrated by innocent politicians, and find themselves on the streets with no way to go.Listen again to Elvis Presley's song `In the Ghetto'. Or read some of Bob Dylan's poetry - even now some of the best urban poetry ever written An I walked my road like a frightened fox An I sung my song like a demon child With a kick an a curse From inside my mother's womb - .............An I walked my road an sung my song Like a saddened clown In the circus a my own world -It is in this respect that `Dangerous Minds' (sic) and other films of similar concepts scores - not whether there is a Ms. Pfeiffer or a Ms. Streep in the main role or whoever the film's director might be.  "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I love this movie ive seen it loads of times and i dont know what it is its just something about the film thats got like a twist to it, and basically i just love it. And the soundtrack to the movie gangsters paradise is really good aswell and Michelle Pfeiffer was really good in it aswell so all i can say is this film rocks. "},{"Title":"Only for Michelle","Date":"7 March 2000","Score":"12 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This is one of those movies I call pseudo-cool. Teenxploitation to the max. A nice rap/hip-hop soundtrack, appealing young characters and premises familiar to every kid (school, what else). If you see the voters breakdown you will see where this film was targeted. Apart from this we have Michelle Pfeiffer, a woman who can embellish a mediocrity just by being there. She didn't even have to act (not that she cannot act, it wasn't a demanding role). It's a superficial film, but I guess there are times you'd want to watch just this. "}{"Title":"The song Gangster's Paradise is more popular than this movie, I can see why","Date":"2 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I expected it to be the same kind of storyline as Freedom Writers and The Ron Clark Story. It was pretty much like that, except it was a little cheesy. Like the real-life characters Erin Gruwell (Hilary Swank in F.W) and Ron Clark (Matthew Perry), Lou Anne Johnson doesn't give up on her students, but she sometimes doesn't try hard enough. However, she is basically the only person in her students lives who really cares about them. Everyone else just doesn't seem to give a sh*t. The principle of the school cares more about the respect of his f*cking office than his students. (Spoiler Noted) It doesn't matter if a boy is asking for help when he is in trouble, the principle just sent Antonio away, to his death. Which probably made Lou Anne want to quit. The only thing that kept her there were her students, pleading for her to stay. The song of the movie, Gangster's Paradise by Coolio, was very well received. Everybody loves it, even my mother! But in the end, the film wasn't that good. I gave it 4/10 on the vote. "},{"Title":"Blackboard Jungle with candy thrown in to measure","Date":"25 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I feel cheated when I am lured into watching a movie I have already seen. Whether Blackboard Jungle is better than Dangerous Minds can be argued; they both have their flaws. I merely hate to pay for something which is so blatantly copied from another movie. The scripts are almost identical except for the candy bars.On the plus side, I must say that having the principal work for the discipline (and fail) rather than having the teachers discuss it pointlessly as they did in Blackboard Jungle, was a lot more effective. "},{"Title":"it was a very moving and very  good movie and i really loved it.","Date":"3 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" the movie was very entertaining and moving and i like the songs in it some parts were sad like when that kid died and when the twins couldn't come back 2 school and some parts were a bit confessing and i liked the first part of the movie when it was black then it went into col-our that was pretty good and it just made me happy in all the other parts and I'm very Glad i got 2 watch i, and if i got the chance i'll watch it again. the start was pretty funny when she first came into the class room, I'm glad she came back 2 teach the kids 2, because they really needed some one who wouldn't give up on them and she was the perfect person for the job and when she was trying 2 get there attiontion that was pretty funny 2. "},{"Title":"A movie with a very compelling performance by Michelle Pfeiffer.","Date":"30 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Other then Michelle's performance the movie is lacking something to make it worthy of rememberance.  The story is much like some of the great pictures as The Blackboard Jungle and To Sir With Love but lacks the strings to tie it too you. "},{"Title":"Could have been done so much better...","Date":"23 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I have to say, I found this movie disappointing.  The new teacher changes lives of troubled students story line is generally pretty entertaining, but this version fell short of the mark.  It's a shame, because it had a good sound track, a fairly competent cast and probably a big budget.I think the problem was believability.  Or lack of.  Definitely didn't have the impact of Stand and Deliver, but then that one was a rare gem. "},{"Title":"Unremarkable and unoriginal","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I actually appeared in this movie as an extra in the opening scene (less than a 3-second appearance), so I was anxious to see how the movie turned out. Pfeiffer is one of my favorite actors and interpreted her character credibly. But from my jaded perspective, I found the script to be unoriginal and hackneyed.I was probably expecting that this particular story would fit well into the classic tradition and credible story lines of To Sir with Love and Up the Down Staircase, but I was wrong. Or maybe I was right. I only have childhood memories of those two films and I should probably view them again before dismissing this film as having missed the mark set by its predecessors. "},{"Title":"If you like this title, we also recommend...Mr. Holland's Opus","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I think the above says it all.  If you like crap like that, you'll like this crap.  Michelle Pfeiffer plays an ex-Marine (I know...) who teaches a bunch of tough inner-city kids (all of whom seem to be in their early twenties at least) to appreciate poetry through Bob Dylan songs, etc.  You could make this up yourself.  You know the rules.  Music slowly building on soundtrack to indicate that she's, like, gettin' thru to the kids, man.  The kids slowly, one by one, responding to her honesty, her innate goodness, her inner wonderfulness, her Royal Highness Michelle Pfeiffer.  Dear God, save us from this inane crap. What planet is Hollywood on?  Do they speak Earthling there?  "},{"Title":"Same old tired formula of tough kids in a tough school...yawn","Date":"26 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" This film could not have been any worse if they tried. We have seen these types of films before when a teacher or principle goes into a school that is filled with tough kids and by the end they all love the teacher. Dangerous Minds may be based on a true story but it is not an original idea and certainly not worthy of being made into a movie. OK so a teacher by the name of Louanne Johnson played by Michelle Pfeiffer inspires kids to learn and love poetry by having them listen to Bob Dylan songs. Big deal. Think of all the great teachers out there that reached trouble kids by some creative means. What about their story's? Aside from that Michelle Pfeiffer is mis-cast as some ex-Marine. She does not pull off the part and is less than convincing. The film makers also are deceptive in their telling the story of Louanne Johnson. She never used Bob Dlyan songs to teach her class but rather rap music. I guess the film makers felt rap might offend the audience. Do a little research on this teacher and see for yourself.A very bad film... "},{"Title":"They gave me Candy......","Date":"21 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Louanne Johnson is an ex-marine, hired as a teacher in a high-school in a poor area of the city.She has recently separated from her husband. Her friend, also teacher in the school, got the temporary job for her.After a terrible reception from the students, she tries unconventional methods of teaching (using karate, Bob Dylan lyrics etc) to gain the trust of the students.And guess what? it works!! In a non-patronising way to the audience..It's been sixteen years since this film was released here in England, and it was a movie I always resisted in seeing. Mainly because it got so much coverage thanks to that awful song, but it never really appealed to me.Seeing it for the first time last week, I now know why. It's a pitiful movie, cashing in on success of Boyz n the Hood, and high school movies, but with the Bruckheimer and Simpson sheen.It just doesn't work. For one thing the class look almost as old as Pfeiffer, and they warm to her way too soon. Secondl, she goes out of her way to look after these 'kids'. it's as if Edward James Olmos and Morgan Freeman are giving her motivation throughout.Pfeiffer is trying to down play her beauty, wearing a leather jacket and eating junk in every scene, but she doesn't convince.There is nothing new to see, it's just another bad class with hearts of gold movie, and they are tiresome.See 187 instead, that is a movie. "},{"Title":"Why Did Michelle Do This Film?","Date":"24 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" She was miss-cast.The message of the film was already made clear in the 1967 Hit move To Sir With Love. And don't forget, it had a Hit song.Sidney Poitier was already the right man for the job. It was done right--back then. No one can or could have done it better.Sidney Poitier was also one of the students in the Hit Film The Black Board Jungle, back in the 1950's which gave him the acting worthiness to now play the teacher.However, the audience already rated this film, and so it stands. Michelle is such a wonderful actress; she deserves much better roles (example What Lies Beneath w/Harrison Ford or Wolf w/Jack Nicholson). It's hard to believe she accepted this one. "}{"Title":"dangerous because there have been better movies","Date":"1 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Another movie about an honest white teacher fixing a bunch of black ghetto teenagers. To Sir, with Love did a much better job with this topic, and both Michelle Pfeiffer and George Dzundza have had far superior roles than Dangerous Minds. Personally, I would like to see a movie in which a black person from the ghetto teaches rich white kids how to live like ghetto people. Yeah, sort of like how Steve Martin looked in Bringing Down the House. But my point is that there are much better movies out there, so don't make this your first choice.I just wonder, what was the last good movie starring Michelle Pfeiffer? I know that she's had good roles, but when was the last time? "},{"Title":"Not as dangerous as you might think...","Date":"17 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  i was somewhat disappointed my dangerous minds because it was hardly as dangerous as the title led me to believe. there were zero gun fights and only one knife/drug fight which i wouldn't even consider a rumble. however michelle phiffer was in it playing the sassy cop-turned-schoolteacher. it was a fun ride, but i do not understand why she took all of those students to dinner. i'm surprised she wasn't fired (don't worry. it doesn't give anything away). "},{"Title":"Passes by too quickly","Date":"17 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Very serious and important issues are dealt with in a whizz in this film, which ends just when it becomes interesting. It would have been interesting to see who made it and who didn't. At the end of the film, too many loose ends are still demanding closure what with the robotic principal and the school board? What with the other teachers (we get to see one) and their appreciation of what's going on with these students? And how come not one single teacher has been able to do for those kids what the whimpy (ex-marine) Pfeiffer was?Great ambitions and a good cause - but not the right stuff to bring it home. "},{"Title":"Soapy cheese.","Date":"8 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" When it comes to movies I like to think that I'm not very picky. I like all sorts of movies. I liked Shadowlands and Sleepless in Seattle. I liked American Beauty. I like the Rambo movies. I like the Lethal Weapons movies. I liked Rush Hour. I liked Freddy Got Fingered. I liked American Pie. I liked the Brainstorm. I liked the Cube. Liked Memento, Silence of Lambs and The Fly. Titanic was okay (though in my opinion it's the worst DiCaprio movie I've seen). Ang Lees Ice Storm was okay. Casablanca is a good movie. And so on.And a movie doesn't even have to be good in order for me like it. Attack of the 50 Foot Woman, It Came From Outer Space, Cleopatra Jones and The Fly 2 were IMO pretty amusing crappy movies. I have no dislike for any particular genre of movies.I hated Dangerous Minds. Ange-8 called this movie as teenxploitation in his/hers comment and I agree completely. This is the cheesiest movie I can remember seeing. Argh.In the beginning the movie didn't seem like it would suck so completely but the more I saw the more I felt like I was watching a overlong episode of some b-grade soap opera. The main character played by Pfeiffer is supposed to be an ex-marine but half the time she's just so frigging clueless that it seems unlikely that she's ever even seen a marine. And this little lost hen is supposed gain the respect and trust of a group of rough kids from slums. As if.If you can bear watching crap like Bold & the Beautiful or Melrose Place then maybe you'll also be able to endure watching this terrible movie without getting an aneurysm. Otherwise don't risk it. "},{"Title":"A waste of time","Date":"4 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I wish I had never watched it. Nothing from this movie came out original. Having watched a bunch of inspirational teacher movies this one came out lame. The teacher was rather annoying and nosy rather that truly caring and genuine. She was an ex-marine? She didn't look the part and didn't show any sign that she was ever under the rigid and disciplined Marine training. It would have been good if she used some Marine techniques in disciplining her students instead of using Bob Dylan poems to inspire her students. What was the point of making a weak copy cat of To Sir With Love? This movie is a sad one. A really sad movie as it should never have been made. "},{"Title":"I don't think so","Date":"22 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Kind of like a train reck.  A tragedy that should never have happened but you can't help but watch.  The only redeeming thing was that about half the actors were well cast.  (this doesn't include Michelle P.)Guess I'll keep it short.  I've already wasted 90 minutes of my life with this film. "},{"Title":"Not as good as Stand and Deliver","Date":"25 March 1999","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  One of these teacher-succeeds-against-all-odds movies, allegedly based on a true story.  In this sense, it is similar to Stand and Deliver (1987), as both films show teachers in an apparently hopeless inner-city settings.  However, Dangerous Minds is not as good as Stand and Deliver, and some of the blame has to be carried by the lead, or even the casting.  Michelle Pfeiffer as an ex-Marine is hard to swallow.But generally the cast is quite good (I loved the pencil-pushing black principal!) but the material is a bit questionable.  Using Bob Dylan to lure 1995s ghetto kids into poetry does not ring true to me, and generally you wonder what the teacher is really achieving here, apart from getting the attention of her pupils. I also never really connected with any of the characters, all their personal stories (including the leads) remained superficial, almost as if this was an extended episode of one of these high-school sitcoms, you know, the ones where the students or teachers come up with the moral punchline at the end of every episode.  "},{"Title":"Another Hollywood star whitewashing the real social issues","Date":"4 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Now that I've watched this movie again, 8 years later I can see the real Pfeiffer's motives in acting in this film. Surely no one would disagree that Michelle Pfeiffer is a world class actress. Rivaling some of the great ones of long ago, ( Garbo, Loren, or a Natalie Wood ) in modern times. And I'm sure that at the ripe old age of 45 she will become more ravishing and alluring as time marches on. In short, she won't have the fame of a Monroe, or the public social conscience of Sarandon. But alas, she's only an actress. As one reviewer commented. There were too many loose ends. And I agree that the movie deserves a follow up even 8 years later. Because in reality this movie's topic cannot ultimately be answered by a Hollywood type. They're usually only capable of capitalizing on the misery they film so well. And that, sadly, makes it another one of Hollywood's fictions. I'm sure Pfeiffer's agents convinced her that this movie would be the perfect vehicle to bring her down to the hood and off her ivory tower / pedestal to mix it up with the problem children of a violent society. Let us not forget about the money, of course. After all, it was she who said. I still think people will find out that I'm really not very talented. I'm really not very good. It's all just been a big sham. Probably while tying maraschino cherry stems in knots with her tongue(!) Which she realized was a talent of hers when she was the ripe age of 16! Enough said about Michelle. A bit too critical? Of course it is. I hated this phony movie. If they can't get it right...then don't do it!. Especially when they can retreat to the hills of Hollywood for safety and be around their own very special moonbeams! They have to remember that they're all actors and actresses! So just stick with fantastic special effects and fiction. Not art, imitating life! "},{"Title":"This Movie Is One The Best I Have Ever Scene","Date":"21 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" This Movie Is One The Best I Have Ever Scene The Theme Music Is Not Heavy Metal But The Acting And Scripts Are Excellent Because It Is Dealing With Issues In The Late 1990s Such As Gang Violence How Drug Use Effect A Person And How Somebody Shot While He Is In High School Can Effect Others Like Friends And Family And Trying As Best You Can Is The Important Thing I Watch This Movie Once In While Because While Some People Think That A Fight Like A WWE Wrestling Match In A School Gym Locker Room Is Entertaining Like WWE Says Don't Try This At Home Some Of The Students In The Classroom When Miss Johnson Comes In The First Time Aren't To Pleased When The See Her But After Like A Month Or So The Accpect Her Because She Found Way To Get The Students The Her Classroom To Listen To Her And The Lessens She Thought Because Learning Is The Important Thing And That School Effects All Of Us In Our Lives "}]