[{"Title":"Sequel that's better than the original","Date":"11 August 2004","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  `Carnosaur II,' while borrowing very liberally from another movie, is a great movie in and of itself.**SPOILERS**At a top-secret mining facility, strange accidents happen and workers begin disappearing. A special task force is organized to into the mine and tries to get it operational, but when they arrive, the site is completely deserted and the whole place is littered with human remains. They do find a young boy, (Ryan Thomas Johnson) whose father worked in the mine and is now in shock. The government agent in charge, (John Savage) is apprehensive about letting the soldiers know the true reason for the base, and successfully blocks many attempts to find out. Upset over his team's attempts to find out anything, their captain (Don Stroud) goes into the forbidden bowels of the mine to see what is going on and is savagely mauled by an unseen animal, who drags him down to even lower levels. They escape and try to fly away, but a raptor takes control of the helicopter and crashes it, leaving the team and the boy stranded. They decide to send a message that they need rescuing by crashing the security systems, but that only releases the dinosaurs held below into the facility. With only a few members left, they see a rescue chopper, and leave to escape, but a giant T-Rex crashes the party, until it is finally sealed inside the mine when it is destroyed in a nuclear explosion.The Good News To me, this is simply `Aliens' with dinosaurs instead of aliens. That isn't a bad thing, because 1) I have this fact written in the good news instead of bad news, and 2) `Aliens' is a classic movie, and to me, this is at least a good movie. Those who have seen `Aliens' will see so many identical plot devices and scenes between the two movies. For one, `Aliens' has a mining company on a distant planet lose contact with their home base and has a team of Marines sent in to check out what went wrong. `Carnosaur II' has a mine break contact with their home base and a Special Ops team is sent in to investigate. Once there, the Marines find the place deserted. The Special Ops team finds the place deserted and the bodies torn to pieces. The Marines find a little girl, hiding from the monsters in the facility. The Special Ops team finds a young boy hiding from the dinosaurs. After descending into the depths of the facility, the Marines find a nest of aliens, which kills two Marines. The Special Ops team goes into the lower levels of the mine and finds a nest of dinosaurs, killing two of them. The Marines race outside waiting to be rescued, only to have an alien in the space craft that attacks the female pilot, causing it to crash. The Special Ops team races outside of the mine, looking to be rescued, with a dinosaur inside the helicopter that attacks the female pilot, causing it to crash. The Marines set traps for the aliens inside the tunnels that pick off many different aliens. The Special Ops team sets traps inside the tunnels of the mine that kills several dinosaurs. After everyone but the survivors have died, they come face-to-face with the Alien Queen, who kills one more person in the most hideous way in the entire movie. After everyone has died, the survivors come face-to-face with the T-Rex, who kills one more person. The hero manages to kill the Alien Queen by trapping it inside a container with a highly mechanical piece of equipment. The hero manages to trap the T-Rex inside the mine with a highly advanced piece of mechanical equipment. There are even more similarities between the two movies, but I want to keep some things a surprise, even though I have given away almost everything about the movie. The major improvement over the first two was that this one has a lot better characters in it that do a better job with acting. The actors do a better job in this one. Also done better in this one is the gore. There is a lot more gore in this one as well as it being done far more realistically. The limbs being ripped off looked far better, as they were sinewy and had more blood from them. The Bad News Ok, so the dinos still look terrible, and I could go on for days about how fake the T-Rex is at the end, but then again, do I really have to.The Final Verdict If the only bad thing is how fake the dinos looked, this is a good film. The similarities could be taken either way, but I thought it worked. It is a better movie than the first one and, if you like the first one, you'll like this one just as much. Rated R Graphic Language, Graphic Violence "},{"Title":"Back for More.","Date":"20 May 1999","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie takes a lot of things from other movies, such as Aliens, Apocalypse Now, Terminator 2, and some others.  The acting is better than in the first, and the special effects are not the greatest, but it is better than the other 2. "},{"Title":"A fun movie, These Dinos Have BITE!!!!","Date":"26 February 2009","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well I must say that I did really enjoy this movie. I know this thing is no where near perfection, and I'm not judging this movie based on that. I am a big movie watcher and I must say that I was able to sit through the movie all the way through and stay pretty interested to see what was going to happen. I was actually impressed with the dinosaur affects. The velociraptors were actually pretty cool looking. These dinos looked more vicious than the ones in the first one did. It gave the Carnosaur title more meaning i think. I did notice the tyrannosaurus was the same from the first one, but this movie used it more which i think that was a plus. Overall the acting was mediocre, I thought John Savage was pretty good. The nice thing about no name or mediocre named actors is you don't really know who is going to die. You may get an idea, but you still watch to see how its going to go down. I would recommend this movie if your bored and nothing is really on TV. It is definitely worth watching. It is much much better than the first Carnosaur and even better than the lame Carnosaur 3. I would say this is the best of the serious. Even though its got the alien like plot but another fun factor is that the team going in there to repair the plant aren't armed to all living hell with guns. I'd say this movie learned a little from the first Carnosaur and then watched Aliens and was like, hey, we can make a dino sequel! I give this movie an 8 out of 10 simply because its better than the first and way better than the 3rd, but a fun movie overall and if your disappointed then you'll be only losing a buck at family video lol. "},{"Title":"Better than the first","Date":"1 February 2009","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Carnosaur 2 is the best entry in the series. If you ignore the rubbish dialog, this film might come across as decent for a (very) cheap horror flick. Compared to the original Carnosaur, this one is a masterpiece. The gore is less severe and obnoxious, The creatures are shot in a such a way that for most of the time they don't look too rubbery. Most importantly however is the fact that the plot is far more coherent than the original, Part of it has to do with copying almost directly from the well written screeenplay of Aliens. For a cheap budget, the set design is pretty good and gives the movie a dark, industrial feeling. The acting is stiff and unrealistic, but again, next to Carnosaur it is acceptable. I would not recommend this film to everybody, only to extreme horror fans. "},{"Title":"Better than the other two.","Date":"2 June 2005","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is the best of the series. It has pretty good effects (killings, not the dinosaurs)and pretty good acting, plus what a cast! John Savage, Cliff De Young, Don Stroud, Rick Dean, pretty Neith Hunter and genre favorite Miguel A. Nunez Jr.A bunch of male and female soldiers or mercenaries, are hired to investigate what has happened in a government facility where they were experimenting with dinosaur DNA. There they meet a teenager, who happens to be the only survivor. Soon, the start dying in somewhat gory ways (especially the woman in the elevator getting her arm ripped off) as the dinosaurs tear them to pieces.I had more fun watching this than Jurassic Park. "},{"Title":"Made-of-movie movie","Date":"11 December 2001","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I admit I went into this movie expecting cheese (having been previously warned a few years before) but I never expected what I saw could both be good and bad.The story doesn't really go anywhere, and the characters are almost strait from Aliens. A team of people (nobody I've talked to seem to know who or what they are) are sent into a government research facility to get the place back on line, though the government apparently forgot to ask why it was off-line to begin with. People die, choppers crash, and all kinds of things happen, but if you try to spot the scenes reminicent of Aliens, then it actually becomes kinda fun (be sure to add in the get away from her, you B**** line near the end).As far as acting goes, not too bad. It just would have helped to have something of a plot or dialog. A must-see for B-moviers, just for the laughs. "},{"Title":"Carnosaur 2 is Aliens","Date":"15 February 2014","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Whereas the first was a Monster-on-the-loose in a small town kind of movie, this one is much more of a cramped low-lighted enclosed-space survival horror along the likes of the video game Dino Crises. To start off, I want to To start off, I want to make it clear that Aliens is one of my all-time favorite science fiction/horror movies, and this movie is Aliens. It's as if they took the exact same script but turned Ripley into a male, Newt into a male, set it at a facility in the desert instead of another planet, and replace the aliens with Raptors, and then you've got this movie. I am not kidding when I say it's the exact same movie as Aliens. Even some of the dialog is word for word the exact same. And you know what? I'm fine with that, because it ended up making for a damn entertaining movie. I always say that if you're going to rip something off, rip off something good. "},{"Title":"Sequel that's better than the original","Date":"16 November 2012","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" When a special forces team is sent to investigate a distress signal at a top-secret military base, they find the base overrun by carnivorous dinosaurs and must battle the vicious creatures to get away alive.This here is one of the rare sequels that manages to come off as better than the original. It still has the same problem having atrocious-looking special effects for its dinosaurs, which always manage to come across as hand-puppets and miniatures in the scene, but that doesn't really impact the film too much when this one has as much positives as this one does. By taking the plot line of 'Aliens' and substituting dinosaurs, it comes away as a thrilling, high-energy action-packed film that contains a lot of great moments, from the opening introduction of the dinosaurs in the cavern below to their rampage through the compound attacking everyone in sight through some pretty ingenious sneak attacks, the helicopter ambush crash and the finale, which is a real highlight here as it's the grand battle between the bigger dinosaur and the digging equipment makes for a rather thrilling moment, especially as it's a pitched battle that takes place over a period of time and makes its' location all the better due to the precariousness of it. As well, there's plenty of blood and gore to be featured, which is a factor carried over from the first one and is enhanced with more sinewy ripping and tearing. Again, the fact that plot is note-for-note, even managing to replicate the same exact scenes as well, could be a flaw here as well as the rather phony-looking dinosaurs, but even still it's a lot better than the original.Rated R Graphic Violence and Graphic Language. "},{"Title":"Nothing special, but not bad for a dinosaur-movie sequel","Date":"20 August 2006","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Take Aliens. Replace the far-flung planet with a military base in the middle of Nevada. Replace the xenomorph Alien creatures with Velociprators and a Tyrannosaurus rex. You now essentially have Carnosaur 2. That's not to say this a bad movie or that Roger Corman & Co. should go to jail for plagiarism. Every movie is derived somehow from an older movie. For all the talk about plagiarizing Aliens, nobody remembers that the original Alien was sued by the creators of the old '50s horror movie It! The Terror from Beyond Space because they felt like the essentials of Alien were lifted from their movie. Carnosaur 2 is your basic mosnters-run-amok movie that doesn't do anything to distinguish itself from any other monsters-run-amok movie. The characters are goofy and you can tell pretty early in the flick who's going to make it and who won't. But for what it is, Carnosaur 2 is an entertaining watch if you have nothing else to do, or if you're with friends and you want to play Mystery Science Theater 3000. It's not quite as dark and gloomy as the original Carnosaur, and has absolutely nothing to do with that movie either. But I give it a 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Best dinosaur movie ever made","Date":"11 April 2000","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"    To all you people badmouthing this movie, I have this to ask  What the heck were you expecting?  Another Jurassic Park?  An epic dinosaur movie with the most mind-blowing special effects since Aliens?  If you were, than I am seriously tempted to smack you on the side of the head and start ranting about how mind-numbingly stupid you are, but I think I will stick to the subject at hand and explain why I love this movie so much.  First of all, the special effects were good.  Not great by any standard but still good.  The dinosaurs LOOKED good but their movements were a bit stiff.  Secondly, the acting was good and the characters were well developed and likeable.  Next, there was some genuine suspense in this movie.  Granted, you can kind of tell who is going to survive from the begining, but the action moves at such a great pace that you soon forget that it is obvious who will live.  Just in case you don't forget, there is a nice plot twist towards the end involving the (spoiler ahead! spoiler ahead!) fate of the female lead that will keep you on edge for the rest of the film.  True, it is not very original (in fact it is a downright ripoff of ALIENS) but I wouldn't worry about that too much since the film just works so well.  This is a must-see.  I give Carnosaur 2 **** out of ****. "}{"Title":"C2 is a surprisingly good sequel with a solid cast, considering","Date":"16 July 2014","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Movie fans usually scoff when they hear the words direct to video, since a film would not fall into that category if its budget and production values were capitalized on by major studios, but sometimes a few of these little flicks can become hidden gems due to an experienced producer such as Roger Corman, and a cast that puts their heart and sweat into it regardless of its profit or notoriety. The sequel to the campy B-movie, Carnosaur is obviously inspired by the big box office hit sequels of yester-year such as Aliens, Terminator 2, and Predator 2. Creators use the technique of not introducing the identity of the creatures for the first third of the film, and the creature stalks its prey through corridors and ventilation ducts, disposing of the cast one by one in gory ways. This time, the head of US Defense, Cliff De Young hires a mercenary squad of hotheads to investigate electrical malfunctions at a classified military mining facility that happens to be inhabited by the prehistoric monstrosities that killed off the whole staff as a result of their shady genetic experiments and cover-up of nuclear weapons. Now the cast must either fight or become lunch. Sound familiar?By now you should know what to expect. The dinosaurs look just as plastic and fake as before, but an energetic cast of underrated character actors including John Savage, Don Stroud, and Rick Dean keep it lively and entertaining. Combined with some witty dialog and nice directorial touches, C2 should be a crowd-pleaser amongst B-movie genre fans thats up to par with if not better than its predecessor. Its followed by another sequel, Carnosaur 3 Primal Species, believe it or not. "},{"Title":"Fun B movie!","Date":"15 August 2008","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Sequel to the entertaining & surprisingly successful CARNOSAUR, resurrects the carnivorous fiends for more mayhem. This time it's group of soldiers who come under attack when they attempt to restore power at a facility, can they fight the creatures off & end the terror or will they themselves become Dino food? CARNOSAUR 2 manages the difficult feat of creating a sequel that for once holds true to the original, while at times surpassing it in a variety of ways! The actors are good & so is the direction, the special effects are well created given the small budget & there's plenty of suspense on hand as the soldiers try to find a way out of their predicament. If only it didn't end the same as the first movie did (Couldn't the scriptwriters come up with a different ending that this?) Worth a look for dinosaur/horror/science fiction fans. Followed by CARNOSAUR 3 PRIMAL SPECIES***1/2 stars "},{"Title":"three cheers for roger corman","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  even better than the original; the movie is modeled after Aliens but instead off being a rip-off it actually glorifies Cameron's masterpiece; and this time they were smart enough to give the fake looking dinos little air time and merely gave us the sight of blood (not nearly as graphic as the original) "},{"Title":"Wow, actually better than the first (by better I mean more laughable also)","Date":"8 December 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" So after the Muppet dinosaurs were killed in the first movie, they came back for seemingly no reason whatsoever in this movie. Only this time, they make bell sounds when they're about to have a victim suddenly appear in their mouths! This movie's plot was actually not half bad though. But the movie was still laughable.Plot Chucky's dinosaur cousins attack people and a team is sent in to start up the place where the people all died the first time again.There are some gory kills here as well, as the people here like the first movie are plastic dolls held together by red gum. Also there are toy helicopters! 5/10 "},{"Title":"When Jurassic Park meets Aliens...literaly!","Date":"1 May 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" And I was actually glad and surprised that the first movie wasn't being as much a Jurassic Park ripoff. It probably only didn't because it couldn't, since it was released a couple of months before Jurassic Park hit the theaters. This movie makes up for that though, since it really doesn't have an original idea of its own in it. It even more blatantly is ripping off James Cameron's Aliens.It even isn't being subtle about it. It doesn't try to conceal that it 'borrowed' heavily from Aliens and pretty much steals entire scenes, dialog and characters from that movie. Really, if you have seen Aliens, you have seen Carnosaur 2 as well already! The story even progresses in the exact same way.But oh well, I still have to give the movie that it at least is being better to watch than the original. The story is much easier and pleasant to follow and it at least has some half decent characters in it as well.Another thing that had been improved were its effects. The dinosaurs are better looking and more threatening this time around. It really prevents the movie from being ever becoming a truly ridicules or horrible one as well.Really, it isn't anything too uncommon for a movie to ripoff another one. Especially not for low budget movies like this one. And out of all the Aliens ripoffs that are out there, this ons is not all that bad and actually at times quite good and enjoyable.Not original by any means obviously but it at least is a watchable enough, cheap, little movie, that is far better and more pleasant to watch than the original as well.5/10 http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"* *1/2 out of 4.","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Exciting non-related sequel about a crew sent in to repair an underground basement and to find out what happened to the original crew that is now missing. There they run into a group of super intelligent dinosaurs that are smarting then the crew themselves that then make the crew lunch. Better effects, some genuine surprises, plenty of scares, and a good atmosphere make this a fun outing, but it is sorely missing Diane Ladd's demented performance.Rated R; Graphic Violence and Profanity. "},{"Title":"Carnosaur is back for more and the audience is heading for the exit","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well, I'll give this movie a break since it was by a different director. In fact, all 3 of the not-so-thrillogy movies are by different directors, which says a lot for the film.  Anyway, the film.  Somehow the diabolical dinos (about 2 species.  Count 'em.  2.) have escaped death and now are kicking around in a secret base in the Nevada desert.  A few attack some guys who have nothing to do with the secret base, and the 3 Stooges' equal to a SWAT team is called in.  Lotsa blood, bile, and other wonders of the human body follows.  The climax (Although I could barely call it that) involves blood, bile, and things blowing up.  Afterwards, the ending involves blood, bile, and things falling down things.  An all-around terrible flick that could easily made it to Mystery Science Theater 3000 if not for all of the blood, bile, and wooden acting.     "},{"Title":"Was Spielberg involved here?","Date":"4 March 2006","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Evidently someone involved in this production has created multiple email accounts to vault the Vote scoring up to 3.6/10. Believe me This movie rates a 1. Or a fraction.I have a Love/Hate thing going with this type of movie. On the Hate side movies such as Carnosaur 2 are Z-quality they pillage clichés without conscience; the special effects don't fool a four-year old; the filming set is often an underground facility or molded plastic cave to conceal a lack of site location budget; the actors are no-names except for one or two spiraling has-beens fresh off the dinner theater circuit; and the plots are ridiculous retreads or riffs conjured on the set.On the Love side Such movies are unabashedly pure in their lack of production values, star power, and talent. They are beautiful things to watch and their badness should be admired. An ultra-bad movie like Carnosaur 2 is a lot of fun and hilarious if you have a couple of minutes during channel surfing or if you're stoned at 2 am or having a party.Little known fact The special effects were pioneered in the groundbreaking Barney the Purple Dinosaur series. If you look reeeeeeally close...OK, even if you look from a distance...you can see the rubber Carnosaur suits squish up from the guys inside or the obvious camera angle placement to make the 2 foot tall model the size of a forklift...or the rubber toes bending in awkward boneless ways...or you name it.God bless the Sci-Fi Channel for breathing life into these silly, ultra-low budget horror and sci-fi flicks. Long live the B-movie! "},{"Title":"Laughably bad","Date":"28 March 2003","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Carnosaur 2 (1995) D Louis Morneau. John Savage, Cliff De Young, Don Stroud, Rick Dean, Ryan Thomas Johnson, Neith Hunter, Arabella Holzborg, Guy Boyd. Simply one of the worst films ever made, this cheap non-sequel to the Jurassic Park rip-off CARNOSAUR contains some of the worst dialogue ever uttered in a film, as well as another collection of cliched characters and scenes. This time, a top secret operations team of some kind enters a top-secret military installation to search for a missing crew. But surprise! They get trapped and battle against hungry, vicious, man-eating dinosaurs! They might as well have just called the film `2,' for there are about 2-minutes worth of dinosaurs in the entire film. What we get instead is a bunch of lousy acting and incredibly inept special effects when the dinosaurs actually do appear (Boy, do they look fake!). Laughably bad. RATING 2 out of 10. Rated R for graphic violence and gore, grisly images, and profanity.  "},{"Title":"In Jurassic Park, No-One Can Hear You Scream!!!","Date":"16 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" With the success of JURASSIC PARK, filmmakers were frantically cashing in on the dinosaur craze. Hence, the CARNOSAUR series. The first film was a rip-off of not only JP, but ALIEN, THE THING and THE CRAZIES. It was mildly entertaining and had decent (low budget) dinosaur FX. In CARNOSAUR 2, a team of badass soldiers investigate a potential meltdown at a top-secret facility. What they discover are dangerous (and hungry) genetically-engineered dinosaurs running rampant through the underground labs. Imagine PREDATOR, JP, and ALIENS combined and you've got the idea. Performances from the human actors are... okay. But who cares about them? Most will wind up as raptor chow anyway! The real stand-outs are the gory special FX and the carnivorous beasties. It's entertaining, so long as you don't think too hard about anything. So put your feet up, load the rocket launcher, and invite your friends over for a rip-roaring blast from the past! "}{"Title":"The best in the trilogy.... and why is that?","Date":"4 January 2010","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Why did I say The Best in the Trilogy. Here is the explanation This movie, is no more, no less a horrible and disgraceful copy of James Cameron's Aliens (1986). When you saw Aliens, you can easily see it again in some different fashion. And here it is. The story is very, very similar. Even characters&#x85; Well, where to start, a group of technicians arrives in a giant power plant, or mine, or whatever the f**k is it, that happens to be a large nuclear reactor, and of course, we expect it to go boom&#x85; The place is crawling with raptors that enjoy to kill everything in their way, including one large (laughable) T-Rex (OK, In Aliens we have a bunch of drone aliens (raptors) and a big, nasty bitch &#x96; the queen (T-Rex)). The characters were also the same Jack Reed (John Savage, who&#x85; how the hell did he get here?), is a fine mixture of Corporal Hicks from Aliens (there played my Michael Biehn ) and somewhat of Ripley (Sigourney Weaver), next we have Tom McQuade (Cliff De Young), a similar character to Burke from Aliens, and then we got Jesse (Ryan Thomas Johnson), a mixture of Newt and Ripley from the Aliens, why Ripley? Because Jesse kills a T-Rex with a forklift on the end of the film, just as Ripley pushed out alien queen from space ship, The character of 'Monk' is no one else, but Hudson (Bill Paxton from Aliens), who makes jokes and get most scared when the things go out of control, other characters as Moses is a original, by the looks of things, but he did a bypass on the large doors, just as Hudson did in Aliens, and by his looks, he bears a resemblance to Pvt. Frost from Aliens. Ben Kahane (Don Stroud) is of course, Sgt. Apone and the girls (oh, I left the girls for the end, how rude of me&#x85; but I don't give a damn, frankly, my dear), first Sarah Rawlins had nothing to do with Aliens character, so it's free to say, that she is quite original, but gives us a resemblance to Pvt. Vasquez&#x85; maybe for a moment, or not, but she dies like Hudson... in gore and pain, and finally we have Joanne Galloway the pilot, very similar to Aliens pilot Ferro, also a female pilot, that dies in the same way. Killed off behind the pilot chair inside the aircraft. So much about those things, there is a lot more to say about connections between Aliens and Carnosaur 2. In short&#x85; one big copy/paste. The acting, atmosphere, script, special effects (especially gore and dinosaur effects), are just plain funny. The dinosaur puppets are the same and their movements are also the same &#x96; Lame! And for the end, guess what? I do recommend this film! Watch it, it is funny and entertaining, more different that the original, or the even more funnier Carnosaur 3. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"We can't just lie down & become food for some prehistoric Iguana. Blatant Aliens rip-off...","Date":"13 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Carnosaur 2 starts with a special team of underground engineers headed up by Ben Kahane (Don Stroud) being hired by military defence bloke Tom McQuade (Cliff De Young) to fly into a Government uranium mining facility to fix it's apparent electrical problems. The helicopter pilot Joanne Galloway (Neith Hunter) fires the engines up, Tom, Ben & his team consisting of Jack Reed (John Savage), 'Monk' (Rick Dean), Sarah Rawlins (Arabella Holzbog) & Ed Moses (Miguel A. Nunez Jr.) board & they all fly off deep into the Californian desert where the facility is hidden. Once they get there they discover the place completely deserted apart from a traumatised teenage boy named Jesse Turner (Ryan Thomas Johnson), they question him but Jesse is in shock & refuses to say anything. The team find widespread damage throughout the facility & soon discover that it has been overrun by genetically created Dinosaurs who slaughtered all the workers & proceed to kill everyone in the team. With the helicopter pilot dead & the chopper blown to pieces the team are stuck at the facility which is crawling with flesh eating Dinosaurs...Directed by Louis Morneau & produced by Roger Corman Carnosaur 2 is a massive Aliens (1986) rip-off much more so than the original Carnosaur (1993) was a Jurassic Park (1993) rip-off, the script by Michael Palmer basically is Aliens but with the setting changed. Lets detail the similarities shall we? There's the isolated complex that has had everyone running it slaughtered except for one child. There's the unruly bunch of outsiders including the selfish & uncaring company man whose only bothered about money. There's a scene in which a monster is waiting in the back of the getaway vehicle & attacks the pilot causing it to crash, Carnosuar 2 even has the shot of blood splashing on the windshield. There's the way the survivors have to barricade themselves into the facility & even check blueprints of the buildings on a computer while discussing what to do. There's the plot development that something has happened to the facility & it will be destroyed by a nuclear explosion in a short amount of time just to add to their problems & force them to make a daring escape. There's the scene in which the cowardly character is trapped in a corridor with the tough one who is injured & they find themselves surrounded by Dinosaurs at which point they light some dynamite & hold it together as it explodes killing lots of Dinosaurs allowing the hero & teenage brat to make their escape. There's the electronic facility voice who warns of impending danger & starts a countdown. Neither can we forget the climatic fight between the large Dinosaur & the hero who uses a huge yellow mechanical crane. Every single aspect, idea, theme, character, set or situation could be seen as ripped-off from Aliens, I'm surprised James Cameron hasn't sued & I think Cameron deserves as much credit for the screenplay as Michael Palmer. On it's own Carnosaur 2 is average entertainment, at least it moves along at a nice pace plus there's a fair amount of Dinosaur attacks & on screen action. I've sat through a lot worse.Director Morneau is no Cameron even though he tries to be. Even the lift they use looks exactly like the ones in Aliens right down to how they open with that mesh type grill. The film feels very Aliens & looks it. The special effects are slightly better than the original but that's because the Dinosaur scenes are quickly edited & they only appear on screen for a few seconds at a time. Again it's a mixture of hand puppets, mechanical models & guys in rubber suits, none look particularly convincing. There is a funny scene when the obligatory black guy has a mini boxing match with one of them! The gore is toned down compared to the first film, there's a gory bit when someone has her arm torn off & her guts pulled out but apart from that it's mostly just a bit of fake blood splashed around.Techncially Carnosaur 2 is OK, it's not the most polished film I've ever seen but it's competent most of the time. The acting wasn't great, no one stood out & I thought most of the character's were bland & dull.Carnosaur 2 is basically Aliens set on earth with Dinosaurs instead of aliens, it's as simple & straight forward as that. It's an alright way to pass 90 odd minutes but it's nothing original or special. Sequences from Carnosaur 2 were edited into Raptor (2001) & was followed by Carnosaur 3 Primal Species (1996) which is the final Carnosaur film to date. "},{"Title":"It was too similar to Aliens.","Date":"14 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  (This may be considered a spoiler as I am comparing Aliens to Carnosaur 2) Carnosaur 2 just about followed the same plot as in Aliens.  The part about a bunch of hired hands discovering only a boy is very similar to Aliens. The setting is about the same, the fact that the dinosaurs attack secretly without being seen, the fact that when someone tried to escape via a helicopter and a dino sneaks on board causing the pilot to crash stranding the rescue team is the same as when the USCM dropship crashed when an alien got on board and killed the pilot causing the ship to crash stranding the marines behind.  Also how someone went back to help someone the held dear to the heart only to be attacked by a larger creature they never saw before, as well as how the Army leader knew the dino's were there but didn't tell annyone.  Anyway my opinion is that you rent both movies and see the similarities.  "},{"Title":"A very Alien-like sequel.","Date":"19 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is for those with patience. It can be very tedious at times. They seemed to have wanted to go with suspense but fell short. Somehow Dianne Ladd's rubber puppet dinosaurs have ended up in a government mining facility in Nevada. And a very rag-tag crew of computer repairmen (and woman) just happen to be there at the time. From there, the movie follows a very Aliens type synopsis. The Velociraptor dinosaurs have improved their looks considerably since the first movie, but their movement is incredibly stiff. The same T=Rex appears in this film. Like the first, this movie is for those that like cheesy films with low production values. "},{"Title":"This is pretty bad","Date":"7 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Have you seen Jurassic Park? Have you seen Aliens? Guess what, you've seen this movie already. I won't tell you what parts were ripped off from the previously mentioned two movies (you'll need to suffer through the movie too) but you'll recognized them quite easily. The special effect for the dinos are pretty bad, I guess the dinos special effects team came cheap. The special effects for the death scenes were pretty good, with various people being relieved of certain body parts. Keep an eye out for the female team member toward the end of the movie; poor thing never had a chance. While the dinos are pretty fake, you may still want to keep the little kids away as some of the death scenes are pretty gory. "},{"Title":"If it had a larger budget, it could have been good...","Date":"28 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm not sure why I bothered to watch this movie after seeing the first one, but I thought it would be better given a few years to better the visuals, but i was WAY wrong. The dinosaurs were the same crappy, rubber puppets used in the first film, although they did seem a little more gruesome.The plot seemed okay but what would dinosaurs be doing in a facility in the middle of the desert, with no explanation of who put them there or why? Most of the actors I'd never heard of except Fred Savage, and he was the only actor who even seemed to try.I have to admit that if this film had a large budget, the visuals could have been better and the movie might have been better, but this ultimately was a stupid and pointless sequel.And one other thing, DO NOT believe the reviews on the front cover, I don't know how much the produces paid them to say this film was everything Jurassic Park should have been, but that was probably where most of the budget went to. "},{"Title":"Vagina eating dinosaurs and Z-list movie stars?  Oh yeah...it has success written all over it.","Date":"3 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Similar to the first film, Carnosaur II is a b-movie gorefest intended to capitalize off the popularity of Jurassic Park. Featuring no actors of any notoriety (other than Miguel Nunez...guess he REALLY needed work), this film is a forgettable flop that centers around a boy genius of some sort who has to disable a facility that's mass producing hungry dinosaurs. The raptors are featured prominently and the Rex is limited to a few shots due to a major malfunction with the robot (a rather impressive feat, to build such a huge robot for such a pointless movie). The ultra-gory death scenes start happening in rapid succession, culminating in what is probably the most memorable of all a secretary of some sort is pulled through the roof of an elevator. A raptor sizes her up, painfully bites off her arm, then...goes straight for the pubic mound. Don't believe me? Rent it or watch the clip on youtube...the Raptor dives right in to the poor girl's genitals and feasts away, ultimately tearing out her uterus. Oddly enough, the girl makes rather orgasmic noises throughout the entire affair...apparently she's a b-list porn star according to some sources, which may explain why.The ultimate rip off death features a female helicopter pilot, bringing the evac chopper over to the troops, only to be ambushed from behind. As the Raptor tears her apart, her blood showers the window as she struggles and flails her arms...I'd almost swear the scene was just ripped from Aliens and spliced in! If the idea of genital-eating dinos and low budget gore fests is your thin, go ahead and give it a rent...you won't be disappointed. Otherwise, if you have any self respect or any iota of respect for the film industry, just ignore this movie's existence. "},{"Title":"One of the Worst Dinosaur Movies of All Time","Date":"5 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" First off this comment is more of a review and contains a lot of spoilers. This movie is called Carnosaur 2. But there are almost no actual Carnosaurs. They are all raptors and the only Carnosaur comes out at the end for 2 minutes and get's killed by a kid with a fork lift. Need I say more? When the woman gets her arm ripped off, it's slow and she screams as if she was pinched. The blood is the wrong colour and the blood isn't leaking but it's sticky! The Raptor looks very fake and when it kills the first dark-skin guy it slaps him twice then kills him. The acting is extremely poor and is very cheesy. The kid is annoying and is a crappy actor. The blood is sticky when a workman gets his head bit off and his legs are still moving. I can't believe how bad this movie is. In the beginning when the raptor comes, you don't see it and all you see is some people throwing them selves on tables and screaming. However to some degree its funny because of how bad it is and is actually quite entertaining and for that it doesn't get a 1/10.My Rating 3.6/10 "},{"Title":"OH...MY...GOD","Date":"23 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Ok, on the cover of this movie, it says that C2 was the movie Jurassic Park should have been. Well, this movie is so bad,its not even funny. Jurassic park was an excellent dino movie, with suburb special effects, a great cast, an an excellent story. C2 is not one of those things. The effects are horrible, the only time one of those raptors even comes close to looking like a real raptor is when it is eating that girl toward the end of the movie. And that T-rex, well the one in JP looked so much cooler and realistic. So did the raptors. So stay away from this movie. "},{"Title":"I HATE THIS!","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  WARNING SPOILERS--When I saw this movie, I wondered whether the people who made the film had nothing to do and just engineered this movie's existence. I hate Carnosaur 2. The acting is poor, the text was garbage, and worst of all the plot, the story, the characters, and every geekin' thing in the movie was all copied from ALIENS, my favourite movie. Every scene in Carnosaur 2 came from ALIENS. For instance, when these two guys are cornered by the monsters, one decides to blow both him and the other guy up with dynamite. This scene came from ALIENS, where the commander takes himself and a wounded soldier out with a grenade when they are trapped by aliens. Another scene When the woman is prepping the helicopter for take-off, a monster appears behind her, kills her, and the chopper blows up. In ALIENS, when the evacuation craft is on its way to pick up the soldiers, an alien stows away onboard, then later kills the pilot and causes the ship to crash. Yet another scene When the character goes to rescue the boy and get out of the base before it blows up, they are confronted by a bigger mother monster, and the boy drives a forklift and drops it down the elevator shaft. In ALIENS the woman goes to rescue the little girl, but are confronted by an alien queen, which later stows away in the evacuation ship and attacks the two. The woman then uses a robotic loader and drops it down an airlock. I COULD GO ON FOREVER! Carnosaur 2 is just a waste of time. A message to anyone who thinks Carnosaur 2 is not bad Go watch ALIENS. If you think ALIENS copied Carnosaur 2 Then look at the years when both movies were made. "}{"Title":"blatant aliens rip-off","Date":"25 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was laughing so hard at this movie because of it's shameless copying of Aliens.  Just watch both movies back to back and you will see what I mean. Better yet, just watch Aliens.  This one is a complete waste of time. "},{"Title":"God dammit i need to burn my eyes out now","Date":"25 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Sweet Jesus what the hell did i just watch. if you want to watch one of the worst made, worst acted, worst overall job on a movie, then you've come to the right place. Carnosaur 2 features NONE of the same actors, directors, or even writers of the first one. i watched carnosaur 1 and it has no relation to this movie at all (another crappy movie by the way). if you want to rent a horrible movie to laugh at, then this is a great one for doing so. UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES SHOULD ANYONE ON THE FACE OF THE EARTH PURCHASE THIS PIECE OF CRAP. it has a replay value of about, oh, lets say, none. my favorite part by far was when you could clearly see the outline of a person walking around in the suit when he is about to kill the token black guy at the beginning of a movie. unnecessary cussing and absolutely zero plot add to the fun. i am so looking forward to watching carnosaur 3. "},{"Title":"It Was bad but still enjoyable","Date":"8 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw this movie late one night on the sixth (french) channel. Most of it was awful but there were still a few redeeming qualities to it. The actors were rather pathetic, typical dino fodder I'd say and all they did was swear and moan about the ugly lizards attacking them. But they were PROFESSIONAL dino fodder actors. Indeed, they were very entertaining when getting dismembered and chomped by the dinosaurs. The gory scenes were not bad either. The dinos, on the other hand looked cheap and stiff, for they were puppets!! Yes, puppets, my friends, shown in full view struggling on their stiff, fat legs to get at the actors. Luckily for them there is still the ambushing tactic, ideal when in an underground mining/scientific/whatsitsname facility. Some elements of the plot reminded me vaguely of Aliens though... Things I learned from this movie -Plastic mattresses are quite common in underground whatitsname facilities, they are a life saving device for crumby actors falling from ludicrous heights. -We humans are so dumb we have forgotten what to do when attacked by a shuffling, fat velociraptor, which is, to run like hell or hide. -Cloned velociraptors and tyrannosaurs look nothing like their prehistoric ancestors who were lithe, mighty and sleek-looking. Clones are fat, stiff and fake-looking. -A tyrannosaur cannot smash through an elevator door, especially when this one is made of metal mesh. -Dinos are extremely annoyed by Wagner's music, especially Flight of the Walkiry. -Dinos can unrig a booby trap better than any old soldier. -A man being shaken around in a T-rex's maw looks a lot like a plastic dummy. "},{"Title":"Dull. Some spoilers!","Date":"2 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Plot Carnosaur II is not a sequel to Carnosaur, it just follows the same principle - humans running away from dinosaurs. Out in the Nevada desert (80 miles in all directions) is a secret facility with lots of subbasements. When a computer team is called in to repair the place and find out what happened to the crew, chaos reigns. The team starts to get eaten one by one by a group of very intelligent dinosaurs, often smarter than the humans. The two women in the group have the messiest deaths (one like Aliens, the other is a piece-by-piece meal). A boy and one member of the team manage to get out, only to find a single T-rex after them. The facility was sitting on a uranium mine, so with some dynamite the two blow it up and escape on an Evac helicopter.DIRECTING 4/10- Okay...nothing to be amazed over but a few nice shots and at least a little coherency.WRITING 3/10- Pretty bad. Lots of people yelling We got to get out of here and We're trapped.ACTING 6/10- The acting, especially from lead role John Savage, is pretty good for a indie monster film.GORE 6/10- A severed head, severed limbs, some light blood here and there, a chewed off arm. The kill scenes are graphic and bloody, most are shown on-screen.MONSTERS A Carnosaur and a group of raptors.SPECIAL EFFECTS 4/10- The monsters look a little rubbery, but the gore is on the money. The Helictopter crash scene is one of the worst since The crawlers.MUSIC 3/10- A few forgetable military-esque tunes. Nothing to write home about.Final verdict- Carnosaur 2 is a lame monster movie. Good gore, but every thing else is forgetable and dull. It's like a low-budget version of Alien, except put rubbery raptors in place of bizzare creatures. My rating for Carnosaur 2- 3.5-10. Not worth watching. "},{"Title":"Craptacular doesn't come close","Date":"24 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  (spoiler) Well it's not the worst movie we've ever seen, but it's close.  On the bright side it didn't have ANYTHING to do with the first one except they used the same crappy dinosaurs and some of the same footage.  A lot of scenes were ripped off from Aliens and then made crappy, like the chick getting killed in the helicopter and the two guys blowing themselves up. I'm still wondering why the dinosaurs drasticly change the proportions of their bodies when they grow.  When they're little they've got hands bigger than their torsos but the big foam rubber t-rex hand dinky little useless hands. I'm also really curious to know why the US Department of Defense leaves live nuclear weapons lying around in the bottom of a cave.  Apparently the 12 year old that wrote the script for this movie doesn't know that it's really easy to make nukes non-viable. It's good to see that our hero went on to bigger and better things.  It's the same guy that plays the sinister army guy in Dark Angel. I can't wait to watch the 3rd. "},{"Title":"These guys should just quit while they're ahead.","Date":"9 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The deadly dinosaurs are back for revenge, and everything sucks twice as bad as before.  This one still has cheap special effects, cheap acting, and cheap everything else.  If you see this one sitting on the counter of your local video store, just do yourself and I a favor and ignore it.   "},{"Title":"Dinosaurs which do not even frighten !","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Prehistoric monsters, brought to life by scientists having manipulated their fossilized ADN, sow terror in a uranium mine. It is a pleasure to find the excellent John Savage, pursued by conveniently small dinosaurs, in this other exploitation of the lucrative `Jurassic Park vein. Beware, there are some gory sequences ! "},{"Title":"I HATE THIS!","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  WARNING SPOILERS--When I saw this movie, I wondered whether the people who made the film had nothing to do and just engineered this movie's existence. I hate Carnosaur 2. The acting is poor, the text was garbage, and worst of all the plot, the story, the characters, and every geekin' thing in the movie was all copied from ALIENS, my favourite movie. Every scene in Carnosaur 2 came from ALIENS. For instance, when these two guys are cornered by the monsters, one decides to blow both him and the other guy up with dynamite. This scene came from ALIENS, where the commander takes himself and a wounded soldier out with a grenade when they are trapped by aliens. Another scene When the woman is prepping the helicopter for take-off, a monster appears behind her, kills her, and the chopper blows up. In ALIENS, when the evacuation craft is on its way to pick up the soldiers, an alien stows away onboard, then later kills the pilot and causes the ship to crash. Yet another scene When the character goes to rescue the boy and get out of the base before it blows up, they are confronted by a bigger mother monster, and the boy drives a forklift and drops it down the elevator shaft. In ALIENS the woman goes to rescue the little girl, but are confronted by an alien queen, which later stows away in the evacuation ship and attacks the two. The woman then uses a robotic loader and drops it down an airlock. I COULD GO ON FOREVER! Carnosaur 2 is just a waste of time. A message to anyone who thinks Carnosaur 2 is not bad Go watch ALIENS. If you think ALIENS copied Carnosaur 2 Then look at the years when both movies were made. "},{"Title":"The only reason I even rented this piece of garbage...","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The only reason I rented this movie was because there was a picture of a hot babe in a skimpy dress on the front of the box - it turned out that she wasn't even in the movie!!! It was terrible!!! The movie Jurassic Park wanted to be (or something to that effect) my posterior!!! "},{"Title":"Warning! Avoid!!","Date":"29 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The only reason I'm writing this review is to warn any poor souls that might bump into this piece of trash in a video store.This movie is a scene-by-scene rip off of ALIENS (1986) The only difference is that they replaced the aliens with dinosaurs...please do yourself a favor and see the new Directors cut of Aliens on DVD and VHS that inspired this sad mess and enjoy a REAL movie for once. "}]