[{"Title":"One Of The Best Submarine Movies...","Date":"11 February 2004","Score":"72 out of 89 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  As CRIMSON TIDE opens we visit various crew members of the USS Alabama as they bid farewell to their loved ones.  For one man, Lt. Cmdr. Ron Hunter (Denzel Washington), it will be his first time as second in command of a nuclear submarine.  Capt. Frank Ramesy (Gene Hackman) is in charge and is not shy about letting everyone know.  He is a seasoned veteran, as juxtaposed with the young idealistic Hunter.  The early scenes do much to set up the main conflict of the film.  For example when members of the crew discuss Carl Von Clausewitz, and his 1832 work Vom Kriege (On War), the intellectual showdown occurs between Ramesy and Hunter.  This scene not only heightens the tension, but also reveals the different philosophies of these two men, what they believe in, why they are there.  This short scene goes a long way to setting up why each of these characters are so unbending when the crisis presents itself.The Crisis  The ship has been damaged and the EAM contact that has been received is disjointed.  The Russian force (who is never very carefully explained) is fueling rockets for use against the US.  That's all they know. The captain wants to surface and fire, Hunter thinks he's wrong. Factions form, but the film does a good job presenting a good argument for both desicions (although you get the sense that the film makers lean towards the dove side rather than the hawks).  As tensions mount, there are various shifts in power and the crew stands divided.  Every member of the crew watching as the minutes tick by, closer and closer to the final moment of truth...Hackman is at the top of his form here as the relentlessly tough Ramesy. When given a good script with room to work, there is few better at creating a solid performance.  The looks he gives, the way he uses his eyes, his speech patterns, simply wonderful to watch.  Washington is just as good as Hunter, and the showdown between these two men, near the end, sends sparks flying off the screen.  The rest of the cast is filled out with strong actors Matt Craven, George Dzundza, (pre LOTR's) Viggo Mortensen, and (pre 'Sopranos') James Gandolfini.As is well known, the script received various rewrites from Robert Towne (the Clausewitz scene), Steve Zaillian, and Quentin Tarantino (the Silver Surfer references, the scene where the crew chimes in about other submarine movies).  All these different contributions blends fairly well together. The story is tough and direct, and touches on points that heighten the tension.  The photography, by Dariusz Wolski (DARK CITY, THE CROW), is tight and atmospheric; Hans Zimmer's score pounding and reflective.  The VIP vote, however, goes to Tony Scott, who proves himself with this film.  He knows when to hold shots and doesn't rush the action (as he did with TOP GUN); he paces the film well and let's his actors work for him.  CRIMSON TIDE is an entertaining and challenging film that, along with films like THE HUNT FOR RED OCTOBER and DAS BOOT, may set the high water mark (forgive the pun) for the genre.  9/10. "},{"Title":"Perspective from a real nuclear submariner","Date":"14 March 2005","Score":"51 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" ( I wrote a lot more but had to edit cause of the 1000 word limit) As a drama Hollywood type sub flick, I gave Crimson Tide a 6. But I just watched it on HBO tonight and have to say it is one of the most unrealistic sub movies I've ever seen. I was in the silent service and qualified in submarines. Of course a lot of what I'll write would not bother the casual viewer, but the discrepancies, details and plot were just too much to overlook. To start with, Gene Hackman's dog coming underway with him is a load of Huey and really made me look down on this picture from the beginning. The Chief of Naval Operations himself would not or could not bring a pet on a ship with him. They threw in a few catchy phrases and buzz words but for the most part the terminology used in the control room was made up. Even for an Ohio class boat the set for the movie's submarine was entirely too spacious. The crawl spaces the XO used to sneak into the control room was ludicrous. Submarines do not have anything like that. They are tightly packed with equipment and machinery and simply do not have that kind of space.I still don't understand how the reactor was scrammed and lost propulsion from the torpedo that hit in the stern and caused all that flooding. If anything was damaged that badly, it's not getting fixed at sea. This isn't Star Trek. The radio scenario was absolute rubbish as well. There are so many redundant comms systems on board and inside the radio shack, no way would one receiver getting fried completely isolate the ship from command authority. The EAMs might have looked good on the screen but the real deal and Sealed Authentication System is so much more complicated, it's not even funny. There is literally dozens of yellow pages thick manuals covering nuclear command and control systems, and without going into classified details, I cannot believe something like this could ever happen on board a US submarine.There is no way people would be aiming guns around like they were in the movie either. On a real submarine which is packed with 3000 pound hydraulics and high pressure air systems, 1 bullet could kill everyone in a compartment in which it was discharged. The beginning of the movie with the fire in the galley was a load too. Fires are the biggest threat to ships safety and if they had a fire in real life, the CO would immediately surface the ship to fight it. A fire in such an enclosed space, would make so much smoke, within minutes you couldn't see your hand in front of your face, and the ship would have to emergency ventilate. Let alone the nonchalant way they dealt with that one guy dying. And of course no real submarine CO would run a drill 2 minutes after securing from a real fire. If someone was killed in a casualty, the CO would be sweating bullets.Tony Soprano making that fat dude drop and do push ups on the bus. Talk about unprofessional. People have an unrealistic view of military discipline. That may happen in boot camp but not in the real fleet. Also that COB was unbelievably fat. No he wouldn't fit on a submarine and they don't even let people that big in the military. Also, these SSBN's are on tightly regimented patrol cycles, with 2 crews. There are always some on patrol in alert status. The XO and weps wouldn't get paged to get underway. If they were on their off-crew period, the other crew, blue or gold would have the ship and it would already be at sea. If something goes down, you need subs ready to launch already, you may not have the luxury of even the time it took the Alabama to get underway.The entire crew wears puppy suits, underway, officers included. Also you don't salute underway. If the captain walks by you acknowledge him but don't salute. The movie really made enlisted people look dumb imo. They are the experts on the ship's systems. And officers usually are the ones asking the dumb questions. The fight in the crew's mess over the silver surfer was a huge stretch. They give psych tests and such to submariners, one of the main goals to weed out people who can't handle stress and are hot heads. Not to say people wouldn't argue but if they were throwing punches, they'd have both been written up and in deep ****.And the last thing was the ending. If anything remotely happened like this in real life, you can bet the Commanding Officer who held a loaded gun to an innocents head would be court marshaled and sent to prison. Not just allowed to quietly retire. Also no CO has the pull to just get their XO a command. Less than half of XOs even make the cut and get command. You have to be the creme de la creme to get command of a nuclear submarine and follow a strict career outline. It was an enjoyable movie. But I've read some of the threads about, who's side would you be on, Hackman's or Washington's, and really the whole scenario is just beyond anything that is remotely reasonable! This movie was the Deep Impact of sub flicks. Might as well have said Alabama was going to drill through the bottom of the ocean floor and disturb the earth's core to cause a magnetic flux that would stop the Russian missiles from launching. LOL Bottom line, its a decent flick, but don't think it is even close to accurate or realistic. "},{"Title":"intelligent, intense, well-acted","Date":"9 January 2004","Score":"44 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Crimson Tide possesses one of the most intense moments in film two great actors eye-to-eye, portraying characters absolutely certain of their actions, absolutely convinced that the other's course will lead to disaster. A submarine commander (Hackman) and his second-in-command (Washington) are both shouting at the same time, each ordering the next ranking officer (Dzundza) to arrest the other. Washington believes, with good reason that Hackman is unfit to command because he is disregarding naval procedures. Hackman believes, with good reason, that Washington is disobeying an order and instigating a mutiny. A possible nuclear exchange and the deaths of billions hang in the balance. Dzundza knows that he must make the correct decision, regardless of his like or dislike of each of his superiors.There are traditional incidents that arise in submarine stories fires, floods, sinking to the bottom, torpedoes, loss of communication. (After all, what more can you do in such a small set?) Crimson Tide has its share, but does them well you won't be bored just because you have seen subs in the same situation before. The movie's major conflict arises over a very tense, crucially significant incident, a believable situation that could arise and, unresolved, lead to catastrophe for more than just the boat.Hackman is always excellent portraying a character with depth. As the captain he can command respect and obedience with a growl, a steely look, an angry shout, or a wicked joke. In contrast, Washington's calm, strong, logical intensity is the immovable rock to Hackman's irresistible force. When his eyes bore into you (as in remember Glory and Philadelphia?) you feel his sincerity and strength in your bones.Crimson Tide has genuine, believable characters, edge-of-your-seat tension, and crackling, intense interchanges between two of my favorite actors. I recommend it as a thinking person's submarine movie. "},{"Title":"Wow! What an adrenaline rush!","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"29 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Crimson Tide is awesome in the way it creates intensity and non-stop adrenaline rushes using scenes full of action, and scenes that aren't. The torpedo attack with the Russian sub was so fast-paced and packed with energy that it makes you bounce in your seat. Gene Hackman and Denzel Washington gave awesome performances, and their growing tension towards each other is enough to keep the excitement at a consistent high through the last half of the film. I don't appreciate how Hackman's character is regarded by most moviegoers as a mad man. He is just simply a seasoned, tough-as-nails military officer who must assume that the US is in danger, and he must stick by the orders that require him to go to drastic measures to protect us. The director did a good job at raising the tension, even though the ending was very predictable. The message at the very start of the film set the perfect tone. The entire film is in a way scary by making us wonder if what would happen in a situation like this, and how could the military establish proper operating procedures for it. However, the message at the end of the film re-establishes some hope. 9/10, and I love the creative title.  "},{"Title":"Very well made military drama","Date":"28 May 2005","Score":"22 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The suspense is relentless in this believable, tense and superbly acted war drama. One of the best modern war movies I have seen, Crimson Tide is a story about strained loyalty, respect, command, discipline, power, and military practice. Hackman and Washington are perfectly cast as an older battle-hardened nuclear submarine captain and his younger, less experienced but highly educated executive officer, caught in a crisis of potentially world-threatening proportions. Pursued by an enemy submarine, the USS Alabama has nuclear warheads aimed and ready to fire as a pre-emptive strike against a Russian rebel commanding his own nuclear arsenal. The Alabama is commanded to launch, and begins preparations, but the enemy sub attacks, knocking out all communications just as a second command is being received. The nature of that second command and what to do about then becomes the key problem that the Captain and XO have to deal with. Suffice to say, they do not agree on how to proceed, and the remainder of the film is a struggle between the two men and those who support each, in a crippled but still lethal sub, with the fate of the world hanging in the balance.What's is amazing about Michael Schiffer's story is its plausibility. The basic scenario upon which the script is based could happen. The cast - all of them - are spectacular, and the directing is masterful. Although some of the behavior of the men aboard the Alabama seems improbable at times, given the military realities of chain of command and discipline, the sheer performance power of this film's cast and production team make it all seem very real and extremely compelling. the characters are HUGE, complex, and real. More than just a cautionary tale, this is a very human drama about who people become under extreme conditions, and how they work out problems to reach solutions, or fail to do so. If that final sentence sounds cryptic, then let it entice you to see the film so you can figure out what I mean for yourself. "},{"Title":"Good, but...","Date":"24 August 2003","Score":"73 out of 130 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Enjoyable, good tension, good dilemma, good cast. ButYou have a movie like this where either Washington's or Hackman's character side could be right about their course of action. The aim of the movie, ostensibly, is to present both sides and let the viewer figure out which is the correct course.But you can't possibly side with Hackman, can you?After all, his character goes nuts when everything starts happening. His character is possibly racist. And his character is prepared to launch nukes. Washington's character is, quite nobly, none of those things.Ho hum. Hollywood audience manipulation at its finest.Would it kill these writers and producers to present a dilemma movie in an intelligent fashion for once? I'd like to struggle with who's right and who's wrong? just once in my moviegoing life. "},{"Title":"Red Alert, Red Alert, Red Alert, Red Alert....","Date":"10 July 2004","Score":"24 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Tense little action thriller on par with The Hunt for Red October has a nuclear submarine commander (Gene Hackman) and his new second-in-command (Denzel Washington) getting in a chess match of words and wits ala Mutiny on the Bounty. Russian rebels may be about to launch nuclear missiles at any moment. Commands come through for Hackman to detonate the weapons from their ship, but then another message after that one which is incomplete splits the entire crew. Hackman thinks it is time to take control with aggression while Washington believes that this is way too important without knowing everything there is to know. A wide range of characters on the submarine (which includes Viggo Mortensen, Steve Zahn, James Gandolfini, Rick Schroeder, George Dzundza) must decide which of the all-world performers they are going to side with. The screenplay is mediocre really, but Hackman and Washington know how to overcome that and director Tony Scott keeps the pulse of his audience in high over-drive. Definitely an acceptable piece from the genre. 4 stars out of 5.   "},{"Title":"Tension and suspense achieved","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"24 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is the type of movie Tony Scott  should have stuck to creating. While  most Jerry Bruckheimer films prove  to be bad, modern interpretations of  old school martial arts movies, this  was one of the better films Bruckheimer  ever produced. While the story was  completely plot-driven and the performances  a little over the top, the rivalry between  Denzel Washington and Gene Hackman  made this film a cut above the rest of  the trash Bruckheimer tends to produce.  While simple and direct, it proves to be  effective in the annals of storytelling,  never overindulging the viewer. "},{"Title":"Good action/drama","Date":"10 July 2005","Score":"25 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I find it interesting watching movies today that are realistically not that old, but due to the way the world stage has changed today, could never really be made in their current form.Crimson Tide is an action/drama movie centering around the events on an American nuclear submarine during a fictional coup in the old Soviet Union where a rebel faction gains control of a Soviet nuclear base.The main conflict in the story is between the Captain (Gene Hackman) and the Executive Officer (Denzel Washington), who both represent two very different Naval Officer types. Hackman is the old Cold Warrior (don't think about the order, your job is to just do it) and Washington is the new breed (educated and taught to think about the actions they are asked to undertake). Orders are received and both respond very differently to the same order.Overall, the story flows well and the drama is gripping. Technical flaws abound (as is the case with most of these sort of stories), but nothing that really detracts from the story (although, it does leave you wondering if a situation like this would be possible....you just hope there is procedure in place somewhere to stop it!) "},{"Title":"Denzel Washinton's best movie, period","Date":"10 April 2009","Score":"28 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Crimson Tide is one of my favorites and to me is the best submarine movie ever made. And I don't understand why people say the The Hunt for Red October is THE submarine film. Because, to me THFRO was very long and moved at a snail's pace, and also the murky underwater action scenes were hard to look at because you could hardly see what was going on.However, Crimson Tide is an improvement in my opinion. It's over 2 hours long, but its pace moves by so fast that you're not gonna realize it. But if you're looking for tons of explosions and gunfire, then this ain't your kind of movie, it happens to be more suspense-oriented. Otherwise, you can just check out Die Hard, Terminator or Aliens, for the action-packed extravaganza that most people want. But I guess the scene in which the subs face off and each are firing the torpedoes at each other could be considered action. And that scene in probably the best part of the entire movie since there is no way anyone could resist the suspense and especially when the sub is sinking and the water pressure is rising and it could compress at any second.Without going on and on too much I'll just give the basic premise of the movie so you won't get too confused. It's been a couple years after the Soviet Union collapsed and now a radical leader and his followers are trying to takeover the Russian government and is threatening to launch nuclear missiles into both the United States and Russia itself if they interfere with him. And the USA sends a submarine with nuclear missiles out to the Pacific Ocean in case the event of when the Russian missiles are launched and they could instantly counter-attack. But the two commanding officers clash on whether or not the missiles should be fired since they are debating if Russia is attacking or not. But since they are so far down in sea level, they can't communicate to get their orders. At first, it may seem uninteresting, but you'll realize how much suspense and tension is in here when you see it.As for the acting, well what can I say? Denzel Washington has gotta be the greatest method actor in Hollywood right now and Crimson Tide is a prime example. So far in his career, he already won an Oscar for Glory and Training Day in which he gave two outstanding performances that will forever be remembered in Hollywood. But his work in Crimson Tide is, and I dare say, tops both of his Oscar-winning performances. He plays the lead role as Lt. Commander Ron Hunter, who is objecting his Captain's orders to attack Russia since it would cause a complete nuclear holocaust with billions of deaths involved.Gene Hackman, who is another Hollywood favorite, is Captain Frank Ramsey, the crazy old guy who will stop at nothing to ensure that World War III between the USA and Russia happens. His character even preferred to have a missile drill happening when the sub had a fire and its safety was endangered, and as a result an officer lost his life.Hackman's character represents the way the USA was before in a time of war, and they seeked anything to get involved in that war so other countries would fear them. Washington's character symbolizes what the USA is like during the 1990's and they would try to stay as neutral as possible. Also, the scene when Denzel and Gene are arguing and shouting over each other about the nukes and before the mutiny happens has gotta be one of the greatest acted scenes ever. And this basically provides the tension that makes Crimson Tide what it is as a film. And the bulk of the movie, the question Will they launch or not? goes on. Just watch it and found out.Also, the dialogue is among the best I've ever heard, and heck, I'll say that it even challenges Pulp Fiction as having some of the best lines ever. What's interesting is that Quentin Tarantino provided some of it in here and that's clearly evident. The Silver Surfer reference and the submarine movie trivia are the real punch-ups here. My favorite line from this is You don't put on a condom unless you're gonna f**k!.Crimson Tide is an excellent thriller movie that stands out because of the suspense, the tension, the acting and the punchy dialogue. Do yourself a favor and forget The Hunt for Red October! Crimson Tide will blow you away! "}{"Title":"Intense!","Date":"29 January 2006","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I love this film for it's intensity,particularly the intense relationship of the characters portrayed by Gene Hackman and Denzel Washington.They are two men at odds in the worst of situations;the possibility of war.It all involves an incomplete transmission.It could mean war,it could mean nothing at all.What do you do?You could strike your enemy before he strikes you,but would the strike be uncalled for? It's the not knowing that creates the intensity.Hackman and Washington are excellent actors,which goes without saying since they are both Oscar winners,and they play off of each other extremely well in this film. This fact alone makes it a must see,but the film's content is equally as impressive. "},{"Title":"An excellent fast moving thought-provoking film","Date":"1 March 1999","Score":"22 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  There have been few war-type films (Saving Private Ryan was another)  which have been so thought-provoking.  The acting and action was excellent as could be expected from such a cast so my comments are really centred on the story line and its presentation.  Set in the scenario of the post-cold war Russia, which is still with us,  the basic confrontation which faces every naval commander of a nuclear submarine was brought to stark reality in this film.  Who has the final say when it comes to pushing the button? Dependence on technology which is not infallible highlights the weakness of humans who become its slaves rather its masters. Ultimately the stark choice between life and death, between fiction and reality can become blurred when cut off from the world inside a deep sea submarine.  How many times has this happened one can only wonder.  Since we are all here it can be assummed that the CExcO portrayed by Denzel Washington always won or the type of persons portrayed by Hackman do not exist.  Good triumphed over evil.I wonder what happened to the men who mutineered, they seem to have been forgiven, for an offence still punishable by death, at least in the British navy.  It's easy to criticise many technical mistakes in the film and some of the improbabilities but the main points were made and shown well. This film rates just as high as Red October, which was of a similar theme but also excellent.  I wonder if Burt Lancaster ever sees these films?  In its day Run Silent Run Deep had a lot to recommend it, but that is for another Comment at another time when I see it again  "},{"Title":"A Post Cold-War Thriller","Date":"7 July 2005","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" How does one make a Cold War thriller now that the Cold War is over? One way of doing this would be simply to make the film as a historical period piece, and this was the solution adopted in another submarine drama, the more recent K-19 The Widowmaker. Political thrillers however, are at their most effective when they confront us with a scenario that could happen today, or in the near future, and lose some of their impact when they deal with something that might have happened- but didn't- in the past. The Crimson Tide deals essentially with something that might have happened in the sixties or seventies, but in order to maintain its immediacy it is set in the nineties, with a group of nationalist Russian rebels playing the part that the Soviet government might have played in an earlier film. A similar device was used in Air Force One, another political thriller from the mid-nineties.The action mostly takes place on board an American nuclear submarine, the USS Alabama, against the background of a revolt in the Russian Far East against the Russian Government. The rebels have seized control of the Vladivostok naval base and are threatening to launch nuclear missiles against America should government forces attempt to retake the area. The American Government are considering launching a pre-emptive strike against the rebels, and the crew of the Alabama await their orders.At the heart of the drama on board the Alabama are two very different officers, the submarine's aggressive commander, Captain Ramsey, and his more cautious, liberal second-in-command, Lieutenant-Commander Hunter. After an order is received to launch a strike against the rebels, the ship is attacked by a Russian submarine. A second message starts to come in, but because communication is lost during the engagement, it is incomplete. Hunter believes that the second message may be a recall of the earlier order to launch missiles, and refuses to concur with Ramsey's command to launch. When Ramsey orders the crew to proceed without Hunter's concurrence, Hunter attempts to take over command of the ship in a plot development reminiscent of The Caine Mutiny.Both Ramsey and Hunter are convinced that they are in the right. Ramsey fears that any delay in launching will leave America vulnerable to a first strike by the rebels. Hunter fears that launching the ship's missiles without waiting for clarification of the second message will lead to full-scale nuclear war. There is, however, little doubt that the film's sympathies lie with Hunter. Technically, he may have been in breach of naval regulations in refusing, on the basis of an ambiguous message which lacked the vital confirmation codes, to confirm his captain's order, but it would be a strange film which made a character who wants to initiate a nuclear exchange more sympathetic than a character who wishes to prevent one.A submarine is a hermetic and claustrophobic environment, and makes an excellent setting for a thriller. Director Tony Scott develops the tension very well, with some very effective scenes, especially the duel between the Alabama and the Russian sub and the scenes where Ramsey and Hunter and their respective supporters among the crew battle one another for control of the ship. We are never allowed to forget that very big issues- perhaps nothing less than the future of the world itself- are at stake. Both Gene Hackman as Ramsey and Denzel Washington as Hunter play their parts very well, bringing out the contrasting characters of the two men. I would agree with the reviewer who complained that the ending, with its implausible reconciliation between Ramsey and Hunter, was unconvincing, but that apart I found this a highly effective, edge-of-your-seat action thriller. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review  intelligent and thrilling","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"12 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Although billed as a film about a deep issue (how much control submarine commanders should have over their nuclear weapons), Crimson Tide is really a straight action flick in my opinion. However, it is intelligent and definitely a cut above the action/thriller stereotype.Superbly acted by the best -- never fail actors Denzel Washington and Gene Hackman -- they keep the tension at an eerily high peak throughout the film.Who should see this film-- action movie buffs-- borderline action lovers who won't build false expectations that there's a lot of deep issues and drama going on here-- Arty types who are refined enough to appreciate the acting, sets, and dialogue even if they don't normally like action filmsSuspense plays a large role in the film, so once you've seen it you know what's coming and may not wish to see it again someday. Only this limits it to getting a 7 out of 10 in my book. "},{"Title":"Plot makes no sense","Date":"31 December 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" SPOILER ALERTIf the Americans (and Russians) know exactly where the rebel-controlled missiles are, why can't they be disabled with conventional weapons by almost any country? Why can't somebody (anybody!) fly some planes over the depot and drop some bombs? Isn't a nuclear attack from an American submarine just about the worst, stupidest, most unbelievable way to solve the problem?It's so stupid that the first two times I saw this movie I literally didn't understand the plot at all. Why were we trying to start a nuclear holocaust just because the rebels were gassing up some missiles?? My dad had to explain to me that the sub was actually supposed to disable the enemy missiles. Uh huh. 5/10 because I enjoyed the acting. "},{"Title":"PREPOSTEROUS","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was absolutely ridiculous and preposterous. Maybe part of the problem is I am former military, but this made me stop about 1/4 of the way through, and say What the hell are they doing?I will say this was beautifully filmed, the cinematography was superb, and the tight quarters and claustrophobic feeling aboard the submarine was portrayed beautifully. The action sequences, and the tension were also portrayed very well.But the content of the story was garbage. Nothing like this would ever happen on a nuclear submarine without dire consequences. The Captain of a ship has that position for a reason. He is the Commanding Officer of that ship, and that is a powerful, and sacred thing. To simply take over command by force because you don't agree with how he's doing things is behavior that used to bring the penalty of death. Basically, that's all Washington's character did. Whether he thinks the right thing is being done or not, the Captain is the Captain, and you cannot pull a stunt like this because you think you can out-think him. This was not a good example of a circumstance when a forcible take-over would be permissable. This was an example of new-age self-esteem, assertiveness-training hogwash. With Denzel Washington smoldering and strutting right through the middle of it.Boys will be boys! At the end, Hackman and Washington are basically slapped on the hand, given a stern talking-to, told to not do it again, and allowed to go on their merry way. Everybody shakes hands, and the world is a better place for it. For crying out loud.........Filmmakers feed us garbage like this because most people honestly don't know any better. This was laughable..... "},{"Title":"What Plot?","Date":"27 July 2007","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" If you follow the plot this movie is not worth watching. It is OK for mindless entertainment. The Captain seems like a military man The XO seems non military. How did this guy get to this position with so much contempt for authority? You receive confirmed orders to launch missiles. You lose radio contact at 550 feet depth. You have a sub trying to blow you up. You cannot launch until 150 feet depth. Why not follow orders and avoid the attack submarine if you are going to be back in radio range well before launch depth? The COB does not arrest the XO when instructed by the Captain however he is more than willing to arrest the Captain when instructed by the XO? This movie seems to have been written by someone who has utter contempt and/or lack of understanding of our military. Give me a break The Captain was right for most of the movie. Then to end this thing with you were both right and both wrong?? The Captain recommends the XO get his own boat? I don't get this movie at all. "},{"Title":"A great film for...adolescent boys","Date":"26 November 2000","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Despite great acting, I didn't like this film very much because it is so cartoonish and predictable.  We've seen it all before and we see it all coming a cautious Washington pitted against the trigger-happy Hackman. The characters mouth overly dramatic platitudes. Technical and military accuracy is discarded in favor of ridiculous plot devices.  Lots of torpedos and spraying water offer visual excitement.  Lots of purple lighting sets the mood.  At least it isn't as bad bad as any of the madman-with-nuclear-bomb-threatens-to-blow-up-the-city movies.  I just wish they had put more substance into this action movie.  "},{"Title":"Tony Scott, RIP","Date":"12 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Prior to Tony Scott's recent suicide, I hadn't seen most of his movies. But now I've seen Crimson Tide. This portrays tension aboard a nuclear submarine when the hot-headed captain (Gene Hackman) wants to go ahead with a launch while the restrained executive officer (Denzel Washington) wants to wait for another signal. I didn't think that it was a great movie, but the context of rebel forces in Russia threatening to launch nukes brings up the issue of how secure weapons of mass destruction anywhere are, combined with the risk that a trigger-happy might ignore an incomplete message and decide to launch weapons. The point is, who can truly be considered sane in a completely insane situation? Like I said, it's not any kind of masterpiece, but still worth seeing. Great tension between Hackman and Washington. Appearing in early roles are James Gandolfini, Steve Zahn, Ryan Philippe and Daniel Von Bargen. "},{"Title":"Crash Dive","Date":"3 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Arguably director Tony Scott's best film, Crimson Tide is a slick submarine thriller in which the seasoned commanding officer (Gene Hackman) of a nuclear submarine faces off against his mutinous executive officer, played by actor Denzel Washington. Why the feud? Hackman wants to immediately launch a nuclear strike against a rogue Russian General, as per orders, whilst Washington wants to surface and re-confirm these orders with the White House.The film is better than most of its siblings, the submarine genre's claustrophobia preventing Tony Scott from his usual excesses. Script doctoring by Robert Towne (Chinatown) and Quinten Tarantino also elevate things, Towne bringing some clever, witty, tense, verbal sparring, and Tarantino bringing his usual assortment of pop cultural references (Star Trek, the Silver Surfer, racial gags etc).The film has a thin sliver of racism running through it, Hackman belonging to an era of pre-civil rights, militaristic, white, racist, nationalist law, while Washington's the smooth, well educated black man, a multiculturalist who schools white boys on the dangers of hate and aggression. Specifically, Washington's channelling black actor Sidney Poitier's role in The Bedford Incident, another cat and mouse submarine movie. The name of Crimson Tide's chief submarine, The Alabama, itself recalls 19th century Alabaman slave plantations.As a thriller the film works well, part Dr Strangelove (Hackman even listens to Barry Lyndon mood music in his cabin) and part a super condensed, super fast, clothesline of all the usual submarine thriller clichés. If the film works, it's because our leads effortlessly chew scenery, spouting machine gun dialogue and pleasantly hamming up their parts whilst Scott's slick, MTV cinematography lingers on sweaty faces, metal and sexy gear. Hans Zimmer's score is rousing.The film moves fast, preventing us from realising how contrived and implausible the plot is. It's not only that a nuclear strike against a terrorist is ridiculously excessive, but that everyone in the film is yelling, hyperbolic and jumping from one extreme to the next. Do real submariners behave this way? Of course not, but it's fun to watch.Interestingly, the film manages to lay equal blame upon the shoulders of both Washington and Hackman. They were both right and they were both wrong, the film says, Scott hoping that we ignore the larger wrongness of the US President ordering a nuclear strike in the first place.Unfortunately, this balance is ruptured by some last minute sequences which completely demonize Hackman's character. He pulls a gun on a sailor, swears and physically assaults several characters. Where the film's source material wants ambiguity, Tony Scott wants conventional action movie bad guys. Then, magically, Washington and Hackman become buddies, smiling and patting each other on the back whilst Hackman walks off into the sunset like George C Scott's General Patton, a well meaning relic who simply belongs to a different time. What the hell is actually going on here? 8/10 &#x96; Tide's sincere dumbness is part of its charm. Worth two viewings. "}{"Title":"Great Suspense - Great Characters","Date":"2 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Crimson Tide is one of those movies that do not let you relax for a single second. The suspense of the film is great, and the plot develops fast. Although the storyline is played most of the time in the same claustrophobic setting (a nuclear US submarine), there is not a single moment of boredom Situations change rapidly, and the action is immense.Crimson Tide is also a film of great characters The collision between the captain (Gene Hackman) and the XO (Denzel Washington) is portrayed and played artfully, as it develops gradually throughout the film. The captain is a raw, straight and simple type of officer, who has seen action in his career, and inherently cannot have much trust his Harvard-educated XO. A subtle racist feeling also seems to be present in his overall prejudice. The XO on the other hand, is the reasonable, think-twice guy, who cannot accept that decisions that will affect the whole mankind (a nuclear holocaust) can be taken without double-checking first. The clash of the two is inevitable, and both G.H. and D.W. are great in their respective roles.Overall, the film deserves an 8/10. "},{"Title":"With half a message and no way to confirm, do you start World War III?","Date":"9 December 2011","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This film is a political thriller in the vain of Tom Clancy novels. Actually, I don't think political thriller is the exact title that one would use for this film, but I think that it is the closet description that I would give it. Anyway, it is a film set on the brink of world war III. A mad Russian general has captured a military base when the rebellion in Chechnya spilled over into neighbouring republics. Capturing the base he then made a threat that he was going to launch missiles at the United States so their subs are sent out. The situation reaches a point where they are about to launch the missiles so the US orders a nuclear strike. But a couple of minutes later another message is sent out but the sub receives only half of it which leads to a conflict between the captain and the executive officer as to what course to take. The captain wants a nuclear strike while the XO wants to confirmation of the orders.This leads to a couple of interesting things. The first thing that raises is that even with the collapse of communism in Russia and the end of the cold war does not mean the end of the threat of nuclear war. If a mad dictator like Hitler were to gain control of Russia, even though it is little more than a third world country, it still has a military force that can seriously threaten the United States and the world. It also has a lot of nuclear weapons meaning that a very anti-US dictator could still start World War Three. In fact, they say in a mess hall meeting they discuss the fact that the US is the only nation to have ever used an atomic weapon in war and there are a lot of countries that really want to get back at them for this. The thing is that nobody is really wanting to plunge the world into World War III.It is interesting how this movie portrays the captain and life on the sub. In the cramped spaces tensions really start to get tight and guns are even pulled. The tension is added to the fact that World War III is about to start and there is tension between the captain and the XO about whether or not they should launch missiles. It is also a situation where both of them are right and nobody can really be blamed for what happened. The thing is that if the nukes were launched then it would have started World War III none the less. Even though Russians are supposed to be friendly now, they are not going to be too happy if an American nuclear missile lands in their back yard and will probably retaliate.I guess this movie returns to the theme that was addressed in War Games and that is the threat that nuclear weapons bring. An accidental firing of a rifle might kill one person, and even if a war breaks out, casualties will be small. If a nuclear missile is accidentally launched them a lot more people are going to die and even if a compromise is made then the damage is already done and a large place will be radioactive. A nuclear strike of any magnitude is enough to wipe out large portions of the world. I guess this movie reminds us that the threat of nuclear war is still very present, especially with North Korea launching missiles over Japan.On the movie as a whole it is very tense. The cramped confines of the submarine adds to the tension and the news broadcasts set the scene very well. As soon as the sub goes down and all contact is lost then we don't know. The cinematography is very good and Gene Hackman, once again, steals the show, but then again so does Denzel Washington, who has started to earn his honours. This is a very good movie and not one to be taken lightly. "},{"Title":"'Crimson Tide' - The Perfect Movie?","Date":"10 November 2011","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" 5 reasons to argue the case for 'Crimson Tide' being a perfect (or certainly near-perfect) film 1. The Cast &#x96; Denzel gives his character, Commander Hunter, a noble and honest quality which comes across and appeals to us immediately from his first meaningful stare at hearing the Russian ultra-nationalist Radchenko has threatened nuclear attack on the United States. A world away from his bent cop in 'Training Day,' his embodiment of these appealing qualities combined with the intensity of his character mean that we end up rooting for him, despite the film having a neutral stance on both Denzel's and Hackman's opposing views.Hackman still amazes this far into his career and delivers a perfect contrast to Denzel's idealist, Harvard educated Executive Officer, providing us with a by-the-book but sure and quick-fire Captain Ramsey whose methods revolve around giving his men 'a kick up the ass' rather than 'a pat on the back.' These two fantastic leads are given solid support from the likes of Viggo Mortensen, James Gandolfini, Matt Craven and George Dzundza who make up a team of wonderfully believable and very individual characters, serving the material well.2. Tony Scott &#x96; Ridley's brother is perfect to direct this kind of film and was clearly chosen for 'Enemy of the State,' another of Jerry Brukheimer's more intelligent outings, as a consequence of his sharp, pacey, flamboyant style which is used to its full potential throughout 'Crimson Tide,' simultaneously giving a sense of urgency and realism combined with that slick, slightly more pop-corn feel, identifiable with Brukheimer's movies.3. The Script &#x96; Credit must go to an UN-credited Quentin Tarantino whose name is written all over the punchy, hard hitting dialogue, giving the film greater depth and realism, - 'God help you if you're wrong.' - 'If I'm wrong then we're at war. God help us all.' 4. The Plot &#x96; Where other films mistake being serious for being mature, Crimson Tide's plot revolves around a very mature subject matter and the climatic argument that ensures between Hackman and Denzel is one of the most heated and memorable you're likely to see occur over any conflict in any other film.5. Hans Zimmer - Zimmer's stirring, thumping score is right there in your face, perfectly tied in with Scott's direction and the film certainly wouldn't be the same without it. He complements Scott's direction by giving each scene the added tension and meaning that it deserves. A first class piece of music and still one of Zimmer's very best film scores to date along with 'Gladiator' and 'Pearl Harbour.'Verdict Still ranks as one of Scott's, Denzel's, Hackman's, Brukheimer's, Tarantino's and Zimmer's most superior films and is just as powerful and relevant today as it was in 1995. Testosterone fuelled, raw, in your face and utterly compelling from start to finish. You may well have no nails left. But see it.Review by MARC PAYNE "},{"Title":"A Fine Movie","Date":"19 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Any film with Gene Hackman and Denzel Washington as the 2 lead characters was bound to be worth watching and this movie proves this to be true. I generally find submarine movies pretty dull and usually avoid watching them, but with this cast i figured it would be pretty good, and it was.Hackman, a hard-ass submarine captain and his executive officer, Washington, a well educated rational man, find themselves on the brink of nucleur war, with no communications and questionable orders to launch their missiles. With no way to verify a message fragment pertaining to the missile launch, the 2 senior officers disagree and between them start a mutiny that holds the lives of the entire human race in the balance.The result is a very dramatic, high tension movie, that is compelling to watch.Top marks for Hackman and Washington and 8/10 for the movie "},{"Title":"Solid thriller with a great constant tension","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Lt. Commander Hunter is drafted onto the USS Alabama before it goes to patrol the area around unstable USSR missile bases.  When on patrol they receive a message that rebels have seized the missile silos and are preparing to launch and that the Alabama should launch.  However while an second message come in Alabama is attacked and loses the radio message.  Hunter believes the partial message is the order to stand down, while Capt. Ramsey is ready to ignore the message as it is impossible to authenticate it and wants to proceed with the launch.  A battle of wills ensues while the clock counts down towards launch.Submarine films always seem to very enjoyable &#150; there's something about a pile of macho men trapped underwater in battles that is very cool.  Here the action is mainly of the verbal/standoff type, but the film is better for it.  The story does have some submarine battles in there &#150; but mainly the sparks fly as the crew is split over whether to launch their missiles or not.Washington and Hackman are both very good and they drive the film along but they have great support from people such as Dzundza, Mortensen.  Brancato and Gandolfini are both good and would later both become famous via The Sopranos.Overall this works well because the cast keep the tension high while the camera zooms round the confined space while the launch countdown continues.  It may not be high art &#150; but as a thriller this is very enjoyable, mainly because of Washington and Hackman. "},{"Title":"Pure Hollywood nonsense","Date":"3 November 2006","Score":"16 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" As someone who once tried to join the USN as an BUPERS(bureau of Personnel) officer, and who grew up with sub service officers, I anticipated this film eagerly. When I actually saw it, I was dumbfounded. This is typical Hollywood nonsense in that nothing is even minutely plausible. Hackman is CORRECT in his actions and attitudes--in the REAL world, there are BACK UP RADIOS, and MORE checks and balances--Hackman would have activated the back ups, got confirmations, and then did his DUTY. Denzel is of course Mr. God Like Hero to a generation fed on Hollywood garbage film making--of course he had to be the moral and action hero--baloney! In the Navy, he would have been hanged for mutiny! You DO NOT depose your Captain unless the Captain is suicidal or homicidal! Throwing around guns aboard a sealed environment is also WRONG HEADED WRITING--nope, just isn't done for obvious reasons like destroying the hull, releasing hydraulic units that could sink the boat to crush depths, ETC. Nope, I expected tense realistic drama and got pure garbage made to cater to politically liberal, mush brained thrill hungry viewers who are so uneducated(willingly so--and I am a college professor and know this as fact) as to believe anything Hollywood feeds them... "},{"Title":"Not impressed","Date":"5 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I love war movies. I watch just about every one I can. I'm willing to watch some pretty bad movies as long as they have heavy equipment of some kind. I'm afraid this movie fell somewhere near the middle - I rated it 6 of 10 stars.There was no shortage of stars and recognizable faces. It makes me wonder how the producers were able to pull such a high powered cast to a so-so movie. I would have to say my overall rating was higher just because of the cast. The acting was fine, but the movie was just short of boring.I noticed Rocky Carroll of NCIS fame, Matt Craven who played SecNav on NCIS, Jason Alexander of Seinfeld, and several others who must have been starting out in 1995.The story consisted almost entirely of a ton of dialog within the sub. The basic story, of the XO taking over the sub and the captain taking it back, was sound, but there really wasn't much else to the story. It was direction that screwed it up. Basically that was the entire story. It could have made a decent short of 20 minutes or so.I couldn't tell if this was intended to be a heavy drama, or something else.In the end it was watchable. But I won't every go out of my way to watch it again. Put this movie up against some of the great WWII movies, such as In Harms Way, and there is no comparison.If you like sub movies and a ton of good actors give it a watch, but don't expect too much. There is always somebody who labels most movies The best movie ever made. I just didn't see it here. "},{"Title":"The Greatest Film of Tony Scott and 1995","Date":"30 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Crimson Tide could be simply described with adjectives such as Intense, powerful, dark, suspenseful and full of heart. Absolutely flawless, this is one of the best of 1995. And I will throw it right at the beginning like the movie suggests it itself by including one and only woman (!) and only for about 3 minutes, this is no film for the ladies. Both leading men topped themselves with this one. Gene Hackman and Denzel Washington at the time seem so hungry for film-making! This movie is a proof of their talent and their charisma at delivering lines with such focused drama and power; no way won't you be amazed. I dare to compare them to great names after this and so should everyone. Great factor for what is the final result of course is the one who mastered it. Can't praise enough the great director Tony Scott. Picture and performances are superb and of total high quality and it's because of him. This is a film hugely underrated for absolutely no reason, except the one mentioned before on women. And that is kind of a minus but so obviously necessary.Commander Ron Hunter is one skilled, family, officer man. Under the directions of Captain Frank Ramsey (an experienced war hero with years of service on his back), the two of them embark upon a mission underwater. While introducing themselves on the US nuclear missile sub, we get to know 2 different men a man approaching the topic of war as a family man, who's drawn to views of preventing disastrous outcomes and intends to keep peace; while the captain is a man resilient and tough who, spending the years in conditions of war, has come to embrace disastrous situations and in the fear of danger (as a fearless Captain) is willing to do anything before risking his sub, even if that means risking a nuclear war. Those conflicts may be disclosed at the beginning of their encounter, but when the boundaries are crossed and the status changes, that conflict becomes the heart of a mutiny that produces madness, fear and danger on massive levels; and that happens on underwater terms and also risks consequences of sure war on the outside world.Right from the start and continuing in the heart and heat of the movie, we feel disturbed by one unintentional feeling to disagree with both of them and at the same time, agree with both of them. We are never demanded to sympathize or understand neither opinion fully, even if we have a personal preference. In the end, they were both right, right? The bar of the movie is so high, it never provokes the standard sense of righteousness of the hero and the viciousness of the villain. This time they are both on the good side; just failing to make us (and sometimes themselves) understand it. It's sort of like they both shared a misguided sense of right and wrong; one relying completely on rules (Ramsey) and the other one leaning more towards principles (Hunter). By the time the end comes, I understand it as it was all just a play between the safe choice and the wise choice. Does anyone else think that's the coolest dilemma ever? "},{"Title":"One of the best submarine movies out there","Date":"6 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I'm a great fan of films that take place in submarines, as the claustrophobic backdrop can usually be relied upon to bring out the best and worst of the characters trapped within the confines of these metal beasts. There were two big Hollywood submarine flicks in the 1990s THE HUNT FOR RED October, which I found ponderous and more than a little dull, and this one. The good news is that CRIMSON TIDE is superior in every respect.In fact, this might well be one of Tony Scott's best movies it's a cracking thriller, laden with suspense, that doesn't have to rely on action to be exciting. Instead this is a virtual two-hander featuring two actors at the top of their game Denzel Washington as the young, moralistic lieutenant commander, and Gene Hackman as the curmudgeonly elder, a captain who's about to lead his crew to the brink of nuclear annihilation.Obviously the scenes between the two stars are electrifying, and kudos to the scriptwriters for making both characters anything but black and white. This is unpredictable, intelligent film-making that frequently had me biting my nails; the tension and pacing are pretty much perfect, and in many places this is edge-of-the-seat stuff, a taut thriller that grabs you and refuses to let go until the last few minutes. Great stuff indeed. "},{"Title":"Script falls apart..","Date":"20 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Excellent acting by Gene and Denzel, but... Mild spoilers ahead...Starts out well as you feel the tension of their mission ahead. But about 30 minutes in, it totally goes into the realm of lunacy. How any captain of a nuclear sub suddenly goes into the insane act of wanting to launch warheads without even knowing if there's a war , is stretching any sense of realism to the film. And add on top of that, not one but two acts of mutiny is the span of 20 minutes, that is totally ridiculous. It became just a total farce. If they just stayed on the psychological battle between Gene and Denzel's characters and not the over the top nonsense, it would of been so much better. "}{"Title":"Solid Tony Scott thriller with a lot of great actors","Date":"17 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Russia is suffering political instability as rebels threaten launching nuclear war against US and Japan. The US sends nuclear submarine, the Alabama, off to sea. Captain Ramsey (Gene Hackman) needs a new XO. Commander Hunter (Denzel Washington) is brought on board. The two are cordial at first, but soon differences surface. Ramsey is old-school and doesn't think much of the college educated Hunter. When they receive a disputed order to launch, the two men struggle to get the upper hand.It is a compelling exciting submarine movie. There isn't an easy bad guy although we're meant to empathize with Denzel. The pairing of Hackman and Washington generates a lot of energy and a lot of acting power. They have a great back and forth during the climax. They are backed up by great supporting actors Matt Craven, George Dzundza, Viggo Mortensen, James Gandolfini, and Rocky Carroll. Director Tony Scott delivers a solid thriller. "},{"Title":"Intense entertainment from start to finish","Date":"15 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie is a classic example of what a Tony Scott movie really is. The movie also has one of the greatest ensemble casts of 1995 such as Denzel Washington, Gene Hackman,James Gandolfini,George Dzundza,and Viggo Mortensen. Director Tony Scott really thought about how great this movie really was like he does with all the other movies that he directed.The movie also has fantastic performances throughout and is a movie that is worth watching over and over again, for those of you who haven't seen this intense thriller i recommend it for you to watch because if you watch it on your own time you will love the film so much that you will want to own it. "},{"Title":"The Cold War, Reheated","Date":"10 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" When rebellious Russians seize control of their country's nuclear missiles, the fate of the entire free world hangs in the balance. To take care of the matter, the United States depends on a submarine in the Mediterranean Sea. The sub's captain is, according to the film's opening, one of the three most powerful men in the world (listed after the leaders of Russia and the USA). The Alabama is led my gun-ho veteran Gene Hackman (as Frank Ramsey). He has just hired cautious newcomer Denzel Washington (as Ron Hunter) as commander. They share an affection for horses, but do not agree on war action...The big problem occurs when Mr. Hackman and Mr. Washington interpret an Emergency Action Message differently. Due to a power failure, the message arrives incomplete. Hackman takes it as an order to launch a preemptive nuclear attack on Russia. Washington believes they should wait for clarity. Battle lines are drawn as the captain and commander are unable to agree...Crimson Tide is well-acted and nicely directed (by Tony Scott), but there is little logic or suspense. From the introduction of the co-stars, we know who is correct. Also, it's a silly movie. Washington uses pop culture to win friends and influence the crew. He lets Danny Nucci (as Rivetti) know who drew the best Silver Surfer and plays Star Trek with Lillo Brancato (as Vossler).***** Crimson Tide (5/12/95) Tony Scott ~ Denzel Washington, Gene Hackman, George Dzundza, Viggo Mortensen "},{"Title":"Both too fast and too slow, saved mostly by great acting","Date":"10 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" There is a lot of ritual in the American military movies from the 90's. More than usual, that is. Crimson Tide is the story of a nuclear crisis when a crippled US submarine receives orders to fire nuclear missiles, then another partial message just before communications fail. The hardass captain (Hackman, of course) is countered in his desire to obey the launch order by the intellectual XO, played by Denzel Washington. And you have ritual in this as well the speech before submarine launch, the wooden drills that have to happen just so with specific phrases and actions to reassure people they are doing the right thing. It's akin to religion and, by the very nature of the film, it makes you understand it was designed as such, transforming people into unthinking and uncaring machines.In truth, there isn't much to this movie in terms of story. The nuclear scenario is not really believable while the individual ideas in the film are simple and few. What makes the whole thing stand out is the great cast and their performance. There is some food for thought, though, because as far as the plot went, they really did receive a nuclear launch order when in all appearance, there was no need for one. That they recanted afterwards is of no relevance and perhaps a movie about that side of the story would be very interesting. Also, the ending shows that, as closed societies and fraternities often do, when a failure in their process or beliefs is found, it is quickly hidden under empty words and dirty bribes. Because even if they try to show the integrity of Hackman's character, the ending of the movie was just that a bribe for a cover-up.As a conclusion, it is a classic film already, something that is worth watching for the sake of remembering the names of the actors in social situations alone, as James Gandolfini's character proves at the beginning of the film, and it also makes one think, if one is willing. What I found chilling is the joyful exuberance of the submarine troops when destroying the Russian one or the fanatic desire for some to follow the launch order. As Sting said, Russians love their children, too. So often in such movies, this element is completely ignored. That is what starts wars. "},{"Title":"Thrilling","Date":"7 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Don Simpson and Jerry Bruckheimer's 1995 film production of Crimson Tide has a good Submarine Dramatization Action/Thriller plot that features some intense action scenes, great cast, & excellent dialogue. The director, who made this film was Ridley Scott's younger brother Tony Scott. The film was released on May 12, 1995. The plot starts off with a news report that involves Russian rebels loyal to Vladimir Radchenko, an ultra nationalist, have hijacked a nuclear missile installation and are threatening nuclear war if either the American or Russian governments attempt to confront him. A U.S. Navy nuclear submarine, USS Alabama (SSBN-731), is assigned a mission, to be available to launch its missiles in a preemptive strike if Radchenko attempts to fuel his missiles. The incredible Gene Hackman portrays Captain Frank Ramsey, who is the commanding officer of USS Alabama. Before they officially start the mission, they need to hire a new X.O. and the choice that they picked is Lieutenant Commander Ron Hunter portrayed by Denzel Washington. Hunter is an expert in military history but, no combat experience. While on the way, there was an incident and Hunter had a disagreement with how Ramsey handled the plan, it's evident that Ramsey doesn't think too much of Hunter because he was college educated while Ramsey worked his way up. They're given strict commands to attack but when they were in the process of receiving another order, the ship's communications were damaged, so the whole message was not responded. Ramsey made a decision to continue with their previous order while Hunter wants to re-establish contact first. That's when the two men butt heads that ends with Hunter relieving Ramsey. Later when some men die, some of the officers feel that Hunter is not up to be in charge so they partner up to re-command control. But Hunter has taken precautions. The two then-semi-famous actors Viggo Mortensen (6 years before he portrayed the role as Aragon from The Lord of the rings trilogy) and James Gandolfini (4 years before he portrayed Italian-American crime boss Tony Soprano from the HBO crime series The Sopranos) both portrayed two supporting characters deputy Peter Weps Ince & Bobby Dougherty. Speaking of which, there is a cool moment in movie, when Weps, Bobby, and the rest of the crew on the bus to the submarine port were talking about old submarine movies like The Enemy below (1957) and Run Silent Run Deep (1958).They were also asking trivia question about Submarine movies each other Weps asked Bobby who played the commander from Run Silent, Run Deep and then, Bobby answered Cary Grant. That answer is actually wrong , it wasn't Cary Grant it was Clark Gable a.k.a The King of Hollywood , who portrayed the submarine commander from Run Silent, Run Deep. Both The Enemy Below and Run Silent, Run Deep of course made the same connection of the movie due to the same submarine film genre of those two films as they were mentioned in the film that is of course also Submarine film and that's why I find this moment of the movie to be cool. One of the deputies of the submarine, Bobby needs a little more character development. There is a realization that Bobby doesn't really have a lot of dialogue of the film but, I still think that he could be entertaining character at times. Jimmy's New Jersey accent makes his character is the main reason that make his character entertaining in the film. 36 year old James Gandolfini was still portraying supporting movie roles at the time he started in this movie. Bobby was the main deputy disagrees on Hunter taking over the submarine. I find Hans Zimmer's film score in the action scenes of the film to be very thrilling. The sounds from the orchestra, choir and synthesizer makes the film score thrilling. Hans Zimmer won a Grammy award of this film score in 1996.This film score is one of Hans Zimmer's personal favorites along with The Lion King and Gladiator.Both Denzel Washington and Gene Hackman acted out on their lead characters really well. The way that they were both taking command of submarine was serious in a intensive way. The arguments about their disagreements that they had, made it intensively serious. I highly recommend that movie for people in general and especially people, who are into submarine movies like Das Boot. I find the movie to be Thrilling. I give a 3 out of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"Denzel vs. Hackman!","Date":"30 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Crimson Tide is a must-see for anyone who likes action combined with drama or are big fans of A-list actors. Going into this movie, I expected something along the lines of The Hunt for the Red October. But what I got is a better film. This movie portrays possible real-life scenarios on whether or not submarine commanders should launch nuclear weapons.This is about a naval submarine heading to Russia to launch nuclear weapons on them. But after the radio transmission failed in the middle of the report, the captain and XO go out on each other determining what will be best thing for them to do.The acting is phenomenal. Gene Hackman and Denzel Washington are brand name actors who never do anything wrong. They are marvelous here as the captains.Overall, this is not like most thrillers. This one has a great build-up and a great ending. Also, I must note the score by Hans Zimmer. It is worth listening too. I rate this film 9/10. "},{"Title":"The Crimson Side","Date":"3 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" My Producer wanted me say a few words about 'Crimson Tide' (4½/5 Stars) and I agreed since it is one of my favorite adventures of all time. This movie captivates me every time. All two hours fly by &#x96; it's tightly paced, action packed, has a fantastic story, rich sounds, colors and cinematography and above all else, has two great leads with two awesome performances. I'm a Denzel Washington (when he's not screaming for an Oscar, 'American Gangster,' anyone?) fan and he did great himself, but doesn't hold a candle to one of Gene Hackman's best performances ever. His ability to turn an eyebrow movement into a full semester in film school is uncanny. Overall, I loved the film, never tire of it and despite the You're both wrong finale at Pearl Harbor &#x96; I never agreed to that, I am glad to now own it on BluRay. My Producer is telling me to shush up and go to bed now. Thanks to guys like these, I can without the fear of nuclear war!(Oh, and on a side note, I developed a whole work news letter based on this film's title & font called The Crimson Side since it was in 1996 (so, topical) and we were the RED side of the call center (as opposed to the failing BLUE side.) Pretty clever, eh? Well, then glad to know you.) "},{"Title":"Run Silent Run Deep remake.","Date":"9 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This film has more gloss than it's 1958 predecessor, and essentially tells the same story, but in a 1990s/2000s era kind of vein. The Cold War is all but a corpse. Various hard-liners are trying to resuscitate the totalitarian regime the communist party held over Russia, and various elements, including an Akula, are vying to keep the image and military might of the Soviet Empire alive. A Washington Class boomer is sent to posture a secret US Navy's arsenal of nukes in case the the Soviet Bear decides to try to swipe at the American Eagle.The tale tells of two US naval officers at odds with another. So much that the safety of the boat's miniature and encapsulated society is at stake. In this regard (and many others) it's an over the top film. A film that shows the best at their worst. Or, at the risk of sounding jingoistic, it shows a US Navy crew acting like a Soviet sub crew (the Soviet navy had problems with mutinies, submarines as well as surface ships).The action is hit or miss. If you buy the drama (and the whole race angle), then it should entertain. But truly for all the gloss given to this film there are better films out there.On the plus side the music is pretty good.Give it a shot, but don't say I didn't warn you. "},{"Title":"Sub Sandwich","Date":"5 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Submarine movies are about two environments.  There is the underwater world and then there is the interior of the sub.  Between those two areas is the story set.  I rank the typical mainstream sub movies from least to greatest as such 'K-19','U-571', 'Crimson Tide', 'Red October', 'Run Silent Run Deep', 'Das Boot', and 'The Abyss'.'Das Boot' has the best use of interiors.  The camera is made servant to the surroundings and sound is used to augment the mood unlike the cacophonous American releases of the 90s and 2000s.'Abyss' goes one step further with probably the best underwater photography ever shot.  The mix of colors from blue to purple to black is astounding.Here we have a typical Scott film, no smarter than 'Top Gun', 'BHC 2', or 'Days of Thunder' and nowhere on par with its superiors.  Denzel takes a break from Zwick (a relief) with Hackman, but neither one goes to any new level.  It's all stuff we've seen before.Overall, 'Fail-Safe' with 'Caine Mutiny', and 'Top Gun' thrown in with no purpose.Final Analysis = = Cinematic Dud "},{"Title":"Enjoyable enough","Date":"17 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I don't know if I'd ever rent it, but I just watched it on TV, and liked it well enough. not a great movie, but certainly an enjoyable way to sit out a rain storm. it would have been better if they had figured out a way to ditch the whole enemy sub part of the story line, as that kind of weighed the story down a bit. movies like this that are about  a single issue and the interpersonal struggles that orbit it are best kept lean and focussed, otherwise they play very clumsily. well acted, and with lively dialogue. I thought there were too many extreme closeups though (it took me far longer than it should have to confirm that that was in fact James Gandolfini). it seemed very authentic as sub movies go (opinion based on various discovery channel documenteries on modern submarines that I have seen over the years), so that's another point in it's favor.on a side note, prior to seeing this I had rented Das Boot for the umpteenth time, and watching Crimson Tide so shortly after watching that, all I could think was what a bunch of wimps! ;) "}{"Title":"Horses","Date":"5 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Another goof in the film, Crimson Tide, Gene Hackman continually mispronounces the word Lippizaner. He adds an n which doesn't belong in the word and by doing so makes the small intellectual confrontation with Denzel Washington look uninformed. If you can't say the word correctly, then a disagreement about where the horses come from looks suspect. The word is pronounced - Lippizaner. "},{"Title":"Not What I Expected","Date":"8 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie for one reason, and one reason only Viggo Mortensen, who was as brilliant as he always is. I didn't know what to expect, as in general, I really don't enjoy war movies. I have to say I was REALLY impressed with this movie. The acting was for the most part superb. Denzel was great, though I do have to say that at times I found that he lacked the authority that someone in his position should really have acquired by this point in their career. Gene Hackman gave a great and very believable performance, as well, and to be honest, though I was mostly in favor with Denzel's character I couldn't really decide at points which had the smarter motive, because you really don't know what is going on in the rest of the world.  "},{"Title":"Fast paced, exciting, edge of your seat entertainment!","Date":"6 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Every time I've watched Crimson Tide, I'm always shocked to see just how involved in it I get.  From the visceral intensity of Tony Scott's masterful direction, to Hans Zimmer's top notch score, to the stunning multi-colored visuals, to the somewhat familiar but perfectly executed writing.  This, to me, is what Hollywood filmmaking is all about.  Story and visuals given equal importance.  The second hour of this film is possibly the most continually involved and exciting I've seen, or at least in recent memory.   A modern classic.    "},{"Title":"GREAT GREAT GREAT!","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Crimson Tide has fast become one of my favourite suspense movies of all time! Set on a submarine, you can immediately tell that they mean business when the characters start babbling on about submarine jargon!Denzel Washington is fantastic as usual as the replacement XO serving Captain Ramsey played by Gene Hackman who does an equally good job. However, I always felt that Denzel was 'the good guy' and Hackman the bad. Whether Tony Scott meant to portray like this I don't know but I found myself swearing at Ramsey everytime he came on screen. This is good because when this happens you know you're completely engrossed in the movie. If both characters were portrayed as 'wanting to do the right thing' the movie may have worked better as we may be struggling who's side to be on (Denzel in my case)Whereas the two leading actors did a fine job, Peter 'Weps' Ince was the character that stood out for me. Viggo Mortensen did an absolutely fantastic (x1000000!) job and portrayed an officer that was faced with a painful conflict and believed that what he was doing was truly right. We can see this mainly through his facial expressions (and what an amazing face it is!) and his actions. He is an amazing actor that is extremely underrated and has only just got the recognition he deserves because of the amazing Lord of the Rings trilogy.If you are looking for a tense, gripping movie, make some popcorn and watch Crimson Tide, I guarantee you'll enjoy it. (And even if you don't there are a few fit men to gawp at!) "},{"Title":"Impressed, very impressed","Date":"14 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I gotta say, this was a very well-made movie.  Definitely worthy of being one of my top 10 favorites.  Near perfect balance of action and plot, very good casting, and very good dialogue.  I don't think I could find one major thing wrong with this movie.  Only issue with it is that I wish there was a little more character development.  Other than that, fantastic movie. You rarely get to see a movie this realistic based in an environment such as a nuclear ballistic submarine.  Damn good movie, very impressed. "},{"Title":"Top notch drama","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Although not the best submarine thriller I've watched (Das Boot and Hunt for Red October, I believe, were superior) Crimson Tide still had enough drama and tension to make it one of the top films of the genre. Denzel Washington and Gene Hackman are in fine form as Hunter and Ramsey and they are supported by a fine cast. The interaction between the two leading men is superb, and both portray well-rounded and intense characters and, as the viewer, I never really knew who to support during the stand-off!! "},{"Title":"High thrills with a high 'tide'","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  *** 1/2Starring Denzel Washington, Gene Hackmen, and Matt Craven.The ship ALABAMA (or some state) must make a decision that could cause war with Russia and USA.  The decision is to either attack Russia or not.  A failed message didn't tell the ALABAMA to cancel or shoot, so the ship must take a high risk of causing war, or losing other's lives from Russia.  The film is a brilliant, fast-paced drama that kept me wondering what was going to happen next? "},{"Title":"powerful movie!","Date":"26 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is simply the second best submarine movie ever, only Das Boot might be considered any better. Great chemistry between the lead actors makes for powerful performances and the sound-track is just brilliant! A great (action) film, very recommendable! "},{"Title":"Better Than It Looks","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I had put off seeing CRIMSON TIDE for years, because frankly, I was sick and tired of military intrigue pictures.  I was sick of all the formulaic, shot-in-the-dark action, the intense stares between hero and villain, the constant barrage of governmental jargon.  When I finally did get around to seeing this film, I was most pleasantly surprised.  True, all the things I had come to expect from a thriller of this type occurred at one point or another, but it was the delivery, inventiveness and conviction of it's actors that sold it to me.  As the plot unfolded, I was genuinely interested in the events taking place.  There are some serious ethical questions about war that come into play as well.  Neither of the leads were stereotypical, gung-ho superhero types.  Both men are flawed, both likeable and suspicious at the same time.  Hackman's character often comes off as too eager at first, but further exposition reveals that he may not be so wrong.  Washington seems like the cool, collected type at first, but we begin to question his motives after a while, too.  Boistered by these great performances is some rock-solid direction by Tony Scott, and some wonderful dialogue passages obviously written by Quentin Tarantino (he was hired to spice up the screenplay.)  If I had one complaint, it would be that the ending was too pat and predictable.  Otherwise, this entry has rejuvinated my interest in the military thriller (At least for a while.)  "},{"Title":"A Fantastic,gripping, submarine epic","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Well, as my name suggests, I am a fan of a lot of smaller actors that don't get a lot of recognition, because without them, things like this wouldn't be what they are. An example of one of the characters that was I think pivotal in helping to demonstrate the tensity on board the ship in this was Vossler, played by someone called Lillo Brancato. I confess I had to look this guy up, but I knew him from one scene in Enemy of the State. After seeing this, I think he is a great actor, in his own way. Watch out for his intense performance as the radio operator who is told at one point that millions of lives depend on him fixing a broken receiver. He is the kind of small character that adds that little something to this, to make it a masterpiece, and there are others alongside him. Away from the cast, Bruckheimer and Simpson have worked fantasticly well in Production and Director Tony Scott has  accomplished a well paced film that is never dull or boring. Visually, it's a feast, that doesnt rely on special effects as much as 3 main essentials 1)Lighting, that really captures the mood of the sub, the confined atmosphere. 2)Great camera work. 3)Last but not least,tip- top performances, both from the big boys- Denzel Washington and Gene Hackman, and the smaller roles. This is one of the best action films I have in a large collection, and probably the best Bruckheimer one aswell. If you haven't seen it- I suggest you do. I give it 9/10. "}{"Title":"Cracking entertainment","Date":"16 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  What a marvellous film.  The performances from all the cast especially Hackman and Washington are top rate.  The fact that you can't all out route for one of the characters because they could both be right or wrong creates a tense dilema that plays in your own head while the film runs.The action set pieces are excellent and coupled with the political manouevres taking place on board the drama is suitably strong.  I have to say that the film score in this by Hans Zimmer is one of the best and most used pieces ever.  I read recently that even Michael Beihn used it on the set of The Rock to motivate him with his delivery of lines when he was playing the SEAL captain.Good film, excellent direction by the under-rated and overlooked Tony Scott, tense script, cracking film score and an action film that appeals to both your brain and your excitement receivers. "},{"Title":"One of the best matchups of the 90s","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"       I am no military man, and you can pretty much tell by the plot of the movie that these guys aren't trying for Tom Clancy, though the poster and title do copy Red October.  Scott was probably going more for something along the lines of Wolfgang Petersen, following in that tradition of submarine movies.  What this movie lacks in credibility perhaps it all but makes up for in sheer tension and artistry.           I have seen sections of this movie over and over again, and I am amazed at how good Hackman and Washington are against each other.  Whether they're at each other's throats or sides, they are both fiercely intelligent and potentially deadly.  The scene where Hackman finally lets loose on Washington as they prepare to launch is incredible.       Hans Zimmer created a booming score to match that has been used time and again in trailers, and apparently, tons of time went in to creating a realistic submarine environment, with heavy detail paid to the lighting and sets inside.  While the critics here have taken much time criticizing the procedures that the officers follow or don't in the movie, I'm curious did the set and light guys get it right?     Anyways, when I saw this in the summer of '95, I thought it was good but perishable.  Somehow, Crimson Tide has maintained itself over the years, especially now as we do come ever closer to nuclear conflicts.  ***.5   "},{"Title":"Two Great Actors!","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This was one of the better submarine movies.  I have yet to watch DasBoot, but I don't think that would change my opinion of this movie. This movie has a lot of suspense, and great acting by a good cast.  The tension created between Hackman, and Washington is very moving.  They both are very impressive in this film.  The chemistry between them is so good, that whenever they clash, you can expect a very well acted scene.  The supporting cast is good, with appearances by James Gandolfini, the guy from Law and Order, and Steve Zahn.  Suspense is althroughout the movie, and there isn't even much missile shooting.  That is a testament to the good writing and acting. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Good Submarine Action-movie","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Tony Scott has made a lot of great action-movies, such as Spy Game, Enemy of the State, Top Gun and not to mention True Romance as my favourtie Scott movie. Crimson Tide is no exception. A very suspenseful thriller, which delivers everything, a good action-thriller should deliver with excellent performances from Denzel Washington and Gene Hackman, memorable action-scenes and quotes. While the movie has to stand down to the classic Das Boot and Hunt for Red October, it is far superior to the more or less unimaginative U-571 still making Crimson Tide to a good submarine movie. When comparing with Scott's other movies, True Romance is still the only one to beat Crimson Tide while Spy Game hits the same rank7,5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Good movie comparable to Hunt For Red October","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The movie is comparable to Hunt For Red October. Denzel Washington and Gene Hackman show a very good performance (only second to Sean Connery in HFRO) and the movie also shows in a quite realistic way what can happen if the leading officers of a submarine have a very different sight of the situation and of how to react properly. What I also like is the fact that the different judgement on the situation is also somehow explained by the background of the two characters. One thing that caused some pain is the fact that in the movie Denzel Washington claims that the Lippizaner Horses are from Spain (responding to Hackman who says they are from Portugal). Since this passage of the film is also meant to show how intelligent the character played by Washington is, it would have been nice to also give a proper example. The Lippizaners are one of the main attractions of Vienna (just to remind you, that's the capital of Austria). The confusion might originate in the fact that the horses are trained in the Spanische Hofreitschule which nevertheless is situated in Vienna. "},{"Title":"All That and More (Some Spoilers)","Date":"12 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Others here have said just about all there is to say about the film.In addition to the kudos for Gene Hackman and Denzel Washington, I would like to add one for Viggo Mortensen as Lt. Peter WEPS Ince.Mortensen is known for getting into his characters and all but disappearing into them. His attention to detail and nuance in portraying Ince is once again a testament to Mortensen's dedication to character and story. The crewcut, the ring, the white t-shirt even under his civvies, pressing his own shirts, shows Ince is career Navy. He is also a family man, taking his son to a birthday party and thinking of his family when confronted with the life-or-death decision he must make. Ince is also a learned man. When the XO is talking about a military theorist's philosophy, Ince is in the background nodding in agreement.He knows how to work with a hard-nosed Captain who goes through XO's like his cigars, yet he is a friend of the XO. Ince cares about the crew and the respect is mutual. He puts a hand on the shoulder of the crew member who fails to do all the pushups a fellow officers demands. When one of his men is ordered back to work by another officer, Ince looks after the crewman. Ince is willing to die for what he believes is right, but he would not sacrifice the life of one of his men for it.The scene in which three of the officers force Ince to decide between taking the Captain's side or supporting the XO's takeover, Mortensen turns in a masterful performance.The entire argument that rages between the Captain and the XO is played out in Mortensen's portrayal of Ince. No less poignant when one considers it is WEPS who actually pulls the trigger to release the nuclear missiles. Mortensen brings that sensibility to this role.Another memorable performance from Mortensen. His name may not always appear above the titles. His role may not always be the biggest. But it always makes watching any movie he is in a worthwhile experience. "},{"Title":"dynamite thriller","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" From producers Don Simpson and Jerry Bruckheimer, and director Tony Scott comes this high-energy suspense thriller about the clash of wills between two headstrong officers. Washington is a brilliant, by the book Navy officer who's just been appointed as the executive officer aboard a U.S. nuclear missile submarine. Hackman is a hardened, tough as nails submarine captain whose instincts say shoot first and ask questions later. As the threat of nuclear war with Russia becomes imminent, an ambiguous message stages a mutiny that finds the two superior officers battling each other for control of the boat. Tense, exciting, and well-crafted, this high-testosterone thriller provides plenty of entertainment, and sparks fly every time it's two potent leads are on screen. An adrenaline rush, and sure to please first-time viewers. *** "},{"Title":"A Great Thriller","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Crimson Tide is based on a true story. I wonder how many times my country came close to launching nuclear missles. The message of the movie is this.  The only enemy in nuclear war, is war it self I can't agree more. Nothing but a pure adrenaline rush from beginning to end, and the performances of Hackman and Washington were phenomenal. Throughout the whole movie i percieved Hackman as an evil man, but at the end you realize that was not the case. It was simply a clash of opinions and theory's by two tough men who stand by their beliefs. Who's side would you have chosen? Capt. Ramsey's or chief Hunter? I just can't  stop thinking about this film, Tony Scott is known for his fast paced, adrenaline pumping music in the background style films, especially when teamed up with Bruckheimer. It was great to see James Gandolfini in this movie, i had no idea who he was when i first saw it back in 96'. I rate this movie a 7/10. *** 3 stars. It isn't the best submarine movie, Das Boot holds that crown, followed by U-571. But it is hard to compare Crimson Tide to those films because it is in a whole different setting, a new era in technology and weapons. I would only stack it up against the Hunt for Red October. Both are good, But this one is for the Hackman and Washington fans! "},{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Denzel and Hackman are brilliant in this movie. I've always been a fan of their work, they pulled this movie off so well, which makes this movie one of my all time favorite naval action movies. Well done, guys! Keep it up! I'd love to see a sequel to Crimson Tide sometime. I can picture it now, Captain Hunter, the new Commanding Officer of the USS Alabama, replacing Ramsey, who was retired from active duty. The plot could involve him being brought out of retirement and taking on a position in the admiralty. Also serving on the Alabama would be the C.O.B. and Hunter's friend from the weapon's room, (I forgot his name....) "},{"Title":"Exciting Movie. What Mistake do you Prefer?","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  In My studies some Years ago I learnt that Complex Systems can make Two Types of Mistake. What Mistake do you Prefer? a) System Works when it should not. b) System does not Work when it Should! The more you make sure (b) does not happen the likeliness of (a) happening is greater. Another example is Balloons in cars. If they go off by mistake they can cause a serious Accident. I was Taught that with Nuclear Weapons they Prefer B to A. Supposing that A Nuclear War just Broke out because of a simple technical mistake... Crimson Tide Brings up these Issues in a convincing way. Also the Moral Issue of Obedience in a Army of a Democracy. I voted 8 of 10. Saw it on Israeli TV January 2002.P.S. They should of had a Spare Radio Somewhere... "}{"Title":"superb","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Macho, slam-bang thriller about mutiny between the two senior officers aboard a U.S. nuclear submarine as they face the threat of war with Russia. Delivers with an utterly realistic script, solid performances, and some of the most intense confrontations ever caught on screen courtesy of Washington and Hackman. The acting provides enough solidity to overcome a slightly unsatisfying ending. Too intense to miss! 3/4 "},{"Title":"wow","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Whan I saw this movie I was blown away. At the end it gave me goosebumps, which, to me, means that a movie was more that excellent. I was literally without words and it took me a while before I could get to the phone and call my best friend to tell him to go rent it.This is what a thriller is all about, suspense. And boy does this movie have it. Although you somehow know the ending, the flawless performances from the lead actors make you feel as though you're standing right there, trembling. Great atmosphere, great script and a very important and unbelievable score by Hans Zimmer that made such an impact on me I had to buy it. Best submarine movie since Das Boot.8/10 "},{"Title":"Raises Questions.  And I have one.","Date":"5 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I have read many comments about the lack of reality in this movie.  Perhaps this is so but could not one lump most movies in such a category?  This movie takes the unconventional route of throwing in moral questions in the middle of an action movie (where good and bad are usually clearly and unrealistically painted).  For that alone, it deserves kudos.I do have a question though.  Perhaps I am missing something.  At one point in the movie, after the XO has relieved the Captain but suspects that he is about to lose command, he goes to a crew member, gives him keys, and says something like, Now these are the keys to the ship.  But after this, neither the captain or those on his side are looking for any keys.  Did I miss something?Overall, I give it an 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Unbelievable ending, overwrought music mar OK film","Date":"1 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I was captured by the dramatic tension of this film, but, at the same time I was bothered by the overwrought score, some of the portrayals of crew members as being unable to do their jobs without shouting or overreacting to difficult situations, and the very conventional (and quite unbelievable) happy ending, which seemed to have been tacked on to avoid resolving the very difficult quandary that the screenplay sets up, i.e. who was right?Other commentators have written that the situation central to this film's scenario could never happen, that an Executive Office and a Captain on a submarine would never find themselves at loggerheads like this, and that may be true -- I have no military experience to say otherwise. But once the writers have set up this conflict, they should at least have the honesty to tell us who *they* think was right, and who was wrong.There are a number of ways they could have done this. The Navy board of inquiry could have recommended punishment for one or the other, Gene Hackman or Denzel Washington, and the writers could then have easily indicated whether they agreed or disagreed with that judgment. But to have the Navy make a completely unbelievable Solomon-like decision that *both* men were both right and wrong is a complete cop out.If other commentators here are correct in saying that Hackman was within Navy regs to continue with the firing of the nuclear missiles, then what Washington did was wrong and deserved punishment. If the Captains's attempt to replace the XO when he refused to confirm the firing order was out of line (as George Dzundza character says it is), then *he* should be punished. Bureaucracies, especially hierarchical ones such as the military, generally prefer to pick a hero and a goat in any situation, and this one would have been no exception. In fact, a film about the court martial which followed these events might have been as interesting as The Caine Mutiny.It seems possible to me that the writers could not bring themselves to let Washington be punished because he was right in that he avoided starting World War III, but, given the seriousness of his actions (which are not properly a mutiny *if* they were justified by the regulations), the Navy would not shy away from dishing out *some* sort of punishment, even if it was only to bury him in some non-combat administrative post. "},{"Title":"A near perfect thriller (spoilers)","Date":"14 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The ending of the Cold War presented something of a problem for jingoistic film-makers and cinemagoers.  For years it had been a convenient framework within which hackneyed stories of good and evil could be told.  The lines were rarely blurred, and the heroic West could watch itself defeat the Commies from the safety of its cinema seat.With that framework no longer in place, Hollywood has had to look elsewhere for its villains, but Crimson Tide doesn't bother.  Ignore the details of civil war and maniacal rebels and this is Us against Them as much as it ever was.  It's an irritating flaw in an otherwise great movie, and it's a shame that writers Michael Schiffer and Richard Henrick couldn't find a more original set-up.That aside, this is by far the most intelligent of the Don Simpson/Jerry Bruckheimer productions.  The crappy 80s cheese of Top Gun and Days of Thunder was replaced in the mid-90s by an overblown slickness that brought the classic action movies Con Air and The Rock, but even these had flaws in their levels of testosterone.  Fortunately, Crimson Tide finds the Simpson/Bruckheimer excesses reigned in by an actual plot.When nuclear missiles come under the control of Russian rebels, the USS Alabama is ordered to fire its own in a pre-emptive strike.  A second, unconfirmed, message that could countermand the last order is interrupted when communications are lost, and the Captain and his Ex-O are thrown on two sides of a dilemma.  Gene Hackman's Captain demands that the missile launch go ahead, while Denzel Washington's second-in-command insists they wait until communications can be re-established and the second message confirmed.With the cheesy opening as the exception, the script is excellent, although the uncredited inserts by Quentin Tarantino stand out more obviously than a twelve year old's shorts in a mixed-sex gym class.  The tension is built gradually and skillfully, and never seems contrived.  The strength of the script comes it its willingness to blur the lines, in giving no simple choices for the audience when taking sides.  Washington's Ex-O is likely to provoke the most sympathy in his attempts to prevent a nuclear holocaust, but in doing so he ignores the regulations that have been put in place for such incidents.  Hackman's Captain is more dedicated to regulations and the chain of command, but he is not an unfeeling warmonger, rather an experienced officer trying to protect his country.  While the ending is rather predictable, either officer could have been right, and the ambiguity does much to elevate the film's credibility.The performances of Washington and Hackman are impressive, managing to rise above the two-dimensional characterisations usually found in action-thrillers.  Both men are flawed, and it is through their faults that the tension becomes genuine and the lines become blurred.  Indeed, the whole cast is top quality, and fans of The Sopranos and later seasons of NYPD Blue will be pleasantly surprised to find James Gandolfini and Rick Schroder in minor roles.A number of reviews have pointed out the errors and inaccuracies in terms of Naval regulations and on-board behaviour, but to us regular folks in the audience these are points of pedantry.  This is not a historical recreation or a biopic; it's a hypothetical situation which is tense, involving and claustrophobic, and one of the best action-thrillers of all time. "},{"Title":"Must be seen more than once","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  One of the best submarine dramas, and one of my all-time favorite movies! The first time I watched Crimson Tide, I felt that the questions raised were rhetorical, with black and white answers.  However, the more I watch this movie, the more sides I see to the subject, and am now almost on the opposite side of the question to where I began.  This movie must be seen more than once to appreciate the issues being posed. "},{"Title":"The tensest film you are likely to see!","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  What a film, it has everything! Great plot, fantastic actors, and some of the best direction I have seen. Who would have thought that you could make a whole film (that lasts almost 2 hours) set in a submarine. The story is set at present time (1995) and is about the crew of a nuclear submarine (The Alabama) who are sent to stop a war brewing in Russia, between a Russian rebel leader and the rest of the world. The story is so intense, that I sat biting my nails. You seem to get so involved in the film that you feel you are there in person. The one downside to it though, is that afterwards you think that what takes place on the submarine is very unlikely to happen in actual life. Also you will think about what you would do in their position. All in all, an absolutely fantastic piece of cinematography, with outstanding performances from both Denzel Washington and Gene Hackman. "},{"Title":"Better made and a lot more enjoyable than HUNT FOR RED OCTOBER","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The problem I have with most submarine thriller movies is that they get way into too much detail with the the submarine lingo, i.e.how the machines operate, the water temperature, how many torpedoes they still have after a battle, yada yada yada. That is the case with THE HUNT FOR RED OCTOBER. However, with CRIMSON TIDE, the movie never over-display its image as a movie about a nuclear submarine, thanks to the performances of its crew. Denzel Washington and Gene Hackman lead a name cast as two chief opposing chiefs of an American naval sub on the verge of nuclear holocaust with a Russian vessel.Hackman plays Ramsey, the captain whose strong desire to wage war conflicts with Washington's Hunter, who is determined to prevent aworldwide disaster.  "},{"Title":"Now that's star power","Date":"28 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Crimson Tide has a good story, but I see this movie just to watch Gene and Denzel duking it out.  It is a shining example of plotting two actors with larger-than-life onscreen charm and acting skills of the highest degree, which results in an electrifying action-thriller film.  Honestly, their conflict towards each other is what made this movie entertaining.  Perfect viewing with a bunch of people and a bucket of popcorn. "},{"Title":"Top film","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Crimson Tide is a top film for me in that you can watch it over and over again and it still makes you think.The acting is great, the script also. The tension is awsome aswell as the soundtrack (thanks hans). The sub action is good. p.s. Gene Hackman was brilliant, as usual. "}{"Title":"Definitely in the top 5 of my favorite movies","Date":"22 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Crimson tide is not so much a movie about war as it is about change and transition of world views between two generations. Having served in the Navy from the early 80's until the mid-90's, I fully identify with the tension between the two schools of thought. Hackman sums up the dichotomy perfectly when he rebukes Washington The Navy just wants me to be able to pull the trigger, but it seems that it wants you to know why. (Or words to that effect, it's been a while since I've watched the movie.) Hans Zimmer's incredibly superb soundtrack stands well on its own, but when meshed with the action packed tension of the plot, it becomes overwhelmingly powerful! A++ "},{"Title":"I am the captain of this ship - now shut the **** up!!","Date":"28 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  CT is a combination of tense psychological drama and superb acting.  Gene Hackman masterfully brings his character to a boil in reaction to the actions of the first officer from the initial discontent, to the awkwardly concealed irritation, and finally to the fist-throwing fury. In return, Denzel Washington displays smartness, coolheadedness, respect and intellectual, sometimes physical tenacity towards his captain.  The subtleties and innuendoes of the captain-1stOfficer dialogues when they do talk, as opposed to yell, punch and lock each other up, are paralleled within the crew during the mutiny (remember the Mind your f***ing panel!! scene?!).  CT comes through as a compelling portrayal of many shades of the human psychology.  It had plenty of moments that replayed themselves in my mind long after I watched the movie.I can only sympathize with the people versed in the Naval regulations for being turned off by the movie's factual flaws.   However, if every thriller had to stick to the truth all the time,there would be no thrillers left to watch.    Stretching the truth just enough to keep things plausible is how you make a thriller different from a documentary.  Yes, I'll keep in mind that CT ignores some facts the next time I watch it, but watch it again I will.  This is entertainment at its best!  "},{"Title":"Great Suspense Thriller","Date":"3 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Crimson Tide is an action packed suspense thriller filled with great intense performances by Gene Hackman and Denzel Washington.  Both men's performances are worthy of Oscar gold and are worth seeing this film alone.  The build up of tension between the two characters as they disagree about how to act in the face of a nuclear threat from Russia is tremendous.  A must see for any suspense film fans! "},{"Title":"Superbly acted thriller!","Date":"7 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I gave this one a 9 because of the acting. The story is actually a little bit weak. The film is set aboard USS Alabama, a US Nuclear Missile boat. Both Gene Hackman as the CO and Denzel Washington as the XO gave absolutely convincing performances. Their interaction is excellent and the tension between the characters is palpable during parts of the film. Hackman's character seems just a little bit insane and that insanity must be countered by Washington's level-headedness. This film has got enough tension to keep you riveted to the screen! I recommend it to everyone who doesn't mind coarse language. "},{"Title":"Good action, almost war, movie set in a submarine.","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Where does Crimson Tide get it's name? The name of the sub is the USS Alabama, and the Alabama football team are the Crimson Tide.Gene Hackman as the captain and Denzel Washington as his 'ex-o' are great. This is Denzel's first actual battle assignment. Gene is the tough, seasoned veteran. Vladimir Radchencho, played by Daniel Von Bargen (we actually only see him in TV news clips), is a Russian dissident threatening to take over Russia and their military might and send nuclear warheads to the USA. The Alabama and crew are sent on a mission to deliver pre-emptive nuclear strikes, and they get their order.However, a new message is being received, but interrupted, during a sub dogfight in which the Alabama comes out victorious. So, Denzel wants to hold off until the partial message can be verified, in case it cancels the order to send nuclear weapons. Gene doesn't, and a near mutiny occurs.The suspense comes down to who will prevail - the old captain who wants to get on with business, or the new 'Ex-o', who wants to avoid nuclear holocaust. There is plenty of action, but the opposing groups of sailors carrying guns and threatening to blow each others' heads off gets a bit unbelievable. Still, I rate it a solid 8 of 10, and good for anyone who likes action movies.(On a personal note, Daniel von Bargen and I were classmates and on stage together in a student musical at Purdue University in 1969.) 2007 update I just saw it again, on DVD, and found it to be an even better movie than I had recalled it being. Gene Hackman is just superb in his role.2014 update I just saw it again and knowing what the overall outcome would be helped me focus on the nuances of the script and acting. Very good, and timely now that Russia is threatening war with Ukraine. "},{"Title":"A Massive clash of personalities","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Crimson Tide in my opinion is one of the greats. The storyline and acting is of the highest quality as you would expect from Gene Hackman and Densil Washington. The story is about a Captain and and his new second in command who are on a nuclear submarine and are at the brink of war. The tension is wonderfull and the personality clash between Hackman and Washington superb to watch.A few things worry me seeing this film , one being , could this thing ever happen and two ,why are the crew of a nuclear submarine so young? Anyway putting that aside if you havent seen Crimson Tide do so now! 9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Exciting submarine-thriller","Date":"12 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Crimson Tide is an exciting submarine thriller that takes place on the USS Alabama.  The submarine is on its way to Russia, where extreme nationalists threatens to start world war 3. USS Alabama gets orders to use its nuclear missiles, but the order is not confirmed due to technical difficulties. Ramsey(Hackman) and Hunter(Washington) are of different opinions, when it comes to fireing nuclear missiles and the possibilities of mutiny becomes bigger.......... The actors in this movie are great, especially Gene Hackman, and there is also a great soundtrack and a good story.  But this is not the best submarinethriller, that title goes to the German Das Boot. 8/10 "},{"Title":"WOW!!!","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I have seen many submarine movies, but Crimson Tide is by far the best! It is very realistic and full of suspense.  I wish that more movies like this were made.  The only problem that I have with it is that the sub turns faster than it would in real life. "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"8 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Gene Hackman once again plays a kinda-sorta bad guy who makes you ask yourself, if I was in his shoes, what would I do?He does this with more guile than say, Ed Harris in The Rock, who was positively sympathetic. Hackman brings an edge, a bile that makes it easy to hate his character's personality, even if we understand his dilemma.Denzel Washington plays well opposite. His character makes you wonder if he is really fully in touch with the gravity of the situation, almost as though he is playing a game and is in over his head. (this is my impression, though, on second reflection of the combat sequence).Anyway, this movie highlights the dilemmas we may face in life when either choice may mean heart ache or even tragedy if we're wrong. Life doesn't always demand tough decisions; for those who've never had to make a tough decision, bless you. For those who've had to make tough decisions, but didn't have the capacity to appreciate the gravity of their situation, gee, that's too bad. "},{"Title":"Excellent thriller, tension that you cut with a knife","Date":"14 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is a movie that shouldn't be missed.  Both Gene Hackman and Denzel Washington give great performances in this great thriller.  The plot grips you as soon as the movie starts, and just gets better and better.  You don't know who to root for, Hackman of Washington, as they both do an excellent job of putting their concerns and views across.  Both have valid points. "}{"Title":"A must-see.","Date":"7 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Typically I walk out of action films thinking Not bad, for an action film. I walked out of Crimson Tide thinking Not bad, for *any* kind of a film. Crimson Tide is an exceptional movie. Tense, claustrophobic, action-packed, well-acted. The audience is treated to an incredible roller-coaster that takes twists and turns galore before the dramatic climax.The acting is superb. Both Gene Hackman and Denzel Washington are on fire, giving the audience two enormously compelling characters to watch. Also of note is the music, which perfectly captures the drama of the film.Outstanding. Simply outstanding. "},{"Title":"Some mistakes, but does good Hunt for Red October imitation","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Has anybody asked himself, why SEND SSBM to sea? Why not use one already in the Pacific? And why use submarine? Missiles fired from land are more accurate and there is less chance of communication breakdown. In Sum of All Fears (by Tom Clancy) when US decide to use nuclear weapons they decide for land launched missiles. And why go so close? Missiles could be fired from south Pacific and still hit the target. If they wanted to make this movie psychological they shouldn't promote it as war movie. "},{"Title":"Well-made, crackling, but ultimately unconvincing thriller","Date":"14 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Cap. Ron Hunter (Denzel Washington) is the new executive officer of the U.S. nuclear missile submarine ALABAMA, commanded by Cap. Frank Ramsay (Gene Hackman).  Ramsay is an old-school commander who sees himself as a weapon in the hands of his superiors, a weapon that does not ask who it is killing or why.  Hunter is a newer breed of officer who has different ideas about motivating the crew and who believes that his superiors are relying on him to use his own judgment.Fanatical Russian nationalists have seized control of an ICBM site on Russia's Asian coast and are threatening to launch against the United States.  The ALABAMA is dispatched to the western Pacific as part of a strike force to launch nuclear missiles against the site if necessary.  An order to launch is received, but it is followed by a second order that is garbled and incomprehensible.  Ramsay wants to follow his last clear order, although it means a full-scale nuclear exchange; Hunter wants to confirm the content of the garbled order rather than start World War III.CRIMSON TIDE works pretty well as a pre-apocalyptic thriller, due largely to its excellent acting.  I went into the theater believing Gene Hackman to be a better actor than Denzel Washington; when I left I was firmly convinced of the opposite.  Washington is at the top of his form here; his charisma and magnetism radiate from the screen.  He has a contemptuous glare that gives new meaning to the phrase if looks could kill.  He even manages to make sense of Tarantino's comic-book dialogue, using it to show that Hunter can get down on a level with his men instead of playing the tin god.To say that Washington surpasses him is no criticism of Hackman, who is superb as usual.  Hackman's Ramsay is no caricature, no psychopath bent on blowing up the world for the fun of it.  He instead believes very strongly in duty, and is determined to show that his superiors did not err in trusting him to carry out his responsibilities.  His speech in the rain to his crew is second only to Scott's oration at the opening of PATTON for tough, no-nonsense inspirational leadership.  If he shows signs of cracking toward the end of the movie, well, who wouldn't under the circumstances?With two leads like that, you'd expect the supporting cast to be eclipsed, but they're not.  The standout is George Dzundza as the Chief of the Boat, a consummate professional who stands by the rules even when he doesn't particularly like it.  In stark contrast to him is Peter Weps Ince, rendered by the remarkably versatile Viggo Mortensen, a basically good-hearted man who lacks the courage to stand by his decisions.  Not to be overlooked is Danny Nucci's charming, scrappy sonarman Rivetti who forms a bond with Hunter.  Nobody is doing a bad job here.Tony Scott's tight direction builds more tension than the premise warrants; you may not believe the set-up, but you sure want to see who ends up controlling this submarine.  I forgave Scott his trashy TRUE ROMANCE after seeing this.  Hans Zimmer's score is intense and riveting, and Scott uses it to good effect to convey the thrill of survival against the odds.  The film is claustrophobically shot by Dariusz Wolski, making us gasp for sunlight without darkening the movie past the point of being able to tell what's happening.CRIMSON TIDE's chief downside, and it's a doozy, is that it asks us to believe that Russia's response to ALABAMA's launch of missiles would be a full-scale nuclear exchange.  To put it plainly, this is nuts.  Why would the Russians react to our elimination of unwanted rebels with a strategic strike guaranteed to elicit the complete destruction of their own country?  Suppose the situation were reversed; some Lyndon LaRouche types seize a missile base in Alaska and threaten to launch against Russia, and a Russian Typhoon promptly nukes the base.  Heck, we'd probably thank the Russkies for eliminating an annoying problem, and we certainly wouldn't start the Big One unless our President were crazier than the LaRouchians.  Yet it is essential that we accept this premise to comprehend Hunter's attitude and believe that something real is at stake.  Even DR. STRANGELOVE was more credible in its own way than CRIMSON TIDE, since it invented a semi-plausible reason why the Russians couldn't back down.Next to this essential credibility problem, other unrealistic touches seem minor; smoking on board when there's nowhere for the smoke to go, a boom box playing full blast where quiet is essential to avoid detection.Another irritating problem arises although Hunter's race has nothing whatsoever to do with the story for nine tenths of the way, the writers dragged it in at the end when Ramsay and Hunter engage in a tense argument about white and black horses, their exchange full of thinly veiled racist innuendo.  Is it too much to ask that a black actor be permitted a leading role with no more comment on his race than a white actor would receive?It's too bad that CRIMSON TIDE is so lacking in credibility and that it ultimately fails to treat Washington the same as a white actor even though he is faced with problems no different from those a white actor would have faced in the same role.  Without these flaws, CRIMSON TIDE would surely have ranked with PATTON or THE YOUNG LIONS as one of the best war films ever made.  But it's still impressive and surpasses other good films in the submarine subgenre such as ICE STATION ZEBRA, THE HUNT FOR RED OCTOBER, or THE ENEMY BELOW.Rating *** out of ****. "},{"Title":"A Study in Contrasts","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Move over, Fail Safe!  Watch out Hunt for Red October!  Here comes Crimson Tide, a brilliantly directed, acted and written film that examines the contrasts of military training (in this case, U.S. Navy) of the Cold War era and the post-Cold War era. Director Tony Scott and screenwriters Michael Schiffer and Richard P. Henrick have taken the only loop hole in nuclear weapons release protocal and exploited it to accomplish this study. Present day The USS Alabama, an SSBN, has been dispatched off the pacific coast of Russia to stand-by on alert to release a nuclear response in the event that Russian Rebels, under the leadership of a communist hardliner, decide to launch the nuclear weapons they illegally seized from the Russian Army to meet their demands. The captain of the USS Alabama, Frank Ramsey (Gene Hackman), recently accepted a new executive officer, Lt. Cmdr. Hunter (Denzel Washington), as part of his crew prior to sailing.  Captain Ramsey is a man who trained for command in the darkest days of the Cold War.  Hunter is a post-cold war naval officer who is quickly rising to command.  As Captain Ramsey says to Hunter over dinner in the officers galley early in the film, They wanted me to know where the button was and how to push it.  They seem to want you to know why.  Here in lies the beauty of the script, what makes this film better than the rest.  Captain Ramsey is not an inherently evil man.  He does not want nuclear holocaust anymore than Hunter does.  He is not a villiain and has no political motives.  However, he was trained to do a job through long years of the Cold War in defense of his country and knows no other way of doing things when he receives his orders.  Gene Hackman does not portray Ramsey as a military robot-he brilliantly protrays him as a very humane man who is a product of the world he grew up in.  Hunter, on the other hand, is accustomed and trained to question when things become confused, especially on issues as important as the release of nuclear weapons. The USS Alabama receives orders to launch due to very strong indications the Russian rebels are about to launch.  While preparing for this, an unforeseen circumstance arises which limits the subs radio communications.  Another Emergency Action Message from National Command Authority is received, but only a fragment makes it through.  Hunter, who must concur with the captain for the launch of nuclear weapons in accordance with established nuclear protocol regulations, questons this development.  Was the fragment an order not to launch nuclear weapons?  If so, was it real or did it originate from the rebels?  Because of these questions, he does not agree with Captain Ramsey.  Hunter does not want to risk beginning a nuclear holocaust.  The message must be fully received and authenticated.  Because of an immediate threat to the Alabama lurking in the water nearby, Captain Ramsey is of the opinion it is not wise to risk the sub to attempt to receive a message which could very well be fake.  As he is the captain, responsible for the defense of his country, his orders are final.  Thus begins an extremely intense clash of training and personality. Another departure from the typical Hollywood good vs. evil battle is that both Ramsey and Hunter have the exact same values they just approach them differently.  Although through the course of this conflict both men will argue with and point weapons at each other, there is no queston there is a deep, mutual respect for each other underlying all.The acting is top notch by all.  Crimson Tide ranks as two of the best performances Denzel Washington and Gene Hackman have ever given.  All the supporting actors turn in strong performances.  The film is technically outstanding, with very realistic underwater effects. Tony Scott and his screenwriters have crafted a wonderfully intelligent thriller which assumes intelligence on the part of the audience.  They do not give us any easy answers.  As the credits roll, we are left to ponder the immense destruction of nuclear war and decide for ourselves who each of us really are a Hunter or Ramsey?  "},{"Title":"Post-Cold War action at its best.","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Yet another great submarine movie with a cast of great actors, adding to the list that includes Run Silent, Run Deep with Burt Lancaster, Das Boot with Jurgen Prochnow, and The Hunt For Red October with Sean Connery and Alec Baldwin. This is a thought-provoking, intelligent film. Gene Hackman delivers one of his best performances as Captain Ramsey, a man that is hell-bent on launching his submarine's deadly cargo at post-cold war era Russia. Denzel Washington delivers another stellar performance as Executive Officer Hunter, a calm and cool man, who is willing to risk the end of the world to prove himself right. The film features some great underwater SFX shots involving the U.S.S Alabama and a rebel Russian attack submarine, spectacular writing and acting bring this movie to an incredible climax, a face-off on the bridge of the ship between Ramsey and his followers and Hunter and his men. I personally loved this film, more so than 1990's The Hunt For Red October, both movies rank highly on my list of the greatest movies. This one is a sure pick, I strongly urge you to see this movie assoon as you have the chance. "},{"Title":"Claustrophobic....","Date":"22 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It's hard to believe that a movie which action is passed all the time inside a small place (in the case, in a sub) can be so good and brings so much tension. Two navy officials, one young (Denzel Washington - perfect) and another veteran (Gene Hackman - incredible performance) fight against each other because of different personalities, vanities and sense of the job done. Don't miss it. "},{"Title":"Not simply a matter of right or wrong","Date":"12 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Having watched this film half a dozen times, I find new dimensions in it with every viewing.  Crimson Tide is an intricately woven fabric of a film, with morality interlocking with duty. The story follows a nuclear sub captain (Hackman) and his executive officer (Washington) who are at odds over whether to launch a nuclear attack.  The struggle heightens ove the confusion of a cut-off transmission Was the message an order to strike or not?  According to the rules, in this case, launch is expected.  But Washington disagrees.  He imagines the future an accidental but devastating nuclear attack would send the world into WW3.So who is right?  Which is better to disobey orders and risk dishonor, or kill everyone on earth but remain a hero?  It's up to the viewer to decide.Most non-military civilians will probably side with Washington's character, who is against launching weapons without more info.  However, Hackman is never written off as the bad guy.  Instead, his character (as well as Washington's) are dimensional, complex, and ultimately intriguing. This is a great film, and everyone with a head atop their shoulders needs to see it.  It stirs up complicated issues that every American needs to consider.  Plus, the soundtrack is excellent and adds to the movie's already-potent suspense. "},{"Title":"I'd forgotten how good it was!!","Date":"28 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I don't normally watch films on a Saturday night - I'm either out or too knackered to stay up and watch them. But last night was different. Crimson Tide came on and I was immediately drawn in. Gene Hackman is outstanding as the Captain and Washington is almost as good as the Executive Officer. The story itself seems believable - Russian rebels have captured a nuclear base and are preparing to launch ICBMs as the Russian Army closes in on them. The ending is down to the wire and extremely tense... Bruckheimer/Simpson at their best. (well perhaps with the exception of The Rock)  "},{"Title":"Better than The hunt for Red October","Date":"9 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is my favorite submarine movie of all time. (Of course I haven`t seen Das Boot yet.)  It`s accurate, tense well acted and very well written. It blows The hunt for Red October out of the water. "},{"Title":"On The Brink Of Nuclear Disaster Two Men Clash Over The Fate Of The World..","Date":"4 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" A Don Simpson/Jerry Bruckhiemer production of a Tony Scott Film pits Gene Hackman and Denzal Washington. Two men who at their fingertips have the fate of the world.One wants to destroy the enemy and the other wants to make sure the enemy should be destroyed.what a dilemma mutiny on board a U.S.S Suberine..With its subtle racial overtones this films brings great acting performances from both Gene Hackman(who I have not seen in better form) and Denzal Washington who competes closely with Hackman for the acting honors, with good performances from the rest of the cast, the late and great Don Simpson and the also great Jerry Bruckhiemer with Tony Scott controlling matters have made a remarkable film.This is the best underwater film ever.SUPERB "}{"Title":"Interesting but.........","Date":"7 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Interesting film, well acted, good plot, but some of the scenes made me cringe.  Pets don't go on deployment, nobody runs around like headless chickens just because the ship is diving, no video game sonar displays, ect, etc.  But I guess if you portray modern submarine warfare accurately, it would put the audience to sleep. "},{"Title":"Left wing or right wing ?","Date":"26 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Of course this is a very exciting movie with much tension and all that. But this one has one big problem  you can't make a choice between our two heroes, because one of them is played like an ordinary bad guy (great acting by Popeye Doyle) and the other one is a typical Denzel Washington (always correct, always proper, always neat, always a hero) character. So in the end you'll have to blink your eyes twice to see that unsympathetic Hackman fully rehabilitated. Why isn't he punished ? He could have destroyed the earth ! Nevertheless a good film with an outstandingly filmed submarine attack in it. "},{"Title":"Thrilling and Tense","Date":"1 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The thing that makes Crimson Tide such a great movie is its ability to bring the fear of nuclear holocaust into the souls and duties of ordinary men. The fact that the entire fate of civilised humanity depends on the crew of the USS Alabama receiving a single message is what the tension of this film is all about.  Possibly a modern Das Boot, this film is well directed with just the right mix of story and action to keep just about anyone watching right until the end.  Gene Hackman and Denzel Washington both shine in their roles, and the dialogue for all characters is well written.  With lines such as The true enemy is war itself, this film can not be taken lightly, and will leave you thinking about the subject of nuclear war for a while after the credits role.  10/10 for this oneRich "},{"Title":"It draws you in","Date":"28 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I'm not gonna' get all gooey and slobber over this film, but it really does draw you in. The political situation is a little questionable but it really doesn't matter. The point of the plot was what would happenedd aboard a nuclear sub if the crew was put in the intolerable situation of having to decide the fate of millions of lives. Do you blindly follow orders or do you go with your gut? That's what makes this such a good film. On the one hand it's important to keep the chain of command intact. The only effective military is a well disciplined one. But in the modern age there are weapons of un-imagineable destructive power and a mistake could cost billions of lives.Gene Hackman turns in a brilliant performance. He has a character who wants to be very two dimensional and predictable but he gives the character dimensions. Denzel Washington is a great actor and holds his own with Hackman. The only criticism of Denzel is that his character comes off as being a goody goody, but his performance is very intense.Submarine films are great. Das Boot was my favorite until Red October came out. And Red October has been replaced by Crimson Tide on my list. "},{"Title":"Roll Tide!! Crimson Tide is a pretty good movie.","Date":"14 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" World War III is about to break out in the Tony Scott's movie 'Crimson Tide', when political turmoil in Russia has caused worries in United States when Russia ultra-nationalists threaten to launch nuclear missiles at them. The movie focuses on the military mission of the USS Alabama, a nuclear submarine whom duty is to launch missions back into Russia if war breaks out. The submarine is split in conflicting opinions and wills between the seasoned commanding officer Captain Frank Ramsey (Gene Hackman) and the new executive officer Lt. Ron Hunter (Denzel Washington) on the interpretations of an order to launch their missiles. In the nuclear world, the true enemy is war itself. The movie has this 'Mutiny of the Bounty' feel to it, as the audience is swept into a very plausible scenario between Hunter's more analytical, cautious approach, as opposed to Ramsey's more impulsive and intuitive approach to the mission. Great acting from both of them. I love the exchange between Hackman and Washington on the topic of Lipizzaner horses and Von Clausewitz' view of war. Indeed, all the actors have their moments to shine, including Viggo Mortensen, James Gandolfini and an excellent George Dzundza. The movie is a great suspense with an amazing music score by Hans Zimmer. The heavy use of synthesizers in place of traditional orchestral instruments sound chilling like an old Gothic church's choirs. The well-known naval hymn, Eternal Father, Strong to Save is given an new spin into it. It's great to note that Harry Gregson-Williams help with the bass thumbing. Great to hear on large speakers the score. The movie has excellent visuals for a smart and tense film. Now to the faults of the film, while Richard Hendrick wrote the novel, he probably knew little about submarines as a lot of the real life Navy's submariners didn't like the film. The movie had many breaches of naval protocols that it became too unrealizable to them. Example are such like Supply Officers are restricted, and cannot be put into a position to where they could take command. They don't have the training to do so. The real life Navy regulations would have Hunter disciplined for insubordination and replaced with another XO no matter what happen on the boat. Still, I like the submarine lingoes, even if I didn't understand them. Both Washington and Hackman play stereotypical roles to the point, it's seem more about a race issue between Black VS White, than an issue about launching nuclear weapons. Who brings up semi-racism likes comments like what color the most trained horse are? Was the racial subtext, necessary? The way, Denzel Washington talks to his subordinates as if they are children is a bit odd. I wouldn't have thought for once a Star Trek or a Silver Surfer reference was going to be in this type of film. Don't get me wrong, it's cool to hear it, but I would love for the movie in those scenes to be taking more serious. What part of the Navy allows a dog on submarine unless it's a K9 unit? Even if you're the captain, I doubt you can bring a dog to pee everywhere. Forget about Tide. Even Clorox could not clean up that mistake. Overall Crimson Tide is a great movie. Worth watching. "},{"Title":"Great work, Tony Scott","Date":"1 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie shows us a few men in a submarine.They have a mission there, since there is a risk of a nuclear war started by a crazy Russian man.Two men are fighting their own personal war down there.Crimson Tide (1995) is directed by Tony Scott.Just a little time ago we heard some tragic news that this great Hollywood director has killed himself at the age of 68.One can ask whether his best work had already been done, or would it have been yet to come.Denzel Washington, who worked with Tony in five films (this being the first one), is terrific as Lt. Commander Ron Hunter.What a thrill it is to watch Gene Hackman as Captain Frank Ramsey and the battle between his and Denzel's character.Matt Craven is great as Lt. Roy Zimmer.George Dzundza is brilliant as Chief of the Boat.Viggo Mortensen is superb as Lt. Peter Ince.James Gandolfini does great work as Lt. Bobby Dougherty.Rocky Carroll plays Lt. Darik Westergard.Danny Nucci is Petty Officer Danny Rivetti.Rick Schroder plays Lt. Paul Hellerman.Steve Zahn is William Barnes.Scott Grimes is seen as Petty Officer Hilaire.Ryan Phillippe is seen as Seaman Grattam.Jason Robards is in an uncredited role playing Rear Admiral Anderson.This is a great submarine movie.You can practically feel the tension they're feeling down there.Tony Scott, you did a great job! "},{"Title":"A Rare Kind Of War Film","Date":"1 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Crimson Tide is a submarine film directed by the late Tony Scott that stars Gene Hackman and Denzel Washington. It takes place during a period of political turmoil in the Russian Federation, in which ultra-nationalists threaten to launch nuclear missiles at the United States and Japan. It focuses on a clash of wills between the seasoned commanding officer (Gene Hackman) and the new executive officer (Denzel Washington) of a nuclear missile submarine, arising from conflicting interpretations of an order to launch their missiles.The film takes place during a period of instability in post-Soviet Russia. Units of the Russian military loyal to Radchenko, an ultra-nationalist, have taken control of a nuclear missile installation and are threatening nuclear war if either the American or the Russian government attempts to confront him.The United States nuclear strategic missile submarine USS Alabama is assigned a patrol mission, to be available to launch its missiles in a preemptive strike if Radchenko attempts to fuel the missiles his men have captured. Captain Frank Ramsey is the commanding officer of the sub, and one of the few commanders left in the Navy with any combat experience. He chooses as his new executive officer (XO) Lieutenant Commander Ron Hunter, who has an extensive education in military history and tactics, but no combat experience.During their initial days at sea, tensions between Ramsey and Hunter become apparent due to a clash of personalities Hunter's more analytical, cautious approach towards his mission and the men, as opposed to Ramsey's more impulsive and intuitive approach. The Alabama eventually receives an Emergency Action Message from the National Command Authority, ordering the launch of ten of its SLBM missiles on the Russian nuclear installation, based on satellite information that the Russians' missiles are being fueled. Before the Alabama can launch, a second message arrives but is cut off by the attack of a Russian submarine friendly to Radchenko. The radio is damaged in the attack and is unable to decode the second message. With the last confirmed order being to launch, Captain Ramsey decides to proceed with the launch. Hunter refuses to concur as is procedurally required to launch, because he believes the partial second message may be a retraction. Hunter argues that the Alabama is not the only American submarine in the area, and if the order was not retracted, other submarines will launch their missiles. Ramsey argues that attack submarines may have destroyed any other American submarines and that they can't rely on someone else to carry out the order for them.Boasting taut, high energy thrills and some cracking dialogue courtesy of an uncredited Quentin Tarantino, Crimson Tide finds the late director Tony Scott near the top of his action game.It is a rare kind of war movie that not only thrills people while they're watching it, but invites them to leave the theater actually discussing the issues.And last but not the least,the performances in the film were top-notch.This is highly recommended for anyone who loves good movies. "},{"Title":"Spell-Binding!","Date":"19 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" 'Crimson Tide' is a Spell-Binding Film, that truly ranks amongst the Finest films from 1995.'Crimson Tide' Synopsis On a US nuclear missile sub, a young first officer stages a mutiny to prevent his trigger happy captain from launching his missiles before confirming his orders to do so.'Crimson Tide' is a Terrific Film in all respects. It catches your attention from the Word Go & sustains its momentum till the very end. Michael Schiffer & Richard P. Henrick's Screenplay is superb. Tony Scott's Direction is Top-Notch. Cinematography, Editing & Art Design, are perfect.Performance-Wise Gene Hackman & Denzel Washington deliver remarkably. Their On-Screen Chemistry is Electrifying! Viggo Mortensen stands out with a brilliant performance. This is among Viggo's best works. Others lend great support.On the whole, 'Crimson Tide' is a must see. "},{"Title":"A Gene Hackman Presentation","Date":"28 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Sub officer Denzel Washington decides he's not going to follow orders today, so Captain Gene Hackman has to slap him around a little.Another one of those rushed panning camera submarine movies where most of the shots are in the form of nose-hair close-ups. Hackman is good as the ship's skipper who has his own way of doing things, but Washington's second-in-command is a wall-flower at best and just a plain pain-in-the-butt the rest of the time.Film unfortunately includes an unnecessary 'race card' element, evident in the dialogue about black and white-colored horses, and these are probably the lines of dialogue from which the whole film was developed. An OK companion piece to 'The Hunt for Red October', but that movie is still better than this one.Jason Robards makes an appearance as a navy admiral, but this is Gene Hackman's show and he is excellent. "},{"Title":"1.45 hours training in submarine command language.","Date":"15 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Denzel and Gene are the perfect choices for the leads. The score is simply amazing and deserves the Oscar. But anyway during the after texts i felt relief. 1.45 h of submarine command language can take its toll and be pretty indigestible.The only thing that prevents me from putting a solid 8 out of 10 for this effort from Tony Scott are the totally unnecessary racial remarks made by Hackmans character captain Ramsey at the end of the movie. The Lipizzaner dialog could easily have been replaced with something else. It was very irritating and ridiculous simply because if Ramsey had preferences in skin color, he wouldn't have chosen a black man as an X.O. in the first place, right?The served purpose was of course to help the viewer to take sides in the conflict but the audience had already done that. The audience had already understood that Ramsey associated Hunter with Harvard and military school theory and that he thought of him as a softy. The moment Hunter takes control of the conn, the sympathies lies with him.Ramsey with his happy trigger-finger and shoot first ask questions later attitude was the stereotype perhaps needed to push some moral points about the problems with blind obedience and the ever recurring need of critical thought (especially amongst men in control of nukes). The audience got it, but to make sure the viewers didn't have any sympathies for the old commie-hater he must be throwing some racial epithets too. The choice in making characters over explicitly bad is quite common in Hollywood though, but more often than not the drama itself suffers from this practice. Characters made more shallow and one-dimensional, who wants that except the studio bosses? If they dumb it down and keep it within the stereotypes maybe they think it's easier to go break even, who knows? But in the same way as the US military can be saved from personnel like Ramsey maybe a well educated middle class one day can save the world from risk reducing studio bosses by demanding a dismantling of the stereotypes we all cherished and consumed for too long. "}{"Title":"Compelling Military Action-Drama Dealing with the No Win Scenario","Date":"17 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I don't think officer training school can adequately prepare someone for the no-win situation, which I believe is at the heart of Crimson Tide. This film is not terribly complex in its storytelling but the theme of a decision-making dilemma aboard a nuclear submarine makes the entire experience extremely compelling from start-to-finish. It's one thing if orders from on high instruct a ship or sub to patrol a certain geographical location and those orders may have been recanted. It's quite another if the orders are to engage in a nuclear launch, and there is a question about whether those orders were rescinded. The story takes place on the USS Alabama, a United States nuclear submarine on the verge of a possible nuclear exchange between Russia and the United States. The title is a kind of play on words as it references the University of Alabama nickname, the Crimson Tide.Gene Hackman is perfectly cast as the hot-headed/don't-question-my-orders Captain Ramsey, top commander of the USS Alabama. On the other side is Denzel Washington as Commander Hunter, Executive Officer (XO) of the sub and Harvard graduate who has probably memorized the officer's handbook and military code. Ramsey probably hasn't seen the handbook in years, his decision-making prowess derived from experience on the high seas which began when Washington was in kindergarten. Even early on, Washington and Hackman seem somewhat at odds in the officer's lounge when Washington states that war is the enemy, while Hackman is bent on carrying out orders without question, and he expects his senior officers to give him the same courtesy. Hackman says during the same discussion that he studied military tactics, not 19th-century philosophy. The best line of the film is when Hackman states We're here to preserve democracy, not practice it.The two senior officers collide when at first the sub is given orders to launch their nuclear weapons toward Russia and then shortly thereafter receives a fragmented communication. The question posed is whether the initial communication should be honored and the fragment discarded or should the launch be delayed in order to obtain the second message in its entirety. But faulty communications prevents the sub from receiving further messages, and they are under attack from another enemy sub which knows their capabilities. The moral dilemma is as follows If the nuclear weapons are launched and the order had been rescinded, the sub would be responsible for provoking World War III. If the orders to launch were confirmed by the second message, and the sub doesn't act, the United States would be compromised in terms of a nuclear exchange. The film becomes a power struggle between Washington and Hackman on the best course of action.A really engrossing film with not only outstanding performances by the top leads but a great supporting cast to match, including James Gandolfini (of Sopranos fame) and Matt Craven (A Few Good Men) as supporters of the captain, and George Dzundza (No Way Out) as the Chief of the Boat who reluctantly supports Washington. Honorable mention goes to Viggo Mortensen who has the combination to the safe which contains the nuclear launch device but can't decide who he sides with. The main thrust of the story is interspersed with interesting dialog, some of which has nothing to do with the situation at hand, probably provided by Quentin Tarantino who is uncredited. A perfect combination of action and drama within the context of a military thriller. "},{"Title":"not a movie about robots, thank god","Date":"25 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Certainly Tony Scott's best film, and one of the best films of the 1990s. Excellent camera-work gives the sub a sense of enormous size as well as, paradoxically, being dreadfully closed in. Presents sub-warfare as a real struggle for collective survival rather than an effort to achieve heroics. This is not a kind of war anyone would want to fight if they had a choice. The editing keeps the movie very tense; the acting is exceptional, even from supporting characters. The soundtrack and imagery are very well coordinated. A scary yet successfully dramatic film.Note reading the negative reviews here, I only found it amusing that so many of them charge that the problem with the film is that the XO was a mutineer who should be punished, and that the Captain was of course always right(?!). What children! They made the point of the movie clear almost better than the movie itself! Nuclear war is not another form of traditional warfare, it demands very different military protocols. Jeez, even the people at the Pentagon know that by now. And yes, Naval regulations do provide policy for the removal of a commander in a combat situation for abuse of authority where it endangers men and mission.And bottom-line - no matter what their training, our sailors are human beings, not robots. We can expect nothing more from them, and, fortunately, nothing less.If you want a movie about robots, see Transformers; if you want a movie about human beings under conditions of extreme stress, this is as good as any, and better than most. "},{"Title":"Not Das Boot, but not bad either","Date":"4 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Every producer and director shooting a submarine movie has one big problem the unsurpassable Das Boat (1981) from Wolfgang Pedersen. Everyone who knows that one, immediately recognizes how much Crimson Tide borrows. Still it succeeds in adding a few new elements. So some of the criticism I have read is unfair. The movie is not realistic? Sure, but that is not what it is about. If an artist wants to make a point, (s)he often has to sacrifice realism. Read Homerus or Shakespeare for some examples. The point is of course the conflict between Hunter and Ramsey. That is an important one, even if it is impossible in the real world. I am not a fan of either Washington or Hackman. In Crimson Tide they do a decent job - not more - by making the conflict trustworthy, as long as the movie lasts. The Russians are stereotypical crooks? We hardly meet one in the movie. The world is saved not by heroism of the American Navy, but because the Russian government does her job. The possibility of a nationalist coup d'état was not that unlikely. Remember Boris Jeltsin locked up in the Russian White house? There were some generals involved. The final handshake is not credible? The whole point is, that the two main characters never really dislike each other. They are willing to cross some lines just to do what they think is right. It is not a good guy versus bad guy scheme. Both Hunter and Ramsey are right; in the movie it is impossible for both and for the spectator to decide. So far the strong points, which are enough for a 7/10 for me. Being a chauvinist I must make clear, that a skillful European director would have made much more of the drama. The solution of the conflict is very predictable. And when things become hard, Tony Scott grabs what Hollywood directors know best violence and action. To summarize Crimson Tide is a decent, not brilliant but neither awful action thriller. There is certainly not as much shouting as for instance in The Rock, which can be compared in several ways. The characters of Crimson TIde are not uninteresting, like those of The Rock. Crimson Tide dares to leave the usual good-bad scheme. The message is simple, but still important enough the importance of correct procedures cannot be underestimated. See Crimson Tide that way and you will be able to forget its flaws. "},{"Title":"the music!","Date":"5 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I have to say I do love this film. Some superb acting from all parties and the proof of that is in the fact so many people are debating who was right, because it really set the scene! anyhow, I'm rambling. The music for me was truly awesome, I downloaded the main theme and it's 7 minutes of truly powerful tune. To me, this is what really sealed the deal with this film, hopefully someone else out there will share my point of view, if so please comment so I know I'm not the only one out there! Of course I realise to some I might not be doing the film justice by just commenting on the music, sorry! it's just I felt it had to be said because I haven't found a single comment on the music. Peace to you all. "},{"Title":"Tense high class thriller!","Date":"1 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" If you see this movie and get disappointed you should never watch a movie again. This movie is a roller coaster ride of a thriller. The story may have it's goofs and bads and the movie may not be 100% correct about all the protocols, but never the less it's indubitable a great movie! Lt. Commander Hunter is called in to serve as second in command on the USS Alabama. Their mission is to prevent a nuclear strike by Russian rebels with nuclear force if necessary. They receive one and a half order. The first saying to initiate a nuclear strike and the half one saying something about the strike, but interrupted before they get to know what. The Captain want's to pull the trigger, but Hunter is just not ready to do this yet.Crimson Tide is a thrilling and action filled movie that'll keep you glued from the beginning till the end. The story is well written and tense. Never a dull moment. The characters are good and react reasonably too the situation. The story is not too advanced or complicated and the characters are easy to keep track of. The plot is believable and you won't find the most common clichés in it. The actors with Hackman and Washington in front is great. They do a great job and really brings out the tension. The rest of the cast is no worse. They do a great job in supporting the leads. They bring feeling and humanity to the movie in a nice, suppressed way. They give their characters life in a very good way. Zimmer has made a nice score. It's tense and action filled and fits this movie just perfect. In brings out the tension, the dilemma and the action even more. It does it's job and does it good.The cinematography is good. It captures the small space, the tension and nervousness in a very good way. Some of the shots may be confusing, but they just reflect the confusion on the boat. All in all the story and characters and the mood and situation is well captured.Crimson Tide is indeed a thrilling thriller and action movie that I truly can recommend. It's tense, it's fast, it's great! "},{"Title":"suspend reality","Date":"17 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Overall this was a good action flick, but as with pretty much all things Hollywood they don't take reality into consideration. The premise of this story was something the Navy went through long before the nuclear missile program ever went into action, and there are many more checks and balances than are shown in the movie. From the action at the beginning of the movie (fire in the galley with a ship-initiated drill during the aftermath - wouldn't happen), to the single radio in the communications shack (there are MANY options), this show is a nice way to scare people, but does not reflect the reality of serving onboard a Trident submarine. Enjoy the action, enjoy the play between Denzel Washington and Gene Hackman, but remember that this is Hollywood, was NOT endorsed by the US Navy, and is stretching a lot of things to make a good flick .. RM1(ss), plankowner, USS Nebraska (SSBN 739 Blue). (and yes, that means I've served on a Trident submarine) "},{"Title":"About horses mentioned... THEY ARE FROM SLOVENIA!","Date":"17 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The horses mentioned in the film called 'lipizzaner' - they are not from Portugal nor they are from Spain. They are from Slovenia, from stud farm Lipica, and are pure Slovenian breed. However, it is true they are trained and used in Spanish riding school in Wienna. But other than that they absolutely have no connection what so ever with Portugal and Spain. More info on www.Lipica.OrgWhite Stallion of Lipizza stud-farm Lipica has 400 years old tradition of breeding the famous white horses. This is the original home of Lipizzaner breed.Founded in 1580 and situated close to the border with Italy, the Lipica stud-farm is one of the most attractive cultural and historical sites in the Republic of Slovenia. Here the tradition of breeding and selecting pure Lipizzaner horses has thrived for over four hundred years. After WWII, Lipica succeeded in developing its own Classical Riding School, and was represented in equestrian events and exhibitions throughout the world. "},{"Title":"What a face off!","Date":"8 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  \+++**SPOILER**+++/I saw this movie the other day on Sky Movies and had been told it was really good so i thought i'd check it out, plus, one of my favourite actors is in it, Gene Hackam so i had to see him...Iv'e never been that 'hyped' about Washington, even though he was great in 'remember the titans', but he was excellent! I think during the movie i was cheering for him and not Hackman..With nearly all movies, you have a good guy and a bad guy, maybe not as obvious as the likes of Spider-man but like 'runaway jury', there was a bad guy, even if they werent flying around killing everyone, but there is nearly always a bad guy and a good guy and that proved the point in Crimson Tide...Gene Hackman was the bad guy being the power obsessed Captain who wouldn't listen to reason and believed war was the answer, while Denzil Washington was the good guy being the executive officer who believed in patience in order to avoid war..The film was basically about a battle between the two most important members on board the battle ship fighting for command to launch the nuclear weapons, or not...The film ended with Denzil washing being in the right as far as avoiding war with Gene Hackman taking early retirement and surprisingly showing good will by not dragging Denzil down with him, but putting him forward for promotion...This is an excellent film...10/10 Worth the slice of pie  "},{"Title":"A NATION MISSING JACK KENNEDY MAKES SUBMARINE MOVIES","Date":"2 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  CRIMSON TIDE IS A JERRY BRUCKHEIMER PRODUCTION which usually assures you of a good action film. Director TONY SCOTT (TOP GUN) makes a masterful film. GENE HACKMAN and DENZEL WASHINGTON are two of the best actors of today and really make the film shine. The CIA has become involved in making war movies like BLACKHAWK DOWN for the good morale of the military. Surprisingly CRIMSON TIDE was made without military or CIA assistance. It seems the American military was squeamish about backing a film that showed a mutiny on a US warship. German General and strategist VON CLAUSEWITZ has his book ON WAR mentioned in the movie making it a more cerebral film. Hans Zimmers film score is hauntingly beautiful. In the movie there are fights and fires for the Executive Officer or XO to deal with and then an incomplete Emergency Action Message that causes the XO to lead a mutiny against the Captain and gets the top enlisted person the Chief of the Boat or COB ably played by George Dzundza to side with the XO. When the Russians and Chinese invade America in an airborne assault it will come down to nuclear missiles stopping the attack. The Chinese are arrogant enough to do it probably after the US 2004 election. Here in the west we often misunderstand the Peoples Revolutionary Army of China and think they are a bunch of well meaning boyscouts. Canada has become so peace loving that there are only 10 thousand regular force army guys to deter over a BILLION hungry Chinese and over 200 MILLION Hungry Russians. On my Canadian Forces INTELLIGENCE course we learned about the dangers of ASIA. The CRIMSON TIDE war scenario is realistic and lead me to give the film a 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The principles of leadership is 2 different schools of thought!","Date":"3 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This was the greatest movie of all time.  I have watched the movie at least 300 times.  Every time, I learn more about leadership.  The key person in the movie besides the Captain and the X.O. have got to be C.O.B., without his respect for the military code, the movie would of been over. Furthermore, if you look into the two mindset, you see that when arrogance and pride set up into those who are in power, the entire crew is the ones who are ultimately damaged.  Those enlisted men had to choose between the two powerful men, that was a very diffucult position to put those men into. In addition another principle that we can learn from in this movie is when C.O.B. had to choose between the request of the Captain and the x.O., he choose neither man, he choose to side with the protocol and instructions given by Navy Command Rules and Regulation for nuclear weapons release. Finally, the greatest principle that I learned was how to respectfully use the creativity of a youthful X.O. and the wisdom of a season veteran, Captain. Both men learned about there strengths and there weakness. Which is in all of us.  Thanks Denzell and Hagerty for a wonderful movie full of wisdom . "}{"Title":"Its no 'Das Boot', but its no 'U-571' either...","Date":"11 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Crimson Tide certainly gets the adrenaline going, and works well as an action thriller. Sadly, it doesn't hold much in the way of mystery or intrigue. Hackman is very good as the hardened captain, and the pairing with Washington provides a believable contrast around which the dueling of their characters is based. Aside from the tension that is built through the plot (a formula which is fairly predictable and has been used to better effect in other sub movies), the real core of Crimson Tide lies in the interplay between Hackman and Washington, and the powerful clashes between them. Denzel Washington is outstanding as the educated, calm and conscientious officer, playing his character with delicate understatement reminiscent of Michael Cain in 'Zulu' (1964).* Possible Spoiler Plot outline * Unfortunately, the plot often sacrifices credibility for tension. The scenario of renegade Russians with nukes is thrust upon the viewer in the opening scene, and develops into a classic Defcon 2 situation too quickly, with not enough background development as to the situation. The effect is that the entire plot, and the gravity of the situation, is a little difficult to believe. Given that Hackman overtly makes a comparison with the Cuban Missile Crisis, it is hard for the viewer to imagine a typical Cold War situation taking place after the Cold War. In this respect, it almost seemed as if the screenplay had been written during the Cold War but had been put on hold, and loosely adapted to fit the mid-1990s period. I can't help wondering that the entire movie would have been for more believable if it had been set sometime in the early 1980s, as a classic Cold War submarine flick.* Possible Spoiler Ending * The most disappointing part of the film, however, is in the epilogue. Hackman and Washington's characters part with a cheesy 'no hard feelings' salute of mutual respect, when only a few minutes before they had been ready to shoot each other.However, this is still a pretty good fast-paced action thriller if you are able to ignore these slight disappointments. Hans Zimmer provides a score that keeps the adrenaline flowing, and there are some good effects as you would expect from a Bruckheimer film. The suspense is not quite as good as 'The Hunt for Red October' (1990), while the cinematography doesn't compare at all with 'Das Boot' (1981) (although there is a remarkably similar scene here in which the sub is sinking out of control). However the acting is top quality, going a long way to save the film from its flaws; in particular, the clashes between Captain and Officer is almost as powerful as between Clark Gable and Burt Lancaster in 'Run Silent, Run Deep' (1958).Final score 6 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Edge-of-your-seat","Date":"3 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  CRIMSON TIDE is perhaps Tony Scott`s best directed movie. This is a very fast paced submarine thriller and it is very well cut / produced. Congratulations to all the actors and the stuff for this great work. The characters are well studied and executed. They go so deep in this difficult situation of an eventual holocaust nuclear war that it edges-of your-seat from beginning to the end. The soundtrack from Hans Zimmer was as usual perfect. Fortunately now the last confirmation of missile launch has the US President and not the commandants.Don`t miss it. My vote 7/10.Check also out the other u-boat drama movie K-19. "},{"Title":"The Hunt for Red October meets Spy Games...","Date":"20 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  In the nuclear world, the true enemy is war itself. - Ron Hunter, Crimson Tide.Crimson Tide falls alongside the other great submarine movies, such as The Hunt for Red October and U-571. It's more of a thriller that takes place in a submarine as opposed to a submarine thriller. It's about command, power and it holds a startling message about just how much authority a nuclear submarine captain is able to obtain.It starts on the verge of World War III. Russian rebels have taken over one of the ICBM bases in the USSR. Russia threatens to strike the United States with nuclear weapons if they become involved in the affairs of the country. Alarmed by the prospect of a nuclear war, the U.S.S. Alabama, a nuclear submarine headed by Captain Ramsey (Gene Hackman), is deplyed into the ocean, and a family man named Ron Hunter (Denzel Washington) is posted on the ship as the Captain's XO.Underlying tensions heighten aboard the Alabama. Captain Ramsey carries a smirk and makes subtle criticisms aimed at Hunter throughout the film. Ramsey is trigger-happy man, and after a scrambled message comes through to the ship, Ramsey takes it as a message indicating war, and he is ready to deploy nuclear missiles in the general direction of Russia as soon as the message comes through. However, Hunter believes that the message could mean something else--perhaps, even, peace--and so he urges Captain Ramsey to delay the launch of the missiles and to wait for another attack confirmation. Ramsey doesn't want to wait--he is sure that Russia has attacked the United States and that his orders are to return attack. But Hunter realizes that if there isn't a war, and that if Russia has backed down, and they fire nuclear missiles, Russia will return the attack and launch missiles at America--and the entire world could soon be burnt to a crisp.Crimson Tide is a film carrying the startling realization that the fate of the world can lie in the captain of a ship's hands. A sudden whim could end in the loss of millions of human lives. Crimson Tide is also a claustraphobic thriller--one that gets under your skin and gives you the jitters. This movie is more thrilling and scary than some complete thrillers. The performances in Crimson Tide are extraordinary--Denzel Washington is able to make us believe he is a moral man. Gene Hackman is able to make us believe that his character is not. Washington is the ideal family man, whereas Hackman's lack of warmth and loving (and signs of a non-existent family) are clear when he makes a remark about the similarities between cheerleaders and the horses. The movie was directed by Tony Scott, who was behind the Quentin Tarantino-penned True Romance, the Bobby De Niro remake movie The Fan, and the spy thriller Spy Game. I have seen neither of the two former films, but after seeing Crimson Tide, I am more than interested in seeing both of them.Note The movie ends with a message informing us that in 1995 the ability to launch nuclear missiles at anything or anyone will no longer rest in the hands of submarine captains, or any captains, for that matter. The decision to launch nuclear missiles can and will only be decided by the President of the United States of America. Maybe they should make a movie about a trigger-happy president--now there's an idea...4.5/5 stars.- John Ulmer "},{"Title":"A major disappointment","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" As a former ballistic missile submariner I can tell you that this movie bears about as much relation to anything faintly resembling reality as Happy Gilmore does to professional golf - but at least the latter film was pretty funny in an Adam Sandler kind of way. Crimson Tide lacks any sort of comparable redeeming virtue, but is purely an adolescent fantasy best suited for those who have never considered actually thinking in the least about the subject matter of what they watch. This was a big disappointment for myself and other submariners, who out of some necessity HAVE actually thought about the issues it poses - after all, we were the ones who might have actually had to push the button (actually, it was a trigger in a pistol grip) in the middle of the night one night - and were left feeling very much let down by the film's complete failure to deal with them in a mature, adult, intelligent dramatic context. This is especially true given the tremendous potential of the leading players, Gene Hackman as the captain and Denzel Washington as the executive officer (always abbreviated in the Navy as X.O. - who on earth who knew Thing One about the Navy - any part of the Navy - would ever refer to him as the ex-o?) and the more thoughtful way the plot begins to develop. But eventually it deteriorates into a far-fetched underwater version of a 1950's 'B'-grade western shoot-'em-up totally unworthy of its high-powered acting talent. Hoping for something along the lines of Seven Days in May or The Bedford Incident, or even Dr. Strangelove, we instead got something utterly vacuous. As one guy recently put itWhen we went to see the movie in the theater, it was all I could do to keep from walking out. The premise depicted in the movie was so utterly ridiculous! In my view, there were two subliminal messages being conveyed. The first, that our deterrent system as it was in those days, had too many weaknesses to be reliable. The idea that those in the command structure would circumvent the safety controls and the procedures in place based solely on a some idealistic difference of opinion with the CO was completely foreign to me. Secondly, the racial overtones suggested in this movie were something I never witnessed during my 20 year career. It would be very naive of me to say those things didn't exist in other communities within the Navy, or in the other services. However, the crews of the 4 submarines I served in were all way above that kind of nonsense. The movie in question here didn't offer a true vision of reality but may have been a good Hollywood story. The problem was and is that the general public seems to accept these inaccurate depictions as the gospel truth.If you feel you must see this film, I suggest the VHS version in preference to the DVD, because it should rent for less and thus you will waste less money. "},{"Title":"Chubmarine!!!!","Date":"31 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  How in the world did the U.S. Navy ever let so many obvious men of girth onto a submarine? Several of the crew members were overweight (James Gandolfini, the guy who was killed in the galley fire, etc...). The ballast tanks on the submarine really got a workout. If all those guys happened to be on one side of the sub at any given time, it would have spun around in the water. "},{"Title":"Good acting lifts the rather ordinary scenario","Date":"10 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It's ages since I watched a film about a submarine and its crew.  Scripts it seems haven't changed that much.  The same tensions, accidents and arguments among the submariners.  This time the dissention is between the Captain ( Gene Hackman) and the Lt. Commander (Denzel Washington).  They have opposing ideas on the use of nuclear weaponry.The only relief from the tension is the Captain's pet dog who seems to have a calming effect on the Captain's sudden angry outbursts.  It surprised me that a dog would be allowed to go to sea in an American submarine.  Surely the No pets allowed rule applies.There are some great lines in the film e.g. when the Captain says Anyone who does not agree with me must leave the sub.immediately. The closing lines of the film are unexpected and send the viewer away with a smile.  There is little else to smile about in this film.The film portrays the courage and fortitude of the submariners.  We have to acknowledge they are brave men.  The navy insists that the line of authority must be respected al all times.  The film makers take some liberties here.  Because of the possibility that the Captain's decisions could propel the globe into World War 111, the first mate has him locked up in his cabin!  The change of command divides the crew- a situation I felt was rather too easily rectified. "},{"Title":"Two great actors=One great movie","Date":"25 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  If a film stars either Gene Hackman or Denzel Washington the there is very good chance its going to be good. This film has them both!, and yes it was good, very good. A tense film with two heavyweight performances, I'd give the acting honours to Hackman....just, because they are both outstanding. Even the fact that Tony Scott was directing didn't spoil it for me, his films usually feel like 2 hour long flashy commercials to me, but not this one. ***7/10*** for the film, ***10/10*** for the two lead actors. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"22 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Possibly the best naval movie ever.  Denzel Washington gives an excellent performance and he was cast perfectly.  The rest of the cast was also picked perfectly.  I didn't see a single flaw in this movie and that is the screenwriter's and director's performance.  The story goes by a mixed Russian code that confuses the US by either making them decide to bomb Russia if the code is bad or not bomb them and possibly be bombed if the message is good.Overall the entire movie is shining through and the acting is absolutely perfect.  The direction, writing, and everything else is just perfect.  Rating 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Denzel Washington deserved atleast a nomination for the Oscars.","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is about a Captain and his junior, a Lt.Commander in an American Submarine. They have only a faint idea that a missile site has been captured by the rebel Russians but have no idea when they are or whether they are going to attack the Americans at all. The conflict starts when the Captain decides to attack the enemy before they get attacked themselves.Its because of the Nature of the Captn. and Lt.Commander that are altogether different from each other and their opinions clash and they clash at the wrong time, wrong hour and the wrong second.The irony is that both are correct in their own way.Captn. is at a higher level of command and hence is a little egoistic person who believes that peace arrives in a region only after a war has occured in that region while Comdr.believes in minimizing risk or creating a situation of no risk at all.Capt.tries to stretch the limits of the powers alloted to him in order to achieve his goal and in turn satisfy his own ego while Comdr. believes in using the powers alloted to him within their limits to create a safe situation.Captn. wants to take situation in control where as Comdr. wants to assess and study the situation before taking any decision.Captn.believes in domination, Comdr. believes in self-control. Captn wants to strike war in order to eliminate the enemy while Comdr. wants to eliminate the war ITSELF which is the greatest threat to humanity.But what happens at the climax? Watch this Masterpiece to learn something valuable in life.The script is fast, energetic and flawless.Tony Scott(Top Gun(1986)) has done a great job here, to direct such a great fast flowing Masterpiece. But the real credit goes to the Oscar winners Denzel Washington and Gene Hackman as the Lt.Commander and the Captain respectively.The commanding presence of Denzel Washington makes you feel as if you are living the movie instead of watching it.Washington takes care not to over-act in role, for that matter, any of the roles he has performed previous to or after Crimson Tide.Yet he is outstanding in his efforts...(Are the award-donating racists reading?).Gene too gives an excellent performance complimenting each time with Denzel's character to give well-balanced act.In the movie every time they clash on the screen you feel a sort of energy flowing between them.Also Scott here has given importance in building up an atmosphere(here a tense one).This was very clear from the scene when the opinions of Lt.Commander and the Captn. clash at the dining(or lunch?Whatever that was.)table.This creates a feeling that something electrifing is going to happen between the two characters. the only question is WHEN.This movie is where one learns the importance of decision making and to make it quick.This movie is all about intelligence, quickness of mind, self-control  and obedience. This movie is where one learns how to deal with the external enemies in real life(difficult situations in life)and also against our own men(personal negativities in behaviour, nature etc).Miss this movie and you miss something Valuable.One of my top 25 movies of all time alongside Life Is Beautiful,Unbreakable,Raging Bull,Cast Away,The Matrix,The Sixth Sense and many more. (One DoubtWhy should the Russians be always targeted?) And then as they say its always BETTER to...(1)Check the EAM(Emergency Action Message). (11)Declare it to be a False Alarm (if necessary). (111)Then take a Risky Decision. THAN to...(i)Ignore the EAM. (ii)Take a Risky decision and (iii)Then think that the EAM may have been authentic and a correct solution after all(But its too late now...)  "},{"Title":"Good story & acting, better than most sub movies","Date":"19 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  As noted by another reviewer in some detail, the scenario in this movie is just not possible.  (We can all be thankful for that.)  Given that, it's a pretty good film.  I like Hackman and Washington, some good supporting actors in this film, too.  The plot is well documented here, so I won't repeat it.  Let's just say it gets a wee bit hairy down there, and they do a good job of keeping the tension level up.  Of course it's a Hollywood view of the submarine service, so half of what you see is not plausible and the ending is pure Hollywood tripe.  But 98% of the film is enjoyable if you don't care about such things.  The scenes where they put to sea are moving, especially with the Navy Hymn playing in the background. These guys do put their butts on the line for us every day and deserve more credit than they get.I found it *far* better than the recent U-571, and less disgusting than Das Boot.  (Das Boot was much more realistic, however.)  I also thought it was better than Hunt for Red October in many regards.  For handling a difficult subject with skill I gave it a 7, and if you're not too bothered by inconsistencies and realism, probably more like an 8 or 9.  "}{"Title":"tension aboard a nuclear submarine","Date":"28 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The first half of this film was a tad slow, but the second half made up for it. When it appeared that a U.S. nuclear sub might have to make a retaliatory strike on Russia, an argument broke out aboard ship between the Captain and his executive officer. The Captain wanted to go ahead with the action, but the X.O. was adamant about getting more information before setting such a drastic move into play. Sides were formed among the officers and enlisted men, leading to a deadly stand-off. Very tense movie, well worth seeing.  "},{"Title":"Very good movie!","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Boosted by a spectacular performance of Gene Hackman and magnificent music created by Hans Zimmer, Crimson Tide is a movie that should be in everyone's collection. I admit the political situation is a little unconvincing and artificial, but it is fortunately only a minor flaw in this otherwise very good movie. It shows how all the military training might become its own enemy in a situation like this, and what it is like to make a decision that might wipe out humanity. My vote is 8/10. "},{"Title":"Review Of Crimson Tide","Date":"4 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Crimson Tide is a 1995 film Starring Denzel Washington and Gene Hackman. The Tony Scott film involves a first officer (Washington) on a nuclear submarine who clashes with his captain (Hackman) over whether or not they have enough information to perform a first strike on a volatile Russia. As far as, Tony Scott films go, they're sort of hit or miss. I loved Man On Fire and Unstoppable. However, movies like Deja Vu and The Taking Of Pelham 123 are just sort of meh for me. This is partly because Mr. Scott made a very strange transition midway through his career. He went from using a really clean and traditional camera movement (as in Top Gun, True Romance, and Crimson Tide) to using this really frenetic and trippy camera style (as in Deja Vu, Man On Fire, and Unstoppable). Sometimes the latter works, sometimes it doesn't, but one thing that usually has stayed amazingly consistent throughout Tony Scott's career is a brilliant lead performance from Denzel Washington. Tony Scott and Denzel Washington have collaborated together five times, and they've crafted some amazing stuff. Crimson Tide is no different here - Denzel sails through this movie with an utterly incredible finesse. However, while Denzel's performance is a force to be reckoned with, the best performance in this film is from none other than Popeye Doyle himself; Mr. Gene Hackman. His portrayal of Captain Frank Ramsey is one of the most menacing performances I've seen him give in a long while. Hackman owns this ship. In terms of directing, this movie in my opinion had everything The Hunt For Red October had, yet there was just a tad more. While The Hunt For Red October filmed it's underwater combat scenes using trick photography and models in midair, Crimson Tide actually shot their model ships underwater and utilized practical special effects on them regularly. While The Hunt For Red October had a brilliant score by Basil Poledouris, Crimson Tide. . .had Hans Zimmer. Finally, while The Hunt For Red October's plot was very interesting and definitely worth watching, Crimson Tide managed to be one of the most intense filmgoing experiences for me in a very long time - the fear of a nuclear holocaust is hammered into your head at an almost unsettling degree. White-knuckle film? You don't know the meaning of the term. Crimson Tide is an unbelievable film that I will not soon forget. "},{"Title":"A mutiny thriller that delivers the goods wholesale.","Date":"7 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Russian rebels have seized one of their government's nuclear missile bases and are threatening to attack the U.S.A. A patrolling US nuclear submarine is ordered to fire, but almost straight afterwards an incomplete counter order brings uncertainty. The submarine Captain and the Executive Officer come into conflict as to which order to follow, and thus the subs crew are torn as to which officer is right or wrong.Directed by Tony Scott, one could be forgiven for thinking that Crimson Tide would be an outlandish ball of explosions and slaughter, thankfully it isn't, as Scott gives us one of the best underwater thrillers going. Scintilating characters are cloaked in dynamic claustrophobia, and this coupled with the ever increasing unbearable tension, makes this a must see for fans of films that are scary because of what might happen, and not because of what many blockbuster film makers actually show you.This is not a standard good vs evil plot piece, or even a good vs insane cretin film, this pitches old school stickler for the rules Captain Ramsey against the deep thinking common sense purveyor Lt Commander Ron Hunter. Ramsey believes that the completed order, which is basically to blast the Russians before they blast us type thing, should be followed, Hunter on the other hand feels that the second incomplete order must be clarified before any action is taken, after all this could be nuclear war. The film then twists and turns as the sub is divided into two factions, mutiny is rife, but what will the outcome be? Can the radio be fixed to complete the order? Will it be too late? All these questions are tensely drawn out by Scott to get the maximum impact from what is an admittedly standard global crisis in waiting story.No shortage of machismo here either, brutishly brilliant is how I find Gene Hackman in this, his Captain Ramsey is the quintessential leader of men. Then there is Denzel Washington as Ron Hunter, eloquently spoken and a voice of reason, his ruggedness coming to the fore as the submarine starts to implode. There are few better sights in 90s cinema than watching Hackman & Washington go at each other the way they do here, starting off as just a fractious relationship, it then explodes into a war of belief and wills. It's thru these pair that the film's neutral stance shines bright, what would we do in similar circumstances? Who would we follow? Both men ethically right, yet both men accountable for probable disaster.This is a wonderful picture, a lesson in tough tension building that is perfectly wrung out by a rousing Han Zimmer score, the only weak point being a multi written script that tries to fuse pop culture references with technical lingo, which doesn't quite sit right, but even that can't hurt the excellently unfolding sequence of events that closes quite brilliantly with a written piece that all of us should take note of. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Amazingly well written","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film is incredibly well written.  How many screenwriters even know who von Clausewitz is?  For once, military people aren't shown as stupid, or reactionary -- at least not all of them.  Loved this movie.  Deep, fun, challenging, and enjoyable.  The sudden inability of the submarine to communicate which precipitates the crisis feels forced, gimmick-like, but does set up the confrontation between Washington and Gene Hackman.  Great stuff.  Highly recommended.   "},{"Title":"Dull","Date":"15 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  An underachieving script with very poor characters.  If you don't understand the military and how things work there, then you might find this flick interesting, but if you do understand the military and how one gets promoted, then the Captain's actions were so unbelievable that it was painful.Basically, this movie relied on numerous extreme stereotypes at the critical plot junctures in order to move into the next phase of the story and then reverted back to believable characters at the points in-between.  This created a stop-start sense where you couldn't put your finger on who the characters were and how they really fit into the whole scheme.Add in there a healthy dose of social activism and you have a real dull flick. "},{"Title":"Count down three minutes till Doomsday.","Date":"17 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Excellent military drama with more intrigue and thrills than action. There is a clash of wills between the Captain(Gene Hackman)and his Lt. Commander(Denzel Washington)aboard the nuclear submarine USS Alabama. The mission is to avert an impending nuclear conflict with Russia. Hackman and Washington are tense and superb. Other submariners includeViggo Mortensen, Rocky Carrol, Matt Craven, George Dzunda and James Gandolfini. Man the torpedos and stand by. You will witness that thin line between wrong and right. "},{"Title":"One of the best Submarine Films...","Date":"26 September 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the best submarine films out there. But that doesn't mean it's extraordinary. However, the film is definitely interesting enough to make you want to watch it til the end, and it also presents some interesting questions.On an Atomic submarine that's out to neutralize a terrorist target that has acquired a couple of nuclear missiles, the captain Ramsey (Gene Hackman) and XO Hunter (Denzel Washington) are presented with a situation that might start a nuclear war. The submarines communications break down halfway through a message, leaving both Ramsey and Hunter confused. Ramsey, however, doesn't care for the message and proceeds with his orders to launch the nuclear devices. Hunter, however, sees the message as a sign that the terrorists have been brought down and neutralized. Thus, Hunter believes that Ramsey is about to start a nuclear war.Tony Scott effectively handles the plot, which mostly consists of a power struggle aboard the submarine between Ramsey and Hunter. Both Hackman and Washington deliver stellar performances, and I dare say that this is probably the best Denzel Washington movie I've seen. At least one of the best. The script is well formulated. Sometimes you wonder what's going to happen next, but it never goes beyond that into a super edge-of-your-seat experience. And it might not be the kind of film you want to watch more than once, as it's not as fun when you know what's going to happen.The movie is vastly different from most other submarine flicks in the way that it doesn't feel so claustrophobic. It's up to you to decide whether or not that's a good or bad thing, but I found it quite relieving, seeing as it'd be pretty boring if every Submarine flick out there had the exact same feeling to it. Instead, this movie focuses on the politicial and thriller elements of the plot (Because that's what this is a political thriller), and succeeds at it.The music is done by Hans Zimmer. I would be able to pinpoint the score to his name, even if I hadn't read the credits afterwards. It's very Zimmerish, and I happen to like his music. So that's a plus for me. The music isn't very prominent in the film however, and I seem to only recall one theme from it. But hey... It's a nice theme. Tony Scott delivers yet another very stylish and interesting thriller. Pretty much everything in this film is high quality and entertaining, even tho it's not Oscar material.8/10  "},{"Title":"Shouting","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Yep, lots of shouting, screaming, cheering, arguing, celebrating, fist clinching, high fiving & fighting. You have a general idea as to why, but can never be 100% certain. A naval knowledge would be an advantage for the finer points, but then you'd probably spot the many flaws. Not an awful film & Hackman & Washington are their usual brilliant, but the plot was one you could peg pretty early on. I'm still waiting to see a submarine film where people get on with each other & don't argue, but then you probably wouldn't have a film.4/10 "},{"Title":"Sorry - total downer","Date":"10 November 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  We laughed our heads off. This script is so incredible you either zap to CNN or go to sleep.My dad was a sea captain for 30 years, he could not believe his eyes when he saw the movie.During his experience as an officer he once claimed command over the ship, the captain drunk 3 bottles of whiskey/daily and (sorry) s**t on his desk. Of course this was not on a nuclear mission.For instance, the fire in the kitchen, fire is the most important thing on any ship, nuclear or not. To give a drill at that time is just Hollywood script. When a captain is put under arrest, he IS under arrest, you take all his keys and open the safe where the guns are kept. This is stored within minutes in a well guarded room. He CANNOT escape, it's just like in prison.Funny thing is, my dad also had a dog on board, however, we  see how Hackman let him pee in the control room. This is not done, ever. My dad cleaned all the mess the dog made wherever he was.Hackman and Washington make the three stars this movie is credited for, all the rest is bulls**t.When we do know that 23 people were still alive on the Koersk, this film gets an extra dimension.If you want to see a real thriller about a submarine rent Thas Boat. "}{"Title":"Appalling","Date":"20 September 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  What an appalling film. Don't get me wrong, Gene Hackman and Denzel Washington are good actors, but aside from a few interesting set pieces, the film is mostly taken up with hysterical submariners shouting, crying, sweating and generally freaking out when anything goes wrong.Take that with simplistic asides to make sure the audience still understand what's going on (the scene where Denzel Washington explains to a radio repairman how he must be like Scotty in Star Trek is nothing more than a joke) and you have a dumbed down thriller not worthy of the acting.Let us just hope that the real nuclear US Navy is not in the hands of such a script! "},{"Title":"Hackman tries to carry Washington","Date":"27 May 2005","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" While I'm not usually into quick statements as a review (it happens though) I can sum this movie up quite easily.SPOILER Denzel was so bad that there was an ovation in our theater when Gene's character slugged him. Gene was supposed to be the bad guy but you're rooting for him throughout the movie and just hoping that Denzel gets what he deserves. Unfortunately, it's Denzel near the height of his career and nothing bad can happen to Denzel! SPOILER DONE The movie was unfortunate and predictable. Gene Hackman put up a shining performance but it isn't enough to want to watch this movie. Denzel has fans though that will love him no matter how poorly he acts. "},{"Title":"Terrible Movie","Date":"8 April 2007","Score":"11 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" As a former submariner, this was one of the worst submarine movies I have ever seen. First of all, a mutiny aboard any US Naval vessel, particularly a Nuclear Powered Trident submarine in unthinkable. These men are the best of the best and are dedicated to their mission. The responsibility they carry is awesome and they take it very seriously all the way from the Captain to the most junior crew member. I could never see a crew of any ship split their alliance between the Captain and the Executive Officer. An Executive Officer who acted as the Character played by Denzel Washington did would be relieved of his duties and Court Martialed, then drummed from the Navy. It is no surprise the Navy refused to send a technical adviser to help in making this film. Lastly, if any member of a submarine crew made the amount of noise made underway on this vessel they would be severely reprimanded. Submariners learn early in their career to be as quiet as possible to avoid detection. They don't slam doors and even speak quietly and wear soft soled shoes when underway. I was amazed at how loud they portrayed the crew while underway. Loud music would never be tolerated. I know portraying submarine life in reality would not sell movie tickets, but this is over the top to the point of being ridiculous. I would not recommend this movie to anyone. "},{"Title":"Is this still payback for McCarthyism?","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"13 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" What a load of Leftist Hollywood bilge. This movie glorifies mutiny as brave and noble if it be for pacifist principles. The fairytale ends with the pacifist character, played by Danzel Washington, actually getting promoted for his treason. What is it with these Hollywood tools? Is this still payback for McCarthyism?If I sound cynical it's because I am fed up with movies hawking a political agenda. The military brass in this movie are portrayed as, what else? Gung-ho war mongers. Sound familiar? Ever see a movie where the CIA or any government agency is not evil? Think about it. Yet again, Crimson Tide stresses the point. The Hackman character, U-boat captain Ramsey, comes across like a raving lunatic, until the very end when, of course he comes to his senses, does a complete 360, renounces his blood lust, suggests a promotion for the treasonous Ron Hunter, and repents by retiring from the service. A guy mutinies, takes command of your boat, puts the U.S at grave risk of receiving a nuclear first-strike, and you promote him???? What hogwash! "},{"Title":"Memorable for several reasons","Date":"28 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" A weird hybrid of real life and fiction. You can't say that it strives very valiantly to be realistic but according to the trivia section on IMDb the movie was heavily researched.One thing that is worth noting is that Quentin Tarantino brought elements to the script and you can almost guess which scenes are his (which German guy was in Run Silent, Run Deep and the whole Silver Surfer argument). Tarantino had previously scripted another Tony Scott film, True Romance and the dialogue is very similar in those few scenes on Crimson Tide.This is also the movie where I found out that there was an actor of Danish ancestry called Viggo Mortensen. Weird, because I have a cousin with the same first name. He does very well with a character who has a life and death situation in his hands. Watch him when Hackman's character puts a gun to his head. It's eerie how cool he can play it. If i had Hackman screaming in my ear, I would flinch just a little bit, even though I knew it was all just a movie.The third notable thing about Crimson Tide is that this is the first time I detested a character who was supposed to be a hero, Denzel Washington's character Lt. Hunter to be exact. Yes, he may be right but there was not a single moment where I was convinced that he could get people on his side to execute a mutiny. He comes off as an arrogant elitist who shields himself behind the rule book. Watch one of the last scenes in the movie and you will absolutely agree that what happens may be in accordance with Navy conduct, but you feel that justice was far from served. Washington's character Lt. Hunter should have had some sort of comeuppance.It all comes down to a boil when Gene Hackman's character is about to take back control of his boat but just out of curiosity decides to see if the crackpot Hunter is right. Hackman also detests Hunter but he can't shake the feeling that he is over the hill and his instincts are failing. Hackman plays it masterfully. His last scene is grace and humility incarnate. He may be a stubborn old goat but he knows when to step down. Too bad, he almost put the World under before he realised it.What more can you say, except that this is worth being seen as more than just an action thriller. Hackman went into a serious slump until he went on to a minor comeback with The Royal Tenenbaums. Washington is the one of the highest regarded actors but I still don't know why. I have seen him in about 10 movies and his characters always make me want to squirm. Odd, because in interviews he seems kind of sympathetic. "},{"Title":"What would you do?","Date":"4 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" If you had to choose between obedience to an authority you respected, and obedience to your own moral code, how would you chose? That is the question dramatized in this movie set on a nuclear submarine. It is a dilemma also lived out by men in wartime, in the police force, in gangs, in the Catholic church, often with far less heroic results than we might prefer. In this movie, several different viewpoints are brought to bear on the debate, personified as the individual characters.I cannot speak to the realism of the submarine details, but to those of us both intelligent yet ignorant of that world, nothing popped up as entirely ludicrous. (As opposed to how, without being an astronaut, I can see how stupid most space-based movie details are.) I'm not generally a fan of big blockbuster Hollywood films, but I surely liked this one. All the details that Hollywood can do well--music, sound, art direction--are professionally managed, doing their jobs without distracting us by shouting to the audience how wonderful they are.All of that fades appropriately into background so that we can watch some major-league acting talent go to bat with a good script, hittin' 'em out of the park every time. Not only Washington and Hackman, but all the supporting cast do terrific jobs. And that means the director must have been doing his job well, too. My hat is off to all.I wish Hollywood would do more movies of this caliber. "},{"Title":"really well done","Date":"13 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I thought this movie was really well done because mostly due to the ending. Shortly into the plot, you can tell that the CO and the XO are not going to get along very well (especially when the CO announces over the speaker system that the XO is 'worried' that the crew members might be 'on the edge.' But the thing about the movie that was really good was the ending and mostly because it didn't go the way I thought it would. I also couldn't believe how many actors turned down roles in this film (Pitt, Pacino and Val Kilmer). The other thing was the idea of mutiny amongst the crew. I don't think there's many army/military movies which show 2 of the leaders fighting each other, even though it wasn't really physical. "},{"Title":"Lots of action and good performances","Date":"10 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Gene Hackman and Denzel Washington face off aboard a submarine in Crimson Tide, a 1995 film fearing George Dzunda, Viggo Mortensen, Matt Craven, James Gandolfini, and Rick Shroeder. It's obvious from this site that there are people who have a lot to say about Naval procedures as they were shown in this film. I can only comment on what I saw on the screen, but I do appreciate what these people wrote.In the beginning of the film, Lt. Commander Hunter (Washington) is made executive officer under Captain Ramsey (Hackman) on the submarine USS Alabama. The premise of the film is that there is a coup in the old Soviet Union, and a rebel group there has taken control of a Soviet sub base. The Alabama is on the alert, and exchange torpedoes with a Soviet sub. Unfortunately, during that altercation, a command received is cut off when damage occurs to a cable. The question then becomes whether or not to attack since no one is sure what the government communication is ordering. Hunter and Ramsey disagree on what should be done. Hunter wants to wait until they know what the order says; Ramsey wants to fire.Crimson Tide is well structured and builds beautifully both in the story and in the relationship between Ramsey and Hunter. The tension between them increases slowly, neither man showing his true colors, but it keeps the viewer on edge throughout, as does the situation with the torpedoes. This makes for gripping, exciting drama.Washington gives a very cerebral and controlled performance as the young Hunter, who is well educated and well qualified, but new to battle. When it's time for him to show what he's made of, he does, and it's worth waiting for. Hackman as the seasoned commander is tough and edgy. You're not exactly sure what he's thinking, and right until the end of the film, he continues to surprise. Both men do excellent jobs, and there is fine support from Dzunda, Mortensen, Gandolfini and Craven. Rick Shroeder has a small but showy role.Though much of this may have been unrealistic, the real story is the conflict between these two men, each with their strengths and weaknesses. Since this war of temperaments is conducted by two master actors, Crimson Tide is not to be missed. "},{"Title":"One of THE best movies of its kind!","Date":"31 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I'm not a big fan of war movies (though this technically is NOT one of those), and I never saw the virtue of getting excited about a bunch of crew-cuts running around yelling inside a big can. HOWEVER, I will watch anything with Denzel because he is one of the best actors out there. This movie was a never-able-to-completely-catch-your-breath, heart-doing-jumping-jacks-in-your-chest, chew-your-nails-down-to-the-knuckles thrill ride that brilliantly pitted Mr. Washington against a most excellent Gene Hackman. I've watched it many times (more than a woman of my cinematic tastes would, I should think), and I just think it's a classic. Of special interest are a scene at the beginning discussing the philosophy of war; the scene that ends with Denzel saying (**********************SPOILERS TO FOLLOW*******************), If I'm wrong, Sir, God help us all....and the scene where the captain orders the crew to disarm the missiles. You want to cheer right along with the crew (and - who knows? - maybe you will!).A few things that bugged me (more spoilers) a heavy-set crewman dying because (as the captain put it) he weighed 300 pounds. That's a bit of a paraphrase to you Crimson Tide purists out there. But there were a couple of other guys on that sub that probably weighed around that, and didn't look very fit. That didn't make sense to me. They kill off one big guy because he's big, but they leave the others alone? And are they even allowed to be in the military if they're so hefty without looking fit? Bit of a head scratcher, that. The thing that bugged me the most? James Gandolfini's contrived facial expressions. Mentally challenged rabid poodles are brought to mind. Eek. Give me a break. The only thing missing to complete his look? The Snidely Whiplash mustache twirl. He doesn't impress me all that much.One thing I can't make up my mind about is Viggo Mortensen's character's tormented soul. He handled it really well (you could almost smell his sweat a couple of times), but the set-up was too obvious.The movie was a little predictable, but movies of this type generally are. That's okay. I loved it anyway. All in all, I give it 4 out of 5 stars. Highly recommended. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"An Unorthodox Action Thriller","Date":"2 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The movie itself is predictable and has nothing intelligent to say about post-cold-war tensions or anything else, but it's great fun to watch Gene Hackman and Denzel Washington square off in an unusual setting a submarine.Captain Ramsey, played by Gene Hackman, is a wonderful creation, he is a genial captain with more than a hint of menace in his eyes. He's always sizing up the situation, always making the air tense with implicit threats. His clash with his executive officer, Hunter, played by Denzel Washington, is not the result of some generic older-guy suspicion of the younger guy. The strain between them begins on a moral level and then turns into an all-out conflict when each tries to apply his morality to a huge crisis.An interesting movie. 7/10 "}{"Title":"An excellent, intelligent, and compelling action movie... ?","Date":"23 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Warning - Spoilers Below What if the authority to launch nuclear missiles did not rest solely with the President of the United States, but rather with commanders in the field, and the decision to launch missiles had to made in the heat of battle? This is the question that Crimson Tide poses, and answers, throughout the course of the movie. During a fictional conflict in Russia, a rebellion ensues and a commander takes control of a large part of the Russian military. The Russian government, still intact, is in control of the launch codes for Russia's nuclear arsenal - however, if the rebellion grows in size and the government is compromised, the rebellion will take control of the codes and launch the missiles in response to any action taken against them. At this point the United States military is dispatched in response to this threat.Gene Hackman is the captain of the U.S.S. Alabama, a nuclear-equipped submarine dispatched to the waters off the coast of Russia. His Executive Officer (X.O.) has taken ill, and so he brings aboard Denzel Washington as the new, relatively unexperienced replacement. Denzel Washington is highly recommended and has served with several of the crew members of the Alabama, including Viggo Mortensen, the Weapons Officer.Spolers coming up, beware! During the Alabama's patrol, the submarine receives a message from the Pentagon informing the submarine that the rebellion has seized control of the government and the launch codes have been compromised. The submarine is instructed to arm its nuclear missiles in response to this threat, so that should the need arise to make a preemptive strike against Russia the submarine can do so.In the midst of this process, the sonar room reports a Russian submarine only feet away from them in the water, and the Alabama is forced to go into quiet mode and dive deeper in order to avoid being detected. The submarine dives so deep their communications go offline, and they are unable to receive any further orders from the Pentagon. They cannot rise to a broadcast depth for fear of being detected by the Russian submarine, but they cannot afford to wait, because the Russians may be in the process of launching their missiles already. Since time is a factor, Denzel Washington recommends to Gene Hackman that they float their communications buoy up to a lower depth in order to receive further orders. Another urgent message from the Pentagon arrives, but is cut off when the buoy is actually snagged by the Russian submarine prowling the waters above them. This cripples the communications systems aboard the Alabama while at the same time giving away their position to the enemy. The Russian submarine launches torpedoes, which the Alabama dodges, and the Russian submarine slips away.The partial message that the Alabama received starts with Permission to launch nuclear weapons-- and is cut off. The commanders of the Alabama are left in a horrible position - do they assume nothing has changed, and the nuclear weapons they are still prepping for launch are now to be fired in order to save the United States? Or do they assume that the message was sent in order to prevent a nuclear launch because something has changed on the surface, and call off the launch for fear of starting a nuclear war that could have been avoided? You'll have to watch the movie to find out. While not giving away the rest of the plot and the resolution to this conflict, I can tell you that this movie is an excellent watch for almost anyone, for three reasons 1) The acting is superb. Gene Hackman, Denzel Washington, Viggo Mortensen, James Gandolfini, Matt Craven, and many others form an extremely talented cast who pump emotion, intelligence, compassion, and above all internal conflict into their characters, which drives the story and makes it that much more compelling.2) The subject matter is epic. The crew of this submarine is very, very close to launching the only other nuclear missiles since World War II. The keys are in the locks, the missiles are fueled and ready, and the only thing standing in the way is the conflict on board the submarine and inside the character's heads.3) The characters are all extremely well developed. There is no character here that is simply stereotype X. There is no war-mongering general, like Jack Nicholson's character in A Few Good Men, who is immediately marked as the bad guy. There is no clear cut bad guy, or clear cut good guy. Instead, there are characters with different, well reasoned view points who disagree over something extremely important in the heat of a submarine battle. Every character is well rounded, believable, intelligent, and their motives can be easily understood even if their actions aren't agreed with. This conflict could very easily be real, with real people, and that's what makes this story so compelling.This is definitely a must-see for almost anyone. It's a great action movie, but it's a lot more than just an action movie, which is why I recommend it so highly. "},{"Title":"terrifically entertaining and thought provoking  movie dealing with possibility of WW3","Date":"10 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" i really liked this movie.i'm not really fond of Tony Scott's directing style,at least his last few efforts anyway.but Scott is fairly restrained for this 1995 film.the film takes place during heightened tensions between most of the world(including the United States and a rogue Russian leader who has amassed some support for his cause,which is too start World War Three.most of the action takes place at sea as tensions come to a boiling point as the crew of one U.S. Submarine,led by seasoned veteran Captain Frank Ramsey(Gene Hackman)is on the verge of launching nuclear missiles at the enemy after being attacked by what may be a rogue Russian attack sub.however,things are not that simple,as Ramsey's XO(executive officer)Lt Commander Ron Hunter(Denzel Washinton)who has never been in a battle situation before and he and Ramsey butt heads regarding navy protocol in this particular situation,leading to chaos on the ship.there is more than that going on,but i don't wan't to give too much away.there's quite a bit of intense action and tension as things progress.Both Hackman and Washington are both superb actors and it shows here.as the two face off,you can see the intensity crackle between the two.there are also some great supporting actors in the movie.that coupled with Scott's restraint and the lack of kinetic and sometimes choppy action sequences that have become his trademark really make this film work.there is only one thing i didn't like about the movie,and i don't mean to be critical of Americans in general,with this,(his pertains more to many filmmakers)but here goes.for me,there was a bit too much American flag waving.the U.S is more than once referred to as the greatest nation in the world.now there is nothing wrong with patriotism from any country,but there is such a thing as overkill.i think many people would say that their own country is the greatest(or at they may think it)or maybe i'm wrong.don't misunderstand me,i think the U.S is a great country,despite its problems.the ironic thing to me is that Tony Scott is actually from the U.K.otherwise,the movie itself is highly entertaining and thought provoking. my little complaint is merely an observation and doesn't take too much away from the film's quality.therefore i give Crimson Tide a 9/10 "},{"Title":"Two disagreeing 'captains' on one ship...both are right.","Date":"11 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Crimson Tide is a movie that has grown onto me in the last couple of years. The movie had never been really any of my favorites, I never really cared much about the story and never thought the movie was tense enough for a thriller, in which never enough happened. This has changed the recent years. I now see how relevant the movie is and I am able to appreciate what the movie tries to tell and of course also the performances from actors Denzel Washington and Gene Hackman, which already is reason enough to watch the movie.Mutiny occurs on a nuclear submarine when the captain and his Lt. Commander disagree about firing a nuclear missile on the Russians, when the launch message is received, followed by an incomplete followup. Hackman is legally, by the Navel rules right, while Washington is morally right. So both are right in a way but you can't help routing for Denzel Washington, since Gene Hackman just basically plays a mean old piece of...Not that I mind though. It keeps the movie totally great and interesting to watch, since Washington and Hackman are just great in every sequences that they're together in. There always is a constant tension between them. They're different characters with different opinions and they perhaps never really liked each other but yet they always respect each other, right till the end. It provides the movie with some really effective and memorable moments.The movie is filled with many more big names in it, of who most were still fairly unknown actors at the time, such as Viggo Mortensen, James Gandolfini, Rick Schroder before his NYPD Blue period and Ryan Phillippe among others. So a real good job on the casting here, since it also features some already at the time established actors, that really all fit their roles really well.But lets face it. How much tense and interesting can be going on in a movie set almost entirely in a submarine. The movie does a good job at keeping the movie always interesting to watch, despite its subject and settings, mainly thanks to a high pace. It keeps the movie surprisingly tense and provides the movie with a constant atmosphere of tension. The story itself is quite interesting and thought provoking, once you start thinking about it how much power a submarine captain actually has (had) and how he can unleash a nuclear war with the push of a button. They try to also put some sequences in it with deeper meanings and layers and it certainly provides the movie with some memorable moments but the pace it is too high to actually allow you to absorb things and think about it. The movie also starts to repeat itself after a while. It also features far too many technical details that the viewers just don't understand and only work distracting from the true story and atmosphere of the movie. It really doesn't make the Crimson Tide the best, or most tense, movie ever written, though its premise is really more than great thriller material. I can understand that they hired other writers (Robert Towne, Quentin Tarantino and Steven Zaillian) the spice up the movie a little, by putting in some more dialog, character development and deeper meanings. Yet the movie really doesn't feel as if it had been written and re-written by different writers. I think that we can also thank director Tony Scott for that, who provides the movie with one overall consistent fast style and atmosphere.Some of the things that really make this movie better than just your average submarine movie is the very lively cinematography by Dariusz Wolski and the suiting musical score by Hans Zimmer, that works very effective and powerful for some of the sequences. In a way this movie also was his big Hollywood breakthrough, though he had composed some successful Hollywood scores before. Both really lift the movie to an higher level.Not an essential viewing (though perhaps it are Washington and Hackman that still make the movie one) but nevertheless a movie worth seeing if you can appreciate a well constructed movie, set almost entirely aboard a submarine.7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Forget destroying humanity, I'm afraid of spoilers!","Date":"26 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Warning -- this is a philosophical review. Not sure if this is a spoiler. Most probably is. I've only read some of these reviews. None, in my opinion, made a point of the point (forgive the pun) of the film. It is not about the military. It is not about politics. It is about the moral dilemma of use of power. And even more so about the choices we make, individually and collectively. Actually, it is about the power of one, of you, of me, to affect, in this story literally, the fate of the world. Tolstoi, who was considered by many to be out of his mind, would have very much appreciated this film. Another entity who might appreciate this effort would be the force, god, the grand wazoo. How could anyone press the button, whether authorized or not? In a comic strip from a while ago, Pogo, the principal character stated that We have met the enemy and they is us. What this story does so well is to place you and me in the situation where we must make a choice --- am I a human being, or am I an American, or specifically, am I a United States citizen? This film discusses not so much democracy as it does the difficulty that we human beings have simply getting along together. We seem to need bigger and bigger weapons to protect us from ourselves. The conflict in Crimson Tide is not between authority and discipline, and laxity and laziness. It is between love and fear. All actions in this story originate in either love or fear. Read Conversation with God. It is the same story, except much more challenging. Love or fear. Think about it. Tony Scott currently produces Numbers, which is another story that presents, in each show, some sorta moral dilemma, or at least provides the viewer with the challenge of choice. "},{"Title":"Almost like Wargames but almost always under the sea","Date":"28 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The way this movie was constructed was a twinge of Wargames. In Wargames, a teenage computer nerd breaks into the NORAD computer subsystem illegally and puts the whole USA into a possible World War III involving nuclear missiles.That portrayal of possible nuclear Armageddon also exists in Crimson Tide, telling of a story of a US submarine being involved in action at a time when a renegade Russian rebel force takes over a Russian nuclear missile site and threatens to launch an attack not only on Russia---but possibly on the United States.The exciting part of the movie was when the USS Alabama seemed to have destroyed an enemy Russian Acula submarine with its 2 torpedoes (from the Alabama)---only to almost make a fatal mistake to see on radar that an incoming torpedo had fired from the enemy Acula before it was taken out by the Alabama. The enemy torpedo came at the Alabama by surprise. The Alabama narrowly avoids that enemy torpedo but still takes an almost direct hit. And the submarine floods in one of the bays and goes down. Several submariners in the flooded bay realizes that the water is too much for them and commits suicide by drowning as the one on the con orders that the flooded bay be sealed. And it is....We also understood what hull crush depth means....the engine room personnel found a way to restart the submarine engines before it hit past the depth of 1875 feet, where the depth's pressures would be strong enough to destroy the hard hull of the sub and kill everyone inside it. The engines restarted at about 1870 feet....and the sub became alive again as the depth number indicator dropped!!!And the exciting ending, when Gene Hackman said on the PA system the Emergency Alert Message ending with ...Set condition to 2 SQ....Terminate launch, all missiles! was one that you need to wait for after all of this drama after the sub's radio buoy was damaged.Indirectly, the problems between both submarine commanders in the flick may have been caused by their different races, but none of that is revealed in the script of the movie directly. "},{"Title":"Very exciting movie, but contained a few minor goofs.","Date":"25 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Fine movie, but I'm certain the radio trouble would have been solved by using the spare or backup communications gear. They would certainly have had redundant equipment. Also, the ranking ET, electronics technician, probably a Chief Petty Officer , would very likely have been advising the sailor doing the repair if not handling it himself. A Chief Petty Officer is very proud of his rank and abilities, and would have been right in the middle of the situation. In such an emergency, they would normally have probably merely patched out the offending receiving equipment and not bothered to try and repair it right then. It could then be repaired after the emergency was terminated. "},{"Title":"before Tony Scott lost his mind style-wise as a director; great star/suspense appeal","Date":"27 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Crimson Tide is a real 'guy' kind of movie, and with a good foot set in the nuclear war debate. It's almost a throwback to those star-packed movies from the 60s, only now it's been given a better grip with the performances, the direction, and when it happens the action. But this is not really as much an action movie as it is a tension-overloaded tome of Naval officers in the heat of world-changing decisions. One might guess, of course, where the story may head, but it's still exciting getting there. It also is a big help to see actors who are always compelling on camera even when they're just standing at attention with stone-cold faces of stoic male command. Gene Hackman has the kind of role that allows him to have the danger of going overboard, of being the out-of-control Captain of the Alabama. But he always keeps the character in check of being both professional and a little too eager to pull the BIG trigger. It's a controlled, expert kind of performance that is a professional turn to counter another expert professional turn from Washington. Both men are not without small doses of humor (Washington in particular, thanks to Tarantino's script touch ups, puts in some pop-culture references), but it's really the bulk of the film- what to do by protocol, loyalties in the crew, and wills, that draw the biggest suspense.So it's not even really as much driven by action as many of Scott/Bruckheimer's other movies. Scott doesn't hesitate, to be sure, to put his own stylistic stamp on the material (lots of uses of colors and filters on his actors, etching up the claustrophobia, and of course a possibly over-used tilted camera). But it's the kind of movie that can appeal to fans younger (i.e. 20s) and older as a story of military men in crisis. The dialog is often as sharp as the craftsmanship, and the messages aren't overstated among the large-scale (and faulty) technology on the sub. In fact, as a submarine movie it's best when it knows what it is, and doesn't kid itself with pretense. It's slick, it's well-acted by stars and supporting players alike (with a who's who including Viggo Mortensen, James Gandolfini and even Steve Zahn), and it ends on a note that is predictable, but not unwarranted. And among the films as of late Tony Scott has directed, it's a pleasure to watch him with his hands not scrambling all over the place, letting the story and characters do much of the work. "},{"Title":"Very 'Hollywood', but not (all) bad","Date":"17 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I watched this movie with my fiancée, an American rightly proud of their military might. I wasn't expecting much more than standard Hollywood fare, so I really wasn't let down by it. The plot is pretty good, and presents a damn good dilemma. Neither my wife-to-be nor I could truly take either side. It's too bad the movie had to take one, partly due to the fact that the choice is a bit on the banal side. This is one movie where I would definitely have preferred to be left in the dark, for the film-makers to let the audience figure out for themselves what to think and believe. I suggest they watch some Alejandro Amenábar. Oh well... that's Hollywood for ya. The acting is solid. I kid you not, even Zahn wasn't an embarrassment. The action is pretty good, though somewhat limited. There's intensity enough to go around, the action just didn't seem to have enough scope, at least in my opinion. The characters are reasonably well-written. The biggest problem is that the two stances on the dilemma are just not fairly presented. We've got pacifistic and appealing Washington on one side... and Hackman, crazy old coot, on the other. Gene blows up near the end and loses all and any sympathy he may have garnered throughout the film, as the agenda of the film-makers becomes too blatantly obvious and heavy-handed(made worse only by the very end scene). Anyone looking for something intellectually stimulating(granted, a Hollywood movie isn't exactly the brightest place to look, but still) should look past this flick. Mindless entertainment and less-than-subtle manipulation is abound here. The one thing, however, that the film achieves nicely is the isolated, claustrophobic mood of a submarine. Now, arguably, I haven't seen enough of these films to say for sure(since this is, oh, well, the very first one I've seen), but in that respect, Tony does good. Well done, Mr. Scott. But as for the movie as a whole and the plot... Hackman is just too far away from being any kind of a likable character, and the trigger-happy, manic Gandolfini isn't much better, nor are any other characters on their side. I know most American cinema pits good versus evil, right versus wrong... but couldn't wrong at least be the opposing side(the Russians)? Or, even better, be more ambiguous? Just so it didn't feel that much like a lecture and rather food for thought. Anyway, if you can ignore and/or accept the manipulation and the Hollywood factor, it's not that bad. I recommend this to fans of the film-makers and actors. Just know what you're in for. 7/10 "},{"Title":"terrific","Date":"18 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" An exciting and fast paced movie with powerful acting and solid direction by Tony Scott who proves that he is a good director when not resorting to silly camera tricks.Denzel Washington and Gene Hackman are simply two of the best actors alive;this movie raises some very pertinent questions regarding the nature of command and making the right decisions under trying circumstances.It is truly frightening how much we rely on technology and when it does not work properly when we need it the most and are forced to rely on our own judgement we make rash decisions such as Gene Hackman does in the movie.The scenario of this movie is very real as we are witnessed to current events such as the Iraq war. "},{"Title":"nuclear Holocaust","Date":"17 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" My class had recently studied this film in Social Studies and I found really amusing. It really showed what the tension was like in the cold war and what everyone was going through. Imagine the people back at home not knowing when a bomb was going to be dropped, but the fate of the world lied in the hands of this one submarine as to whether or not there would be a nuclear Holocaust. This movie keeps you on the edge of your seat. There is also a lot of truth to this movie and what happened in the cold war. The thing is not very many people are too knowledgeable about this war in history, but the tension was just awful I could only imagine. "}{"Title":"Tense, if flawed, cold-war thriller.","Date":"1 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" No one's yet managed to truthfully present daily life aboard a submarine on screen. For instance, checking the US Navy recruitment site offers a few clues as to the potential characteristics of your shipmates To become as a submarine officer, the Navy would prefer if you had a GPA of 3.5 in math or physics, and then commit to a Navy graduate-level program of nuclear physics, metallurgy, fluid- dynamics, etc. Conversely, to be like Tom Top Gun Cruise and fly jets -- 2.0 GPA, no specific major is just fine. You'd be forgiven for assuming, then, that the bookworms ride the subs, and the kids with high testosterone levels wind up going Navy Air. So why are all the excitable, non-analytic types on this submarine? The number of sailors running around at any given time is astonishing. Plus, the missile decks have enough room to hold a cathedral (which, considering the obvious steam leaks going unchecked, might be a good thing.)OK, OK...the story's the thing, and it brings up some interesting questions. I won't spoil it, but suffice to say that the Navy was so bothered by the script that they refused any and all cooperation (the opposite of their attitude towards Red October.) The script loses some of its punch in this post-cold war era, but the boomers still patrol, Hackman and Washington are still fine actors (along with a pre-Sopranos James Gandolfini), and Tony Scott knows how to point a camera. Rig for deep submergence, and enjoy, flaws and all. "},{"Title":"great thriller","Date":"13 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is an absolutely fabulous movie. I guess that's to be expected with headliners Washington and Hackman. The tension builds right throughout and it's hard to pick which of the stars to root for and side with. As is said at the end of the movie, both were right and both were wrong.In my opinion, it ranks right up there with Hunt for Red October in terms of great suspense movies from the early 90s, and is probably more re-watchable than Red October.Do yourself a favor and pick this up if you haven't seen it already or if you're tired of the retreads that Hollywood puts out nowadays. "},{"Title":"Fantastic and Powerful","Date":"3 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I just watched Crimson Tide for the second time. This movie is incredibly powerful and exciting. There are several points in the movie where the exhilaration or suspense literally gave me chills. One of the best things I enjoy about this one, and a quality in all my favorite movies, is that you cannot miss a moment of it; every detail is important and the action never stops from beginning to end. I cannot really compare this movie to any other as the plot is completely unique and therefore this one stands alone. This is definitely one of my all-time favorites. Gene Hackman and Denzel Washington, as always, are perfect for their respective roles and deliver 110%. This movie is a must-see, sine dubito! "},{"Title":"Roll Tide","Date":"30 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film possesses an ability to pick-it-up in stride.Iam referring to the comments I have been looking at, prior to providing my own opinion.The U.S.S. Alabama, a nuclear submarine with absolutely devastating power capability provides the vehicle by which we are often assured of our resolve as a nation and our ability to maintain peace in this world.The chief protagonists are not the only casualty in this film but the viewing public as well.In an attempt to provide the back drop for what is to follow we learn that there has been some rather serious looking developments in the former Soviet Union and even more so that this character is talking with a very serious weed up his you know what.Those are something of the sentiments of Ramsey who seems in the long run to have just as serious a weed up his you know what.In regards to the film,Are Navy personnel allowed to bring pets aboard ship?I do not think so,further what value would it serve to allow the pet to urinate at will around the ship.I do not think so!I do not know about the regulations however in general I can hardly perhaps never ever have heard of personnel being entitled to bring pets aboard a U.S. Nuclear Submarine.I do think that Ramsey did seem to have his point about readiness and the entire boat should be at full alert status.The scene when the boat is about to submerge with Mr. Hunter having a hard time with that cigar would of made me laugh,however hard he tried it is my assumption it would never have been good enough and this includes the drama that is about to unfold.In other motion pictures there big on using the Cigar as a symbol,like a victory or perhaps a way to measure importance.It can be associatted with snob appeal, however these days they pose very real risks to ones health and the health of the people around you.This is pompous cowdung,the equal to showing off and I wish we did not see anymore cigars and  anymore cigarettes.  One of the problems is that we are not looking at the real thing in a manner of speaking we are looking at a sound-stage rigged like a playhouse where actors act and so on.However thats one of the principal roles of the entertainment industry is to lull you into believing that what you see is real,Well its not!The liberties taken by these films are strictly speaking made for Hollywood and as demanding as this might be we would be better off knowing how they rig these deals then taking them seriously.The political climate seems to be relative in its ability to provide something that we might believe was actually occurring,its no joke, in this world that the press has been accused of worse.You send me the prose and Ill provide the war,something out of the newspapers of William Randolph Hearst.In so far as the Picture is concerned I believe that the other submarine proved interesting and did seem to fit into the calculation to a pre-emptive mind set.The loss of the men in those forward compartments was very dramatic,very heroic, that seems to be the point that Mr. Hunter was a very skilled officer,who now had a boat that was damaged and with a loss of life on his hands.This film is not altogether entertaining due in principal to how unfriendly it is.One of those unfriendly positions is had by the chief protagonist in  Captain Ramsey.The idea or something like it that we are some kind of cowboys in a shoot em up idea is inappropriate and even more so that we would embark on such a position without the aide of intelligence is baseless showboating that was uncalled for and even improper.I do not like Hackman like pictures because thats one of the attitudes he will grab onto.In other pictures that same ideology can be looked at even more so.This scenario which involved the decision to launch nuclear weapons was done with such a resolve as to have brought about the end of the world.In a manner of speaking This is the end.Why would such conduct be worthy of command.That is what makes this picture compelling because reality needs to be sold.It is Hackman who is selling the end of the world?It is further worthy of note that this resolve leaves no one left alive and such devastation as we would not be around to tell about it.The beating of this enemy would allow us what?Mr.Hunters position about the consequences of our actions is well made,there will not be another tomorrow. However that is not the only problem,it would seem that the idea of beating an enemy like beating the XO is contagious and like a disease we are sold on a idea about beating people,and using each other to take advantage of each other and to ultimately  defeat even each other in the long run.This is where Mr. Hunter does not have a chance.This is the basis of the escalation.It is a predisposed attitude that can be said to be in the area.It wants its way and come hell or high water it will get its way,at your expense at my expense, however it will get its way.That is the real net and it can be said not to be in possession of all its faculties.In a manner of speaking you could say that the inter-net was reality turned upside down.So there be no mis-understanding there is nothing patriotic about the profit motive, this picture shows just how dangerous such motivation can be.The final scene with the hearing is not convincing however,it was the voyage that made for the hearing and it was the voyage where your attention should be drawn.They were not friends and indeed if Mr.Hunters ability had not matched his conduct they would have had to write a different script.Ramsey is a Character and so is Mr.Hunter.The soundtrack has long had a special place in the presentation of a motion picture the thematic refrain of Roll Tide is particularly impressive.The film sounds great on a full 5.1 surround system. "},{"Title":"Magnificent","Date":"10 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A friend of mine bought this movie, and he asked me if I wanted to see it with him. I had heard of it before and I admit my expectations were kind of mediocre, as I don't often enjoy submarine-movies. Man was I impressed. Both Denzel Washington and Gene Hackman deliver outstanding performances in this extremely exciting and thrilling movie, and the direction is simply stunning.  This is a movie that shouldn't be missed by anyone, and I cannot believe that it only has a 7.1 rating, it deserves to be in the top 250.8/10 "},{"Title":"Absolutely love it.","Date":"24 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Crimson Tide is one of my all time favorite movies, and IMHO, it beats the Hunt for Red October because it's a little bit faster paced, more action and suspense.. Plus, I really like Hackman DIt has its ups and downs, but all in all, definitely a must-see. "},{"Title":"Intense and satisfying","Date":"2 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Easily one of my favourite movies, this film takes the brink of nuclear war theme from the Cold War era to a more modern setting.  Realistic and feasible.The performances are all fantastic.  Washington's ying to Hackman's yang makes a very effective dialogue, and the need for big effects isn't there. The scenes are almost all within the USS Alabama, and even yet the actors alone compel your imagination and induce suspense and anticipation inside you.  The music helps a tonne, too.  All that on top of a debate that hits close to home for all of us to push the button and end a million lives, or not.It helps to be a fan of military-type movies, but even so, a great movie I'd recommend to all.  One of Washington's best, and that's saying something. "},{"Title":"Entertaining, but too many grey areas","Date":"2 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Having just watched the movie I have been pondering a few issues1/ When Hunter told COB to go and find Lieutenant Zimmer and to get a side arm; where would he have got the side arm from if Weps (who was one of the mutineers (depending on your point of view)) held the key to the small arms locker?2/ When Captain Ramsey re-takes the con and dishes out some fresh orders, we see Bobby Docherty, who was introduced at the start as 'supplies' as the diving officer. Is it possible for a supplies officer to be able to just jump into the saddle like this and drive the boat?3/ 3-most powerful men in the world are the US & Russian leaders and the commander of a nuclear sub. If the order to fire the missile comes down from our Commander In Chief in the first place, and at the close this is still the case, what actually changes at the end of the movie? Is it now the case that the President gets on the phone and tells them to fire; thus meaning that the Captain and XO don't need to concur. THIS IS A MAJOR PLOT HOLE I FEEL!4/ When Hunter is speaking to Vossler about the repair of the radio at the end he says yes Captain; if an XO with the rank of Lt Commander assumes command, can he be called Captain?5/ More on rank.., as Lt Commander Hunter arrives at the Naval yard at the start of the film, his driver announces him as Commander Hunter. Is he allowed to call himself Commander?6/ Uniforms..., (a) why do Hunter and his gang change to blue coveralls and caps when they re-take the boat..., is there something strategic going on here? (b) when Cpt Ramsey is having dinner with his officers, he is wearing a slightly more formal uniform and the rest are wearing the khakis as they do throughout the film. Is this deliberate? (c) at the end of the film as Hunter salutes Ramsey they are wearing whites, but both have different styles of collar on their unforms. Is the captains uniform different from other officers?  "},{"Title":"Letter of the Law, or Common Sense, with the World in the balance which would you do?","Date":"12 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A very good tense cold-war influenced thriller with good acting from the leads and all the supporting cast. The beginning of the film takes a short while to get 'moving' but once it has the whole film is non-stop tension of one sort or another. Being a nuclear submarine (which are no longer used by the US Navy, as now all control of nuclear weapons is held only by the US President) it has the potential to stop or start a war or nuclear holocaust. This is the whole issue. The two lead officers on the sub have a difference of opinion. The captain (Gene Hackman) holds the opinion that a message fragment is just that a fragment and can not be acted upon and that the fall-back standing orders should be followed. The XO (Denzel Washington) opinion differs. Whilst he agrees that the fragment is a fragment and can not be acted on, he believes that an attempt should be made to obtain the completed message to ensure its content. A classic clash of wills and views. The captain - old school, an order is an order and you follow them to the letter, with many years experience in the field. The XO - new school, orders are orders but there should be room for a little interpretation and intelligent thought, with no field experience but numerous years experience in theory.  "},{"Title":"A Must See","Date":"27 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Being stationed aboard a nuclear submarine myself, this movie is very realistic.  Some confidentiality must be maintained, but I would definitely give it an A- for realism.  Denzel Washington is very convincing and plays the part very well.  The suspense is superb!  I highly recommend this movie for anyone who likes up front and personal action all the way! "}{"Title":"A lesson in how to make a film with intense suspense and drama","Date":"16 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film is excellent, and definitely worth renting!  The film continuously builds up tension throughout between the strong characters of Washington and Hackman, drawing the audience into the suspense the other submariners feel in the movie.  A comparison might be 'The Hunt for Red October', but Crimson Tide focuses far more on the on-board tension, so providing a much sharper focus, making brilliant use of the leading characters, as well as the supporting actors.  This probably isn't reality, however the film isn't a documentary - rather excellent entertainment during which you won't leave your seat - try it and see for yourself! "},{"Title":"Embarrassing for this sailor to watch (spoilers?)","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  While I have to admit, this film had good action and a decent plot, there were too many distracting flaws that made it uncomfortable to watch.  Why was everyone running around when the ship dove?  Why would a Sailor try to tighten sprung bolts on a seawater flange and ignore an evacuation order? What is bilge bay anyway?  Highly unlikely a submarine Sailor would get into a fistfight over a comic book character when are better things slug it out for.  How about that video game sonar display?  Any dog that p***ed on my deck would be stuffed into the TDU.  If an officer tried to make me do pushups, he would be looking at my middle finger instead of me bobbing up and down on the deck.  The officers I have had the pleasure of serving with were not that petty.  If I stage a mutiny, I will take all of the guns out of the small arms locker and give them to my comrades instead of leaving some for the other guys to use against me.  Little chance any executive officer that placed his CO under arrest and took control of the boat from him only to lose it again would be recommended for his own command.  I know that portraying submarine life as it usually is would put most people to sleep, but a film about the submarine service should not be embarrassing for Sailors to watch. "},{"Title":"Outstanding movie, very true-to-life","Date":"23 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This was one of the best movies I've ever seen, combining action, drama, and suspense into a situation that is very realistic and possible.  The launch of nuclear weapons would mean a great change in our world, something not to be taken lightly, and the leaders of this sub know the responsibility they have been given.  The conflict among the captain and executive officer is very thought-provoking, showing that even among very specific and clear orders, there can be some ambiguity.  I highly recommend this movie for anyone wanting to be on the edge of their seat, always ready for something exciting to happen. "},{"Title":"disappointing","Date":"17 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I like submarine movies a lot, in fact I have 4 of them on DVD and I'm watching them very short after each other for the best comparison.  I already voted 9/10 for U-571 a week ago which I thought was a really great movie.  Now Crimson Tide is a big disappointment compared to U-571 and I only gave it 6/10.  Watching U-571 for the second time on DVD made it only get better, for Crimson Tide multiple views make the film worse.The other two submarine movies I have are still pending Das Boot - The Director's Cut and The Hunt For Red October. "},{"Title":"Denzel Washington and Gene Hackman","Date":"16 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  As the black equivalent of Errol Flynn, Denzel Washington could now be teamed up with quality leading actors. 'Crimson Tide' is such a film, and it brings together the antagonist of 'Superman' (Gene Hackman) and the protagonist of 'Malcolm X' (Denzel Washington). In it, both actors battle against each other on the same side, and the film becomes a war of internal struggles rather than external victories. Overall, it is one of the best films of 1995. "},{"Title":"Good thinking man's action movie...","Date":"12 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  1st watched 1/2/1996 - (Dir-Tony Scott) Good thinking man's action movie.  The two main stars faired well in their roles, despite corny beginning.  The pace helped keep the movie going and we really felt the emotions between the lead characters. "},{"Title":"Excellent! Superb acting and script. Very deeply nuanced.","Date":"14 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of my favorite movies.  It asks some very serious questions about the nature of military orders and nuclear warfare and shows both the leads at their best.  It contains some very deep levels of its message about conflicts between officers and how that affects the chain of command. This movie, more than anything, is driven by its two leads.  Both Hackman and Washington are gold and the characters they play were excellently written and developed.  Both are extremely nuanced and balanced (in terms of character) and one can easily understand either one.  Hackman's Capt. Ramsey is the quintessential implement of policy, a 25-year veteran fanatically committed to his mission while Washington's Lt. Cmdr. Hunter is a new Navy product of Annapolis and Harvard, who sees war itself as the enemy in the nuclear era and displays a careful deliberation and consideration of how to proceed in the crisis.  One could see Hackman as the gallant front-line defender who exists to protect his nation, while at the same time being dangerously overzealous, rash and callous in consideration of the power at his all-too-human hands.  At the same time, Washington's polished officer, while being wise, cautious can also be seen as perhaps still being too fresh, inexperienced and indecisive at times.  It's a dilemma and a wonderfully done character-sketching in grey, that leaves one with the point, as the movie ultimately concludes, that both men are right, and also wrong, at the same time. I've heard a lot of commentary on this movie a couple of different ways. For one, regarding whether or not something like this is possible.  That's a valid point, thankfully.  Nuclear submarine crews are famous for their mature, polite and intellectual natures.  They spend months underwater in relatively cramped, sealed steel tubes, work potentially long shifts at highly technical jobs, face a tremendous amount of responsibility and have to maintain extraordinary composure and discipline in a potential combat situation when they probably have a very limited picture of what's around them and no real chance to escape if something bad happens.  The Navy tends to select and screen people for that silent, and arduous, service very carefully, and it is tough to imagine that there would be mutinies with crewmen pointing guns at each other on a US nuclear sub.  It's important for a military command structure to function smoothly, with everyone doing their best to work together within the system, which the movie points out. Militaries have been in business for thousands of years, they've continually figured out how to function and what kind of people they want.  The likeliest scenario, probably, if the situation ever got as bad as an XO being forced to relieve his CO, would be for them to confer privately, after everyone's cooled off a little, and try to come to a workable solution to preserve the chain-of-command and carry out their orders.  That's probably better than a mutiny with 24 nuclear missiles up for grabs anyway. (If you haven't seen the movie, you may not want to keep reading)  The other issue I've heard about is the ending, that the system decides that both Hunter and Ramsey are right, and wrong, and Ramsey simply retires while Hunter goes on to his next assignment.  That is actually believable.  The scene at the end, with the board of inquiry, is actually very nuanced and could mean a couple of things.  For one, such boards are going to have respect for a 25-year veteran and show him professional courtesy.  They also will work to head-off a potential publicity nightmare that drops into their lap.  The Jason Robards two-star who heads up the board says in recognition of his long and dedicated service, Captain Ramsey's request for early retirement is granted.  At senior levels of government service, including the military, no one is ever publicly given the boot, unless either they force it on themselves or they commit a crime or a serious breach of trust. Instead, their resignation is accepted.  The point is to avoid ugly publicity and to show someone the respect of allowing them to walk away with their reputation and honor intact.  Ramsey very well might have thought it best to resign himself.  Given the circumstances, whatever the findings, he was never going to be given another command, and so would have taken the best opportunity to end his career with his head high and his pension and prospects for a teaching, consulting or writing position secure.  When he leaves, he never really admits that he was in the wrong, with that little joke about the horses to Hunter, which probably sits well with the psychology of someone in that situation.  His whole world is turned upside down as it is, so he copes with it by taking the best route out and leaves still proud and this is accepted and expected, even by Hunter.  They maintain a mutual respect.  Notably, the board states that Hunter's being sent on to his next assignment with all due speed is in part due to Ramsey's recommendation. The ultimate resolution was one that was in everyone's best interests, given the circumstances, and that is why it came out the way it did.  It made the job of the board easier as well, as they could deftly evade a potential landmine by saying that everyone acted in the best tradition of the Navy and the best interests of the United States, pensioning off the old-timer and giving the younger guy his next job, with the implicit knowledge that he ought keep up the official line for the sake of his career.  An interesting dichotomy, at first a total breakdown in the system and then the system working to resolve it as best as possible.  Of course, this time, without a nuclear war looming on the horizon.  Probably Hunter's career would survive, though he would ALWAYS have an eye looking down on him from above and would have to know that no one ever survives something like that twice, that if he ever went outside the chain of command again, no one would believe it an accident.  It is possible, in the future, that he would never promote past a certain level, or that a superior could hold a bias or attempt to hold the affair over his head.  These, of course, are all assumptions and possibilities that are left to the viewer to decide. As in the submarine itself, we are presented only with what the players see, another mark of genius to this film. "},{"Title":"Great cast, performances and film","Date":"2 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Crimson Tide is a surprisingly thought-provoking thriller considering the fact that Director Tony Scott got no help from the United States Navy in making the film, but the performances are excellent from Denzel Washington as newly assigned Executive Officer Ron Hunter and Gene Hackman as Captain Frank Ramsey.  The two men are in charge of a possible nuclear strike against Russia which are having problems with Russian rebels threatening launch against the USA.  However, when the two men are asked to launch, a second Emergency Action Message (EAM) is sent but is cut off during an attack on the USS Alabama (the submarine that Hackman is the captain of.) This causes the Captain and Executive Officer to disagree with one another, with Hackman wishing to launch and ignoring the the second EAM which they can't authenticate cause of the attack, meanwhile, Washington wishes to conform the message, this causes a mutiny.  In doing this, despite not having all the technical facts correct, the film does manage to show how stupid the United States system of conforming missile launches in 1995 was. The best thing about Crimson Tide, however, is the characterization of the two main protagonists portraying the new versus old navy with both Hackman as Ramsey and Washington as Hunter playing it with brilliance- Hackman (simple; Quote We're here to preserve democracy, not to practice it...) Washington (complicated, educated.) Crimson Tide is an excellent, intelligent thriller with good performances all round, a good script and outstanding direction by Tony Scott, OK, it doesn't get all it's facts right but is way more interesting than some more recent thrillers...  "},{"Title":"Aside from a few tiny little details, this was an excellent film!","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Of course, not all the details I caught would be apparent to a person whose not a veteran of the U.S. Navy. The Chief Petty Officer who had the heart attack would never have been accepted for Sub Service, due to his weight. The enlisted crewman who had an aquarium in his bunk? Come on! And what about all the crewmembers SMOKING? On a SUB? Say it with me now...NOT!!! But, this minutiae aside, the movie was still excellent, portraying the old-school Navy, (Hackman, as the crusty old combat veteran), against the newer, high-tech, philosophical Navy,(Washington, the more modern, thinking-man's officer). Yes, this is a real struggle in today's Navy. I must admit, Hackman's speech to the crew before boarding the boat was the single most stirring piece of prose I've seen in any movie, in my life. All in all, despite the built-in flaws, I found this to be one of the ten best Navy movies ever made. If you want a good military film, put down Navy SEALs, and Top Gun, and pick this up instead. You won't be disappointed.  "},{"Title":"Not as great as hype says","Date":"19 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film is fairly good, but all the hype is not worth it.  It is not your average submarine film, they don't go around shooting other submarines in war.  It is a thriller about power in a nuclear submarine.  The trigger happy commander (Gene Hackman) is denied power by the second in command (Denzel Washington) because the orders were not completely received.  A lot of overpowering goes on in the film as it draws to a climax, which doesn't leave you breathless, but is not disappointing.  It rates a 6 out of 10 on my scale.  "}{"Title":"Was this movie a comedy?","Date":"25 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I think i missed something because i never saw the ads portray this movie as it should have been. One of the funniest movies ever made... There really is a USS Alabama but after that the movie makes a total break from reality. Any bubble-head here ever cheer as the Chief of Watch announced station the Manuvering watch? I rest my case...If you want to see a movie that captures the essence of life on submarine, any submarine, than watch Das Boot. Crimson Tide is worse than Hunt for Red October, which is pretty bad itself. U571 is even better. I would cite specific items out of this movie that are wrong but that would mean i would pretty much have to quote the entire movie on this board and i don't feel like typing that long... "},{"Title":"Many Inaccuracies Mr. Bruckheimer","Date":"14 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I'm a submarine sailor myself and I must admit that I find what happens in the movie very unrealistic, however, it was a good movie for entertainment purposes. Just so everyone knows, things like what were dramatized in this movie would never, ever, ever happen on board a US nuclear trident missile submarine. There are things in place that would prevent this from ever happening. Oh, and one more thing, DOGS ARE NOT ALLOWED ON SUBS GUYS!!!! Whoever came up with that idea should have checked a little about Navy regs. Come on now!!!A few more inaccuracies in the movie are this(1) the scene where the USS Alabama is transiting out to open ocean. Well, first of all, that boat that is scene is not even a trident!!! It's a Los Angleles Class Attack Sub, not an Ohio Class!!! Mr. Bruckheimer, please research better!!(2) When the CO and XO are on the bridge. . .Where is the piloting party? When a submarine is transiting on the surface, there is a piloting party in place. All that were present in this movie were the CO and XO and couple of lookouts on the bridge. Again, when a sub is transiting on the surface, they have certain things in place to determine where they are. All I can say without revealing potentially secret information is that there is usually a person on the bridge with certain types of information to assist him in knowing where the boat is and in this movie, there is nothing like that. How the heck do these people know where they are and where they are going? (3) Mr. Bruckheimer, when the Chief of the Watch sounds the general alarm during the fire in the galley scene, he is pulling the wrong handle!!!! I cannot recall which one he is pulling in the scene, but I know it is the wrong one!!! Please get your facts straight!!!! Not to mention that the general alarm sounds nothing like your dramatization of one!!! "},{"Title":"Despite the hype it's a pretty lame movie.","Date":"18 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Before I saw this movie I heard great things about it so maybe I was expecting too much...but one thing became clear very soon...I was not going to get too much...that was believable at any rate. I mean how many times have you heard of someone escaping from the brig in 5 minutes? And having just escaped from the brig you might expect the escapee to be somewhat cautious about his brigging techniques but OH NO the brig's new occupant escapes in record time (oh did I spoil the plot ) and it begins again. Now I'm not all that well versed on the rules and regs in the U.S. Navy but I'm pretty sure they wouldn't give you a raise for that. "},{"Title":"Entertaining blockbuster with first-rate performances","Date":"13 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" CRIMSON TIDE Aspect ratio 2.391 (Panavision)Sound format Dolby DigitalAt the height of the Cold War, a battle of wills erupts between the captain of a US nuclear submarine (Gene Hackman) and his second-in-command (Denzel Washington).Unusual blockbuster from the Don Simpson/Jerry Bruckheimer stable, which foregoes flashy set-pieces for an intimate - though no less gripping - drama involving two experienced submarine officers who lock horns over protocol as the world teeters precariously on the brink of nuclear war. Hackman embraces the 'shoot-first-ask-questions-later' point of view, while Washington prefers adherence to the rule-book, and both men are determined to prevail. Michael Schiffer's screenplay contains echoes of THE CAINE MUTINY, especially the dramatic sequence in which Washington is forced to assume command of the sub, though Hackman's subsequent attempt to regain control is pure melodrama, done to a turn. Performances are first-rate all the way down the line, helped by gleaming production values and terrific dialogue (pop-culture references to Star Trek and the Silver Surfer betray evidence of an uncredited script polish by Quentin Tarantino), and director Tony Scott keeps a steady hand on the rudder. Also starring George Dzundza, Viggo Mortensen, James Gandolfini, Danny Nucci, Rick Schroder, Steve Zahn and an unbilled Jason Robards. Look quickly for Ryan Phillippe as a young crewmember. "},{"Title":"a movie ruined by a poor ending","Date":"6 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Up until the last few minutes of the movie, I would have given the movie a score of 7 or 8 stars. However, the ending is so terrible and Hollywoodized that it completely undermines the first 80% of the movie.The plot revolves around a submarine and the possibility that they received an order to fire their nuclear missiles. The Captain, Gene Hackman, is all for launching, while his first officer, Denzel Washington, is in favor of confirming the launch orders first. The problem is, to launch BOTH the captain and 1st officer must simultaneously use their launch keys. Hackman is determined to launch and Washington stands firm until eventually this results in armed insurrection aboard the sub. Eventually, the mistake is discovered and the missiles are not launched. Cool. However, here comes the part that just doesn't ring true. After they are back on land and go before a review board, Washington and Hackman (who'd just spent half the movie trying to kill each other) shake hands and are all buddy buddy! Huh?! Too trite an ending to make the movie worth while for me. "},{"Title":"Somewhat Overrated","Date":"14 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film is generally good entertainment.  They set the scenes well. For example, having the sub submerge during sunrise was a excellent effect.  The sets, lighting, and Hans Zimmer score set the mood very well.  But it doesn't take much research to reveal that the producers know very little about submarines.  While for an action movie that may not be important, here it undermines any points the producers are trying to make.  And even some of the entertainment aspects aren't all that good.  I'm torn over the performances of Gene Hackman and Denzel Washington, which everybody seems to think are so good.  While at times I tend to agree, at other times it seems as if all Hackman is doing is being cocky(a performance he has done many times before), while it seems that Washington is simply throwing deep indignant stares at people.  And the ending is obviously predictable, taking away much suspense.     "},{"Title":"Exciting, but not plausible and very not Navy","Date":"31 May 2001","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie had some andrenaline kickers, but it's an old story that simply could never happen.  Navy protocols could never break down that much that a crew much less an XO could ever go that far against the Captain.  I'll take Dr. Strangelove any day if I wish to see this plot.  Sidenote--the US Navy did not support this film. "},{"Title":"Red is dead","Date":"20 July 2007","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie is an insult to ALL submariners. It was stupid. It appeared to have been written by monkeys. The acting was absurd. If this is the view most people have of the Navy, then I weep for our defense. This movie was awful. I put it below Voyage to the Bottom of the Sea as far as submarine movies go. Gene Hackman must have really needed rent money to do this crap. Denzel Washington must have been high. Little in the plot makes any sense. And the ending. For a mutineer to be rewarded for his crime? Only Hollywood would think of this garbage. If you haven't figured it out yet, I didn't like it. And if it wasn't for all the pro comments, I would not have bothered to post. "},{"Title":"Hollywood Insists On Playing The Race Card","Date":"26 March 2007","Score":"10 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" When I watched this back in 1996, I enjoyed it was an interesting story, had two charismatic lead actors in Gene Hackman and Denzel Washington, good photography and sound and a nice feel-good ending.It still had all of that watching it five years later but then, after seeing literally several thousand films in that five-period, the reverse-racism of it disgusted me. Why is it that in every film I see in which the two main characters are white and black, the white guy is always the villain?? Talk about racism! The white guy is always like Hackman's character was in here. When are the filmmakers, all of whom are Liberals, going to stop treating one race better than another? Answers - when skin color doesn't matter anymore. Man, if this PC nonsense were the reverse, there would be a big outcry.One other complaint about the film the ending was way too contrived. Once again, we have the clichéd ending where the countdown to nuclear disaster literally goes down to the last second or two. "},{"Title":"Marines","Date":"16 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This not a review of the movie, but rather a possible clarification. Crimson Tide is one of my all-time favorites because of stars Gene Hackman and Denzel Washington, and of course, the U. S. Navy. The movie is so fast-paced that many of the so-called goofs cannot be spotted without U. S. Naval expertise.I never served in the Fleet so this may be completely out of line, but I thought all U. S. Naval vessels have a small detachment of U.S. Marines for security reasons? I would think this to be particularly true in the case of a U.S. nuclear submarine? I have a feeling if the security depiction in Crimson Tide had actually happened, Marines around the world are still laughing hysterically! "}{"Title":"Sub Par","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I can't think of one movie that was ever made lousy because of Gene Hackman's performance.  Whether his character is good, evil, or just confused, he always turns in an interesting performance, as he does here. He kind of outshines even Denzel Washington, an excellent actor who is stuck with a routine role that practically nobody could overcome.  None of the other performances stand out enough to be remarked upon.This is kind of The Alabama Mutiny.  Humanistic younger officer usurps command of a sub from an older rigid skipper given to just following orders. That was the climax, really, of The Caine Mutiny, in which most of the story was an exploration of character and incidents leading up to the deposition, and the court martial that followed.  Here, the clash between Hackman as the CO and Washington as the XO, which ends in mutiny, has too little in the way of previous plot or character development.  It's as if the producers and writers thought, Well, the audience is pretty stupid and we don't want them to get bored, so let's cut to the action without too much tedious exposition.  The best scene before the mutiny was evidently added by Robert Towne who still shows a glimmer of the intelligence he brought to Chinatown.  The officers are in the wardroom and Hackman brings up von Clausewitz, the most quoted and least read philosopher who ever lived. War is just an extension of politics by other means, quotes the captain. What do you think? he asks Washington, who has been graduated from Annapolis and attended Harvard.  Prodded, Washington offers a more contextual explanation of von Clausewitz's point.  Thank you, von, smiles the captain. (Something like that; I didn't take notes.)  It's a funny and charming exchange and it helps to flesh out two otherwise skeletonized characters. Alas, the rest of the script torpedoes the movie.  When he is relieved of command, Hackman is locked in his quarters by Washington.  However, he still has supporters among the crew.  One of them contacts him, and Hackman organizes a conspiracy among his supporters and regains control of the boat. When he is relieved of command, Washington is locked in his quarters by Hackman.  However, he still has supporters among the crew.  One of them contacts him, and Washington organizes a conspiracy among his supporters and regains control of the boat.  (If it's worth doing at all, it's worth doing to excess.)  Are you getting all this?  Do you sense a frenzied desire in the writers to dump all that tiresome exposition and cut to the chase before the audience gets bored?  So who winds up being right -- the humanitarian who wants to save the world from a nuclear holocaust or the rigid authoritarian who wants to destroy the enemy?  Both, says the movie.  In real life I don't have much doubt about what would have happened afterward. The Navy historically has a habit of fixing blame on a particular individual and stringing him up by his tongue.  A head would undoubtedly have rolled, and it would have been the XO's.  At that, it's better to have an ending with some ambiguity and compromise and not take the easy way out, which would have been to make Washington the hero and Hackman the salivating villain.  The writers' intentions may have been more economic than artistic. Why alienate those members of the viewing audience who, today, are hungering for an invasion of Iraq, or an invasion of somebody -- anybody. Now, a small point, but a continuing irritation  I don't get the impression that anyone bothered to research this film.  There was a technical advisor but his chief concern may have been with his paycheck rather than with the accuracy with which the Navy and its protocol are displayed.  When did officers start addressing enlisted men Mister.  Why is a radioman repairing the radio under emergency conditions when it should be an electronics technician?  Why does a sailor with no hat salute the captain below decks?  Why does he salute him at all?  As I say, these are small points, but they add to the all-around impression of slopiness in the making of this film.  Watching it once took no particular effort but I wouldn't be interested in sitting through it again.  If I wanted to watch a movie about contemporary subs I'd probably watch The Hunt for Red October.  If I wanted to watch a movie about a disruption in the chain of command aboard a ship I'd watch The Caine Mutiny.   "},{"Title":"Just imagine...","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie is not bad. It is a slick, solid piece of the usual brand of Bruckheimer roller-coaster entertainment (albeit lacking in verisimilitude, also as usual), even above the average level of the genre thanks to Tarantino's odd bits of witty dialogue, good acting by Hackman and Washington and pacy direction by Tony Scott. WARNING PLOT SPOILERS COMING NOWBut it just bugs me that it could have been sooo much better. Only one thing, one little detail changed, would have been enough to make this film a truly memorable one Gene Hackman should have been right. In fact, he IS right all along, at least according to standard military procedure. If he had been right, it would not only have been an unexpected and terrifying twist in a plot that veers too much into boring Hollywood conventionalism at the end; but also the film would have made a much more convincing anti-war allegory, by saying that the normal morals that apply to our daily life, which are the ones that Denzel Washington is using, cannot, MUST not be applied in war, because war is ultimately a matter of killing or getting killed; therefore it would have shown the inhumanity and insanity of war much more clearly. The way I see it, this is an opportunity missed. "},{"Title":"A tired, tired conflict...","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I'm sure I'm not the only one sick of America's fascination with portraying Russia as the everlasting, convenient enemy.  There have been far, far too many of these films, and basically, this one is a typical run of the mill US good Russia bad movie.  How tired a theme this is.This wasn't, however, a complete loss.  A glimmer of moral eptitude in Denzel Washington's character kept this film from becoming a boring everyday commie witch hunt.  This idea kept the film vaguely original, at least long enough to keep me from switching stations.  Boring, but different. 6/10 "},{"Title":"fast paced--but far-fetched","Date":"25 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" First off, I served as a naval officer. Secondly, although I was not a sub officer, the whole plot is hackneyed and sensationalized.If that isn't bad enough, once again we get the tiresome sub-plot of the superior officer who has underlying racism (i.e. the horses speech at the end) and the brave Denzel Washington is the Rosa Parks of the submarine community who is smarter than everyone blah blah blah.....I am so tired of the same plots over and over again. Racism isn't a one way street you know. When are we going to see the Tawanna Brawley debacle depicted or the wilding in Central Park when a bunch of animals beat up a helpless jogger with a pipe? puhleese....I must say in closing that Dezel is a great actor and I enjoyed him in Training Day--for which he deserved an Oscar. On the other hand, does anyone remember---probably not---when in the early 90's, Jonathan Pryce was cast in the lead in Broadway's Miss Saigon and there was a huge uproar that he was not an Asian. However, at the same time, Denzel was playing Richard III in Shakespeare in the Park, yet no one said boo. I think you can answer that for yourselves... "},{"Title":"Cheap political movie","Date":"25 October 2004","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I like Gene Hackman, I like Denzel Washington, I like Tony Scott, Ridley especially... but this is so stupid political movie which represent Russia like some horrible and savage country. Although movie is made (put out) in 1995. it contents elements of the cheap Vietnam War or Cold War movies. Crimson Tide is typical political movie for certain political moment... and just one thing formal name of Russia is not Russian Republic or Republic of Russia, it's Russian Federation. That reminds me on Schwarzenegger's Commando with some fictive island state with some stupid name or some movies with Chuck Norris or Jean-Claude Van Damme... but yet I like them too... "},{"Title":"Unconvincing","Date":"21 October 2003","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  If asked how I would define the word  Shallow  I would reply  Watch a Jerry Bruckheimer production  . If asked how I would define the phrase   Wasted potential  I would reply  Watch a Jerry Bruckheimer production  . Bruckheimer productions are nearly always sure fire hits at the box office but nearly always receive critical pannings from the critics . Off the top of my head I can only think of AN OFFICER AND A GENTLEMAN and BLACK HAWK DOWN getting a lot of critical acclaim . CRIMSON TIDE too received some begrudging acclaim from critics , it`s certainly one of Bruckheimer`s better films which alas isn`t saying much . The problem I had is the scenario that sets up the story  The Russians are fighting the Chechens and the conflict spreads through the whole of Russia leading to an ultra nationalist Russian to take over a nuclear missile base and threaten the West if they interfere . Maybe the ending of the cold war had everything to do with it but I found this set up very unconvincing . It`s not helped by some errors in geography like the French carrier Foch being in the Med ( Wouldn`t the Foch be better positioned in the black sea ? ) or that the expositional newsreel consists of familar footage featuring conflicts from the Balkans , the first gulf war and even Vietnam . Once again the adjective  Very unconvincing  crept into my mind . The story does improve somewhat when the story proper - A battle of wills concerning orders between a nuclear submarine commander and his number two - gets underway . Director Tony Scott does his best as do the cast , but the problem still lies in an unconvincing scenario . The worst thing is that if this had been made in the mid 1980s when WW3 was a real possibility - Nay probability - this film would have terrified me , but after the cold war ended so had the dangers of nuclear war which means CRIMSON TIDE has little impact .    "},{"Title":"Typical Gene Hackman role","Date":"25 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" First off, id like to say that if you know nothing about the military (or you hate it) you will like this movie. If you know anything about submariners, its an absolute joke. NO WAY ANY OF THIS WOULD EVER GO ON IN A NUCLEAR SUB! I was never in the military myself but I have many friends who were and I can tell you that if you bring up this movie around them they will go on for hours about how silly and contrived all the scenes in the movie are. Denzel was in his usual semi-racist (but not too racist) role. Not to mention Gene Hackman playing his usual role of the conservative American who is nothing more than the worst human being imaginable. Arrogant, cocky, and of course, stubborn as a mule. Has anyone else noticed that he almost always plays the same character, just different situations? Bottom line is this movie is nothing more than Hollywood liberal propaganda, using the manly-man Gene Hackman as their fall guy for the stereotypical evil conservative who just needs to be re-educated (and usually is) in how to be a good little socialist. If you want to see a good submarine movie, see The hunt for Red October. Otherwise, avoid this tired piece of liberal propaganda. "},{"Title":"Stirring American agitprop","Date":"29 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is an exciting, if slightly predictable submarine thriller from Tony Scott. Initially I was surprised that the film was so strongly patriotic from a director I'd thought of as rather more liberal - later I came to the conclusion that the examination of the moral drama at it's heart is all the stronger for being examined with rather more rigour than a straightforward cowboys 'n injuns flick.The Hunt For Red October is probably a better modern thriller involving a submarine, but Scott isn't trying to compete. All the action is about the claustrophobia of being in the vessel - the claustrophobia of holding two different, conflicting opinions inside the same head. Overtly it's about the gift and curse of being specifically and American citizen...... hang on! Sure, it's all that, but the fun of the film is that it's about big characters trying to outwit one another on a nuclear submarine. Yes, Washington and the peerless (and here, ever so slightly camp!) Gene Hackman could phone it in but treat us to something above par. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Incredibly Overrated","Date":"25 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I had high hopes for this film, good actors, good reviews, but it all ended up boiling down to a crew of men screaming at each other for reasons that I really didnt care about.  First of all we are never really told why it would be so terrible if Hackman did launch those missiles, second of all, those boring, unbelievable action scenes drain out all of the suspense!!!  I cant see why people like this movie so much, Its probly because of the star power, and that is NOT WHAT MAKES A GOOD MOVIE!!  Everyone else seems to love this film, so my opinion will probubly mean nothing.  4.5 out of 10. Goodbye.  "},{"Title":"Crimson Tide","Date":"7 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" From director Tony Scott (True Romance, Deja Vu) this is a pretty good slightly claustrophobic action thriller. At the beginning it mentions that the three most powerful men in the world are the President of the United States, the President of Russia, and the submarine captain, I don't know if that is true, but you could believe it. Anyway, basically, based in the near future, Russian rebels have seized some of the country, and threaten to launch nuclear missiles at the United States. In response, Capt. Frank Ramsey (Gene Hackman) has orders to take his nuclear submarine, the USS Alabama, out and get in position for if a preemptive strike launch is needed. After a medical emergency, second in command is replaced by Lt. Commander Ron Hunter (Denzel Washington), and it later becomes obvious they will not get on. It is the Captain's very tough decisions, many that Hunter questions and doubts are right that the tension comes from. The biggest decision is when an enemy submarine comes to take them out, and the Captain gives the order to launch the missiles at Russia, but Hunter will not concur, and after a big argument, he relieves the Captain of his duty and places him under arrest in his cabin. He does get out eventually though, and when the submarine has eventually (somehow, I can't remember how it ended), the Captain admits his mistake when they were inside. Also starring George Dzundza as Chief of the Boat, Viggo Mortensen as Lt. Peter 'WEAPS' Ince; Matt Craven as Lt. Roy Zimmer, USS Alabama Communications Officer, The Sopranos' James Gandolfini as Lt. Bobby Dougherty, Rocky Carroll as Lt. Darik Westergard, Jaime Gomez as Officer of the Deck Mahoney, Michael Milhoan as Chief of the Watch Hunsicker, Scott Burkholder as T.S.O. Billy Linkletter and Titanic's Danny Nucci as Petty Officer First Class Danny Rivetti. Only male characters is interesting, the acting is very effective, particularly in those argumentative character moments, the attacks on the sub are cool, you might not understand the codes and stuff they use, but is still a cool film. It was nominated the Oscars for Best Sound Effects Editing, Best Film Editing and Best Sound. Gene Hackman was number 42, and Denzel Washington number 28 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, and Washington was number 40, and Hackman number 31 on The World's Greatest Actor. Very good! "}{"Title":"After Reading some of the positive reviews, I have to make a negative one","Date":"29 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Well I do have to say I was not completely disappointed with this movie. There are characters who have very many positive opinions. They are not the nuke the commies type of people.But there is a reason why I gave it 3 out of 10.One, why are American writers so obsessed about killing Russians? Would it not have furthered peace if the Russian submarine(in her own waters) was just damaged like the US submarine? Was it really necessary to destroy the Russian submarine that was defending its own territory to feed some kind of Russophobia? I feel if it had been forced to surface with damage it would have been better and supported the anti-WW3 theme.Two, why is it necessary to launch 10 nuclear missiles at one missile silo base? Did the writers consider what they were doing? They were initiating a Nuclear Holocaust on an area with 7 million people. In this situation a conventional strike would have been better, and less like genocide. Russians are not human in this movie, and this is a problem with many Hollywood big budget Action films. "},{"Title":"Time to Flush...It's That Bad","Date":"16 April 2008","Score":"3 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" OMG!!! Words cannot express how very much I absolutely HATE this movie. I am a huge fan of Gene Hackman but Gene, Gene, Gene&#133;.WHY did you agree to do this wretched, dreadful piece of crap? Denzel Washington is a very talented actor. If you want to witness how amazing his skills truly are then watch him as John Creasy in the excellent 2004 remake of Man On Fire (good guy role) or as John Quincy Archibald in the outstanding John Q (another good guy role) or as the definitive bad guy Alonzo Harris in the exceptional Training Day. But alas, in this putrid wretched wreck of a film, he only comes across as some kind of jerk with a chip on his shoulder. And WHAT pray tell was going through the minds of the writer and director of this crap? Schiffer can write good stuff (see Colors 1988) and Scott can direct (see Man On Fire 2004) but here they have truly crapped a CRIMSON TURD. Story - 0/10 Cinematography 8/10 Overall ZERO stars. "}]