[{"Title":"This film is a big winner in the fun-with-lessons category","Date":"30 October 2006","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sport","Review":" The students in a small Texan town have a new teacher from England (Olivia D'Abo). She is trying hard to motivate and communicate with her pupils, with only limited success. Limited, that is, until she gets her students excited about soccer. She assembles a ragtime team, with no uniforms, and teaches them about the fundamentals of soccer. The team, with a mixture of girls and boys, begins playing matches. They lose. The teacher enlists the help of the local sheriff (Steve Guttenberg) and, together, they help the team improve. But, will they succeed in winning soccer games? This is another stroll down Mighty Ducks lane but it is still a good film for children. It's themes of hard work and teamwork are undeniable and very worthwhile. The actors, the script, and the Texas setting form a touching and funny film. If you want to find a good family film for a night at home, try this one. Big grins will pop up over The Big Green. "},{"Title":"Familiar story, underdogs seeking recognition, but very well done.","Date":"7 September 1999","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sport","Review":"  OK, the Big Green is not academy award quality.  But it features a fine cast, led by Steve Guttenberg.  It is set in rural Texas, and the kids on the soccer team don't have much confidence in their ability to win the big one.  But a teacher transfer from England, a gorgeous woman at that, helps turn them around.  The scene-stealer is Milt Oberman as the referee in the final game, delivering a riveting, if somewhat understated, performance. This is a great feel-good movie to watch especially with your kids or grandkids.  But adults should all enjoy it also. "},{"Title":"Awesome Kid's Movie","Date":"13 June 2008","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sport","Review":" I was around 8 or 9 when this movie came out. Despite there already being plenty of movies about misfits rising to the top,like The Mighty Ducks and Angles in the Outfield, this movie really was the best of them all.It of course starts out like normal, with the kids being resentful to anything new and having all-around bad attitudes. But with the help of a good coach and a new activity to immerse themselves in, their moral and moods change for the better, making them the winners they are. The journey to their win contains many easy laughs, and just a tiny bit of drama and romance. A movie for boys and girls alike ;) I thought it was and still is a great kids movie. I'm 20 now, and I still watch it to this day. Its a great feel-good movie for the whole family to enjoy! "},{"Title":"hilarious","Date":"17 March 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sport","Review":" A great family film about soccer. I've loved this movie ever since I was a child. The plot isn't anything special and is rather predictable but the numerous comic scenes make up for it. the film not only deals with soccer but also with some more serious issues including one family's immigration problems and another child with an alcoholic father. The name The Big Green refers to the team's name which was what the field they play on used to be called. One of my favorite scenes in the movie is when the children are practicing while the parents look on, when it starts to rain the kids wont give up the ball and the coaches and parents try and get the ball. what happens is a cute moment between all of the families playing soccer in the rain and mud together. overall this film is just very cute and I highly recommend it especially for families with young kids. or even for elderly people who can no longer understand a very complicated plot, my grandmother really enjoys this movie. anyways if you haven't seen this movie you should seek it out and watch it when you get the chance. "},{"Title":"Still one of my favorites","Date":"23 September 2003","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sport","Review":"  Even at 13 this film is still one of my favorites I borrowed it from my friend and got it for christmas one year. One day a group of misfit kids decide to go for a bike ride and feed some birds and a lady thinks their being attacked she claims that she is their teacher. These kids are playing around at the police station and are told off by sheriff Tom Palmer. Determined to motivate her students Anna forms a soccer team with the help of Tom Palmer. At the field they meet a group of bullies also a soccer team called The Knights coached by the snobbish Jay Huffer Tom's old nemesis. The Knights wind up winning by a final score of 18-0. But they soon become a winning team and defeat The Knights in the championship game 4-3. In the end Jay Has to kiss the goat. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Entertaining movie  upon  some misfit kiddies playing  soccer","Date":"28 December 2005","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sport","Review":" The picture concerns about an English teacher named Anna Montgomery(Olivia DÁbo) who comes a Texas little town for teaching at a very young school. She must educate a kiddies with down self-esteem. Anna organizes a soccer team and is helped by the town sheriff(Steve Guttenberg). Abundant difficulties throw out when the contender team with a nasty coach(Jay O. Sanders) is formed with the best in the league ,besides the principal player disappears for problems of immigration. At the beginning the team shaped by underdog and geeky members lose the match but they recuperate the position later. The film has lots of amusement and fun. It's agreeable movie for kids who they will enjoy enormously.The movie is a soccer version of ¨Mighty Ducks¨and ¨Bad new bears ¨(Michael Ritchie) and recently adapted by Richard Linklater with Billy Bob Thorton as the coacher . However the film didn't obtain success as anterior version and barely attained hit smash at the box office.The picture has its amusing moments here and there, specially when the goalkeeper imagines the attacker players disguised as various characters. The motion picture will appeal to children and soccer buffs . Rating  Average but bemusing. "},{"Title":"No Classic, but a good plot","Date":"25 April 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sport","Review":" This movie is great for kids, and any kid should see it. Many teens and adults may find this movie wasteful, but anyone who keeps an open mind and makes efforts to read between the lines can really see that there is a lesson to be learned. As in reality, there are many towns such as the fictional rural town this movie takes place in. In such towns (with closed industrial mills and no jobs,) you will find kids with too much time on their hands like in this movie. At the beginning, the kids didn't see a point to their lives and just didn't care. Sheriff Tom Palmer (Guttenberg) didn't have much of a life either. Anna Montgomery comes to town as the school teacher and really turns them around. She really teaches them to believe that they are no less of people than anyone else and that with hard work and persistence, one can achieve their goals. They don't even know how to play soccer in the beginning, but it goes to show that hard work, heart, persistence, belief, and teamwork can go a long ways. Anna Montgomery is a terrific teacher, coach, and leader. Towards the end, anyone can tell that they are changed for the better and learn to believe in themselves on and off the field, thanks to true leadership.I admit, this is not a movie with tons of adventure and excitement. Though it may not be a classic like Forrest Gump or Citizen Kane; it really is a great family movie and really goes to prove a point. I recommend it to anyone with a family and a heart to see the good that can come with good leadership and teamwork. "},{"Title":"Love family films like this!","Date":"23 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sport","Review":" This movie is great for kids, and any kid should see it. Many teens and adults may find this movie wasteful, but anyone who keeps an open mind and makes efforts to read between the lines can really see that there is a lesson to be learned.As in reality, there are many towns such as the fictional rural town this movie takes place in. In such towns (with closed industrial mills and no jobs,) you will find kids with too much time on their hands like in this movie. At the beginning, the kids didn't see a point to their lives and just didn't care. Sheriff Tom Palmer (Guttenberg) didn't have much of a life either. Anna Montgomery comes to town as the school teacher and really turns them around. She really teaches them to believe that they are no less of people than anyone else and that with hard work and persistence, one can achieve their goals. They don't even know how to play soccer in the beginning, but it goes to show that hard work, heart, persistence, belief, and teamwork can go a long ways. Anna Montgomery is a terrific teacher, coach, and leader. Towards the end, anyone can tell that they are changed for the better and learn to believe in themselves on and off the field, thanks to true leadership.I admit, this is not a movie with tons of adventure and excitement. Though it may not be a classic like Forrest Gump or Citizen Kane; it really is a great family movie and really goes to prove a point. I recommend it to anyone with a family and a heart to see the good that can come with good leadership and teamwork. "},{"Title":"Great movie for kids!!","Date":"2 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sport","Review":" If you love children's movies or love a good comedy about kids this is the movie for you. It has some good actors in it that later on go on to even more things. The movie is absolutely hilarious but also teaches kids a good story. It takes a team who doesn't know anything about soccer and turns them into champions. It is very interesting to see everything they have to go through to get there. Loved it as a child. Even if you are not a soccer fan it's a great movie to watch. It sends kids a good message. Even as an adult I still love it. Recommended for children of all ages! It teaches you about teamwork and hard work can pay off in the end! "},{"Title":"Predictable Disney Sugar-Coated Goat Droppings","Date":"28 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sport","Review":" I really tried to like this movie. Lord knows I tried. After all, it was broadcast free on a local TV station and the cost of admission was zero. So I endured the animated intro that was completely disjointed from the rest of the film that followed.I suffered through the obvious clichés of downcast misfits and insufferable moppets who were predictably going to somehow unite and overcome the mean over the top enemy coach. I resisted vomiting with the overdone insinuated affair of the teacher and the sheriff.I held back severe diarrhea after seeing one too many scenes of the typical misfits who will win cliché overweight kid who had visions of ninjas and so forth as he tried to protect the goal. And despite the much expected screwed up drunken dad, and all the soon to be healed by sports parent/kid relationships, I hung in there.But then when they got to the scene of these insufferable misfit moppets, and soon to be heroes attempting to mow the big green, with sped up film, only to be followed by the scene of the ever lovable kids and whacked-out parents having a sweet sugar-coated love fest in the mud and rain in slow motion for added effect. That's when I lost it.It was as if someone had induced diabetes by pouring a 2 pound bag of sugar coated doggie diamonds down my throat. Or more accurately, goat poop. Yes, to add to the whole predictable Disney over-sweetened saccharin sickness of this film, there's a goat mascot... just in case the rest of the film didn't put you in a coma.Anyway, if you haven't seen this movie, thank God. "}{"Title":"A trip down memory lane","Date":"17 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sport","Review":" If you're looking for a sophisticated piece of art, The Big Green is not it. This is a family film for elementary school kids. I watched this movie for the first time when I was nine, and I absolutely loved it. I loved cheering for the underdog, and from my nine-year-old point of view, all the events were realistic and all the characters were believable. I especially loved Larry, who was hilarious in his delusions. I watched this film again tonight and realize that it is a clichéd film, but only because I'm much older and more cynical. However, this does not take away the fact that it brought back the days when I resolutely believed that the harder I worked, the more it would pay off and that anybody could be a winner. It is optimistic, heart-warming and uplifting for that inner nine-year-old. "},{"Title":"the big green","Date":"10 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sport","Review":" The movie is great and i love it to this day. It starts out by showing a hick town in the middle of nowhere. I can relate to this because i live in a hick town. These boys are buying Cheeto's to feed the birds. They lay down in the middle of a field and let birds eat off of them. This looks like fun, actually. A beautiful woman runs up with a water hose and scares the birds off in an attempt to save the children. They then find out she is their teacher. For some reason, there is only two classes. I guess the little kids are elementary. They tell the sheriff there is big news. Their new teacher is hot. The next morning, she tries to teach them only to find out she knows nothing about them. THe way she finally connects to them is to play soccer using a kickball. For some reason, they think a football looks like a lemon. I don't know why. They need another player to be an official team so they get this kid, Newt. he is always dragging a wagon full of junk. The fact that he has show and tell just goes to show how little he is. At their first official game, they lose badly and feel horrible. They don't even have a name. It is decided the next day to call themselves the big green after their field of all things. Anna starts them on training, which involves a lot of running. She even makes Tom join in the running, although she is the only one not exhausted after the workout. She seems to be in exceptional shape. They train but still lose until they get uniforms and all of the sudden feel like a real team. They talk to this Mexican dude's mom and get him to join. They start winning and eventually get to the final game. Their opponent turns out to be the jerk that beat them the first time. He hits on Anna and they make a deal. If he wins, she will kiss him. If they win, he has to kiss the goat, who is eating trash at that moment. It is quite funny considering the deal they just made. They lose for a while and then Tom brings the Mexican brat up there. He gets the game going again and they actually get good points and tie it in the last inning. The game goes in overtime and it get close but, in classic Disney format, they win and are all happy and proud. Come on, did you think they were gonna lose? Like Disney would let that happen. The coach has to kiss the goat and everyone laughs when he kisses her, because of course kissing a goat is the climax of all that is funny. Tom picks up Anna and gives her a big wet one. The kids pick her up and cheer. All the parents are so proud and everyone is so happy now. "},{"Title":"more disney underdogs","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sport","Review":"  The Big Green is another one of those underdogs who win in the end type films, but that is Disney for you. Steve Guttenberg actually gives a good performance in this kiddie soccer movie, Patrick Renna is also good. The Big Green is a nice kids movie and can be enjoyed by all, but Disney needs to get off the underdog thing, it gets old. "},{"Title":"Good Lord...just watch Heavyweights instead","Date":"22 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sport","Review":" This movie is beyond terrible. I have rarely seen a combination of directing, cinematography and screenplay that is this bad. Seriously...go do story problems in an 8th grade math book before you watch this...honestly. You will thank me later. The story is of course a complete cliché that has been done a thousand times...but the effort put forward here is beyond reprehensible. Even the songs in the movie are bad. Little giants, heavyweights, both bad news bears movies, ladybugs...these are all 10/10 compared to this disgusting wad of complacency. How Steve Gutt could actually read this script and say yes is beyond me, but hey...money is money. If you need to kill some time, try a screwdriver to the brain for a couple hours....at least the pain will remind you life is worth living. "},{"Title":"Why rated so LOW?????","Date":"6 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sport","Review":" Seriously, what's with the ratings!??? Why a 5.4??? And why does the Sandlot have a 7.8??? THEY SHOULD BE SWITCHED AROUND! Patrick Renna, the kid who keeps seeing those weird & laughable nightmares as the goalie, is mostly known for the Sandlot (a really stupid movie in my opinion, I don't get that either) The whole premise of this story is fun, the cast is fun, the story is fun, the sport is fun, the music is fun, the whole movie is all around FUN! This movie is also more APPROPRIATE for kids than the Sandlot - that movie had really rude humor, constant name-calling, scary & weird premises, and just all around bratty kids with bad attitudes! Trust me, never show your children that film - they'll likely turn out to be spoiled. Seriously, the Big Green gang have so much more chemistry together than the socially awkward Sandlot! The Big Green, consisting of both boys & girls, are able to work together without rubbing body parts! The Sandlot was just putrid in that area - it treats women just as conquests for men. Petty.Bug Hall, who played Alfalfa in The Little Rascals, was also in this movie, and he's a favorite child actor of mine. It also has one of my most favorite actors, Steve Guttenberg, a Jewish guy, who I really like! Your children WILL enjoy this film today! It's appropriate & funny, humorous, and enjoyable for children of all ages.And Randy Edelmen's musical score is especially good - he's wizard behind conducting! He's quite underrated as a composer.8/10 "},{"Title":"Disney producers trying to cash in on a trend.","Date":"3 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sport","Review":"  Before this movie was released, The Sandlot and The Mighty Ducks had already been released. Two good Disney movies dealing with kids and sports. The way I saw it, The Big Green was just another attempt to cash in on that trend. Sadly it failed.The movie isn't exactly bad. But if you have a choice to watch it, it be best to skip it. If anyone would find it the least bit enjoyable, it would be children which was the original target audience to begin with.But if you must watch a kids soccer movie, instead watch Rodney Dangerfield's Ladybugs. Alot more enjoyable plus the kids should like that one. I did when I was kid. "},{"Title":"formula movie","Date":"25 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sport","Review":" HOW MANY MOVIES ARE THERE GOING TO BE IN WHICH AGAINST ALL ODDS, A RAGTAG TEAM BEATS THE BIG GUYS WITH ALL THE MONEY?!!!!!!!! There's nothing new in The Big Green. If anything, you want them to lose. Steve Guttenberg used to have such a good resume (The Boys from Brazil, Police Academy, Cocoon). Why, OH WHY, did he have to do these sorts of movies during the 1990s and beyond?! So, just avoid this movie. There are plenty of good movies out there, so there's no reason to waste your time and money on this junk. Obviously, the green on their minds was money, because there's no creativity here. At least in recent years, Disney has produced some clever movies with Pixar. "},{"Title":"Disney producers trying to cash in on a trend.","Date":"3 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sport","Review":"  Before this movie was released, The Sandlot and The Mighty Ducks had already been released. Two good Disney movies dealing with kids and sports. The way I saw it, The Big Green was just another attempt to cash in on that trend. Sadly it failed.The movie isn't exactly bad. But if you have a choice to watch it, it be best to skip it. If anyone would find it the least bit enjoyable, it would be children which was the original target audience to begin with.But if you must watch a kids soccer movie, instead watch Rodney Dangerfield's Ladybugs. Alot more enjoyable plus the kids should like that one. I did when I was kid. "},{"Title":"Not an original moment in the whole movie.","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sport","Review":"  This is one of the most unoriginal, cliche-ridden movies I have ever seen. Even if you didn't like this film's antecedents, 'The Bad News Bears' and 'The Mighty Ducks,' they are bound to have done a better job than this one. From the moment the new teacher greets her class and they tell her, Don't bother with us, we're all losers, you can see everything that's coming twenty miles away for the rest of the film. All the usual suspects are here. Besides the spunky teacher, we have a group of what are supposed to be endearingly bratty kids (they're brats, yes, but no so endearing), a slow-witted small town sheriff that they love to torment, an arrogant head coach of the winning rival team, etc., ad nauseum. Only Olivia d'Abo as the new teacher displays any likabilty. I never cared much for Steve Guttenberg before and his performance as the sheriff doesn't change things. Jay O. Sanders is a capable actor but his character, the rival coach, leaves him nothing to work with. Let's hope that writer/director Holly Goldberg Sloan comes up with something better next time out.  "},{"Title":"As hokie as a root canal","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sport","Review":"  Nothing more than a soccer knock-off of The  Mighty Ducks, this film proved to be annoying  in most aspects. This was one of those times  where you're parents ask you to take your  younger siblings just so they don't have to  deal with them for a few hours. To say the least,  my younger sisters liked it, but it proved to be  too much like the far superior Mighty Ducks.  Oh well, at least Olivia d'Abo was hot and Steve  Guttenberg still had a job at that point in time. "}{"Title":"A load of rubbish","Date":"4 December 2004","Score":"6 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sport","Review":" This movie appears to have made for the sole purpose of annoying me. Everything I hate about films is present fake sentimentality, extreme corniness, bad child actors and more feature abundantly. That's ignoring the fact that it depicts the extreme ignorance of American sports fans, with many of the cast professing that a football is shaped like a lemon. What?! That's a Rugby ball. The story follows a group of no hopers that get a new teacher that they like (who, coincidently, teaches the class in a short skirt) and gets them interested in football. Naturally, they're all rubbish (don't forget, they're no hopers) except for one kid who has moved from El Paso. Blah Blah, etc etc and the kids still don't become good footballers, but good heart ensues and the no hopers are turned into a bunch of well-rounded kids. Hell, even the adults start to come round; drunks are turned into caring parents, illegal immigrants are let off the hook...groan.This movie stars Steve Guttenberg. Now, before you go rushing off down your local video store to grab yourself a copy, hold up a minute. Guttenberg is rubbish. No, no; come on let's face it, how did this guy ever get to be in a movie? I have absolutely no idea, and there is nothing in this movie to give me an idea. Olivia d'Abo stars along side Steve and doesn't impress either. She merely seems to be going through the motions and looking nice while doing it. Although I have no problems with the latter part; her performance does the movie no credit. The child actors that make up the rest of the cast are just as bad as you would expect from a movie like this. Most of them are disgusting and/or annoying and it doesn't make for pleasant viewing at all. There's a goat in the film who plays the mascot and he does a good job; but you wouldn't see a movie for a goat, so don't bother seeing this movie. "},{"Title":"Total Muck","Date":"8 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sport","Review":" Take a cliché story and insert Steve Guttenberg.Need i say anymore?This truly is as bad as you would expect. Sheriff Tom Palmer(Guttenberg)and Anna Montgormery attempt to transform a group of useless,inept kids into a winning soccer team.Lacking originality and direction from the offset it's quite a struggle to maintain any form of interest in this film. Despite my reservations about Guttenbergs acting ability i can safely say that the acting of the rival teams coach is actually worse than Guttenbergs.Previously unimaginable i thought. This type of story of underdogs battling all the way to the top has been done before and better every time than this so called 'film' "},{"Title":"Disney would have fired everyone.","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sport","Review":"  Walt was particularly fond of quality. So how come the producers at Disney would release such a terribly edited, roughly acted (even for family fare!) mess of a movie? THE BIG GREEN had a good concept. And, since it is Disney, you know how the movie is going to turn out obviously. But THE BIG GREEN is horrible. The jokes are lame. And Steve Guttenburg, still alive, pulls in another terrible performance on his resume.Kids with too much time on their hands in small town Elma are offered an opportunity by their new teacher to play soccer. The kids don't know a thing though. And, gracious for us, we get to see Steve Guttenburg try to hit on the teacher from beginning to end.The speed up camera work does not work. THE BIG GREEN is full of speeding the pace of characters to move the movie along. Kids are not idiots. They will catch on if you give them enough of a hint without showing all that garbage. Guttenburg, for once in his life, should have turned down an offer to join this movie. Also the pretty Olivia d'Abo should have called this one off too. THE BIG GREEN can be known as 'The Big Bomb.' "}]