[{"Title":"Stern is terrific","Date":"24 March 1999","Score":"23 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Max Grabelski (Daniel Stern in full-on Home Alone mode) is a sleazy delivery man perpetually stuck in a 1970's time-warp (puh-lease tell me where I can get one of those shirts). He struts his way down the street to Bee Gees tunes and behaves like Disco Stu from The Simpsons. He's got a little con going on after working hours in which he delivers clandestine packages to some rich guy (a weak Anthony Heald) for big tips. He needs escapism and the mystery of the con makes him feel like a spy. Until that is, when Max is framed for murder and has to run for his life.While trying to intercept the last in the series of suspicious packages (located in the mountains of the Pacific Northwest) in order to clear his name, Max is mistaken for a world famous Scout Leader and has to lead a bunch of adventure-hungry kids into the wilderness and shake off the pursuing FBI.Daniel Stern's physical comedy is just plain hilarious and his comic timing is perfect. For anyone who liked him in Home Alone 1 and 2 you'll love him in this also. The kids are surprisingly not that annoying. Usually I hate kids in movies (Jurassic Park, Hook, The awful Von Trapp children) but they had enough character and laughs among them to make it okay.I only ever had a problem with the ending. It was just too tame for a PG-13 rated movie. Instead of Gordy's far-fetched fall into the ravine I would have preferred that the entire balcony of the cabin to collapse and the bad guy fall to his death. Plus the bad guy is kind of weak, his accent is just plain odd and he has this strange sort of campness and not scariness about him. Too bad since Anthony Heald has played some true scumbags in his time.These 2 complains aside Bushwhacked is great adventure movie with a lively score by Bill Conti (why is there no soundtrack CD?). It's probably best enjoyed in Spring/Summer and is perfect for the whole family. An admirable amount of laughs indeed.The DVD is a godsend for anyone who had to suffer the terrible pan-and-scan video (like me), which half the picture missing. Now Bushwhacked is presented in full 2.351 anamorphic widescreen and it looks just fine. The sound is simple Dolby 2.0 but it's more than adequate. Extras are thin, consisting of just a Bushwhacked trailer (quite good) and couple of other Fox family movie trailers.But for the price, Bushwhacked is a must, regardless of extras or not. Though this time I would I liked to have seen some. "},{"Title":"Great acting by Daniel Stern","Date":"2 September 2005","Score":"16 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Daniel Stern as Max is the main character in this movie, and he's hilarious. One of the best acting performances I've ever seen.There's also a very good storyline which is surprising for a movie of this type, and the scenery is great. The casting of characters has been well done - and the characters in this movie fit their roles as good as can be.This movie is a classic in my mind, but after reading some of the other reviews, I see that unless you like Daniel Stern's act you're not going to like the movie either.Anyway, I deeply recommend you see the movie. If you're like me, you'll love it, and if not, just turn it off after 5 minutes cause it's not gonna take more than that for you to make up your mind. "},{"Title":"Mmmm...I love it","Date":"8 October 2002","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie is absolutely amazing. Ever since I saw it in the theater in 1995, I was in love with it.  I missed my opportunity to buy the video when it first came out, and made up for it when it was re-released, recently. This funny movie about a group of scouts, who kinda-get-kidnapped-but-not-really is sure to keep the whole fam laughing. Gotta love Daniel Stern, aka SPIDER! Simply, go RENT IT! "},{"Title":"Funny and enjoyable","Date":"14 February 2000","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Daniel Stern was hilarious in BUSHWHACKED. The acting was alright, but I loved the plot, and being a former Boy Scout, I liked that part too. The funniest part was with The Birds and the Bees (for those of you who have seen it you know what I mean). I liked how the plot twisted at the end and just thought this was a fun movie. If you're a former or current scout you may like it. So go see it. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Great comedy!","Date":"19 January 2005","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Bushwacked is an excellent comedy film that stars Daniel Stern, Jon Polito, Brad Sullivan, Ann Dowd, Anthony Heald, and Tom Wood! The acting by all of these actors is very good. Stern is excellent in this film and Jon Polito also performs good. The action is really good and the beginning of the film is excellent. The movie is hilarious. I was laughing so much when I watched this film. The film is always exciting and the music is very good by Bill Conti. I noticed that Conto put a lot of his Masters of the Universe score and even a bit of John Willaims' Home Alone films music into his own score for this film. If you own the CDs and/or are familiar with the films then you will know what I mean. Watch Shakedown and compare it! If you like Daniel Stern, Jon Polito, Brad Sullivan, Tom Wood, and the rest of the cast I've mentioned above, exciting non-stop hilarious comedy films then I Strongly recommend this film! "},{"Title":"Bushwhacked is a MUST see!","Date":"9 January 2005","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Before I go on about Bushwhacked I must tell you BUSHWHACKED IS VERY UNDERRATED! I don't know what people were expecting from the movie, but I got a lot out of this movie. It is one of those movies that you can watch over and over again and not get sick out it. I was upset reading other people's reviews for this movie. I guess they were expecting an action/adventure-triller which it isn't. It is supposed to be an adventure-comedy and that is what it feels like. It is the same genre as City Slickers. Anyways, Daniel Stern is perfect for the role of Mad Max! I started watching this movie since I was since it came out in 1995 (We were only 5-6 years old) and we still watch this movie. It is a classic in our minds. "},{"Title":"A fun comedy for all the family","Date":"21 September 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" A harmless misfit who's on the run after being in the wrong place at the wrong time, is mistaken as an experienced boys scouts leader who was hired to bring a group of youth's on a hiking-trip. Hoping to divert the attention from himself by concealing his identity and reckoning it would be an easy escape-route, he decides to play along with it. However, he gets more than he bargained for when he ends up on an adventure-filled scouts trip he's not likely to forget for a long time! The children are cleverer than they look and when they they stumble upon his I.D. and realise he's not who they thought he was, they take no prisoners in showing him who's boss! This is an excellent family movie with quirky humour, a fun storyline and good acting. A must see!! I absolutely loved this as a child and still do as an adult! "},{"Title":"A little funny but not totally hilarious","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Daniel Stern has some good and funny moments (though they're rather scattered) with his comedic starring role in this 1995 20th Century Fox release. He portrays Max Grabelski, a hapless delivery man who winds up being framed for murder and forced to go on the run as a wanted fugitive. While attempting to leave town, he adopts the identity of a Cub Scout leader (Brad Sullivan) and leads a group of rowdy kids on a trek through the wilderness. Predictably, Max, who used to hate kids learns to bond and get along with them and predictably, the film sometimes uses Stern's presence as an excuse for some Home Alone references (after all, he did costar in the first two films of that series). Other parts are predictable too and that may be one of the problems but otherwise, it's an overall fair comedy.  "},{"Title":"Another Childhood Favorite!!!","Date":"3 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Ever since I was a kid, I've loved this movie. It has a great storyline about an average delivery guy named Max Grabelski who soon becomes a fugitive in a murder case. The police think he killed a millionaire named Reinhart Bragden. He finds out that another package is supposed to be delivered to Mr. Bragden on a mountain called Devil's Peak. On the way there, he wants to prove his innocence, but he is mistaken for a great Scout leader and is forced to take Troop 12 of the Ranger Scouts on an overnight in the woods. Soon, the FBI and Scout Leader Erickson are hot on his trail. Along the way, he begins to care for the kids, and wants to help them get their badges. I highly recommend BUSHWHACKED!!! "},{"Title":"Outstanding!","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  10/10! This film is fun, witty, warm and adventurous! All round good guy, yet naive Daniel Stern finds himself framed for a murder. Not one to give in to the odds, he poses as a scout leader and takes a group of ranger scouts into the mountains for fun, thrill, chills, a bit of romance and adventure!Daniel Stern does what he does best, plays the lovable idiot who's constant antics always raise a smile. The scene with the bear cub is his funniest work yet, and the scouts are headed for big things! Outstanding performances all round, I was pleasantly surprised at the quality of this production. It has the requisite of leaving your brain at the door, but once you do that, expect the laugh of your life! "}{"Title":"Kids' adventure with Daniel Stern","Date":"26 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Released in 1995, Bushwhacked is a kids' adventure movie starring Daniel Stern as a delivery man who's falsely accused of murder. He avoids capture by impersonating a scout leader and leading a group of adolescents on an amusing frolic in the wilderness.While this is a kids-oriented movie, it tries to be edgy rather than Disney-like family fluff (not that there's anything wrong with that). For instance, Stern's character attempts to explain the birds and the bees to the kids using Barbie & Ken dolls and there's a scene of the kids urinating over a cliff and, unbeknownst to them, on the antagonist. Despite these few sequences, the movie's harmless and it's mostly just an amusing trek through the forest with the expected problems of having a fake scout leader. I've never seen Stern in a movie before, but he's so over-the-top here that he constantly looks like he's on the verge of a coronary, not that it necessarily mars the movie; actually it fits.My mediocre rating is for adult viewers; for kids it gets a solid B grade.The film runs 90 minutes and was shot in Alta, Lake Tahoe, Placerville and Los Angeles, California.GRADE C+ "},{"Title":"scout leader","Date":"28 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Daniel Stern is a courier who winds up in a bad spot, and has to make an escape,, problem is he needs to get away really quick,, and all there is around him is a bus and kids,, well he proceeds to grab a uniform,, drive the bus, and pretend to be the kids scout leader, he takes them on a trek through the wilderness. while trying to keep up with his original job of courier,, he needs to find an address and uses the kid's trip as a guise to get there,, along the way though he seems to bond with the kids,, even though he really doesn't like kids all that much , very touching and predictable,, but funny nonetheless,, overall not a bad picture,, with tons of gags and laughs. "},{"Title":"Perfect 1995","Date":"10 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Bushwacked is one of my favorite comedy movies ever made. It was released in 1995 and a lot of other successful films were made in that year such as Toy Story and the James Bond comeback, GoldenEye. This unfortunately is a very underrated film, I cannot understand why it is disliked. It has great music, hilarious jokes and Daniel Stern at his best. That's another thing, Daniel Stern is a brilliant but underrated actor. His movies are spectacular, I'd say that he always acts very good in them. See for instance Home Alone, Celtic Pride or City Slickers.The film's humor is done nicely and one of the best parts in the film is at the start, you can view it on YouTube if you wish. This may be one if the best films in 1995. In my opinion this film should be much more praised and that is my final argument in this review of mine where I have talked about a great film called Bushwacked. "},{"Title":"terrific laugh-out-loud fun","Date":"8 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I love this movie. It is one you can watch a dozen times and see something new and funny every time. Daniel Stern is simply hilarious as a framed delivery man turned scout leader. His performance is extremely funny yet believable, and his physical comedy outdoes anything of Michael Richards. If you don't believe me, take a look at the bee-hive or bridge scenes. The great thing about this film is that it requires nothing of the viewer in order for enjoyment. You do not have to follow a complex storyline, but instead, you can sit back and laugh with ease. The supporting cast is also more than adequate especially the character Milton Fishman, who offers nerdy, handbook-inspired quotes throughout. "},{"Title":"good film","Date":"14 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I like the film because it was decent and funny. The scenery shots were good and the plot was funny. The role for Stern is a whole lot different than his role in Blue Thunder! I do like him in the Home Alone movies too.I live in Alta, so I recognize the town and surrounding shots around Donner Lake and Truckee area.Pretty cool to see your hometown in a movie.By the way, the store interior is accurate and still looks like it does in the movie. As the car pulls into Alta you can see the railroad grade crossing in the background. I wonder how many shots were interrupted by trains going by. "},{"Title":"average family movie","Date":"16 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  this movie is okay, its pretty cool, but nothing special you havent seen before. in fact, most anything you think of is better. karate kid, little giants, honey i shrunk the kids. this movie has dumb one liners and hijinks that have all been done before and stolen from other movies. yet daniel stern is hilarious as mad max. i guess the question is, should you watch this movie? if your thinking about paying to see it (renting or buying)definitley not. but if you see that its on in the cable guide, it wouldnt be a bad idea to sit down and watch it if you have the time. Overall, its amusing and if your a daniel stern fan, you'll enjoy seeing him as the dimwitted troop leader. "},{"Title":"what a unique movie","Date":"18 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" WOW! wow wow wow wow, this is definitely one of the most garbage movies i have ever seen, who the pays for these things to be made? you know what this reminds me of? i cant believe I'm saying it but it reminds me of a uwe boll film, yeah, its that bad, corny jokes and a stupid villain are pretty much all u can expect from this film, do yourselves a favor, DO NOT SEE IT!!!!!!!!!!!! should i really be here dissing this movie like this? i think that this movie is even lucky to get comments let alone a 4.7 out of 10, what the hell is wrong with people in this world? i honestly feel like jamming a knife in each eye and the shoving a scissors up my ears and then shooting myself, just to put me out of my misery. i cant be bothered to type anymore about his garbage movie, I'm gone people, bye "},{"Title":"Bushwacked","Date":"24 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Crime","Review":" A while ago this used to be a bit funny, but now I think it is one of the stupidest kids films I have ever seen. Daniel Stern is a criminal or something running away from the police. He decides to secretly kidnap a scout group going on a woodland trip. He poses as a scout leader and looks after these kids as well as hides from the police. While he is with the kids he tells them naughty stories, gets sick with them and has to rescue them sometimes. In the end the group come back with out any injuries and the scouts believe Stern has done a good job of being a leader, even though he's a crook. In the end, he has to take absolutely all scouts on a trip. A good actor, but in the wrong film. Poor! "}]