[{"Title":"Wonderful, wonderful, wonderful!","Date":"15 June 2003","Score":"20 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I originally watched this movie to see Ciaran Hinds (the college professor) who was wonderful in a supporting role.I love this movie.  It is so powerful in its simplicity.  The actors were so embracable in their portrayals as young adults in the 50's with all the sexual taboos. The scenery is grand!I watch this movie at least once a month and have recommended it to many friend who also enjoy it. (If you are into Irish countrysides you might want to watch The Matchmaker with David O'Hara - v. good also.) "},{"Title":"Friendship","Date":"22 December 2005","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Perhaps not having read Maeve Binchy's book, in which this film is based, and never seeing the film when it was released, helped this viewer to enjoy it, perhaps more than most people that saw it in its commercial debut. Pat O'Connor and his adapter, Andrew Davies, give us a portrait about the friendship of three young girls in the story, as they go from childhood to womanhood in the Ireland of some time ago.We meet the three friends as the film opens. There are Benny, Eve and Nan, who are inseparable. They grow up and their relationship continues right through adulthood. The three friends go to university and we see them attending Professor Flynn's class, which seems to be the girls' favorite teacher.Nan, the prettiest of the three has no prospects of marrying into money. She decides to go after Simon Westwood, a wrong choice that turns out even worse when she discovers he couldn't care less for her. He just wants to marry money and she doesn't have it. Eva, the orphan girl brought up by nuns, has no prospects either, but she has a cottage in the country that Nan finds convenient for exploring her sexuality with Simon.The best adjusted of the three friends is plain Benny, who seems destined to marry her father's clerk, the reptilian Sean. She has her eyes set on Jack Foley, the hunky jock. Jack in turn likes her, but things intervene between them.Minnie Driver, is a marvelous presence in the film. She makes the plain Benny come alive. Saffron Burrows is perfect as the vain and beautiful Nan. Geraldine O'Rawe plays Eve. Chris O'Donnell is Jack Foley, who makes a good impression. Alan Cumming, Colin Firth and Ciaran Hinds are perfect in their supporting roles.Circle of Friends, while not breaking any ground, is still a good movie to watch because Pat O'Connor's direction and the ensemble acting cast. "},{"Title":"A movie with universal appeal and charm.","Date":"1 February 1999","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A movie that is at turns witty, charming, heartbreaking and truthful. There are many kinds of movies, and an entertaining and joyful movie is not the least of these. This is the kind of movie you can watch over and over again & never tire of it. The performances are fresh and sincere, and the script and direction are flawless. I recommend this movie if you want to see a slice of life that is simple and frank in how we relate to each other as human beings.   "},{"Title":"utterly disappointing","Date":"11 October 2003","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Having just completed the novel I decided to rent the movie.  I knew that it wouldn't compare to the book, but the story was practically unrecognizable. Multi-dimensional characters were simplified (Eve had no spark in the movie, no anger), leaving you with little indication as to what their thoughts and motivations were.  I was particulary disappointed to see that the special circumstances surrounding their initial meeting on the first day of university (the motorcycle accident) was completely rewritten in favour of a lack-lustre introduction.  But the biggest disappointment was taking a story about friendship and turning it into a romance movie.  "},{"Title":"This might have been better if I hadn't read the book","Date":"27 October 2005","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" As a stand alone this film is quite passable. If, however, you are a fan of Maeve Binchy and have read the book, you will probably spend a good deal of the film comparing the two, and the film comes off unfavourably. Some of the differences are minor, but the ending is completely different. I have no intention of comparing the two endings here as I don't want to be a spoiler, suffice it to say that if you have read the book, the film ending is a major disappointment. I also think that Benny was totally miscast. That the Benny of the book is a big woman is relevant to the storyline, whereas Minnie Driver, although quite tall, can't be called big under any stretch of the imagination. The film characters seemed wooden to me in comparison with the book characters. However, if you're not into reading books, the film is worth watching. "},{"Title":"one of my favorites!","Date":"17 October 2002","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I love this movie it is one of my faves! I read the book before I saw the movie and Usually I am disappointed by the movies if i read the book first...but not in this case..it stays true to the book and minnie driver does an excellent job as Benny! Chris O'Donnell plays the role of jack magnificently! Benny may not be the most beautiful of her friends but she can still win over the most handsome guy! A great movie and a definite must see! "},{"Title":"Touching but flawed Irish college soap opera","Date":"25 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This rating reflects my ambivalent feelings about the movie...I seem to recall the novel (which I read some years ago) as having a little more depth than the sexual experiences (or lack thereof) of its three heroines. The film comes off as a bit of a soap opera, 1950's Irish style. Although I'm not Catholic myself, my main problem with the movie (and Maeve Binchy's novels, to some extent) is the constant irritating depiction of the Catholic church as an oppressive institution that exists more or less for the primary purpose of sexually repressing its adherents. Also, the producers should have done some very basic research into Catholic traditions. As another reviewer also noted, it is extremely obvious (and not only to Catholics) that the opening religious ceremony in the film is not the three girls' Confirmation at all but their First Communion. The movie thus lost credibility to me from the outset.The movie tells the story of three Irish friends who are embarking upon their college days...Benny, a rather biggish (supposedly) self conscious girl, Eve, a quiet orphan raised by nuns, and Nan, a lovely would be sophisticate who sets her cap for the young Protestant country squire, Simon. For business purposes, Benny's father is encouraging his shop employee, Sean, to court his daughter. However, Benny has fallen in love with a handsome college classmate and rugby star named Jack. Meanwhile, Nan and Simon are conducting a clandestine affair in Eve's cottage. After Nan discovers that she is pregnant, Simon indicates that he has no intention of marrying a girl of her social / financial status and suggests an abortion. To get out of her pickle, Nan then proceeds to seduce Jack and attempt to pass her baby off as his child. Read the above... doesn't it all sound like a soap? Who's sleeping with who? Anyway, carrying on...Minnie Driver gives a marvelous, sympathetic portrayal of Benny, a young girl insecure over her appearance, caught up in her first love and awakening desires, pursued by an unwelcome suitor, trapped with familial obligations following her father's sudden death, and ultimately betrayed by her boyfriend and one of her best friends. She's beautiful at the dance when she first reveals her vulnerability to Jack. I agree with those who claim that Benny is not sufficiently large for the role, not 'big as a rhinoceros' at all...attractive figure, just pudgy face...but that's a minor detail. Chris O'Donnell is perfect as her dashing young love, convincing in his devastated reaction to the news of Nan's pregnancy and choosing to unhappily but nobly do the right thing, marry the girl. He's much more sympathetic in the movie, where he has only a one night moment of madness with Nan, than in the novel, where it's more of an affair. Eve seems well cast, but Sean's pilfering, lecherous, peeping tom character is definitely overdone, almost a caricature, as others have also noted. Nan's character is well captured here, as the viewer (this one, at least) has sympathy for her genuine sense of giving herself to Sean when she loses her virginity, her betrayal by him when he hears of her pregnancy, and even to some extent her dastardly deed to both Jack and Benny for her own selfish interests. One point well brought out is that while Nan believes herself to have contempt for Catholicism, when it comes to abortion, we see that she has internalized at least some of the teachings of her faith.Of course the Irish music is fantastic and the country scenery beautiful, the green hills, streams, and meandering roads. I was less impressed that the professor's lecture topics just happened to involve the sexual practices of savages. I certainly don't recall that from the novel, though it's been awhile. What is the likelihood that this would have been the class subject matter for a coed freshman class in Ireland back in the 1950's?The film has a different ending than the novel, which will disappoint some readers. Normally this would infuriate me, but I found surprisingly that I didn't mind. In the book, Benny forgives Jack and remains friends with him, but, having gained confidence and a sense of independence, moves on with her life. Here of course we see a less complex storybook type ending with the couple getting together. Pity she has sex with him at the end...of course with a parting dig at the Catholic Church ('Bless me, Father, for I have sinned'). At least it's apparently at Benny's own instigation, not in response to pressure from Jack. The movie is really mainly sex...either wanting it, talking about it, or having it. Not much else to the story.So...yes, a mixed review. Not the best morals and a certain mocking of Catholic teachings (or Christian teachings, in general), but kind of a touching story of first love, a sympathetic heroine, and that lovely Irish scenery. "},{"Title":"A Tale Of Untruths","Date":"30 January 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Spoilers in this review, please do not read if you don't want the movie ruined.I read the book and to be honest, was very bored with it from the start, but once I start a book, I always finish. Well, about a day after I finished the book, I found the movie online and decided to buy it and figured maybe it would be better. I was so very wrong. Minnie Driver isn't even close to being a barrel of a girl or an elephant as she was called in the book many many times. You could even see her bones popping out of her skin through most of the movie.The whole point of the book and the story is that you don't have to be a beauty or thin or perfect. Benny seemed to be the same size as the other girls with a little chubbier face. They also completely changed the ending, she turns Jack down flat and moves on with her life (in the book) instead of pining away over the man who broke her heart and ending up back with him.(in the movie) I have many more complaints about the differences but I will spare you.Both the movie and the book are pretty much boring, I wouldn't waste your time with either of them. "},{"Title":"Unpretentious romantic drama; sweet but not memorable","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  First of all, I've never read the novel by Maeve Binchy, so I'm not going to make a comparison between the book and the movie.The plot Set in the 50s. Three young Irish girls with distinguish personalities get their share of lessons about friendship, love, family, betrayal and college life.The charactersMinnie Driver is very convincing as Benny, the straightforward, sensitive, caring, and humorous virgin with plum curves, a radiant smile, and expressive eyes. She is an only child and lives with her modest family, taking the bus on a daily basis to go to college in Dublin.Chris O'Donnell is Jack Foley, a wealthy medical student and rugby star. He is attractive and a tad naive. He and Benny fall in love, their attempts to get close to each other, both in the physical and the emotional sense, are clumsy (because they lack experience), but sincere and touching.Geraldine O'Rawe is Eve, Benny's lifetime friend, an orphan who was raised by the nuns but who has enough guts to ask for and obtain a scholarship, and stand up for Benny against Nan when need be. The pretty Saffron Burrows plays Nan, Benny and Eve's childhood friend, who left the village early to live with her family in Dublin. She is very aware of her attractive looks, and attempts to use her wannabe sophistication to trap a wealthy man into marriage when she becomes pregnant with his baby (predictable). But the man rejects her (again, predictable), and so she betrays Benny by seducing Jack and claiming afterwards that she is carrying his child.Alan Cumming is excellent as Sean Walsh, Benny's father's employee who constantly attempts to seduce the young girl, to no avail. You will probably hate him in this role, he truly is despicable, manipulative, sexually obsessed, voyeur, irritating, etc. His hairstyle (a fringe on the right please) and suspenders make him look ridiculous. In one word, Walsh is a real pain, but Cumming gives an excellent performance here. His sleezy mimics cannot go unnoticed.The Irish landscape, with its hilltops, pittorresque rivers, woods, small roads, and adorable cottages is one of the fine aspects of the movie.There isn't much to analyse here, the story line is simple and the dialog pretty straightforward. The overall atmosphere of the film is friendly, warm and 'cozy'. There is definitely an emotional bond between Benny and the viewers, unless you're too much of a cynic to sympathize with a sensitive, self-conscious, modest girl set on a (realistic) journey of womanhood. "},{"Title":"Sweet and refreshing","Date":"5 December 2000","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is the first movie I ever saw with Minnie Driver, and I loved how the director made her get porked up for the role.  We were meant to see the inner beauty of Benny, of course, but also to see that occasional external loveliness that can come through in her purely emotional situations.Of course, I thought Nan was acting rather like a whore when she bedded Jack for all the wrong reasons, just as the audience was meant to despise such an act.  As a whole, my emotions were pulled in all the right directions, so kudos to the directing crew!A story of love, friendship, curiosity, betrayal, and forgiveness that hits all the right chords. "}{"Title":"What happened to Chris O'Donnell?","Date":"21 September 2004","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Oh sure, I know he must be out there doing something. But I recently saw this for the 2nd time, the first time at a second run movie house and I just fell in love with movie again. Chris O'Donnell and Minnie Driver (what happened to HER?) have great (but not amazing) chemistry going between them, and throughout the movie I was also saying, who is that weasely looking chap playing the father's assistant in the haberdashery shop? Only to find out it was Alan Cummings! (blush). I did like the love story, but the whole pregnancy angle seemed a bit too forced, and the whole mystery being solved at the end in one full swoop was a bit much. Still, it was nice to see O'Donnell acting before he sold himself out and started doing dreadful movies.  "},{"Title":"Lame attempt at unlikely-girl-gets-guy story","Date":"18 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This review contains SPOILERS, I'm trying to save you from seeing this movie.I started watching this movie thinking I was going to like it. It looked like a coming of age tale, the 1950's Irish setting seemed appealing, the characters seemed interesting. The main character is a large, unattractive girl, Bennie, from a small town, and the story centers around her and her two friends, Eve and Nan. Eve was a simple girl with a moralistic bent, raised in a convent, while Nan grew up a sophisticated, big city girl in Dublin. The story really gets going while the three are at university. For a while it seemed like a sweet coming of age tale of some sort, but I should have been suspicious when all the excerpts of college lectures dealt with the sexual practices of savages, and with all the talk about sex, between the girls and between Bennie and her new boyfriend, a jock on campus and a pre-med major.The movie goes along pretty innocently for quite a while. The girls were in school, and it looked like the girls were striving to expand their horizons, improve their situation. They go to a dance and are caught up with boyfriends. Then a lot of the action is compressed in the last half hour of the movie, turning the whole thing into a big, sappy soap opera. Nan services some guy, get rejected by the buffoon when they discover she's pregnant, then seduces Bennie's boyfriend in an attempt to trick HIM into marrying her. Eve finds out, approaches Nan with a bread knife, causing Nan to fall, get cut, and lose the baby. The boyfriend then returns to Bennie and she takes him back, and the movie ends as these two are finally about to go all the way. As it ends, you don't feel uplifted, Bennie hasn't learned anything or grown, she remains a big, unattractive girl, now with a boyfriend that knows he graze in greener pastures once in a while and she'll take him back. "},{"Title":"With Friends like these, who needs enemies . . .","Date":"30 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" As much as I like Colin Firth ever since his portrayal in the A&E production of Pride and Prejudice, What a Girl Wants, and Master of the Moor, I have to say that this movie was totally monotonous, dreary and tedious.A dull and boring and uninspired movie about girls in 1950's Ireland trying to find their womanhood through their drawers and the drawers of the men they are involved in.I had seen this movie before my interest in Firth's career and found the characters implausible and improbable. All the characters were unbelievable except perhaps the Uriah Heep of the movie played by Aidan Gillen which oiled up the screen really good and made you cringe with revulsion with his attack.No real conclusions of the movie except that Bernadette 'Benny' Hogan (Minnie Driver) decided to give sex a try.A real inspiring yawn . . . "},{"Title":"Dreams come true","Date":"24 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I was glad to see Chris O'Donnell in this movie. He did this to show the Irish side of him. As an Irishwoman, I loved that. O'Donnell shines as Jack Foley, the good-looking Rugby star who falls in love with Benny (Driver). O'Donnell plays Foley with suavity, sympathy & class. You like him; even when you find out about Nan. He just has a way of making you swoon. And I loved the accent. My favorite scene in this movie is Jack in a tuxedo. Talk about hot! Chris O'Donnell has always been good-looking, but wearing that tuxedo & speaking with an Irish accent made me swoon.Driver gives a star-is-born performance as Benny, the 'ordinary' girl who dreams of more than Knockglen. You feel her pain as she deals her whole life with not being the beauty Nan is; & cheer when Jack tells her he loves her.I discovered what a talent Alan Cumming is. His portrayal of Sean Walsh gave me the creeps; yet I kept hoping for more screen time. Geraldine O'Rawe is another breakthrough performance as Eve. She is a loyal friend to Benny & a joy to watch on screen. Her beauty & grace are unmatched in this film.A very sweet movie & a good addition to anyone's collection. If you are Irish, rent & enjoy this gem. If you are not, rent anyways. It just proves that sometimes the person you want may not be out of reach. Sometimes dreams do come true. "},{"Title":"Great movie, a little different than the book","Date":"15 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This was a great movie, but it was a little different than the book. Spoilers Nan was friends with Benny and Eve since childhood in the movie. In the book, they met at college. I liked O'Donald's character better in the movie than in the book. In the book, he acted like a jerk to Benny when she was too busy taking care of her widowed mother. In the movie, though he did feel a little lonely and got a little impatient,he (up until he cheated on her) was a little more understanding. In the book, I thought they implied that Benny got together with her, but I think she left it up to the author to decide. Other users says they did not get back together. In the movie, they definitely did get back together. I liked the part where Benny hit the bag over that creep's head and the money spilled out! Nan and Eve were great for their part. Although I do not consider O'Donald gorgeous, he is talented. I read some users comments. I also noticed the flaw they made when they said they were making their confirmation, (as other users stated) which was really the communion. However, that was not important to me. A lot of users were critical about the movie being so centered around sex. I agree with them, that it did get too much after a while, but those are real problems that teens and young adults faced then, and now. But back then they did not have sex education. (just guilt, from the catholic church)Perhaps if people talked to them about the real consequences of having sex (rather that preaching about it being a mortal sin)they would not have so much of a desire to have it. I think if this were a real story, Benny would have made a big mistake by having sex(obviously unprotected) and it would be a shame for a talented smart writer like Benny to ruin her chance of having a career; however, the movie ended there. I do not think it was made to teach you that you should have premarital sex, (though realistically it happened, even then, though it was just not talked of) It was made to entertain. It was a romantic love story, not a life lesson. A lot of people were disappointed by the fact that Benny gave Jack and second chance, but at least in the movie, he was not a jerk like he was in the book, as I said. Somebody said that the parents looked old for parents back then, but it was not unusual for women to take years to get pregnet, or to have many miscarriages (sadly). Back then they did not have the prenatal care that they have now, or ways of getting pregnet. The fact that she had only one child was also unusual for that time, which also implies that the mother probably took a long time to conceive. So I thought using older parents was appropriate, and backed up justly. Overall, a great movie! "},{"Title":"Favorite book but movie isn't up to it","Date":"16 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is my favorite book. Maeve Binchy is my favorite author. I think the movie falls a bit short her intricately weaved story. Naturally there will be changes from book to screen but some of the things left out are the very things that make this story so lovable. If they had extended the length of the film then a lot more could have been done. A better development of characters and relationships could have taken place.If you've read the book than you know how significant the ending change is. It nearly changes the whole character of Benny. As glad as I am that Jack and Benny got back together in the film I think a truer growth of character would have occurred if they kept the original book ending. It is a decent film. Watchable. If you love this book than you might like the film. If you're obsessed then it is worth the cash. I wish I had it.  "},{"Title":"Not a great film for fans of the book","Date":"19 July 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I very recently read Circle of friends, and found it endearing, smart and very true to life. I felt that the movie was a very unsuccessful attempt at smashing the story line to a very tipical flick that was not at all believable. I might have enjoyed the movie more had I not read the book, but I was very distracted at the seemingly non-existing morals that were so much a part of the book. One particular annoyance is the portrayal of Nan, she was an un-likeable character in the book, but there was a means behind the madness. The movie had you beleiving she was just a whore, but there was a whole sidestory for her motivation to seduce Simon Westward, which wasn't even hinted at in the movie. While I did like the performances of Benny and Eve, I thought Chris O'donnel as Jack was all wrong, he lacked the upbeat sincerely easy-going qualities that made Jack Jack. I would not reccomend this movie to fans of the book that truly understood that is was more than just about some flimsy romance between Benny and Jack. I also want to note that the ending was supremely outside the scope of what is was meant to be. Someone else mentioned that is was a more happy ending than in the book, but I disagree wholeheartedly. In the book you see Benny overcome her sadness and depression from that first love that would inevitably break her heart. The ending in the movie was cliche and typical of hollywood. In my opinion a very flimsy chick-flick with not enough to hold it together. "},{"Title":"romance lacks tension","Date":"10 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It's 1949 Knockglen, Ireland. Best friends Eve, Benny and Nan have their Confirmation Day. Then it's 1957. Nan Mahon (Saffron Burrows) is long gone to Dublin. Bernadette Hogan (Minnie Driver) and Eve Malone (Geraldine O'Rawe) have graduated. Orphan Eve's father was the wealthy Westward family's gardener. Simon (Colin Firth) is the dashing Westward son. The girls go to Dublin University College but Benny has to go home every night while Eve is living in a convent. They are reunited with social butterfly Nan at college. Benny falls for fellow student Jack Foley (Chris O'Donnell). Creepy Sean Walsh (Alan Cumming) from home has an eye for her. Aidan Lynch (Aidan Gillen) likes Eve. Nan wants the older Simon.Minnie Driver may be a tall gal but the way she's described, she needs an extra 50 pounds. She probably needs to be uglier. On the other hand, Chris O'Donnell is way too pretty, not just handsome but swoopy-haired pretty. He's essentially the pretty girl in this romance and rather bland. They have good chemistry but not very heated one. It tries to do something with sexual rebellion in the repressive religious atmosphere. Even when the movie takes some twists, it never really surprises. "},{"Title":"great movie","Date":"3 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I like the ending in here much better then the book. In the book I think they implied they were just friends in the movie they got back together. Minnie driver is not gorgeous but shes talented. Chris was okay as the rich young man whose pressured to pursue a career hes not sure hes cut out for. The acting is pretty good, the storyline could be seen as boring but the acting and comedy makes it worth it. This was Ireland in the 50s so its a completely different world for some of us. Mini driver wasn't the best role for an overweight woman cause she was not so big, but other then that shes great for the part. The movie wasn't totally true to the book, in the book they met nan in college in the movie they knew her since childhood, and they made what they called confirmation but American catholics call it communion, not sure if it was a mistake or Ireland uses the word confirmation for that event. Like in the book, Benny was expected to marry the man who worked in the fathers shop who was going to take over the business. I don't know why They would rather her marry a poor shop owner who will only have money cause he was left the shop, over a doctor. So the the family might not carry on the family business when t the parents aren't around, its not like its the family name not carried, its a shop. Weird to me. "},{"Title":"A Film With No Heart","Date":"23 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Although this movie lacked any sort of plot, and was forever flitting from one insignificant scene to the next, I was willing to watch it because of the fine acting performance by Minnie Driver and that there seemed to be a story shaping-up between her character and that of Chris O'Donnell's. When he left Bene sitting for almost the entire time of his party, opting to dance with her glamorous friend, instead, I should have been warned.When this cad (Jack) actually tried and succeeded in getting Bene to dance as she was about to leave, I should have realized the black nature of this script and screenplay. When Jack has coitus with the glamorous friend (played by Saffron Burroughs) and gets her pregnant (he is told), he decides to tell Bene, whom he has, by then, some real affection for. As he is getting off the bus or trolley to meet her, tell her and break her heart, I turned the movie off and threw it out. A film really has to offend me for me to score fewer than 7 stars. No real plot and an apparent delight in hurting those vulnerable means a cinematic failure to me, even with Minnie Driver's memorable character and performance. The fact that Circle of Friends was based on a novel is no excuse. Another one should have been used. A fresh and compelling screenplay could have been developed, loosely using the characters of Bene and Jack. Certainly, this movie was talent wasted. "}{"Title":"Only 6.5 for this?","Date":"16 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I was surprised to see that this has only 6.5 average grading from IMDb users! This is a great film in any way possible. Acting, portrayal of characters, music and of course the story are all well beyond average. You will also appreciate that none of the characters is 2-dimentional, not even the bad ones, like Sean and Nan. You can see behind the reasons of their actions, even if you don't agree with them.I remember renting this back in 1996, not expecting much from it. Then, I was was taken by the whole film, especially by that chubby unknown but brilliant young actress. In that manner I was more than pleased when some years later I saw Minnie Driver becoming very well-known and being Oscar nominated for her role in Good Will Hunting. Knowing now that she gained all those pounds just for the role of Benny, males me thing that deserved an Oscar nod and for this film! i particularly liked and Chris o Donnel for this and also for the message it gives about one being him or herself, instead of trying to be something else in order to gain someone's-anyone's approval or love! It was years after that that I also noticed that this was an adaptation of a book of Maeve Binchy one of my favorite authors. When I had the chance to watch this again, then I noticed and Colin Firth playing also. Another reason for anyone to watch it!!! "},{"Title":"Simply an enjoyable movie","Date":"14 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" As a general rule, I am picky about adaptations of books on the big screen, but there is much to love about this version of Maeve Binchy's excellent novel. I loved the book from the first time I read it, and was delighted to find a film version to rent. The cast are really very good and the movie is well-written and directed. Minnie Driver is wonderful as Benny, with Chris O'Donnell portraying a slightly more sympathetic Jack than the selfish young man in the novel, and excellent support from Geraldine O'Rawe, Saffron Burrows, Alan Cumming and Colin Firth (getting to play a cad rather than the hero for a change).There are, of course, some major differences from the novel but nonetheless the film works, in and of itself, and it is still extremely enjoyable. I can accept that for a Hollywood movie, a more conclusive ending was required than that provided by Binchy in the book, and it was made believable by the chemistry between Driver and O'Donnell in the last few scenes.I would agree that the sexual life of savages would be an unlikely subject for first year students in 1950s Ireland, but I like Ciaran Hinds as the lecturer, so I'll let it go...I also would have liked to see more of Binchy's supporting cast make it into the movie - Mother Francis, for example, who brought up Eve, or some of the other friends outside of the college group such as Clodagh or Fonzie. Obviously a film has limitations that do not hinder an author, but I would also have liked there to have been more back story for Nan - just why she chooses Simon, for example. And I could always use more interaction between Eve and Aidan, whose scenes in the book are richly comic and translate very well onto the screen.Despite my quibbles, I have always liked this film, and I would recommend it to most people, whether they have read the book or not, for its entertainment value. "},{"Title":"a tale of friendship that's as ordinary as any girl's life...","Date":"22 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This was the first film of Minnie Driver I ever saw and I loved her in this role as the main character Benny (or Ben as her friends call her) whose coming of age story is told within the full circle of the film as is that of her friends. If you see Driver in this, she is a far cry from the glamour puss she has become today in Hollywood films, but her acting is still just as superb. I truly enjoyed it and recommend it to anyone with a taste or stamina for bawdy Irish jokes, rawness one only sees from the other-side of the pond from time to time and heartbreak that exists in the lives of everyone especially those just getting to know the world for what it truly is. Chris O' Donnell also appears in the film, as the charming young lad Benny falls in love with. Alan Cumming (in another stereotypically sinister role), Colin Firth and Saffron Burrows also co-star. "},{"Title":"Glaring religious error!","Date":"23 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I just watched this movie with my teen-aged daughter. We both enjoyed it, and it brought an opportunity to think and talk about teen-aged sexual matters, especially first-time sex.However, we did find an error in this Irish-Catholic movie, and that was in the opening scene where the three girls were receiving Confirmation. In fact, they were receiving their First Holy Communion. This error was shocking! We expected to find it listed as a goof in the IMDb listing, but no goofs were given. Another thing we thought very strange was that Benny's parents looked so very old--old enough to be her grandparents. Considering the time line of the movie, most first-time parents in the '50s would have been young (20-ish, not 40-ish) when their first child was born. Maybe in the book it tells that the parents were older first-time parents.Overall, a very enjoyable film. "},{"Title":"Beautiful, touching film.","Date":"19 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I absolutely adored this film, and it is the ultimately girly flick which every girl should watch with a big group of her friends! The characters are all so likable, and the settings are wonderful. It is an utterly charming film which you can't help falling in love with. Remarkable performances from Minnie Driver and Chris O'Donnell, and I thought Alan Cumming was great in this role, because he plays nasty so well. Overall, a very beautiful film with a very genuine, lovely story at the centre. It's great! Also, the pure irishness of it just makes you want to get on the next plane to Ireland and experience its beauty and charm first hand. The whole film is simply beautiful and the cinematography is wonderful. This is a top class piece of directing and producing, and brings to life Maeve Binchy's novel perfectly. "},{"Title":"Answer to where O'Donnel and Driver are now","Date":"5 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" To answer the question about where both Chris O'Donnel and Minnie Driver are. Both have been working over the past few years putting out movies. They may not have been blockbuster films and why you may not have heard anything. Also, both are in production on movies this year in 2005.Next time just look them up on this site and you would have your answer.I have to say, I loved this film. It introduced me to Ms. Driver and I have been following her career ever since. I think she is under-rated as an actress. "},{"Title":"Pretty good","Date":"22 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  SPOILERS HEREINI just caught this film last night on TV, purely by chance, and I guess with my low expectations it didn't disappoint but there were parts that did.It tells a sweet enough tale of three Irish college girlfriends and falling in love, and the central romance between Minnie Driver and Chris O'Donnell is well handled. There's enough chemistry there to illuminate the relationship.However, during the more dramatic parts of the story, I had quite a few complaints. While Driver's performance through the majority of the film was very convincing, she seemed very trite and almost cute during her break-up scenes and following the death of her father. The musical soundtrack as well wasn't very well handled to produce the most emotion. My female friends had given me the impression that this was the saddest movie they'd ever seen but I just found it nowhere near powerful enough. It is surely meant to be an emotionally charged film but the direction and the performances didn't do nearly enough to extract the feeling from it, and I felt like I was watching some street theatre or something because it was obvious what they were representing with their faces and body language, but there wasn't much acting involved at all.The second complaint is Alan Cumming's character. He's fine in the role, don't get me wrong, but it's such a stupid character. The story itself is realistic and the characters are empathetic and true-to-life, except this one. He's such a blatant caricature and left all conviction in the film for dead. I presume it's all from the book which I haven't read, but I really think an over-the-top character like that will always ruin a simple, sentimental romance such as this. They're far more suited to Roald Dahl books.But apart from those complaints it didn't really disappoint. It's simplistic and gentle-hearted and as such is ideal evening viewing as far as I can tell. ***/***** "},{"Title":"It does the heart good!","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It does the heart good to see a pretty boy fall in love with someone other than a model.  Although Minnie Driver is very attractive, they made her gain weight for the role of Bennie, gave her no make-up to speak of, and dressed her in the frumpiest of garbs.  Yet, Jack Foley (Chris O'Donnell) falls for her because of her wonderful heart.  You go Jack!Hold on guys, it's not just for the women.  Despite the fact that Jack betrays her, Bennie is able to forgive him and he comes out ahead in the end anyway.And let's not forget bloody Sean Walsh!  Alan Cumming does a great job as a sleeze!  It's worth it just to see his performance.Enjoy! "},{"Title":"A great look at being young in Ireland","Date":"29 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just finished reading the book and I can't wait to see the film again. While the film adds a few scenes, as well as a less ambiguous, more feel-good ending, the movie stays remarkably close to the book's sense of Irish society, and its ins and outs.  What most impressed me about the book _and_ the film was that both managed to tell a grand story and not just another The Ugly Duckling. This film contained an intricate plot, well-devloped characters, and a rich sense of humour.  "},{"Title":"Touching Movie","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie a couple of days ago while I was flipping through TV channels (this is how I find most of my favorite movies). I stubbled upon this treasure of a movie. I completely identified with the lead character, played by Minnie Driver. She was a girl that knew who she was but not where she fit and I admired her for all her confidence and selfconsious-ness, it made the character a real person, like everyone else and me (except I don't life in Ireland in 1940's). But the movie pulls you and shows you the secrets that some are hiding and the friendships that will endure the test of time. This very much is a chick-flick, but for all those chicks out there who want to watch a movie about love, loss, friendship, and everything else that comes with life this is the movie for you. My recommendation is watch it with your friends and boyfriends it is really great! (Oh yeah i loved how realistic Minnie Drivers accent was!) "}{"Title":"Engaging, moving drama","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  CIRCLE OF FRIENDS marks my first step towards appreciating the talents of Minnie Driver. I'm not a great fan, but she and co-star Chris O'Donnell have headlined this emotional story with definite conviction.The story is simple - 3 childhood friends growing up through life, with their sexual developement testing the strengths of their friendship. The film is captivating through O'Donnell and Driver's performances, and there is a great supporting effort from the ever-reliable Alan Cumming. This is a moving film that will be identified by all who watch it. "},{"Title":"I wanted the movie to go on and on...","Date":"21 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  There is something to be said when a movie ends and you do not want it to end just there.  You want it to proceed, go on, continue, to know these people, what they do, what they think.Circle of Friends is such a movie.  For me.I know very little of what Ireland really is.  All I know is what I see in the movies.  But I do something of what culture was 40 or 50 years ago.  Life has changed.  The way we approach relationships has changed.  Perhaps it is this utter charm of the glossed-over conventions of days gone by that attracts me.  Perhaps it is the Irish culture.But then again, it was just the wonderful direction and acting all the time.  Minnie Driver and Chris O'Donnell suprise us with these tender performances.  Both of these actors have done large mass-market productions.  But it is these tender performances that really shine far above the flashy movies they've done before and since.Call me a romantic.  Go ahead.  Do that.  I'll just smile right back and say yes.Fine movie. "},{"Title":"Heart warming, then distracting","Date":"10 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was given this video from a relative.  The love story interested me at first, but frankly, I got lost in who was watching who sleep with who's boyfriend.  I understand that one of the points of the movie was in overcoming adversity, but it seemed like the adversity was an excuse to get sex into the story.  The acting was good, the romance story was average, and everything else about the time period and location seemed accurate. However, I was very distracted.  I ended up throwing the video in the trash. "},{"Title":"Sweet, well-acted -- not memorable","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It must be at least five or six years since I saw this movie last, and I couldn't remember much of it before I saw it again yesterday. That does not surprise me since Circle of Friends truly isn't a very memorable film. It's sweet and extremely well-acted (apart from the always boring Chris O'Donnell)... but that's about it.It was fun, though, to see Minnie Driver, Saffron Burrows, and Aidan Gillen (Queer as Folk, UK version) in early roles. As always, Colin Firth delivered a fine performance. "},{"Title":"Two thumbs down!","Date":"28 February 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I usually don't give comments on movies, but I feel compelled to say a few words after reading all these comments saying how great this movie is. Personally I don't think this is a movie worth watching.  The title and the poster of the movie made me think this is a story about friendship, but ended up I have the impression that I was cheated.  Anyway, if you wanna watch a movie about friendship, check out Now and Then or October Sky, you will be spending a much enjoyable evening. "},{"Title":"A fantastic adaption","Date":"4 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I first saw this movie in its theatrical release, and fell in love with it. I had read the novel by Maeve Binchy, and though the movie is not nearly as good as the novel, I would recommend it to anyone.  It is a story of love, the bonds of friendship, and growing up in Ireland in the fifties.  The story is universal however.  Maeve Binchy's books are like coming home- though to no home I have ever known.  This movie is worth the time spent. "},{"Title":"Okay chick flick for Driver and O'Donnell fans","Date":"31 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Circle of Friends tells of three Irish young women and best friends and their encounters with life, men, school, family matters, etc. Artistically and technically well done with Driver in the driver's seat nailing her part as usual, Circle... starts at a crawl and finds itself running at the end, ill timed, as though trying to squeeze its predictable story into a calculated number of minutes. The characters in the film, who are eminently obvious stereotypes, behave uncharacteristically in numerous situations as is required to make the story succeed in its attempts to elicit the desired emotions from the audience...hate for the villain, adoration for the heroine, etc. Overall, Circle... is an okay watch which will be most appreciated by young females and those who go with the flow while not being too discerning or analytical.. "},{"Title":"Three friends grow into women","Date":"18 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is the story of three long time friends who grow into women in 1950's Ireland, set against Trinity College, Dublin and their home town. Benny is the shy one, Eve is well grounded and Nan is the sophisticated beauty.  When they go to College Benny falls for Jack.  It seems to be a match made in heaven until fate, in the form of Nan conspires against her.We have to contend with the heart break of the death of Benny's father and of her betrayal by Nan and Jack.  In the end she matures into a stronger woman and Nan leaves to have her baby.  This is a well played romantic drama.  All of the players acquit themselves well, but why does Colin Firth always have to play such horrible people.  This is one to sit down with and share with your partner to show your soft side. "},{"Title":"Small, quiet movie ...","Date":"12 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  1st watched 7/13/1997 - (Dir-Pat O'Connor) Small, quiet movie in which the characters' portrayed keep your interest from beginning to end. O'Donnell in a pre-Robin role shows that he can act outside a costume. "},{"Title":"Outstanding, Endearing Performance By Minnie Driver","Date":"15 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  **Possible Spoilers**	An endearing, Oscar worthy performance by Minnie Driver highlights `Circle of Friends,' a poignant story of friendship, love and loyalty, set in 1957 Ireland, directed by Pat O'Connor.  Driver stars as Bernadette `Benny' Hogan, a sensitive, somewhat self-conscious young lady (she sees herself as plain and over-weight), about to enter the University of Dublin, along with her two, life-long friends, Eve (Geraldine O'Rawe), and Nan (Saffron Burrows).  At school she meets rugby star and med student Jack Foley (Chris O'Donnell), and falls in love with him; and, once he gets to know her, (and after a somewhat tenuous beginning), Jack realizes that he loves Benny, as well.  Conflict intervenes upon their romance, however, and complications ensue when circumstances force them into a prolonged separation.  Benny's home is a bus ride away from Dublin, and it becomes necessary for her to stay for awhile and help with the family store.  Ultimately, it leads to an incident involving Jack and Nan, when Jack becomes unwittingly drawn into a particularly sensitive and unpleasant situation which has recently arisen between Nan and her wealthy suitor, Simon Westward (Colin Firth). 	 	Driver is the real story here, though, as she gives an incredibly touching performance that so adeptly conveys Benny's sensitivities; she is Benny from the inside out, wearing her heart on her sleeve and so vulnerable to the pain that life can seemingly inflict at will.  She is so winsome, and accessible, that it enables you to share her joy and feel her pain; all due to Driver's incredible ability to make such an absolute emotional connection between her Benny and the audience.  And having the capacity to evoke such empathy underscores what a truly gifted actress Driver is.  As Jack, Chris O'Donnell gives one of his finest performances to date, as well.  He manages to delve beneath the surface to tap Jack's indecisiveness, his self-confidence tinged with doubt, while fleshing out the moral aptitude which defines him,  and it's reassuring to know that there's so much more to him than being the star jock of the rugby team, because Benny deserves more than that.  The audience's identification with Benny is so strong that her endeavors must be rewarded with a man worthy of her affection; for Jack to be any less than he is would be unacceptable and unsatisfying. 	The wonderful supporting cast includes Alan Cumming (Sean), Mick Lally (Dan Hogan), Ciaran Hinds (Professor Flynn), John Kavanagh (Brian Mahon) and Britta Smith (Mrs. Hogan).  Superbly acted and well directed, `Circle of Friends' is a captivating, memorable film, visually attractive and complimented by an engaging soundtrack of lilting, Irish melodies, and Benny is a young woman you'll take into your heart and keep there; for she is unforgettable.  This is one of those rare films that penetrates the soul and takes a real look at the human condition, and how fragile at times it can be.  It will make you think; but above all, it will make you feel.  I rate this one 10/10.      "}{"Title":"enchanting","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is enchanting. If you have a love for Ireland, life and excellent drama you should see this. It's good to note that even under the circumstances the right motives and values remain. Don't miss this story. Or is it real life...?  "},{"Title":"An exceptional film.","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Minnie Driver, amongst the entire cast, is excellent and certainly shows great promise as an actress.  She should get more impressive roles as she gathers experience and years.  The other cast members are all very good and very realistic.  In this particular case, the writer of the original book deserves most of the credit for a good story and a look into the workings of the Church in Ireland. "},{"Title":"Dare to dream, dare to love,... warm realistic, romantic","Date":"17 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  At last, a compelling story with the warmth and realistic feel of life, love, loss and friendship, and triumph over adversity. Dare to dream, dare to live, dare to love, dare to enjoy this movie! It was funny, smart and romantic. Minnie Driver's lively passionate performance was superb. Chris O'Donnell was handsomely charming. The pair create a beautiful and sensitive story about life and love. The supporting characters add body, texture and comedy as well. I've added it to my home library. "},{"Title":"Wonderful film with a great performance by Minnie Driver...","Date":"30 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was a great movie about friendship, betrayal, and the people in our lives. I saw it originally about 2 years ago, and have loved it ever since. Watch it  for the great performances, with Chris O'Donnell's Irish accent, and Minnie Driver's great performance (she gained 30 pounds for the role-she needs credit for that!) Watch with your friends and the people you love! "},{"Title":"Great film.","Date":"22 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is exceptional. Pat O'Connor has made a great modern romantic masterpiece. Minnie Driver is amazing in this movie and Chris O'Donnell has never been better. The movie is tightly put together and no scenes are wasted. The movie was shot in Ireland and it is a beauty to behold. Great date movie. "},{"Title":"Very good!  Go see it!","Date":"18 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I love this movie!  To get more out of it, though I suggest reading the book!  It's really worth it, though some of the favorite scenes from the movie aren't in the book, the character's are explained more in detail.  Both the movie and the both compliment the other.  "},{"Title":"Guilt and Shame","Date":"8 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Pretty tepid and predictable, just like the society the story disparages.And pretty ordinary in the way it exploits the themepark charm of Ireland. That's a  recurring problem with Pat O'Connor who seems doomed to his Darby O'Gill world. But it  has three strong performers, and in this case those alone are worth watching.  Incidentally those three are to be reunited for the big budget Phantom of the Opera.Of these three, Minni Driver impresses. She has that young abandon and commitment to  the role that is almost virginal in its approach. Like Emily Watson in Waves or Kate  Winslet in Creatures or Cate Blanchett in Lucinda. It has something to do with  fearlessness and is most effective when the character is supposed to have that same  sense of tentative inhabitation of strange person.Often, that ability to risk wears off, and it appears to have with Minnie. But still...Another of these three has made a career of sleazy characters. I find Cumming's energy  pretty fascinating, especially the areas of the character where he places that energy.  These characters are always sprung, dramatic. How sweet to know that Cumming really  did walk away with Saffron when this was over.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 4 Worth watching.  "},{"Title":"Crummy adaptation of the book","Date":"19 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you have read the book Circle of Friends steer clear of this terrible adaptation. The story is barely recognizable as the same, with a completely different ending.... Don't waste time or money on this one. "}]