[{"Title":"While the best of the sequels, it doesn't come close to the superb quality of the original.","Date":"23 June 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" First of all, I do think it is an improvement on Land Before Time 2, which was passable, but lacked heart, which was what made the original so poignant. The Time of the Great Giving is probably the best of the countless sequels that border from good to unwatchable, but suffers from being too preachy at times. The animation is surprisingly good, but isn't quite true to the style of animation in the original. In most scenes it had some lovely colours, but had some flat backgrounds in others. The incidental music by Michael Tavera was excellent, especially the Firebird-like music in the fire scene. It was nice to hear the heart-rending main theme from the original, but whereas in the original it made me weep buckets, it didn't have an effect on me here. The songs are okay, Kids Like Us being the best one, and Littlefoot's singing voice is for once pretty decent, but the other two songs When You're Big and When You're Standing Tough came across as rather unmelodious. The story is a very nice idea, about the values of friendship, survival and sticking together. There is also some nice dialogue, but the film further suffers from being too short and being devoid of any real emotion. I will say that the voice talents were very impressive. Ducky is still funny, with similar dialogue we associate her with from the original, though it doesn't quite feel the same without the sweetness and vulnerability of the original voice actress, the late Judith Barsi. Scott McAfee is decent as Littlefoot, and I liked Linda Gary and Kenneth Mars as the grandparents. However, in correlation to the original, John Ingle's narration, as nice as it was, was somewhat unnecessary, but I was more impressed with his gruff characterisation of Cera's father. All in all, a surprisingly good sequel, though it doesn't surpass the first and the finest. 6/10 Bethany Cox. "},{"Title":"Preachy but fun","Date":"11 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This film's main fault is that the share and care theme is laid on rather thick. When the Valley's water supply is blocked, our young heroes search for a new source. They are hindered by a trio of bullies and a pack of hungry raptors, as well as the unreasonableness of parents. The songs are okay, if forgettable. The raptors are well worth seeing. In spite of the preachy tone of some dialogue and narration, regular fans will not be disappointed.  "},{"Title":"Not recommended to the average LBT fan.","Date":"29 December 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Genre Animated film about dinosaurs and a major water catastrophe.What happens In the Great valley for the gang, there are TWO annoying problems (unfortunately, not one or none). There are three bully dinosaurs who are CONSTANTLY picking on the poor good dinosaurs and to top all the depression, the waterfall in the Great Valley has stopped flowing. Though the lovely gang (Littlefoot, Cera, Ducky Petrie and Spike) are sad and annoyed, they have a positive view as well over this mess and decide to work together to find water&#133;My thoughts I like most of the L.B.T films. Unfortunately, this one is not at the top of my list for me. It is just too depressing! All the songs focus on some bad thing or other, unlike in all the films, where at least one focuses on just happiness! It also concentrates on the crisis of the film WAY too much for my liking. The music sticks to the depressing tune for 75% of the film, everyone is EXTRA grumpy because of the crisis and it's just too annoying! When there IS happiness, it feels deflated, like rather floppy balloon, it just isn't STRONG enough. Luckily, I prefer this film to Land Before Time 11, which is my least favourite L.B.T, but this one is still not NEARLY as good as most of the others for me. I know lots of other people like it, but for me, it's just too depressing, too annoying, too deflated and too pessimistic. So there. I like the main characters of course. The new characters are not all that good, because they're bullies.Recommended to People who like the eleventh L.B.T, people who find all the other L.B.T's too happy and jolly and people who do not mind becoming a little too depressed by an animated film. "},{"Title":"A great addition to The Land Before Time canon","Date":"24 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Winning Best Home Video Presentation of the 1995 Annies, The Time of the Great Giving is the third installment of the Land Before Time series. For some reason, it was originally supposed to be #4, but was pushed forward one year. Maybe Roy Allen Smith just wanted to save best for last. One way or another, this is still a great addition to the franchise.The film begins in a similar way to the opening of the first movie, with the same sweeping score and the same calm note, underwater. The animation's cool wavy effects and the silent ancient creatures give a great feel for the setting to those who are starting the series with this installment.In the Great Valley, Littlefoot, Cera, Petrie, Ducky, and Spike have constantly been getting bullied by a trio of adolescent dinosaurs a hypsilophodon named Hyp, a nodosaurus named Nod, and a muttaburrasaurus named Mutt.So on this evening, a meteor shower impacts near the Great Valley and causes an explosion in the Mysterious Beyond. Fortunately, no one is injured severely. But the next day, the Great Valley dinosaurs wake up to find the Thundering Falls, their main supply of water, drying up. The increasing lack of water causes conflicts between the adults. Considering his species the wisest (even singing a whole song about it), Cera's dad is insistent that he make the drinking arrangements. He becomes so conceited that he gets unreasonable. In fact, he accuses Littlefoot of wasting water when he gets sprayed by a splash caused by the bullies, who hightail it out of there to not be noticed. Despite the fact that the gang had no knowledge of the water problem, Cera's dad cites Littlefoot as a bad influence and forbids Cera to be around him. To bring an end to all the bickering, Cera sneaks out with the others to set out on a water hunt of their own.One of the most graphically stunning sequences in the movie, the animation of this wildfire fire that spreads through the Great Valley is dazzling and the score is appropriately alarming for the situation, sounding much like that of the Firebird stage from Fantasia 2000.Kids Like Us, is the best song in the movie. While the other two have great instrumentals, their lyrics aren't very top notch. This one is very meaningful, if somewhat preachy, and hopefully will show children how to deal with bullying.The only real issue with this movie is that it kind of makes it seem like children are always the ones with the solution to a problem while the adults are just helpless and argumentative. This movie could have benefited more by encouraging children to always seek adults' help. Even so, it's better than The Great Valley Adventure, as it deals with the grown ups as much as the kids, and it offers great messages for both children and parents of cooperation and preventing bullying.The storyline, though formulaic, is pretty well-developed, and though the kids' dialogue is juvenile, that isn't so much a bad thing when working with characters who are still very young. Kids will be kids. The action scenes are sufficiently entertaining, the animation is outstanding, and Michael Tavera's score is most beautiful here, making for a fine addition to the Land Before Time canon.8/10 for The Land Before Time III The Time of the Great Giving. "},{"Title":"Yet another sky-high-quality sequel for our favorite dinos!","Date":"14 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I could not find any really bad spots in this movie. Roy Allen Smith does it again! This movie was a bit disappointing when I thought there wouldn't be a fight, but a species from my favorite sharp-tooth class is here! (If you don't want me to ruin the surprise for you, skip to the end of the spoilers) Velociraptor is THE predator! This is a touching tale! Hyp reminds me of an old a**hole back at school! He was really ungrateful to the ones that saved him from suffering death at the tarpit. I hate braggarts who have nothing to be arrogant about! Still, Littlefoot's kindness pushed through in the song Kids like us. It was a runner up for most touching song in my opinion.(End of spoilers here) Overall a film worthy of its legacy. "},{"Title":"A Drought in the Valley Leaves the Dinosaurs in Hot Water!","Date":"17 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS      Life was going just peachy in the Great Valley. Littlefoot, Cera, Spike, Ducky and Petrie play together each day. Unfortunately, they were always being picked on by three ignorant bullies Hyp, Nod and Mutt. Then one night, a meteorite crashes nearby and miraculously, the next day, the water fall stops so their water supply becomes limited. Cera's father immediately takes charge and orders that they ration the water, which was a good idea except he became too aggressive and pushy about it. The kids were caught playing in the water and Cera's dad called Littlefoot a bad influence. The adults' morale was dropping and they began quarreling. It looked as if it were up to Littlefoot and friends to get to the bottom of what stopped the water. They venture out of the valley and are closely followed by Hyp, Nod and Mutt. Some Sharp-Teeth are out to get them as well.       The kids and the bullies really want nothing to do with one another, but they soon learn to work together and they discover the water blockage and tell the adults about it. They go there and try to clear it, but the kids find a more productive way. The good news the valley won't be without water again. The bad news the valley was bare due to a bad fire. Fortunately, Littlefoot and friends found another valley with plenty of greens. Even Cera's dad learned the error of his ways. So how he forgot his lesson in Land Before Time V and beyond? Some guys just never learn, I guess, but Littlefoot and friends learned the value of giving, as the title dictates.      What can I say? The Land Before Time III was pretty good. As good as II which was fairly good. Part IV is good too, Part V is enjoyable and Part VI is interesting, but when they did Part VII, it all went down hill! Part VIII was even worse and I'd just as soon not see IX. But if you enjoyed I and II, and/or are looking for something to keep your kids out of your hair, I recommend The Land Before Time III The Time of the Great Giving. Was originally entitled Journey Through the Mists but for some reason or another, that was bumped down to IV.- "},{"Title":"TLBT 3","Date":"15 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The land before time III The time of the great giving i think was a good movie. I like what i saw in the movie. The story is about Littlefoot and his pals when they get bullied by Hyp and co. Later on the water fromthe thundering falls stops giving water. Littlefoot and his pals travel to free the watch as the water was stuck with aload of branches/twigs etc Hyp and co become friends with littlefoot and his friends when he is been rescued as he is gets sucked down in the water. I give this movie a score 8 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Drought In The Great Valley","Date":"20 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I have made no secret of loving Land Before Time, excepting Wisdom of Friends and Invasion of the Tinysauruses, and Time of the Great Giving is a certainly a good one. The intro with the underwater scenes and John Ingle's narration is very immersive and reminds me a little of Blue Planet. I have to say that I enjoy The Time of the Great Giving more than The Great Valley Adventure for a few reasons, one being the lesson of coming together to share whatever you have. The one weakness would have to be the songs, which while fun aren't always as lyrical as the songs in The Stone of Cold Fire, Journey Through The Mists, or The Mysterious Island. But the story itself I cannot fault, having always found it to be quite lovely. The plot is engaging and goes at a steady pace and there's some good amusing dialogue such as my brother is not a very good hider. Something I liked is that rather than wandering off for the sake of doing so like they do in Great Valley Adventure, the group wander off for the greater good, to find the water that has stopped flowing. The bullies, although bullies, are interesting as well and are redeemed at the end. Plus, while the movie isn't very exciting at first, the fire and the raptor attack make sure it ends with a bang. "},{"Title":"Even More Underwhelming and Also Cliché","Date":"16 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I don't like this movie. It has very similar ups and downs to The Great Valley Adventure except it's more prominent in this one. While the main characters have gotten better, the bully characters are obnoxious and drag the movie down. This movie has a really generic and clichéd side- plot and while the main conflict is bigger, it drags on for 70 minutes when it could've all been resolved in ten minutes. To make sure this movie reaches that time, they pad it out with the adults arguing like a bunch of babies, the bullies being insensitive jerks, and the kids saying they should solve the problem. Seriously, there was like a 5 minute sequence with the kids in the forest late at night just sniffing out water. Then literally the next morning, they find water right next to them! The songs in this movie are even more annoying than in the second one with the exception of the last one which is just okay. Also, the morals they try to teach are hammered in way too much, especially towards the end. The only thing that saves this movie from a failure from me is that some of the action scenes like the fire and raptor fight scene are really good. I'd say the action scenes are on par with the ones from movie one and hey, at least the animation still looks good. (I'm looking at you Wisdom of Friends) "},{"Title":"Blecchh","Date":"3 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" We're back in the Great Valley again, and this time the haven is disrupted when the water that feeds it stops flowing. Instead of trying to discover the cause, all the dinosaurs argue and look on as their beloved valley dries up and catches fire. No wonder this lot died out. Eventually another quest plot kicks in and an avalanche of parental advice and anti-bullying sentiment ensues, with the soppy moralising about sharing and working together more than living up to the film's nauseating title. It's all very well-intentioned, I guess, but the cutesy-poo tone and irritating characters ensure there's nothing to engage any adults nagged into watching it. "}{"Title":"Doesn't have the heart of the first, but arguably an improvement over TGVA","Date":"3 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Even though the second film lacked the heart of the original which was in my opinion one of Bluth's best films, it was pretty passable with it's nice animation and some decent villains. While I think that this is an improvement over The Great Valley Adventure, it also lacks the heart of the original.The story about the value of friendship, teamwork, and sharing was a nice idea and I think that it has some very nice dialog with such hilarious quotes including Me go play bullies somewhere else and Me unscareable. The animation is beautiful with some lovely colors, but also has some flat backgrounds due to it's below average editing. The songs, although not great, are very pleasant to listen too. The strongest aspects is the wonderful music from Michael Travera and it's excellent voice acting.Scott McAfee did very decent as Littlefoot and his singing was pretty good. I also liked Linda Gary and Kenneth Mars as Littlefoot's grandparents. John Ingle's narration was clunky, but Cera's father's gruff characterization really amused me.Overall, while an improvement on the Great Valley Adventure, it doesn't have the heart of the original, but it's still worth watching. "},{"Title":"The Time of the Great Giving","Date":"29 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" The Land Before Time III The Time of the Great Giving of course is the third installment into the Land Before Time story. When I got the opportunity to see all the sequels, I definitely took up on it, even though these sequels are given such a hard time, I'm still curious what they were about. I do love just a nice little family movie every once in a while, something light hearted and an occasional laugh. Now the second Land Before Time movie wasn't as bad as I was expecting, so I went into the third installment with good hope. Now it's definitely to as good as the first or second Land Before Time, but it's still enjoyable and something that I'm sure your kids will enjoy.Littlefoot and his friends are constantly being bullied and browbeaten by three teenage dinosaurs Hyp, Nod, and Mutt. However, when a shower of meteorites impacts near the Great Valley and causes a rock slide in the Mysterious Beyond, which blocks the water supply of the Great Valley, Hyp, Nod, and Mutt are no longer the biggest worry of Littlefoot and his friends. The increasing lack of water causes conflicts between the inhabitants of the Great Valley, who have lived in relative peace and harmony until this event. When the interspecies situation becomes worse and worse, Littlefoot and the others set out to find water, to keep the peace in the Great Valley. They are pursued by Hyp and his friends. When Littlefoot and the others find a small lake, the teenagers emerge and claim the waterhole for themselves, demanding that Littlefoot and the others keep silent about their discovery. Unwilling to comply, Littlefoot and the others flee from the bullies and during the following pursuit discover the reason for the blockage of the Great Valley's water source. Before they can return and tell the other Valley inhabitants the truth, a lightning strike ignites a wildfire that spreads rapidly through the dried Valley. The dinosaurs barely make it to safety at the edge of the Mysterious Beyond while the fire ravages their home. When the protagonists tell the other dinosaurs of their discovery of the water's being blocked in the Mysterious Beyond by the rock slide, disunity about what to do prevents the adult dinosaurs from doing anything to utilize this knowledge. Hyp, Mutt, and Nod set out into the Mysterious Beyond on their own to get to the water first. But Littlefoot and his friends are on their tails to find a way for them to share the water with the rest of the Valley.Over all The Land Before Time III The Time of the Great Giving is a good movie, it's worth the watch for the kids, but is made more so for them rather than the adults to join in on it as well, but it's all good. Littlefoot and his friends are still a joy to watch on the screen as they get into these new adventures. So far these sequels are really not as bad as everyone says they are so I am looking forward to watching the fourth installment of the Land Before Time series, they're cute for the kids.5/10 "},{"Title":"3RD Adventure Really Great!","Date":"3 August 2009","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I thought the 3RD Land Before Time movie was a great sequel to the first and second movies. In this adventure Littlefoot and his friends must find water after the water dries up in the Great Valley and they must deal with dinosaur bullies Hyp, Mutt, and Nod. I think this sequel was the best out of all the Land Before Time. I loved the dinosaur bullies especially Mutt because he was the one who was really slow and dumb witted and his friends would always have to get him to agree with them and he would say Oh! Uh yeah! Pretty funney! I also liked their song When You're Big! Pretty cool Bully song! I also liked the song Cera's Dad sang Stand Tough! John Ingle sang it pretty good! Also the boy who provided the voice of Littlefoot did a good job singing Kids Like Us which I thought was good in teaching about giving kids especially bullies another chance at being good kids! Filled with great animation, story, and music Land Before Time III Time of the Great Giving is a perfect sequel any Land Before Time fans can enjoy 10 out of 10! "},{"Title":"Beautiful graphics all the way","Date":"11 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Roy Allen Smith, who directed The Land Before Time II The Great Valley Adventure, directs this beautifully magic movie with it's stunning graphics perfectly. Four actors/actresses have returned to voice the characters we have all fallen in love with.A huge meteor hits nearby the valley and causes a rock slide in the mysterious beyond that blocks the water supply to the valley. After this our favorite dinosaurs Littlefoot (Scott McAfee), Ducky (Heather Hogan), Petrie (Jeff Bennett), Cera (Candace Hutson) and spike are bullied by the bigger dinosaurs Hyp (Whit Hertford), Nod (Scott Menville) and Mutt (Jeff Bennett).After a few days the valley is thrown into turmoil as the water supply decreases. The bullying problems increase and then the gang discovers the cause for the shortage. Littlefoot and his friends follow Hyp and his friends into the mysterious beyond and saves the valley, after it was hit by a lightning bolt and lit on fire.The Time of the Great Giving shows what friendship, bullying and love can lead to. This is the second of the series to include songs; When You're Big, Standing Tough, Kids Like Us. I recommend for every family with children. This is a fun movie to watch for everyone, the young and the old. "},{"Title":"best movie ever","Date":"23 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" this is the best movie ever. i love the dinosaur, Hip (he is the cutest bully <3) When You're Big is the best song it's to the point, great for a sing along, and even somewhat obnoxious. what more in a groovy tune could you possibly need?? the movie, i of course bought the soundtrack me that Ms. Britney Spears. u cant gulp and slurp and swig. i also loved Standing Tough sung by Daddy Tops, it was just such a powerful song, it just made me wanna jump around the room and holler I'm tough.(after watching ck, and shared it with all my friends who just simply adored it as much as i did!) Back to the movie it was about the dinosaurs running out of water in the great valley. it also shows how Littlefoot and the gang deal with big kids (aka bullies.)(i know, i know, yes its so awful, but don't worry, they make it into the perfect movie for the family or for just relaxing at home with your root beer and sunflower seeds) "}]