[{"Title":"good movie","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  Being a teenager this was a very good movie, and christina ricci is one of my absolute favorite actresses so it was a great movie for me and my friends to watch on a saturday night with a bowl of popcorn and a few sodas, go see it!! "},{"Title":"An Excellent Movie!","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"13 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  If I could just say a few words about this movie they would be, A Must Buy!.  In fact, I don't know why I let this movie go for so long before getting it myself and watching it because it is very good -- a fantastic adventure and enough suspense to keep you watching it all the way through (at least the 1st time).When this movie aired on the Wonderful World of Disney this past Sunday night (June 11, 2000) I watched it for the first time to preview it. I was also trying to do something else at the time, but it was so good that I could only continue what I was doing during commercial breaks.The next day, I just had to go out and find it on video to add it to my own video library and then I watched it again later that night and one more time the next night. This is real good movie to watch over and over again, though, seeing it the 1st time is the best.To sum all this up in a few words, this movie has surely become one of my favorites and will most probably be a heavily played video, too!  An excellent movie! 10 Stars!!  "},{"Title":"I have seen this movie 20 times at least ,probably more.","Date":"18 September 2004","Score":"12 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  I absolutely love this movie it made me cry the first 5 times I watched it. I think this movie should get 20 stars out of 10, I have seen this movie so many times I have every single word of it memorized, this movie deals with so many issues we face today, and even though it was make in 1995 doesn't mean it's an old fogie movie that doesn't deserve the time of day, just trust me I have seen it enough times to know! lol. I think that if you are looking for a movie to sit down and watch and not want it to be over then you have found the right movie Gold Diggers can make you laugh, cry, and wonder what's going to happen next all at the same time! So if you have yet to see this wonderful movie don't pass it up, go see it now! PS, See this movie, you have to!  "},{"Title":"MINI INDIANA","Date":"18 November 1999","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  I loved this movie but then I guess I love anything Christina Ricci is in. But this is great for family time it is the mini- Indiana Jones and it was set in the pacific norhtwest that in itself gives it high marks. "},{"Title":"Praise for Gold Diggers","Date":"19 January 2000","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  I have seen this movie many times, watched it over and over and I never get sick of it. This is a wonderful story about friendship that has touched my heart. A brilliant family movie that children will especially love for the adventure, fun, and triumph that it presents. "},{"Title":" Glowworms...you turned them into damn glowworms!","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  Christina Ricci is great as Elizabeth in this intelligent adventure flick. The supporting cast is brilliant. The costumes are simple. One of the good farces in the genre, Gold Diggers Secret Of Bear Mountain will sparkle golden bears in the viewer's eye. 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A Wonderful Family Movie","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  Beth( Christina Ricci) and her mother Kate( Polly Draper) have just moved from L.A, to a small town where Kate's aunt used to live. Beth becomes friends with this girl Jody( Anna Chlumsky). Jody is wild, adventerous and the total opposite of Beth. But a lot of people are saying that Jody is a really bad influence and that she steals and that she has a lot of problems. Beth doesn't listen to those story's, she likes Jody no matter what people tell her. One day, the two of them head out to this Bear Mountain that supposedly still carries gold. But a accident happens to Beth and it is up to Jody to save her life. This is a wonderful movie, I enjoyed it a lot. Christina Ricci and Anna Chlumsky were great. I would give Gold DiggersThe Secret Of Bear Mountain 8.5/10 "},{"Title":"Personally, I thought this movie was great.","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  In my perspective, I thought this movie was a great family movie that talks about true friends and what they go through. I think it will teach children to dream and also show them what a good friend really is. It has a great plotline and stars both Christina Ricci and Anna Chlumsky. "},{"Title":"The 2 leads are great","Date":"28 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Okay I decided to sit down and watch this because I have seen both leading actresses in movies that have shown me they are pretty versatile actresses. So even without giving a damn about the plot I decided to sit down and watch it because I was convinced the actresses would carry it.The plot is that a city girl named Beth (Christina Ricci) moves to a country town and her father is dead (If you've seen Casper, you'll find that a little surreal). She eventually meets a tomboy named Jody (Anna Chlumsky) who I think is meant to be a kleptomaniac. Over time they seem to develop a bond as friends and Jody tells Beth that she knows of a mountain that used to be mined that may still have gold in it and it all ties into a girl the same age as them living around that time called Molly Morgan.Okay so this is pretty much the same family/adventure movie that you may have seen at least once before. What really ties this movie together though is the 2 leads. They do have believable chemistry as friends and that really is the focus of the film - it's the friendship.With that said I just feel that this movie tries to fall into the climax that again, you would have bound to see in any movie at least once. I mean did this movie really need a climax? I don't even think it needed the whole Gold at Bear Mountain thing. Without it the movie could have been just as good as it was, if not even better.So at it's root the real reason why anyone would want to see this movie is the 2 leads who do just as good of a job here as I've seen them do on other movies I've seen them in. If you haven't seen these 2 in other movies nor care for them as actors then this could carry a risk of you not liking this movie. So this movie is worth it, just for fans of Christina Ricci and Anna Chlumsky. "},{"Title":"I ain't sayin' she's a gold digger","Date":"4 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Before Christina Ricci was truly established as the screen's indie queen, it seems that she mostly starred in what were viewed as family movies. Gold Diggers The Secret of Bear Mountain is a prime example. It's one of those movies that seems really cool when you're young. My favorite part of the movie was the history of the woman associated with the cave. Otherwise, the movie isn't anything special (especially since 1995 also saw movies like Smoke and Unstrung Heroes). As for Anna Chlumsky, she also gravitated more towards serious roles as she aged. I'll give the movie that.Also starring Polly Draper, Diana Scarwid (Christina in Mommie Dearest) and David Keith (Drew Barrymore's father in Firestarter). "}{"Title":"one of the best movies I've seen","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  This is a movie that should be viewed by everyone because it is a true testament to what friends will do for one another without question.Anna Chlumsky gives one of her best performances as Jody Salerno and Christina Ricci shines in her role as Beth Easton. Together they are on a mission to capture gold. However, along the way they encounter problems that will test their friendship.I enjoyed and appreciate how the director took his time to focus the story more on the development of Jody and Beth's friendship instead of just searching for the gold. One of the best examples was when Beth was trapped in the mountain and Jody went for help. It was then I realized that Jody really cared about someone other than herself. Through thick and thin, happy or difficult times they were there for one another, which was the best part. No matter who was in trouble or who was getting pucked on, they stuck together.I was thrilled to see a movie that is a change of pace from what has come out, which has come out recently. I really hope this movie does the same for each viewer as it did for me. I highly recommend this film because it shows the true meaning of friendship "},{"Title":"Love this movie, just ordered the DVD.","Date":"10 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Watched this the first time this morning on HBO and LOVED IT!!! Just ordered the DVD to watch it again when I want to!! Can't believe I never saw it before!! The friendship between the girls is right on, reminds me of being young! LOVE IT, LOVE IT!!!! Will recommend it to family and friends, and even let them borrow the DVD I just ordered! I know there are family members who will enjoy it, especially since the whole family can watch it together. This is unusual to find one these days, even programs on regular TV surprise me with some of the language! My DVD will arrive on Wednesday, and I can't wait to watch it again. so many ups and downs in it, was so happy there was a very happy ending! I have four Grandchildren now, so nice to have a good, clean movie for them to watch. "},{"Title":" Jody is in danger and you're not doing anything!","Date":"5 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  Christina Ricci outdoes her performance in Casper with this exhilarating adventure. She is a great actress. Anna Chlumsky is good too. Ray Carnazack was a bad villain somewhat. They should've put someone else in as that part. The girls' mothers are cool, though. The scenery is spectacular and the settings are unbelievable. 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Friendship is worth fighting for!!","Date":"18 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" I have grown to love this film and who have seen this film a zillion times. This movie is based on what friendship really means.The film takes place back in 1980 where Beth Easton(played by Christina Ricci) moves to a small town up north with her mother. There she meets the towns trouble maker Jody Salerno(played by Anna Chlumsky) who is right at home in the woods surrounding her. Eventually Beth finds out from the towns people that Jody is impossible to become friends and to not be trusted. Beth somehow sees behind this and how she could be the link to finding adventure. Together they discover a legendary women who possibly hid gold in a cave called Bear Mountain. With there friendship growing more as they trace the steps in finding the gold there becomes a set back.Jody who is symbolized as the bad girl in town is revealed as the girl who is a victim of child abuse from her mom's alcoholic boyfriend. And with an incident that leads Jody no choice to leave the town. Beth pleads to Jody to just come out and tell the truth. But with a plan that is set becomes to change again to where Jody has to save Beth from drowning who is stuck underneath a rock and a tide that's fast approaching. It's a race between time for Jody to stop thinking of herself and to go the extra mile for her friend. Jody does come through for Beth, but soon it is Beth who is to return the favor and show the towns people that Jody is not who they all think she is. With a stash of gold waiting to be found it's a race of finding that true friend who will go through that extra mile. And realizing that sometimes Some Friendships are worth a fortune!! "},{"Title":"Even after the age of 8 or 9, I still like it","Date":"10 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" I remember when I was 8 or 9, I saw this and recored it to video, I lost it and hadn't seen it since. I remembered about it last year and got it and I have to say some of it a bit cheesy but still really good.The story is really good and keeps you interested. It's not just about finding treasure, its about loyalty and caring for your best friend. Some really good history flash back scenes of Molly Morgan.The connection with the characters were excellent,it really gets you involved in the film. Its really good to see how Beth and Jody develop as they are together. Jody becomes very caring when Beth is in trouble. Also Beth becomes a lot more adventures like Jody.Anna Chlumpsky and Christina Riccy did very well for the parts of Beth and Jody. Also some other good acting performances. The only two actresses that weren't brilliant were the two girls that Beth met after first meeting Jody, they were average but not amazing.The direction was excellent by Kevin James Dobson, some really good long shots of scenery.There are some cheesy moments in the film, for example the beam of light that shines from the mountain and goes straight to Beth and Jody on the boat. These moments don't happen through out the whole film to ruin it.I really wished they changed the ending, I wont say it just encase you haven't watched it.Other than that its a really good family film, even I still think its really good.Its definitely a good film to watch with your family on a rainy day. "},{"Title":"The greatest Adventure you'll ever have","Date":"24 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" I absolutely love this movie, it's fun, heartwarming and it's a great movie for all the family, the first time i come across this film on video, when it was on sale at my local video store, the first time as saw it i through it was pure brilliance and fabulous acting from talented people. it's adventurous and just the movie that every kid wants to watch. There's not many movies like this come out today, it's a real joy to watch and in fact, I'm going to give my video of this to my younger cousin's as I'm sure they will enjoy this fantastic film. overall i believe the people behind this movie did a wounderful job and i fell it's one of a kind. "},{"Title":"This movie is rich in friendships!","Date":"15 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" This movie is a true gem! Two fine actresses who make a fine team Christina Ricci(The Addams Family movies, Casper, and Now and Then) and Anna Chlumsky(Vada on My Girl 1&2). The year go back, and adventure is what everyone seeks. Instead of boys doing the seeking, it's the girls. Beth(Ricci) is a city girl who meets Jody(Chlumsky) rough and tumble tomboy who seek lost treasure. The other girls don't trust Jody, but Beth pays no mind to them. Good call. They ride on a rickety boat, which Beth is at the helm, while Jody gets down to The Bee Gees' You Should Dancin' which I think is the best scene I ever enjoyed. Jody's stepfather is a bigger gold digger than the daughter, and Beth doesn't trust him at all. The sheriff who's a friend learns the hard way, that he's not all worth trusting. Letting his greed tear up the family, and the trust of everyone around him. The real fortune to me was the bond, and the trust Jody and Beth has formed. It was worth more than any amount of gold anyone would find. This movie is a steal, but the rewards of watching it is worth a fortune! Rating 5 stars! "},{"Title":" A very dramatic adventure. Very entertaining!","Date":"2 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Gold Diggers Secret of Bear Mountain is a very good film. A great big adventure! Exciting and dramatic! Loved it! Christina Ricci and Anna Chlumsky did a wonderful job! This movie is very good! I wish I owned it! I usually love all the movies Christina Ricci is in such as Sleepy Hollow, Casper, That Darn Cat, etc. I enjoyed all of those movies as well as this one! This is a must see! The story outline was terrific, the acting was great, and the filming was fabulous! I love the setting also! You should definetly watch this movie! I love this movie! It's like a treasure! This is a must see!!! I give it a 10 out of 10! Or, an A+!! Rent it! "},{"Title":"The Best Movie about friendship!","Date":"18 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  Don't expect to like this movie if you are over 18, of course you might still LOVE it like I did. It shows just how much adults completely don't understand or listen to children!! It also shows a great friendship between two young girls! "},{"Title":"I have  gold diggers the secret of bear mountain  in WIDESCREEN!","Date":"28 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" As you other fans of this great movie know, the movie is on VHS and in fullscreen and, of course the VHS is long out of print. I know you,as well as I am waiting and waiting for Universal to finally release this beloved movie to DVD! I am lucky enough to have the VERY rare laserdisc of this wonderful movie and it is in widescreen. I just recently put it to DVD and you know, I cannot get enough of watching this wonderful movie!! I did a comparison of the VHS to the widescreen version and you would not believe how much picture information from the sides is missing on the VHS version!!! I have been truly enjoying the full beauty of the widescreen version as this version is just how the film makers wanted you to see this movie.Each day I find myself watching this movie. I put it onto DVD-R and the picture quality is very good! Laserdiscs were at the time they were made the top home theater thing and were expensive too.So now, since I have transfered the laserdisc to DVD I can enjoy the DVD over and over and it is so wonderful!!! The laserdisc of gold diggers the secret of bear mountain is a very rare laserdisc and, I am very happy I have it and, now have it on DVD-R. The laserdisc player I have is the type with all the bells and whistles and so, because of this, it assures that the picture quality coming from that laserdisc will make the best picture quality it can give when I put it to DVD-R.Anyways I just wanted to share all this with you because I am just on such a high about this movie and truly love this movie, and to me, its kinda like a cult movie and I know there are many others who adore this movie.I also love this movie because of Beth, she is so sweet and has an innocence about her and, no matter how many times I watch her, I cannot get enough of her.I hope when Universal finally does release this movie to DVD , that they make it a special edition and,even a director's cut because there was other scenes filmed but not used and, you see a few of these cut scenes in the trailer.So,all of us who truly love this movie, lets hope so much that Universal will release a super edition of this movie to DVD!! I hope you enjoyed my words and, thanks for reading them ) "}{"Title":"The plot started well, but...","Date":"10 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  The story started out okay A teenager from the big city moves to a small town and begins a friendship with the girl no one likes, who is physically abused by her stepfather. Then both of them decide to set out to find gold on Bear Mountain.However, early in the movie, it takes a turn for the worse it starts looping in an endless chain of clichés, which I'd like to point out.(WARNING the following might be a spoiler for whoever hasn't seen the movie.)When Beth can't use the breaks on her bicycle, she screams for Jody to get out of the way - however, she refuses to take this advice, and runs forward - and faster than the bike - and falls in the river.Later, Jody tells Beth that she found an old book with the story of Molly Morgan. The book is later revealed to contain everything on how to get to the gold, and even a map! Yet, no one ever went searching before.Jody and Beth wait on the boat for the exact time when the sunlight will bounce off the gold and reveal the mine (for only ten minutes). Coincidently, the beam lands EXACTLY where the girls have their boat - and the it looks amazingly like a spotlight.Jody moves in to the cave - which has naturally formed stone furniture - and reveals to Beth that she killed her stepfather the previous night - with a fishing pole - and says that she was sure he wasn't breathing. Yet, in the latter scenes, he reappears, perfectly okay and unbruised.Beth nearly drowns when she gets her leg stuck under a big rock and the water level rises - did it ever occur to her that she could sit up? It was her LEG that was stuck.Jody never tells the police that her stepfather abuses her - even though she has the bruises to prove it.In the scene where Beth tries to find Jody in the mountain, she finds a particular cave with awesome lights moving on the walls. These lights are revealed to be reflected by the natural - and lapidated - crystals in that cave.Jody and Beth find the gold! But when they reach out to grab it, they discover they're larvae. Golden, glowing larvae.And finally, Molly Morgan appears and saves them both from Jody's stepfather. Then, later, Jody and Beth receive a pack of gold from a lawyer whose client wishes to remain anonymous. But it's never explained how Molly Morgan has a lawyer - and just why she gave that gold to the girls. "},{"Title":"Worst movie ever!","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  What a waste of 5 hours...what's that?  the movie was only an hour and a half?!  D'oh!  This movie drags and drags, and has well, about 0 good qualities.  I was literally kicking myself for having wasted my time to view this atrocious mess of the cinema.  The plot is lame and very forced, the acting is bad at best, and the story is quite predictable.  I understand that this was no attempt to make another Citizen Kane or anything, but oh man, this is seriously painful to watch!  If you are looking for good family entertainment there are tons of other options.  However, if you are looking to torture yourself and/or others, then check this movie out...it's something that you'll never forget, though more than likely you'll wish you could. "},{"Title":"The Worst Movie...EVER!!","Date":"28 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  If you have seen this movie, I am very sorry.  I sat through this terrible film one afternoon and wound up actually kicking myself for it.  The acting is bad, but what do you expect from two young girls.  The script was just awful, and there was absolutely no excitement or value whatsoever to this film.  The events are both predictable, and highly unlikely.  The worst part about it is there aren't even any laughable aspects as in other terrible movies such as Troll 2 or Manos  The Hands of Fate.  If you haven't seen this movie, don't go out of your way to see it.  Actually, do everything you can to avoid seeing it.  I'm sure that this was one of the films they forced Alex to watch in A Clockwork Orange. "}]