[{"Title":"Very well done and thought out.","Date":"10 April 2005","Score":"45 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" If you're actually reading this review, I give you a lot of credit. You care enough to actually look up this movie, which most people have forgotten about and then cared to read beyond the first review! So for your reading pleasure...I'm assuming you know the plot line already so I won't waste time typing that out. I will mention that Sandra Bullock did an amazing job with this movie. She really brought a lot of sympathy to the role of a computer programmer, often difficult to do. I can say this because I happen to be a computer programmer.Anyway, I thought the basic plot was a very good one. You can easily build sub-plots upon its mainframe and turn it into a very enjoyable movie. The premise is also scarily realistic in that this can all really happen if the right precauctions aren't taken.To make a long review short...oops! Too late! If you enjoy Sandra Bullock bringing a role to life and want to see a very well made movie for the time, take a look at this little gem. You won't be disappointed. -) "},{"Title":"25 years ago this would have been science fiction. Today it's cliché.","Date":"25 July 2004","Score":"34 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Odd the way technology works. Less than a decade ago, there was this completely different technological world, a world of pagers, floppy disks, dial-up modems (which are as obsolete as typewriters), and gigantic brick-like cell phones. I remember being amazed at that little tiny flap at the bottom of the phone, as thin as a credit card and yet able to pick up your voice and transmit it through the air. Now it's a feature so obsolete that it may as well never have been there. Sandra Bullock plays Angela Bennett, a lonely computer analyst who is so connected to her computer that she sits on the beach in Mexico, on her first vacation in six years, with her laptop on her lap. It's not only like a source of nourishment but her connection to the world and the establishment and maintenance of her identity.This is where her problems begin. Like The Manchurian Candidate back in the 1960s (and again in less than a week from this writing), The Net plays on the popular fears of the society in which it is released. The Manchurian Candidate originally played off the fears instilled in people by the recently ended Cold War, while The Net, a much less potent thriller, suggests the scary possibilities of a world in which we are so inextricably connected to computers. Probably the most interesting thing in the movie now is the computers, such as the massive laptops with the tiny screens, the indispensable floppy disks which are now almost nonexistent, the graphics, etc.Angela Bennett has had her digital identity stolen and replaced with that of Ruth Marx, who has a lengthy police record and who thus takes over Angela's identity. It's pretty clever, I suppose, the way the movie presents Angela as though she hasn't left her apartment in six years and with a mother suffering from Alzheimer's (and thus not able to help identify the real Angela later), but it's pretty hard to believe that not a single person in the office where she worked noticed that Angela started being a completely different person. She had no significant other, was not dating, and no parents who could identify her, but was she such a recluse that even the people in the office she worked in didn't even know what she looked like?At any rate, the plot of the movie is pretty smartly created, although it is created as though it were an excuse for a lot of chase scenes, one of which takes place on a merry-go-round in a great homage to Hitchcock's Strangers On A Train, one of the many classic films to which the movie alludes, several of them other Hitchcock films. Bennett has been given a disk which contains a website, I suppose, which turns out to contain a weakness in a security system about to be set up to protect everything from banks to Wall Street to the CIA. By holding down Control and Shift and clicking on the little Pi icon in the corner of the screen, you are transported from a ludicrous page about Mozart's Ghost, apparently a god-awful metal band, and into highly classified government documents. The disk provides the bad guys with a reason to want to capture Bennett, and thus you have a movie.Angela goes from a comfortable but bored computer analyst, doing a lot of her work from home and ordering pizza on the Internet at the end of the day (presumably one of the future possibilities of the internet which never came to exist), to a wanted fugitive, ultimately caught and put into a jail cell for someone else's crimes. She has lost her home, her job, her identity, her life. Bullock actually puts in a pretty good performance in the movie. I'm not a huge fan, but I appreciated the realness that her character had, since she is not an over the top actor, her characters are generally very real because she is as well. Where the movie trips up is that it tries to suggest that such identity theft could happen to anyone in our technological age, but given the effort put into presenting Angela as someone with no personal contacts with just about anyone, really it could only happen to someone like Angela, and are there really that many people that no one can identify by looks? Even the guy at the local video store might recognize her as the lady who rents under her account. Oh well. There's also a glitch in the end of the movie that Mick LaSalle points out and that only people familiar with San Francisco, where the climax of the film takes place, will notice. As Angela rushes through a Macintosh exhibition at the real Moscone Center, she desperately tries to copy all the computer files before the bad guys get her. Pretty tense, but if she had been smart, she could have gone to The San Francisco Chronicle office, which is a block down the street from the Moscone Center.But hey, maybe the Chronicle doesn't have high enough walkways out back. "},{"Title":"Good Suspense;  Bullock Tolerable For Once","Date":"5 November 2006","Score":"39 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a typical Sandra Bullock movie in which she plays a mousy (but profane) woman who is in trouble but finds a way to survive and be the hero. Sound familiar? There are plenty of holes in this story. Things just don't add up and some of the suspense is a little corny. But - that suspense is very good. There is a lot of tension in this story which has strong paranoia running through it. The story starts off slow but kicks in pretty soon and stays that way, making it an involving movie for the viewer. That's why I give it a pretty good rating - the movie gets you involved in it. Bullock is more cute than annoying, which she normally is to me, so this is my highest-rated movie with her in it. "},{"Title":"Her driver's license. Her credit cards. Her bank accounts. Her identity. DELETED.","Date":"11 November 2005","Score":"41 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The net is an excellent movie! It's about Angela Bennett(in a great performance of Sandra Bullock) who is a computer expert who works for the Cathedral Company, cleaning virus and testing games for the clients. Angela is a typical nerd who doesn't have friends outside of the cyberspace,almost doesn't take vacations and go out, and stays almost all the time connected. One day her friend Dale Hessman(Ray McKinnon) asks her to help him,sending Angela a disk with a strange program that has many confidential informations. At the same night, when Dale was going to meet her, he is suddenly killed in a plane crash.Going to Mexico in her vacation,Angela meets a beautiful guy called Jack Devlin (Jeremy Northam)who shows to be a cold blood killer bastard and one of the guys behind all the secret of the Diskette.Her life then turns into a nightmare All her records are erased and she is given the new identity of Ruth Marx, a woman with serious problems with the police.This movie is great because it shows how we, humans,depend a lot of the computers and machines(sometimes more that we should) and how vulnerable we are if someday ,someone decides to control and change our personal records,without letting us the chance to prove the error. "},{"Title":"Cyber-thriller has a few internal glitches, but it keeps on running.","Date":"17 February 1999","Score":"18 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This isn't a bad movie thriller to keep you off the Internet for two hours, but can you take the risk? THE NET sounds unconvincing since our love of computers and cyber-sputting expresses what the story is all about, and a possible fad to recognize. Thankfully, it does attempt to bring some raw suspense that is head-and-shoulders above other lame films that contend to artificial communication. Once again, Sandra Bullock knows how to keep her fans happy, and even though it's no chick-flick, she's still the likeable character inside. This time, she's stalked in a game of cat-and-mouse and becomes ruined by an identity crisis. Even with the brand new concept of cyberware, that's just normal for a suspense thriller. An old, traditional chase plot gives the movie a blip on the screen, but the story is greatly paced and exciting enough to increase your pulse rate to rapid highs. The computer mess is the biggest fuss some viewers will have in common, including all those not used to this new style. A good shot at a modernization of mystery-suspense films, but you know exactly what to predict here. Why the new TV series?  "},{"Title":"THE NET  Irwin Winkler Wastes The Film's Potential...","Date":"3 January 2006","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" THE NET I certainly didn't expect this movie to be classic when I put it in last night. I was thinking it would be a no-brainer stupid little thriller starring Sandra Bullock. Essentially... I was right.THE NET had the potential to be a better film. The storyline actually creates situations of immense suspense and is paced rather well. The whole computer virus storyline is so confusing to someone not too familiar with computers... and I'm sure there are plot holes in there, but I didn't notice.What keeps THE NET from being truly good is terrible direction. Lately, I've started to notice how easily a bad director can destroy a film and this was a good example... certain moments in this film are just comically bad.The scene of Sandra Bullock's boat get away and her impending crash looks terrible. And normally I can forgive obvious special effects... but I'm sorry, the obviously fake rocks, the poorly edited stunt woman, the ridiculous close ups on Bullock's face. This moment is so terrible and just acts like a giant speed bump in the growing action.Aside from this, Jeremy Northam is god awful in his role. He goes so far over the top trying to be this seductive threat in Bullock's life that I was laughing many times when I wasn't supposed to be. The more threatening, angry, and sexual he tries to get... the less frightening he becomes. Not an ounce of nuance or subtlety. Where was a director telling him to hold back? Or just to tell him... get off my set... you suck! Otherwise, the director, Irwin Winkler, takes far too long at times when he doesn't need to. I liked the Dennis Miller/Sandra Bullock love story that started to develop. But in the end, the scenes are pointless and they come to an abrupt end. And anytime Sandra Bullock was on the run, Irwin Winkler just keeps the camera rolling. There is no example of tightly constructed... suspenseful editing.On the plus side, despite the flaws, the movie still can be exciting at points... and Bullock has some good moments that show some deeper potential. Had this film been done by a director with a keener eye, perhaps both Bullock and the film could have been much better.As is, it's the kind of film that's easy to sit through... but that's partially b/c it's so bad it's good. It's not the worst film that ever was, but it could have been far better.... C/C- ... "},{"Title":"what bugs me most about this movie","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Okay... she's on the boat with this guy, realizes he's out to  kill her, knocks him out, and then finds the reason he's out to off her is this disk that got her coworker killed.   So what would any rational person do?  Maybe conk him over the head again to make sure he's  really out??  Tie him up??  Look, Sandra honey, you've got the chance to escape while the guy is out for only so  long.  Until you know how long it will take you take you to escape, make sure he's not able to come after you.  I HATE these stupid female victim roles.  The rest of the movie was just a series of twists and turns that were completely convoluted and too unbelievable to remain interesting. "},{"Title":"Not to be taken internally or seriously...","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"14 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" In the dim, dead, dark days preceding my ownership of a PC, I was rather intrigued with the movie. Very Hitchcockian in its tone, and kind of a David-beats-Goliath theme that every one can relate to (Apple vs. Microsoft, employee vs. boss, ad infinitum). Seven years hence...I realize that many of the governmental entities supposedly hacked were, at the time of this movie, utilizing systems built when leisure suits were still the rage--and IBM was lord and master of the computer domain. Granted, hackers can be considered a real and acknowledged threat, but we should take this movie for what it is...Just some passably good entertainment and not too representative of R/T (Real Time for all you Netsurfing newbies). However, the plot remains fundamentally sound, and not too taxing on the mind. Sandra Bullock gave a reasonably credible performance as programmer/support tech/consultant Angela Bennett. I realize that sex appeal fuels Hollywood, and it IS possible to have beauty and brains. But the story seems to have some fundamental flaws. What are the odds that NO one would know who you really were...It's impossible to think that we really have become the so-called ghosts in the machine. As long as we have receipts, hard copies,friends and loved ones, we won't be caught in The Net. Some good performances by the smooth but irreverent Dennis Miller, and by the suave but deadly Jeremy Northam make for a movie worth watching when there's nothing better on the boob tube...Or if you're a closet geek like yours truly, you call friends and laugh about all the inaccuracies. "},{"Title":"Sandra Bullock as a nerd? Yes, and Claudia Schiffer is a door stop.","Date":"16 January 2001","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  *SPOILERS*There is an early scene where someone decides to shoot himself in a deserted park. The camera pans to the green and tracks a flock of birds as they are startled and fly off into the sky. Do you know what? I think this was planned. An idea! Later a lone pilot crashes his plane and we cut to some red roses. The camera pans up and they are not on a coffin but we get the inference. TWO directorial ideas! In ONE film! You Americans are getting a bit ahead of yourselves, aren't you? But wait, the director wants us to know that the bad guy is a bit of a fibber. Cue lots of swift cuts of various close ups of his twitching face. Also, this is a cyber thriller which means machines, right? Lets have that Terminator music then, *bish-bob-bosh-bish-bob-bosh*. Guys, I knew you wouldn't let me down. I feel safe and secure again in the hands of mediocrity.This is an episodic and occasionally engaging thriller with a curious heroine. I'm not sure she actually has a pulse. Anxiety seems to be an alien concept to her as she reacts to every situation with the deference of a twelve year old cat. You're an isolated nerd whose whisked away by a dashing Don Juan on a boat and he makes love to you. Ho-hum, no big deal. About as exciting and wonderous as the post arriving. Suddenly you find he has a silencer in his jacket. Nervous? Not a bit of it. You're only alone with a hitman in the middle of no where, don't be silly. Later on our heroine is in a car with one of the bad guys and finally tells him and the world that she's mad as hell and she's not going to take it anymore. Well, not really MAD as such, that would mean getting excited. So she gives us the impression that she's only left her mascara behind kind of upset. Not even being an international fugitive un-settles our sterling gal. Seeing her face on an all points bulletin makes her take extra special precautions. Donning a disguise, like a wig or doing up her hair, perhaps? A hat or a scarf, maybe? At the very least dark glasses? No, our heroine has outsmarted police officers, professional hitmen and a ruthless and sinister cyber crime syndicate so what does she do? She goes out on the streets in broad daylight as  herself. They'd never see that one coming. Will nothing phase our heroine? I guess the only chance of a genuine reaction of anxiety and deep distress from our intrepid geek would come only if the part of her mother had been given to actress Rita Tushingham. "},{"Title":"Flimsy, far-fetched, but spunky and attractive","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"17 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Sandra Bullock is very appealing as an unloved independent systems analyst who unknowingly gets hold of a disk that could bring worldwide chaos; pretty soon, she's dodging bad guys, running from the cops and putting her allies in danger (including Dennis Miller, who is surprisingly good). Despite a penchant for filming mouths in close-up, Irwin Winkler has directed a very fast, fun technical-thriller in which charming Bullock is bounced from one nightmare to another. I loved the way she gets out of a building swarming with security she dons a fireman's outfit and escapes, but then the bad guys see a nicely piled fireman's outfit (and helmet!) sitting on the sidewalk and yell, She's getting away! Just one example of how this movie is so completely brainless, but yet entertaining enough on a non-think level that you tell yourself not to notice. You'll hate yourself in the morning, though. **1/2 from **** "}{"Title":"A High-Tech Nightmare Scenario","Date":"28 August 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The mid-1990's was an exciting time when the use of the Internet grew rapidly and it became obvious to everyone that it would soon affect virtually every area of human activity. Alongside the excitement, however, many anxieties were expressed about the potential dangers involved and many of these feature in this movie which presents the kind of nightmare scenario that many people feared. Identity theft, a breakdown of social interaction and cyber-terrorism were all recognised threats and are used to good effect in The Net to create a fast-moving thriller that was very topical at the time of its release but now inevitably looks dated.Angela Bennett (Sandra Bullock) is a computer analyst who works at her home in Venice, California where she identifies and eliminates viruses in programs that are sent to her by San Francisco software company, Cathedral Systems. When one of her colleagues sends her a program that makes it easy to access and modify data held by government departments, airports, hospitals and banks etc, she's told that he'll soon be travelling down to her home to work with her on the program. Shortly after, he's killed in a plane crash and so she continues with her original plan to go on vacation to Mexico and takes her laptop and a disk containing the new program that she'd been asked to work on.In Mexico, she meets a smooth-talking man called Jack Devlin (Jeremy Northam) who seduces her but is really only interested in stealing her disk and killing her. When this becomes obvious, Angela manages to escape but after returning home, discovers that her house has been put up for sale and her identity has been swapped with a woman called Ruth Marks who's apparently a criminal wanted by the police. It swiftly becomes evident that Angela's being pursued by a group of cyber-terrorists called The Praetorians and the police and can't prove her real identity because she has, for many years, led a reclusive lifestyle in which her only regular face-to-face contact was with her mother who has Alzheimer's disease.The only person that Angela knows who could confirm her identity is her ex-psychiatrist and ex-lover, Dr Alan Champion (Dennis Miller) and although he provides some help, he's soon prevented from getting Angela out of her nightmare and she remains on the run until she eventually confronts Devlin for the final time.There are plenty of chases and well-executed action sequences in The Net and Hitchcockian influences such as , the wrong man (woman) theme, the fairground motif and confused identities as well as a disk that becomes the MacGuffin, add extra interest. The power of the terrorists seems overwhelming and an atmosphere of paranoia prevails when amongst other things, the modification of key computer records result in the deaths of a prominent politician, a hospital patient and a software expert who's piloting a plane.The focus throughout the entire story is on Sandra Bullock's character and her skill in making herself convincingly introverted and work-obsessed plays a huge part in the success of this movie as she outshines everyone else who appears in it. "},{"Title":"'The Fugitive' Meets AOL","Date":"30 December 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Nostalgia may play a large part of my positive feelings towards this film as I watched it repeatedly on video with my younger sister as a teen. Back then the net was a new and largely undiscovered frontier, and this film romanticized hackers and the seemingly mysterious world wide web.I would liken this to a less ambitious version of 'The Fugitive', a film that released two years prior (and by most accounts a superior thriller). Much of what happens in the course of this film is standard fare, but it is presented with a semblance of realism and never seems to hit any lulls or real snags in rhythm despite the frenetic pacing. The plot isn't entirely plausible or devoid of clichés, but it remains interesting from start to finish, and Bullock carries the role well.There are scattered scenes that show astute directing on the part of Irwin Winkler, though some of the secondary characters give uneven performances. However, Bullock does an admirable service at depicting a frumpy insular woman uncomfortable with her own sexuality and outer beauty. Her character is both resourceful and vulnerable at once, and it's a fresh pace to see a female lead with some layers to peel back in a genre dominated by men. Dennis Miller is very likable in his role, and ably acts the part with a more downplayed version of his real life persona. He was my favorite character by far and brought a lot of warmth to the role.I'm usually very critical of any movies I see, and am generally turned off by standard Hollywood fodder, but there is a certain charm to 'The Net' that I can't deny. I liked it in '95, and I like it again almost twenty years later. Like visiting an old friend, there's a familiarity to it that is so hopelessly 90's and so reminiscent of a bygone era--the inception of the internet age--that it carries a certain weight to me unmatched by the multitude of forgettable popcorn thrillers of the decade. "},{"Title":"Dated Very Badly Due To Technology","Date":"7 November 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Net whilst an entertaining movie, sadly suffers as a movie of it's time. The pc's, the laptops, the computer images and games, the pagers and the mobile phones, and not to mention the dial up modems. Plot In A Paragraph Angela Bennett (Sandra Bullock) is a computer expert, who works from home. This beautiful analyst is never far from a computer and modem. The only activity she has outside of computers is visiting her mother, who suffers with Alzheimer's disease. She is sent her a program with a weird glitch for her to de-bug. Her life then turns into a nightmare, her records and identity are erased from existence and she is given a new identity, one with a police record.I enjoyed it when it was released, but had never revisited it. Watching it now with my kids, 15 and 8 they laughed at all the ancient devices, and it detracted from the movie and a good performance from Bullock. She was gorgeous then and even now she remains one of the most talented and beautiful women in movies, and her ladylike sexiness is in rare supply. Any movie becomes promising just by having her name in it's cast. "},{"Title":"Gripping thriller or goofy time capsule?","Date":"23 August 2015","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I like The Net. I first saw it back in 1996, on VHS probably. We probably didn't have the Internet yet, or it was very new to us. So this was all very exciting, but scary too. There was a great sense of fear around identity theft. In 2015, we are such internexhibitionists with social media and twitter that people become lax and then their private sex-text photos get shared with billions of people. The Net is a good thriller with an excellent title that is elevated by the charisma of star Sandra Bullock (still a star in 2015, amazing). Bullock is an incredible role model as a female hero she is smart, funny, feminine and likable. The main issue for The Net over the years has been the march of time itself. Thrillers require a certain immediacy and immersion, and the mentioning of goofy out of date technological jargon risks dragging you out of the moment. As a period piece, or a time capsule, The Net is perfect, but does it still work as it did for audiences in 1995?Luckily, the Net is not really about technology, its about the nature of identity in a bureaucracy, explored through the lens of technology, with the interweb as a weapon, and those issues are still relatable, and a movie like The Net serves as a good reminder of how trusting we have become of our internet privacy. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"6 May 2009","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie is awesome. Its filled with suspense the whole way through! Sandra does a great job of playing her character and I don't care that the supposed virus couldn't exist the way it does in the movie. Its the cat and mouse of the movie kept me watching it. I can remember sitting with my heart beating wondering what was going to happen next. That what makes this movie work, they keep you guessing and the whole time you are rooting for Sandra's character. Its also a good way to show us that our identities are fragile and that who we are could be stolen with the click of a button. Its an oldie but a goodie. RENT and ENJOY! "},{"Title":"The Net when it started","Date":"24 June 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When this movie firt came out in 1995, I found it amazingly great. Especially with Sandra Bullock.After having watched her brilliant performance in Speed , i was ready to enjoy any of her movies.Back to The Net, it was a movie that keeps you in suspence.All in all, i enjoyed it so I give it a  **** out of *****. "},{"Title":"A total insult to the intellegence of anybody","Date":"25 November 2003","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  SPOILER ALERT!!!!I don't go into 'high tech' movies expecting them to be 100% accurate on all things computer related. But somehow, even the average 'I have a computer' user is supposed to believe that1) A computer professional with a top secret, special data2) is going to keep the primary copy of said data on a 1.44 floppy3) and make absolutely NO BACKUP of this special secret dataEven high school students back up their homework for goodness sake.Also this is the worst represntation of a computer nerd ever. Even though she is super cute we are supposed to believe that she has no friends, neighbors, extended family, or coworkers who can identify her. Even the unabomber had a family that could turn him in.END SPOILERThese aren't just minor mistakes that had no bearing on the movie - These are the major plot points that fueled the storyline. The characterization was awful, the plot wholly unbeleivable, and if you haven't seen this, don't bother.  "},{"Title":"Silly suspense","Date":"9 February 2003","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Made and released at the time when the internet was just becoming huge, this is a storyline Hitchcock would have loved.Sadly, Hitchcock wasn't around to make it, and we're left with an occasionally suspenseful but mostly silly thriller, that is held (barely) together by Bullock's intelligence.It was released in 1995 but is already dated, and the amount of mistakes and inaccuaracies regarding computers must be seen to be believed, and you don't even have to be a dot.com person to spot them! "},{"Title":"Good movie at that time","Date":"16 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Net seems to be a good movie at a time when the internet technology just took its pace off. Thus, it would've left people ignorant and puzzled when they hear terms used in the movie. Good entertainer though! Sandra Bullock's acting in the movie is good. The screenplay is good except in a few places where it could've been done much better. A scene where the guy updates the criminal record of Ruth Marx is far from reality. It makes people think that it was so easy to make anyone a criminal just by hacking up a server of the police department. And things like mainframe, I think it was not shown properly. A mainframe usually depicts the scene of huge servers in a room or its a remote session in a mainframe terminal. But sandra looks like she has been using a web user interface though which could've confused many audience. "},{"Title":"Early Cyberspace Thriller (SPOILERS and EXPLANATIONS Provided)","Date":"4 September 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Angela Bennett (Sandra Bullock) is a computer program systems analyst who works from her home in Venice, California. Working for Cathedral Software, Angela identifies and removes viruses from her clients' computer systems. A recluse, she does all of her work by modem and telephone, and in her spare time enjoys playing computer games and visiting chat rooms, and when it is time to eat, orders pizzas on- line. Via FedEx, Angela mails to colleague Dale (Ray McKinnon), a friend who has never seen her, at Cathedral's office building a red diskette containing a virus that causes crashes. She specifically warns him not to strike the Escape key while this diskette is inserted into the hard drive. Previously Dale had sent a green diskette that alerts her to a program (Gatekeeper) that propels her into top secret government databases, like the US Federal Reserve. This is accomplished by clicking on the pi (π) logo in the lower right corner of the screen while pressing the Control plus Shift keys. (Dale had created the Mozart's Ghost website that picked up a virus that transported him to Gatekeeper.) The bad guys modify data and raise havoc among government departments, airports, banks, etc. After they hack into agencies' computer systems to create chaos, they offer a solution by selling their security software. But when the damaged party buys this security software, they unknowingly put themselves at risk to those who initially generated the problem! Dale wants to see Angela right away about the glitch, but she explains that she has finally planned her first vacation in six years - to Mexico. He convinces her to see him before her departure, as he can fly to her location the following morning so they can finish business before noon. She agrees and copies the Gatekeeper website's programming code onto a diskette to further research the problem. But before they meet his small airplane strangely crashes (because of skullduggery), killing him instantly. At a Mexican beach with her laptop and diskette, Angela is approached by a slick dude, Jack Devlin (Jeremy Northam). They strike up a conversation, which develops into friendship. Devlin, though, is devious. He is actually after the Gatekeeper computer diskette that Angela holds in her purse. Devlin works for the Praetorians, the Gatekeeper syndicate that knows she has it (perhaps they monitored her computer transmissions in chat rooms). After her purse is stolen by a slimy thief hired by Devlin, whom he shoots to death, she escapes Devlin's clutches on a motorized raft. But she crashes into a rock, is knocked out, and ends up in a Mexican hospital. After three days she awakens and discovers her diskette was damaged because of water and sunlight exposure. Returning to her hotel, Angela discovers she had supposedly checked out earlier. As she has no identification, she goes to the American Embassy. There she is compelled to sign Ruth Marx to get a temporary visa. Her identity was stolen by the Praetorians, who have changed her name to one with a criminal record larceny, illegal drug use, parole violations. Marx is wanted by the police. At least Angela can use the money she has from Devlin's wallet.Angela finally arrives at the LA airport to find her car missing. Eventually coming home, she finds it empty and for sale. She seeks help from her former psychiatrist and lover, Alan Champion (Dennis Miller), who checks her into a motel and tries to help her even though he believes her to be somewhat delusional. Because of her cloistered lifestyle, she has almost no interpersonal relationships and cannot prove her identity. Compounding the problem, her own mother (Diane Baker) has Alzheimer's disease so even she cannot identify Angela. Doesn't Angela have any other relatives or neighbors or doctors? Over much of the rest of the film, Angela is involved in a series of narrow escapes, especially from Devlin. There is a credibility problem here, as it is difficult to believe that such a recluse could continually elude a contract killer. But she does, and even escapes from police custody. Meanwhile Alan is chemically murdered in the hospital, leaving Angela alone. Eventually Angela hitch-hikes a ride to Cathedral's San Francisco office building, and uses an unoccupied workstation to smoke out Ruth Marx, the fake Angela. When she sets off the building's fire alarm systems, she learns of Marx's location, which she occupies. (But how did Marx ever position herself there?) Angela works into Cathedral's mainframe and inserts data that protects her true identity and deletes Marx's info. Successful there, Angela then finds the red diskette (virus) she earlier mailed to Dale. She quickly saves the details of the computer scam onto a blue diskette, and, with BOTH diskettes, departs to the advertised Pan Pacific Computer Convention at the Moscone Center. There, on a vacant computer at Cathedral's display booth, she sends the proof (blue diskette) exposing Gatekeeper to the US Department of Justice /FBI. Then she inserts the virus-containing red diskette into the drive as Devlin arrives and pushes her away. Not realizing that the red diskette is inserted, he strikes the Escape key, thinking that he has reversed Angela's work. But his action activates the virus that attacks Gatekeeper's mainframe. Angela escapes from him one final time as both he and Ruth Marx eventually die chasing her. In the end Angela gets Jeff Gregg, the top Praetorian, arrested and recovers her regular life. One needs to suspend his belief system and just enjoy the movie for what it is, as there is much technological impossibility, like clicking on π and getting into the Federal Reserve (!). Also, has anyone been at an airport and read Crashed or Hijacked on digital screens? However, Ms. Bullock's performance is splendid. Don't blame the film on twenty year-old technology small computer screens, wide monitors, dial-up modems, and large cellphones. Twenty years from now what we have will also be obsolete. "}{"Title":"exciting!","Date":"10 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This was a good thriller where Sandra Bullock plays a computer expert who vacations in Mexico. While there, the bad guys distract her, steal her purse and wallet, trick her into signing a false visa, and use them to delete her identity on the internet. Fortunately, she is a computer expert and able fight back, and what follows is an exciting and tense chase throughout the next two hours. I will admit that this is predictable (what thriller isn't?), but it does have its moments and is tense throughout. The scary thing is that it could happen to you! Bullock gives a terrific performance, and overall I think this was an outstanding movie. Anyone who likes thrillers will like this one.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"Net yourself a good watch....this great film is as relevant today as it was in 1995!","Date":"21 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Angela (Sandra Bullock) is a computer expert but, being shy and somewhat of a recluse, she does all of her work from the confines of her condo. Just as she is about to take a vacation in Mexico, a co-worker sends her a computer disc with disturbing information on it. Angela agrees to meet with her fellow employee but he mysteriously dies in a plane crash. Angela heads to Mexico but takes the disc with her. While she is sunning on the beach, a terrific looking gentleman named Jack (Jeremy Northam) makes overtures to her. She falls for them and the two end up on a boat to Cozumel. However, Jack works for the folks who generated the secret information on the disc and he is out to get it. Even after Angela escapes from his clutches and lands back in the USA, Jack makes things difficult. He changes Angela's identity on every computer across the nation, making her lose her condo, her bank account, everything. Can Angela, a computer whiz, beat Jack at his own game? This very exciting movie has many assets. First, Bullock and Northam are two very beautiful, interesting actors and their presence adds immediate captivation. The script is very clever and sure in its knowledge of the capabilities of computers and their relevance in today's world. The costumes, sets, production, and direction of the movie are also quite wonderful. And, despite how it sounds, there is a great deal of exciting action as Angela goes on the run to defeat her enemy. If you love thrillers without unnecessary bloodshed or violence, this is a great choice. It delivers twists and turns with great frequency, making it possible for the viewer to net a very good evening of entertainment. "},{"Title":"Could have been different from the outset","Date":"13 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" How many movies have we all seen where early in the story, the lead character needed only to collect his/her thoughts, compose a rational, calm presentation of the events (such as mistaken identity, here), and communicate with a variety of acquaintances, public officials, friends, etc., which would have to lead to a resolution (maybe with 10-12 minutes of film time) of the hoax perpetrated by the bad guys?The Bullock character here could have cleared-up the mess soon after she emerged from the Mexican clinic, and was faced with her stolen identity, and the switch with that of the Marx character.But all of that would present about as much drama as a documentary of an individual taking care of an error in issuing the wrong license plates by the department of motor vehicles.So here we have the heroine embarking on an adventure to combat a horde of high-level miscreants, with space-age technology and a host of hit men at their disposal (not to mention millions of dollars and an infrastructure equal to small nation). Although an obviously physically-fit young woman, she then proceeds to move through a series of physically-demanding pursuits - sometimes fleeing, sometimes initiating the action - which would tax every resource of Schwarzenneger's or Stallone's stunt doubles.It is largely unbelievable, and some of the computer activities are beyond what even Bill Gates could accomplish (not denying hackers and misdirected computer experts can do a lot today, just not to this all-encompassing extent). Besides, much of the technology presented in the film, and the basis for all the murders and attempted murders, is portrayed in ways either impossible or never done in terms of computer security systems, programming, etc.So what we have is an interesting film, with engaging performances, and one which, after suspending belief, is pretty satisfying. As with the fine Will Smith/Hackman opus, Enemy of the State, just enjoy the two hours or so, forgetting that it could all have been reduced to a 10- or 15-minute documentary had the lead character acted differently at the outset. "},{"Title":"If you are true to yourself, you needn't overcast.","Date":"26 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Net is a glass of onion martini. I have no doubt that Sandra Bullock falls for the taste.Though too many efforts have been made to foreshadow the climax that comes too late, the movie is still thrilling especially in the cat-and-mouse chasing scenarios and near the end of the story. Bullock's performance has great weight with the box office. That's what we call Bullock influence, bigger than the film itself. She is low-key and she never overdraws her roles. Maybe that's because she is acting herself. If you are true to yourself, you needn't overcast.This is much a self-independent, self-help story, a predecessor of Flight Plan. These women are really heart breakers because of their braveness in desperation. Helpless, desperate, fragile yet stubborn, they want to survive this jungle-law world. If Weaker or less intelligent, they will be devoured mercilessly. There are heaps of innocent people being wrongly accused movies. Maybe it reflects our tastes. The movie is well-crafted. It covers the affection a daughter has for her mother who's caught senile dementia; deals with tenderness a psychologist shows to his former patient and lover; as well as admiration and hatred an assassin entertains to his target. They were tangled up to make the movie a little bit overloaded. Jeremy Northam is blessed with the role as the assassin who is more complex than we see those in other movies. Bullock's roles are stereotyped, mostly nobody turning to a big hero. She is still likable. "},{"Title":"Pretty good, entertaining movie","Date":"29 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the many Techno-phobic movies that sprouted like mushrooms in the mid-90s, after the Internet went mainstream.Hollywood movies have always had their way in beautifying the depicted ongoings, to make them look better and more appealing. The same happens when Hollywood tries to show us some hi-tech. The outcome of such attempts varies from being very far-fetched and ridiculous (see Hackers (1995), Johnny Mnemonic (1995), etc.) to being quite realistic (see Sneakers (1992)).The Net lies somewhere between those extremes. By nitpicking, one can end up with quite a lot of technical inconsistencies, and a lot of cases where the ongoings seem to be much more sexy and graphical than the way things are in real life (as usually happens in movies).However, by simply overlooking those, the viewer ends up with a quite solid, entertaining movie. The characters and acting are convincing, and the movie does a good job in keeping you in your seat till the end of it. The plot is okay (a fairly standard one, really -- based on the good ol' paranoiac design, but with a hi-tech edge this time), and quite convincing (again, when disregarding technical issues). The development of the plot is a bit sluggish, though, and occasionally you can anticipate some supposedly surprising turns in the plot.The bonus here is cutie-pie Sandra Bullock, which besides being cute (something she does quite easily, apparently), also portrays a solid act. You can really feel her character -- her despair, her emotions.In the bottom line, the movie is entertaining and interesting, rates about 7 from 10 in my scale. It's worth renting from the video library, or even watching in the cinema. Whether to buy it or not is up to you.  "},{"Title":"Pretty Good","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw this film just last night, and I liked it. I know a lot about the Internet and so I DID notice the factual errors, but I was able to ignore them and enjoy the suspense. Sandra Bullock was good, and Jeremy Northam was creepy as the bad guy, mostly because he was so goodlooking and smooth that he was hard to hate.I'd give it an 8 out of 10 for good suspense and an interesting look at the Internet when it was just beginning. "},{"Title":"Interesting and thought provoking movie","Date":"25 January 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a good, engaging movie in which Sandra Bullock plays an IT worker who is trapped into a plot by accident. A gang of crooks out to cause havoc by tampering with IT systems fix on her as the person they'll replace with their own criminal operative, and Bullock's character gradually discovers how her identity has been stolen and the identity she's been given labels her as crazed and wanted by the police. Fortunately she is able to counter this plot against herself and the US by interrupting the work of the criminal operative and regaining her identity.I watched this movie Jan 2010 on TV and of course it's dated now as computers have advanced greatly, but it was a timely warning of the type that concerned people then re computers and is still with us now. As computers become more and more sophisticated, so do the criminals in spite of all the safeguards set up against them. So this movie is a little piece of history, in its way. "},{"Title":"Caught Like a Fish in the Net","Date":"29 November 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This film deals with identity theft. Made nearly a decade ago, you might think it is outdated and irrelevant. WRONG! The topic is more relevant today than when it was made. The writing is ingenious and the acting is superb. Sandra Bullock is arguably better than she was in The Lake House, or even The Blind Side. I think this is one of her best works. The supporting actors are also good, but less memorable. I made popcorn to eat while watching, but found myself too mesmerized to begin chewing. The suspense is terrifying. I was on the edge of my seat the entire film. I never knew what would happen next. After watching, I can only hope I never find myself in a situation like this. Hopefully this film will help people realize the real threat of identity theft and be aware on how to prevent it. Two thumbs way, way up. It is, by far, one of the most thought out films of the decade. "},{"Title":"Paranoid Fantasies","Date":"10 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" It's something we all worry about -- our identities being stolen by some nefarious organization and all that implies. One of the reasons it's so frightening is that it can happen, and it does, in small ways, once in a while. Some evildoer once got hold of my credit card receipt and made two thousand dollars worth of phone calls to Brooklyn. I was more puzzled than angry. Who or what is worth spending two thousand dollars to talk to in Brooklyn? Anyway it took years to straighten it out.The movie is about identity theft too, but in a major way. Sandra Bullock is a computer analyst who accidentally learns of a conspiracy by a software security outfit -- Gatekeeper -- run by a secret organization called the Praetoreans. It's not clear exactly what their goals are. Once installed, their security system allows a back-door entry into any data base, and presumably this will lead to their taking over the world somehow. In the meantime, when the Praetoreans learn that Bullock may know about their plan, they set about erasing her identity on line and dispatch a smooth-talking, handsome, wealthy British dude to delete her existence IRL. When the company substitutes a false on-line ID for her (involving prostitution, VD, first-degree skulking while immersed in giant tubs of cottage cheese, wanted dead or alive, and so on) and knocks off her only friend, the shrink, Dennis Miller, she runs and hitches from city to city but there seems to be no ESC.It's a good thing they picked Sandra Bullock to erase. She's a nerdy recluse who works out of her home. Nobody knows her. Not her landlord -- nobody. No old school chums, no family except a mother who is conveniently institutionalized with Alzheimer's and doesn't recognize her. Her existence is entirely virtual. Anybody else would have left some footprints in the sand, but not Bullock. Not that she LOOKS like a geek. (Debra Winger in Black Widow looked like a geek.) That's just one implausibility. The movie is loaded with them. She's wanted by the police. Her picture is all over the place. And how does she get from LA to San Francisco? She hitch hikes, presumably on 101. Well, she's attractive enough and has a saucy figure, so who knows? The acting is nothing special. The plot is disjointed and zigzags around. The director spares us the techniques we might see on MTV but has a talent that strains for the banal effect. At one point, the English assassin chases Bullock out of a building into the night-time streets of San Francisco, the avenues crowded with a parade of candle-toting demonstrators demanding Health Care. Street demonstrations seem to be offered as the city's equivalent of New Orleans' Mardi Gras or Boston's St. Patty's Day parade.Anyway, Bullock rushes into this silent crowd. Usually under these circumstances the protagonist dons a hood or a funny hat, grabs a candle, and becomes part of the parade. But here the assassin is able to spot Bullock because she is running through the march -- but in the WRONG DIRECTION. Can you imagine what Hitchcock would have done with an opportunity like this? I was unable to follow all the logical twists but managed to get the general picture because the direction and the musical score clued me in when the scene was supposed to be suspenseful, dramatic, romantic, or fulfilling. Lots of cross cutting. I mean LOTS of cross cutting between Bullock trying to pull off a quick stunt and her hunter looking for her in order to terminate her program. Cliché is piled upon cliché. A drawbridge is opening but Bullock manages to jump to the other side while her pursuer's car slides to a halt at the brink and the assassin glares at her across the widening gap. Mercy.It didn't matter much. The movie is a minor diversion but not more than that. "},{"Title":" i liked it","Date":"12 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I thought the net was great,because it shows how frustrating computers could be,even for nerds.I liked the way sandra played a 14 year old type person.some of her behavior was more like a teenagers behavior.Jeremy northam who is great as the hacker really is deadly in this role.I am a huge sandra bullock fan,this might be her best film "}{"Title":"Kept me on the edge of my seat...","Date":"13 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  All the comments so far about this movie are negative but I have to say I found The Net engaging.  Few movies can keep me on the edge of my seat but this one did.  Another plus for it is that most action/suspense films are full of language but this one had little profanity.  I found it an enjoyable movie to watch.  I am slightly biased though, being a big Sandra Bullock fan. *wink*  "},{"Title":"Moves Fast and Kept My Attention","Date":"14 June 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have watched this movie perhaps 16 to 20 times and always like it...The part I found most interesting is that the plot, or the larger picture is always in the background (like on the TV-screen news when that is shown). Angela Bennett is dragged into a crisis that she did not bring upon herself but she's traumatically involved. I found the names of characters interesting in that the character Angela is similar to Angel and the sinister Jack Devlin is similar to Devil...More than this I will not say, so as not to spoil it for a first-time viewer... "},{"Title":"Very good.","Date":"22 July 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Sandra Bullock is one of my favorite actresses, and she does a very good job, as usual.  The Net is suspenseful all the way through, and you are literally rooting for Sandra to kick the bad guys' bootwah!  And kick some bootwah she does do!  It had me on the edge of my seat in the theaters, and I immediately bought it when it came out on video.  A very good movie. Wait. . .what's this thing at the bottom right corner of my screen. . .maybe I should click it. . .No!  Don't click the thingy at the bottom right corner of the. . .!  **** out of *****. "},{"Title":"My number 166 movie","Date":"13 January 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  You have read correctly. This is my number 166 movie. Sandra Bullock does a good job in this thriller, and she looks good. This is a film that you like , when you watch it 2 or 3 times. But the more you watch, the worse it gets. So I recommend watching this not more than 3 times. I rated this film 8/10, because it is a good thriller. "},{"Title":"Pretty good suspense movie that will never leave you bored but a bit over the top in a few places.","Date":"18 August 2003","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie was suspenseful and fun to view. As I am a fan of these type of movies, I did enjoy this. The premise is kind of scary but the fact that I didn't rate this a 10 was because the movie was a little over the top in some areas.SPOILERSCmonNOBODY could identify this girl? I understand the concept of isolating oneself but I find it hard to believe that SOMEBODY-ANYBODY wouldn't have been able to ID this girl as Angela Bennet. That was over the top and so was the scene where she WALKED over to somebody's desk and started typing. This was overall a really good movie, suspenseful and keeps your interest. Dennis Miller was great as Allen, REALLY believable, Bullock was good as the lonely reserved computer worker the bad guys all underestimated.I think the PREMISE of the movie was really different-and scary. In today's times who knows what could happen? But some of the over the top scenes prevented this movie from being a 10. 8 of 10. "},{"Title":"woman is pursued by killers who want her floppy","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Sandra Bullock portrays a computer nerd who comes into possession of a valuable floppy. A mysterious group want the software, and are willing to kill her for it. They move on her as she is on vacation, wiping her identity out making it impossible to return home. An exciting chase ensues with a thrill a minute. One of Sandra's best.   "},{"Title":"What computers?","Date":"20 December 2006","Score":"23 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie is such a piece of unbelievable crap. First let me talk about the pros Sandra Bullock in a black bathing suit.Now the rest of the story which is all pretty much bad. We have said computer programmer Angela Bennett (who's online profile is ANGEL - HOW WITTY!!! I bet the directors cheered over that one for an hour) who basically checks other Company's software for errors/glitches etc. So we start with her ordering pizza on the Internet and then putting on a fireplace on her monitor (EXTREME computer skills shown thus far). This is after she finds some virus on a macintosh program which crashes the whole system after hitting the escape key. This is apparently a HUGE problem yet the virus created to do such could be done in about 1 minute with a simple batch file.Any event, we move on. She gets this call from some other bloke (that works at the same company) and this fool says to go click this symbol which apparently opens up some secret Internet gateway to a bunch of unprotected 'top secret' data woohoo! Angela saves this crap on a disc and now the people that created this loophole are out to get her. This of course is only after she hooks up with one of the bad guys only BEFORE he tries to kill her BEFORE she jumps in the ocean off his boat, BEFORE she winds up in a random hospital.Problem #1 You can't create a loophole on the Internet to gain access to a bunch of top secret FBI data. Where the hell did this come from? Since when can a group of hackers control the basic flow of the Internet (even in 95)? Problem #2 Angela would need proper identification before a hospital or clinic would release her. She could not just pack her things and go.Then these 'hackers' or whatever change Angela's ID so she can't get help from anyone and conveniently enough all her ID is gone. So she returns home and a cat and mouse chase goes on and on and on.Apparently all police and FBI people are stupid and don't believe her. So then she has to utilize a bunch of tactics to enter into the building where she works (where the person who is now filling in for her is) and get back to her old computer. She starts talking to some other random bloke and finds out who is behind everything through some BS IP address that the director knows the audience is too stupid enough to believe.Then she runs to some center to mail all this information to the FBI. She apparently HAS to use a mainframe to email stuff to the FBI. But then the same fool that tried to kill her BEFORE throwing her in the water catches her and easily hacks into the FBI again (wtf?). But remember that cool virus? Well somehow she luckily gets that and even though the virus only worked on software, it now works on the entire system too. It brings down the whole mainframe which has all the fake information because the mainframe was just sitting in the middle of some convention... WHAT THE HELL IS THIS CRAP! Anyway, the now uber virus works and Angela (the real one now) runs away and later kills the evil dude with a fire extinguisher. He of course has a gun, runs up to her so he's like 2 feet away and then decides to aim. CLASSIC Hollywood.All in all this movie is so full of BS and crap. Anyone who doesn't know a lot about computers will be wildly fooled into thinking this crap is possible but not one thing is accurate concerning computers or the net. And I honestly doubt I'd see a multiplatform virus for Mac and a mainframe computer (*cough LMAO*). "},{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"26 January 2000","Score":"30 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When I first saw this movie, I was blown away at how realistic it was. Everything in this movie could really have happened and it gives us a different view on the Internet and the control someone could have in a position like the baddies have in this movie.  You genuinely feel for Sandra Bullock's character in this movie.  Great performances from all actors and thank you to the director for making such a brilliant movie. "},{"Title":"A decent if (dated) thriller -which only makes it more fun","Date":"14 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I caught this on TV the other night and stuck with it. Its seriously dated now (1995) and laughable in terms of computer technology and giant cell phones but still a good thriller for the most part. Actually all the outdated technology just ended up making this kind of fun and campy.I think its the hook of Sandra's entire identity being erased and replaced with that of a wanted criminal that's so good -scary and intriguing there.The bad guy (Jeremy Northam) becomes very one dimensional after his initial charm wears off but Sandra Bullock does a great job all the way through, with lots of running and evading of the cyber thugs.This opens with Angela Bennett, a reclusive computer programmer who works from home, orders pizza online and only associates with her cyber friends. After she unwittingly comes into possession of software that allows access to secret government information Angela's life is put in danger as the bad guys try to gain access to the floppy disk, culminating with them deleting all evidence of her existence. Dennis Miller plays her sort of boyfriend here and there is a brief cameo from Ron Howard. I always forget how AIDS paranoid we were in the early 90's. 4/11/15 "},{"Title":"Good When It First Came Out","Date":"23 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Angela Bennett (Sandra Bullock) is a computer nerd who makes a living working from home on-line for a computer services company called Cathedral. One of her tasks is to take infected systems and repair them for both companies and individuals alike. One day she gets a call from her point of contact at Cathedral who asks her to look into a possible data flaw within a security system called Gateway which allows certain people to obtain complete access into corporate and government data banks and computer systems. What she doesn't realize is just how serious and lethal these people are. And they mean business. Anyway, this film is an excellent example of a movie that was good when it first came out but because it relies upon outdated technology seems quite dated now. Personally, I thought Sandra Bullock performed quite well and even though the film doesn't age well, I still find it enjoyable. Most people who saw it when it first came out will probably understand and I have rated it accordingly. "}{"Title":"Dated And Yet Strangely Prophetic For Its Day","Date":"16 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Floppy disks? Dial up modems? To name just a couple of things. I suppose one of the problems of making movies that in any way revolve around technology is that technology evolves, and what seems cutting edge can quickly start to seem old fashioned. That's certainly the case with The Net. Sandra Bullock did a passable job as Angela Bennett - a computer analyst of some sort who basically lives on The Net. She works from home; she never interacts with anyone apparently except through computers. The only exception seems to be her mother, but her mother has Alzheimer's and doesn't know who she is. In 1995 the chat rooms and the best pizza in cyberspace and sending electronic mail probably would have seemed cutting edge to a lot of people. Less than 20 years later (and actually long before this) it's just really, really dated technology with rather grainy computer graphics - along with the aforementioned floppy disks and dial up modems. At times it's hard to get around that and settle into this movie.And yet, at the same time, there's a strangely prophetic feel to this as well. I mean, in 1995 somebody made a movie that revolved exclusively around issues of identity theft and cyberterrorism - both very real concerns 20 years later. Not a bad job of gazing into the crystal ball, I'd say.Angela gets caught up in a conspiracy by a group that seems to be trying to crash pretty much every computer system going. I have to admit that the plot came across at times as a bit convoluted. I wasn't entirely clear on the goals of the cyberterrorists; what they were hoping to accomplish. But they certainly did a good job of messing with Angela's life. While on vacation she meets and falls for a mysterious man who's part of the conspiracy. The conspirators then stole her identity and gave it to one of their own; they replaced her identity with that of a woman wanted by the police for a series of felonies. Basically her entire life was wiped out and replaced by a life she knew nothing about and that put her on the run, with nowhere to go for help. That was well done, and pretty smart. Her goal, of course, is to reveal the plot and regain her life.There's some good action; and some rather cliché chase scenes involved. It stretches the bounds of credibility a bit, I think, by suggesting that there's hardly a person in the entire world who could vouch for who Angela really is. She's honestly had no contact with anyone? She spends every moment of every day in her apartment on a computer? If so, why did she go on vacation in the first place? Clearly she likes getting out. And her mother was in some sort of institution, and Angela clearly visited. Maybe her mother doesn't know her, but wouldn't some staff member of the institution know who she was? And wouldn't the company that sends her the best pizza in cyberspace have to have someone deliver it to her? There must have been someone who had seen her.So, credibility's lacking a little bit, and this does have a bit of a quaint, old-fashioned feel to it. But Bullock is OK, and there's enough excitement in this to keep you watching. (6/10) "},{"Title":"one of the believable 90s hacker films without silly graphics","Date":"23 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Okay, firstly I like Sandra Bullock anyway, but do admit she is not often lost in her characters and plays herself. She often plays slightly socially awkward characters however, she's believable, every-girl, and relatable and necessarily not too contrived especially in a storyline where you have to believe its happening and get involved. Bullock is a computer analyst/programmer who works from home and gets sent a disk by a friend to look at. This disk causes problems which she has to work out during which she has to go on the run, her identity is erased. Angela Bennett is no more. It's scary stuff, and would have been more so back in the 90s when much of this was fairly new - it's very true that all our personal information is on computer so we all are vulnerable.Sandra plays increasing desperation well, and the story unravels rather than unfolds, and is quite emotional in places - especially those including her mother with Alzeimer's. Jeremy Northam, Brit actor, and rather dishy, plays the antagonist, and plays it well. Being so attractive, his nefarious ways are even worse, and as all her safety is stripped away, he's always there to make her run again. I like that the programming scenes don't have silly graphics (see Hackers) but are clear key/screen clicks and code being typed and this is one of the most realistic of the many hacker films that came out in the 90s.This has aged well, except some of the technology of course, and it's still relevant. It is interesting to see technology changes ie the ease and normalcy of tracing mobile phones now for example. Note the policeman reading the Miranda rights off a piece of paper - was this filmed around the time they had changed? Historically interesting watching it (again) now, in 2013. A good, entertaining film in a similar vein as The Pelican Brief - intelligent writing and not predictable. "},{"Title":"Does Hollywood just not care anymore?","Date":"8 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is my first review, so go easy on me. I have to say that this is one of my all time Favorites. I think I watched this the first time when I was about 13 and not so long ago got my own Computer with Internet Access. I know how People say that there are a lot of Plot holes in this Movie, but I have to say I just don't see them. I am usually very picky and even small stuff gets me to complain.This movie actually does a very good Job at making this kind of Identity Theft even possible Today. Just imagine being able to search through every Database and change everything about a Persons life? Even if People would know them, for the System they don't exist or appear to be someone else and therefore just adding Identy theft to the list. You can already put it on there to make it more believable.That being written I would recommend this Movie to anyone who is even just slightly interested into Technology. It has a good pace and it actually gets me to think a little bit, which is more then I can say about more recent Movies. Sandra Bullock gives a believable performance even though some scenes are really just set up for her to look scared and disoriented, but in that Situation you would be too. "},{"Title":"I like just about any movie with Sandra Bullock","Date":"15 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This could be a spoiler, I have to say that I only thought 5 of the scenes were hokey and not of them had to do with computers. Whoever did the technical review and technical advising of the script was not very thorough. The boat scene was dumb, I drove one of those when I was 6 years old um I am sure Sandra even though she plays a blonde sometime with all that computer experience would have been smart enough to figure out how to operate that boat. And the IP address and the search for the IP address through the routers was technically incorrect along with the who is search through a router. IP addresses in the 300 range are incorrect. The search wouldn't have gotten past the first 300 number it would have said subnet range is incorrect when you tried to type it the first time. So they didn't want people going out searching/hacking that IP address use an address 10.15.224.30 at that point you could have shown that address a million times and no one is hacking anything. It wont route. And then there is the scene where Dennis Miller is intubated but hey hes quiet that way! "},{"Title":"Enjoyable tosh","Date":"20 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Software whiz Angela (Sandra Bullock) happens on a secret internet gateway to major bad things, which are rather foolishly kept on the internet with a minimum of security by bad people. This makes Angela a target, and the bad people use the internet to twist, erase, corrupt and otherwise screw up every element of her individuality on the internet. And, as we all know, to all practical intents and purposes, that means that her life is no longer sustainable because the internet equals truth (yes, we get the message).This is a combination chase movie and techno-paranoia thriller. Miss Bullock makes a passable protagonist/victim as the story goes through its fairly predictable paces (if you can't guess who the baddie is within 5 minutes of his first appearance, then this will probably have been the first film you have ever seen).You can pick holes in it - in some respects it is perforated, not least of which is the cyber-technicalities involved - but it rattles along entertainingly and passes the time exactly as it was meant to do. "},{"Title":"A technically acurate thriller","Date":"9 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Out of the recent genre of Big Brother computer plots this one has to be the most believable. No fancy whiz-kid hackers that break into FBI mainframe files in seconds. Irwin Winklers ability to bring reality into a thriller gives it the credibility that says This could happen - this could be me!Full marks for a movie that keeps you on the edge of your seat based just on good scriptwriting and acting alone!If you like this one, Enemy of the State is worth looking at as well. "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"5 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  `The Net' is an underrated film, probably because Sandra Bullock is underrated. Not just a worthy entry in the lush conspiracy-thriller genre, `The Net' is innovative in the way it works out the action heroine's life vis a vis her addled mother and her potential boyfriends Northam, suave but with obvious negatives, and a shrink who sounds disconcertingly like, and is, caustic comic Miller.  "},{"Title":"REALLY SCARY...AND IT'S NOT EVEN A HORROR FILM","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  My summary of this film says that it is scary. Why is it scary? Because the character Angela Bennett is alone, she doesn't have a clue what's going on and somebody else has control over her life.The great thing about this film is the fact that the enemy is initially unseen and not easy to beat. The enemy could be anyone...who can Angela Bennett trust? How much control does the enemy have over Angela Bennett? What does he/she/it/they want with her?I felt myself sympathizing with Sandra Bullock in this movie. If that type of situation were to happen to a person in real life then that person would be paranoid beyond belief and no doubt feeling despair.I love films like this where nothing is what it seems and you're never sure who is good and who is bad. Check it out. "},{"Title":"The Movie that put me on the NET","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A movie about a freelance computer systems analyst who's identity get's erased from the system, as Angela Bennett Sandra Bullock stumbles on conspiracy and corruption while de-bugging a game for a software company she works for. She then has to find how to get her identity back, in chases, fights and computer hacking. Sandra is excellent of course. "},{"Title":"Haven't we seen that before?","Date":"19 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The plot has been used over and over again, both before and thereafter. The only thing that's new is all the false information about computers. Sandra Bullock was ok at best. Jeremy Northam was just plain annoying. I'm still looking for a person as helpful as the computer nerd on IRC. "}{"Title":"Love this film","Date":"2 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I never tire of watching this movie. I love it every time I watch it, which is often. Of course Sandra Bullock was made for this role. Dennis Miller does a fine job also. I am not very computer savvy, but I had no trouble following the parts of the movie to do with technology. With all the hacking of store accounts now, the plot is even more timely than when it was produced. it is also fun to make note of advances in technology - no more floppy disks. It is a cautionary tale for us all to watch our passwords and the information we let out. It can be enjoyed as a commentary of the times or as a fun movie to watch. No it is not one of the all time great movies,but it is timely and good entertainment. "},{"Title":"A web of suspense and fun!","Date":"26 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" In an age when the internet is fairly new, computer expert Angela Bennett (Sandra Bullock) finds herself involved in a computer glitch after the information on her driver's license, credit cards, bank accounts and her identity have been erased unbeknown-st to her by a high security programming group known as the Praetorians. She is then given a new identify with a police record; therefore, she is on the rush to hide from the authorities, find her true identity, and locate the Praetorians, who want to obtain a disk containing confidential information from her.From Bennett struggling with the loss of her identity to her attempting to track down her real identity, all the while dodging the police and the Praetorians, this movie is full of the classic adventure, mystery, and thrills that keeps the plot going and the audience captivated.Many computer geeks would probably critique the ways the internet or computer programming were described or used in this film, but they should just put those tidbits aside and focus on the pure entertainment this movie brings. With some descent acting and quick action added onto the on-screen drama and mystery, this is actually a fun movie.Grade A "},{"Title":"Solid thriller,with a cat and mouse style","Date":"20 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie i feel gets a bit of a harsh score by critics here,there are plenty of action sequences and the idea of cyber terrorism is a genuine threat if not even more so today as it was upon this movies release,so with the thrill of chases and evasion with a tense build up to the finale,well then it does not disappoint for a movie with a release date of 1995,it is still one of Sandra Bullock's greatest performances and makes a change from her comical/love story genre movies.Jeremy Northam plays a great bad guy, very cool and collected and charming yet cruel and heartless simultaneously,the gadgetry and the cat and mouse between characters is great.It's a must for computer enthusiasts,it's no The Matrix but it is most definitely worth the watch,i'd like to watch it in blu ray format some time as it would benefit greatly. "},{"Title":"Most of the reviewers here must be born after 1990 or born before 1950","Date":"4 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This was made in 1994-1995 at the beginning of the internet craze and the dot-com bubble, and this movie was wholly appropriate for the time era considering many people were just starting to get on the internet at this time. There are a lot of flaws in this film I agree, which is why I have rated it a 6, but my main complaint here is some of the reviewers on this site. Granted this movie was made at the beginning of the internet era, but some people on here make it sound like 1995 was back in the horse and buggy days. Either they were born after 1990 and don't remember a time without the internet or they are old as heck and were finally dragged down to the computer store just recently by their kids to get their very first computer. "},{"Title":"Decent, if somewhat far-fetched thriller","Date":"21 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The films protagonist; software engineer Angela Bennett, works from home; in fact she is such a recluse that she has never met any of her co-workers in person and doesn't even know her neighbours; her only contacts are the people she talks to on the internet and her mother who has Alzheimer's. One day a co-worker sends her a strange program that gives access to a new security program known as Gatekeeper; she agrees to meet him but he is killed when his plane's navigation system fails. She is shocked but thinks it was an accident so goes on her planned holiday to Mexico. Here she meets Jack Devlin; he appears to be the perfect man for her to spend time with as he shares so many of her interests; the problem is he just wants the disc with the program on and is 'perfect' because he has been talking to her on line. When he thinks he has the disc he intends to kill her but she manages to escape. This isn't the end of her troubles though; somebody has changed all computer records relating to her; when she gets home she finds her home is up for sale and her employers now have a new 'Angela Bennett' working in their offices; she is left with the identity 'Ruth Marx'; a wanted criminal. With her identity stolen she turns to the only man she can trust; Alan Champion her former psychiatrist and one time lover. Devlin is still trying to kill her; if she is to survive she is going to have to find out about a sinister group of hackers known as the Praetorians and how they are connected with Gatekeeper.In many ways this film feels quite dated and in many ways it is obviously far-fetched; if you can overlook these faults though it is a decent paranoid thriller with plenty of tense moments. Sandra Bullock did a fine job as the protagonist although I found it a little hard to believe that somebody as socially awkward as Angela Bennett would have worn THAT bikini... it did look good on her though! The rest of the cast were good enough although none of the other characters were really fleshed out. If you can suspend belief enough to accept that it might be possible to completely steal some ones identity the film as a nice streak of paranoia running through it; how would a person behave if nobody believed who they said they were any more? Over all I'd say this is far from being a classic but it was much better than I expected and is worth watching if you want a reasonable thriller. "},{"Title":"Worst bad guy in the history of cinema","Date":"30 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I joined IMDb simply to review this movie. Specifically to review the bad guy. If you want the lowdown on the substance of the film go directly to other reviews rated 1 - they are very helpful and largely accurate. Jeremy Northam plays the brainbendingly badly written role of Jack Devlin. The acting wasn't bad per se but whoever wrote this stinker of a role (John D Brancato and Michael Ferris you know who you are) needs to go back to Movie Writing 101. Let me paint the picture. Jack Devlin is a smooth talking, handsome and incredibly IT savvy killer. He has a big boat, a gun and a way with words. Problem is he is comically hopeless at catching, much less killing his target - Angela Bennett played by Sandra Bullock. She is a socially inept computer programmer with no pretensions to know how to defend herself much less fight off a killer but spends the whole movie making Jack Devlin look like a first rate buffoon. Here is a summary of the killers incompetenceFirst encounter - Jack lures Angela Bennett to a remote location, constructs the theft of her personal belongings, kills a local low fi criminal, jumps on a boat, has a quick very personal physical encounter with a person he is apparently supposed to be killing (what the?) then leaves his gun in his jacket which Bennett puts on. She knocks him out and escapes. D'oh.Second encounter - Bennett's identity has been stolen. He tracks her down and is ready to pounce - except she steals a phone and runs away by sneaking out the toilet window - that old favourite. He follows her in his car but the IT geek gets away on foot.Third encounter - Jack Devlin sends a stooge, pretending to be an FBI agent to collect Bennett from the police station where she is being held. The plan works - except she sees through the ruse. After driving a long way from the cop shop she has been detained in she grabs the wheel of the car and crashes into - wait for it - Jack Devlin's car! Who wrote this stuff! It is diabolical. She gets away from the trained killer on foot again. Ba ha ha.Final encounter - Bennett breaks into a building to do some super mega sneaky IT stuff. Devlin and his accomplice track her down except Devlin jumps in to prevent her IT derring do and presses ESC on the keyboard. With all those IT skills Devlin believes he has smashed per puerile attempt to alert the authorities. But no. Bennett tricked him - he in fact destroyed the whole database that was the reason he was trying to kill her. Yes - by him pressing ESC. So the chase is on. Devlin shoots his female colleague dead. Then gets knocked cold with a fire extinguisher and plummets to his death. What a loser. The only people this killer killed was a Mexican hustler and his colleague. Despite having a gun and Bennett standing in front of him for about a third of the film he failed to lay a finger on her. Is Devlin the worst role written for a baddie in the movies. I believe the answer is yes.I commend this movie to that very hardcore minority of movie fans who can bear to watch a shocker of a film to find that rough diamond of abominable writing. Just focus on Devlin and you will be laughing from start to finish. "},{"Title":"The beach scene is the best scene...","Date":"10 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a truly awful movie. If you have any interest in computers, you'll cringe every time you see some pseudo-tech gibberish (and there's *lots* in this movie). If you've never used a computer (how the hell are you reading this review?!), then you might just find the film entertaining, but I seriously doubt it. It really is one of the most unremarkable films I've ever seen.The only reason I've given it two stars is because you see Sandra Bullock in a black bikini near the start of the film. Once that scene's finished the film heads downhill rapidly, so turn over and watch something more interesting. Or turn the TV off and stare at a blank screen - believe me, it'll be a better use of your time. "},{"Title":"You give us the disk and we'll give you your life back!","Date":"7 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** Quick paced thriller involving computer analyst Angela Bennett, Sandra Bullock, who unknowingly got her hands on this mysterious floppy disk that she was testing for a computer virus. The disk's information can put an end to the dreams of multi-billionaire founder of the Gatekeeper Security System Jeff Grege, Gerald Berns.Grege has been trying to get the US Defense Department-the Pentagon-to install his system but Defense Secretary Michael Bergstrom, Ken Howard, was dead set against it. With Grege using the Gatekeeper to hack into Bergstrom's medical records it falsified them stating that he's suffering from an advance and fatal case of AIDS! This had Bergstrom, whom were told was homophobic, in knowing that he doesn't have long to live go out into a nearby D.C park and blow his brains out. With Bergstrom's replacement Calvin Shoemaker now running the show-Defense Department-the Gatekeeper is a given but as usual-in computer science- there's a glitz The geeky and shut-in computer analyst Angela Bennett!Actually Angela got the explosive, that revealed the true nature of the Gatekeeper System, disk from her on-line contact, and fellow computer nerd, Dale Hessman, Ray McKinnon. It was Dale's misfortune to get himself killed in a suspicious plane crash just before he was to get the disk-from Angela-back. With her now in possession of the Gatekeeper disk Angela's life was turned into a living hell for knowing its contents. On the run from the police and hit-man Jack Devlin, Jeremy Northam, who's working for the Gatekeeper Project Angela in her choosing to be locked up in her her home, as a computer expert, for some six years has no one who can vouch for her identity as Angela Bennett! Having all her personal belongings stolen-by Devlin-on a trip to Mexico,her first vacation in six years, Angela has been given the bogus identity, by those out to get her, of Ruth Marx a convicted felon! With the police as well as hit-man Devlin on her tail Angela has to prove who she is and at the same time convince the authorities, both federal as well as sate, what Jeff Grege is planning to do. Disrupt the entire US economic and transportation systems with his Gatekeeper Project and at the same time prevent, by having it installed in the Pentagon, his evil plan from being uncovered!****SPOILERS**** The movie The Net was made in early 1995 years before the internet became known, as well as available, to most of those watching it at the time of its release. Despite its very confusing storyline and almost inconceivable climax with the release, by Angela, of a super computer virus the film is still fascinating, now with the internet a major factor in everyone's lives, to watch. We can see how ahead of its time The Net was in bringing out back then in 1995 which was considered science fiction to what became, engineered computer economic crimes and identity theft, science fact just a few years later! "},{"Title":"Dumb at first, exciting towards end","Date":"27 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie did not start on the right foot and did not right itself till the end. This is very unfortunate, because it actually has a very good point that the recent spate of companies reporting losses of personal information demonstrates - too much of our information is on unsecure systems - not just unsecure software-wise, but because they're stored by companies and institutions outside our control.In this movie, Bullock plays a programmer who was such a loner that when she got into trouble she had no one to identify her. Usually I'm very empathetic, but she's so anti-social to begin with, I couldn't help but blame her for not being able to get out of it. Then she and whoever helped her should've known better, didn't, and I blamed them again for what happened next. There were so many obvious clues (though I hesitate to call them clues because it was an open book). The ending scene was contrived - it's so cliché by now I can't believe anyone still uses it. Finally, the villain was so obvious, a hacker like Bullock should've known from get-go. In fact, anyone with half a brain should've.The last twenty minutes or so finally had Bullock gaining some intelligence and along with chase scenes made up a bit for the movie. Otherwise it'd go straight into the junk pile. "},{"Title":"TV show is better","Date":"28 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Maybe it didn't help that I saw the TV show first when that came out in 1998, but over all, I think the show was better than the movie. Sure Sandra Bullock is a great actress, but I think she's better in other movies myself. The movie lacked the show's closeness with all the characters, the good guys and the bad guys. We never really got to know anyone up close, not even Angela, which made it kind of hard to understand. It also seemed to jump around a lot, from one place to another without connecting anything. Over all, I think they could have done a much better job, taking out half the characters that were supposedly on her side, which ended up dead before the movie was half over. It was a good movie to some degree, but it required a lot of help, to make it even better. In the end, if you can, watch the TV show instead.  "}{"Title":"Pretty good for Sandra Bullock","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Well, first of all I have to say that while I am fond of Sandra Bullock for her personality, at the same time I think most of the films she's been in are not a must see. Exceptions include While You Were Sleeping and The Net. I know people will be outraged to see I'm not listing Speed but to me it's an overhyped movie, essentially due to Keanu Reeves' presence.Actually I watched The Net last night on TV for the third time (First I saw it in English while I was in the US and the remaining two have been in Spanish) and I would like to say it's probably the best movie she's been in, although that's not saying much, given her weakness for being part of expendable stuff like 28 Days or any other titles I can't bother to name. Her acting in The Net is pretty good. I'm not saying the film is out of sight but nevertheless is better than the usual lousy thriller, and manages to keep you entertained and thrilled thru the whole movie.7/10.  "},{"Title":"Too Much Technology","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie has computers that can erase people's identities, including records, credit cards and driver's licenses. This makes you think that you'd better be careful to mess around with someone who knows how to use computers. It also makes you think how hard it is to trust people in such a technological time and that you have to be aware of all the crooks out there. Your closest friend might stab you in the back. For this, the movie is fair. "},{"Title":"Have a little anti-Internet paranoia!","Date":"15 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is basically just a dumb chase story, nearly identical to zillions of other chase stories in terms of acting, suspense, plot, dialogue, characterization (or lack thereof), and pacing.The one area in which 'The Net' diverges from traditional chase movies is in its subject material Computers.  Unfortunately, the scriptwriters clearly didn't understand the differences between a pocket calculator and a Cray!Computer-newbies shouldn't watch this movie, because it will make them paranoid about computers.  No matter what Hollywood tries to tell us, it's just not that easy to erase someone's identity by hacking.  There's still too much paper documentation in the world, and there was even more of it in 1995.Computer-pros shouldn't watch this movie, either.  I mean, a magical virus that can melt your entire PC when you press Escape?  Please.  And the whole virus, including the cool multimedia effects of your screen dissolving (what's THAT all about?) can fit on a single 1.44mb diskette?  Yeah ... whatever. "},{"Title":"I tie my arm to be free-have you ever been free?","Date":"11 May 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Unlike a box of cereal, a movie does not have contents, instead a movie has scenes and sequences. When I emptied out the contents of this cereal box of a movie, I looked upon a spread-out mass of meaningless pieces, not worth consuming. They made the movie too soon, like the studio heard back in 95 that the Internet might be a thing in the future, so they cobble together a feeble film under the premise that being first is always best, first internet movie! yeah! Generic thriller ham-fistedly rendered, lacking at all times suspense. Featuring a PG-13 rating so you know for certain nothing awesome will happen, no blood no tittie no cussing no violence. All of our schemes and machinations just to have sex with each other--it's all a big joke. "},{"Title":"Badly Directed","Date":"16 April 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I'm being quite generous giving it a 2/10.The plot consists of a hacker who finds her identity stolen whilst on holiday after a fling with a man of similar profession. Overall the film lacks any mind grabbing atmosphere to it until right near the end. Possibly from the limits in technology during 1995, but ultimately from Irwin Winkler's poor directing this movie has little to offer the viewer. The scenes are far too slow even when there are potentially gripping moments. The characters are weak to say the least (Sandra Bullock's heart didn't seem to be in it) and Jeremy Northam should have been nominated for worst supporting actor (if only they existed back then 'sigh'), his character being neither convincing or entertaining in the slightest. The script even by today's standards is very relevant. Despite the vast developments in technology (gone are the days of floppy disks and fridge sized computers), the threat of internet fraud is far from over and cyber theft looms within the ethernet of society. I fear that the screen writers John Brancato and Michael Ferris were severely let down by Irwin Winkler's inability to stimulate the actors (Dennis Miller being the most convincing of all with a very meager role in the film) and provide short, snappy scenes to create what could have been a work of genius. "},{"Title":"A great cyberthriller for it's time, but kinda outdated. Still a lot of fun to watch.","Date":"19 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" As a cybermovie-fan, I recently watched The Net again, along with some other cyber-thrillers and such. And although this movie has been out for almost 16 years, it's still a lot of fun to watch.Whether you have experience in coding or not, the eye-pleasing programming lines and such are a lot of fun to watch. It really mimics the commands a hacker would use, although they are mostly fake. It really tried to look as realistic as possible, and that's always a nice thing.A little problem I have with the movie is the character development. The story goes about a computer analyst/tester named Angela Bennett, who is suddenly in the middle of a fight of the Praetorians, a group of hackers, against the government. I really like the idea of this, but it kind of suffers from the side effects of blockbusters. A lot of eye- candy and excitement, but the characters, except for the main character Angela, aren't really developed well. Just a small thing to add. Angela Bennett is suddenly changed into Ruth Marx, which later appears to be an accomplice of the Praetorians. Not to be an a**hole or anything, but why use the name of someone who's working with you? In that time, records were still written down as well, not just in the computer, so there was a chance that she could be found, and then the story would be over. Why not a random name, like Christy Appleseed or something? But that's kind of nitpicking, I know.As a computer-nerd/fan, I really enjoyed this cyber-thriller. It has some flaws, like a lot of these kind of movies has, but it's really pleasing to watch. If you're a fan of this movie genre, I would strongly recommend watching it.7 out of 10. I guess that's fair enough, isn't it? "},{"Title":"This one will NEVER get old","Date":"6 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Computer technology has evolved tremendously since The Net was made fourteen years ago. Naturally, one would assume that the film would seem dated and behind the times after all these years, right? Actually, no. Identity theft is a real threat to everyone, and that is the main cause of conflict in The Net. As for the conspiracy behind it all, well, who knows? For all I know, it could happen.Computer debugger Angela Bennett (Sandra Bullock) came across a mysterious disk that gained her access to anything she could possibly want the FBI mainframe, the White House, anything. With this disk, it's possible to alter someone's flight path or their medical records. But when she returns to the US after a vacation in Mexico, she discovers that her identity has been deleted, and because she's a loner, no one knows who she is. Now she has to stay alive long enough to prove her identity.Sandra Bullock is probably one of the most consistently lovable actresses out there. To see her is to love her; she's that adorable. From the minute she appears on the screen, you want only the best for her. This would be an asset in a subpar thriller, but in a great one, it makes the film only that much better. Jeremy Northam is perfect in his role, ably doing everything that the role requires of him. Dennis Miller tones down his comic aptitude and presents a friendly guy.Many people have compared The Net to Alfred Hitchcock, and that is totally understandable. Although there are no blatant steals or homages, I am certain that the similarities between this film and, say, North by Northwest were totally intentional from director Irwin Winkler. The Net may not be as good as that classic, but it's still pretty darn good. "},{"Title":"Great idea, less-than-great execution","Date":"8 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Sandra Bullock is by no means a particularly good actress. Most of her success has more to do with her looks than her talent. Still, I think she pulls off a decent, if not perfectly believable, performance in this fairly credible cyber-thriller. The plot is pretty good, and not entirely impossible. The movie does a good job of convincing the viewer that what happens in the movie, could probably happen in real life as well. The acting is OK, but no top performances. I did enjoy Dennis Miller's short, but funny role. He did seem fairly miscast as a psychiatrist though, that's the last thing I ever saw him as, and this is the third film I've seen him in(the other two being Bordello of blood and Never talk to strangers). The characters are pretty well-written, though I found that Sandra Bullock's character, being that she's a hacker, would be less naive and would have anticipated at least a few of the things that took place in the movie, being that most of it involves hacking. The thriller aspect of the film is fairly well-executed, the chases are exciting and reasonably realistic, though a few of them are less than credible. I thought the whole hacker aspect of the movie, and the idea that something like this could happen in real life was the most interesting and exciting part of this movie, unfortunately it's not as well-executed as it should have been, and could have been. I guess they just missed the opportunity. Too bad, really. It could have been a masterpiece. I've heard that the series that are based on this movie are better, as they delve further into the whole Praetorian thing. I guess if you like this movie, you should check it out afterwords. I recommend this movie to people who like a good thriller, especially people who know a lot about computers and the Internet, as they will understand it a bit more. Anyway, most thriller fan should enjoy this. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Complete waste of film stock.","Date":"19 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I know, I should have learned by now, Hollywood can not be trusted to depict anything realistic involving computers and technology.  But when this movie is used in a class as an example of the Internet as a utopia or dystopia, you really need to question the professor's thinking. Sandra Bullock plays a computer nerd who beta-tests software for some company.  A co-worker, who collects computer viruses (uh, okay...), sends her an interesting example he found in one of their programs.  And of course, everything unravels from there.  Starring Dennis Miller as a therapist (who she visited, but presumably didn't get much out of the visits) and a bunch of other actors turning in similarly unremarkable performances. First off, this movie would lead one to believe that no one uses PC's (uh, right), since every single computer used is a Mac, even at the convention. At least the writers correctly predicted Macs would be running Unix (in a way).  But there are just so many plot holes and illogical actions that this movie is just a waste of almost two hours.  True, the plot holes aren't Final Destination bad, but they are still glaringly obvious.  It's like the writers took a stock conspiracy film and slapped a weak Internet plot on it. "},{"Title":"hmmmm...","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I tried my hardest to have an open mind.  Honest I did.  But the flaws are so laughable it's nearly impossible to take this seriously.  Impossible ip addresses, fantasy definitions of subnet, ridiculous technical explanations, oh and... it turns out every computer in the world is a Mac (and most run Unix, apparently).The ENORMOUS amount of technical errors aside, the movie does fairly well in the suspense department, but not exceptionally so - too much predictability.Cinematography, sound, and the like are also mediocre.  As much as I hate to say it (she is one of my favorite actors), Sandra Bullock's performance is also nothing to write home about.Rent it.  Unless you're even slightly knowledgeable about anything technical... in that case, don't even bother - it'll give you more aggravation than enjoyment. "}{"Title":"The Net is like the Tower of Babel","Date":"16 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Sandra Bullock really surprised me with her performance as a brilliant hacker isolated from society.  Her true finesse comes through in the way she repeatedly tricks the baddies, just for survival of course.  This movie is great for its ability to raise privacy and security issues in a world that is becoming more and more networked.  And if anyone has that much power, it would definitely be the government.  But I still have my doubts that any one entity could have access to so many databases.  There's got to be a tower of Babel effect going here.  Unreliable communications, differences in protocol, stuff like that.  Sandra was 31 at the time of this movie, and she makes the beach scene look good.  "},{"Title":"Good film with best yet from Sandra Bullock","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  At last!! Sandra Bullock is indeed a beautiful woman, but I've finally found a film that she gets to be an actress! Forget the predictable Keanu-fodder of SPEED, forget the predictable Kleenex-fodder of WHILE YOU WERE SLEEPING - this tests her!And she is great! A techno-feminist role that really works well on screen, on a subject that is very close to the bone. The issues raised don't seem far-fetched at all and the whole experience, helped along by a fine supporting cast, makes for quite an un-nerving couple of hours.You may never enter another chat-room again, in fact I'm getting quite nervous just writing this review...er...bye! "},{"Title":"Intense and dynamic","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Sandra Bullock is wonderful! I can't imagine in this role any other actress.The film is very dynamic and intense. It almost don't contain neither computeric nor factual mistakes. Besides I mean it is an anti-Microsoft film. Maybe, I'm unjust, but why Jeff Gregg, the chief of the very big software corporation in the film, looks like Bill Gates? ))) And more it is annoying that the Angela's enemy looks like a villain at one stroke. Nevertheless thanks to Irwin Winkler, her picture is excellent! "},{"Title":"One of the most terrifying films i have seen.","Date":"19 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When i first saw THE NET, cos i have seen it 2-3 times, it really impressed me (it became one of my favorites, that's why i use Bullock's name as a nickname). First of all, i enjoyed watching it, because i work on computers, and i tend to like any film that features computers. As the story unfolds, u began to realize that this movie is more than a hacker's movie. You actually feel her fear, as you watch her whole life turn upside down, you're getting terrified to the idea that IT CAN HAPPEN 2U, and you don't have a clue for the ending. Manages to keep  the viewer all the way to the end, and before you go to bed, you remind yourself not to chat to strangers... "},{"Title":"Mediocre Internet crime thriller","Date":"15 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Mediocre Internet crime thriller which starts OK, but then lacks development and turns pretty much into Sandra Bullock being chased around by lots of nasty but clever people who also delete/steal her passport, credit cards, work, insurance records and everything else.The reason for all mayhem is fairly lame &#150; and to me some of these events appeared to occur in the wrong logical order. Also, all the impossible computer hacks were cloaked by use of buzzwords/fancy graphics to make it sound and look like they knew what they were doing.I preferred Disclosure.  "},{"Title":"Net of mistakes","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Rating *1/2 out of ****The Net is one of those films that won't remain in your mind till the next one hour. Well... Just if you keep thinking how bad it is. It's a mediocre, miserable, hollow, laughable and predictable piece of garbage. One of those adjectives I've just used above is the reason which made me add 1/2 a star to the one I would have given. So is it a case of 'so bad it is good'? No. It's a case of 'so bad it is laughable'. Bullock in a (surprise!) very bad performance plays Angela Bennett, a computer expert who is at home all the time. She works at home, doesn't have any friends and her neighbors don't know her. Suddenly, she sees herself involved in dangerous situations, after her colleague dies and the same thing almost happens to her. Her identity, bank accounts, etc, etc, etc, are all deleted, and she is now Ruth Marx. The conspiracy involves even the government and... Wait! Haven't we seen this before? Yes, thousands of times. The Net tries to be modern, to be the portrait of the '90s, showing the computer as a villain. Big deal! It is a film about nothing, just a pretext to show ridiculous action scenes. Take the scene of the boat accident. I just laughed when the camera started to get slow...What makes everything even worse here is Sandra Bullock. How awful she is! Has she already made a decent film? A Time to Kill, okay. But she is still a bad actress, repeating her robotic face moves in each of her pictures.The vantages and disadvantages of the computer were already shown in 2001 A Space Odyssey, the best, most intelligent and most complex film ever made. It's not needed to compare The Net with it, is it...?The only reason to see The Net is to laugh, as I've said, and to see what it tried to be. The results, well, are a shame.DELETE this film from your mind! "},{"Title":"There are worse films.. but not many!","Date":"18 September 2010","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" When I started watching it I did not know I was going to witness one of the worst movie experiences of my life.The movie is made in 1995 so in some way it is excused. But still, it tries to be high tech in a time period when high tech did not exist! The movie is so far of when it comes to what was possible back then. This was at the birth of Java, Internet as we know it, USB etc. but still not one part of the movie is believable. How someone can rate this film up to 7 or 8 is beyond my comprehension. They were either drunk, asleep during the film, keen on Bullock or were watching another movie. Because this movie is not worth more than maximum 3 stars. And that is just because of Sandra's black bikini.Im sorry Winkler, but you made a film that deserves to be on the Bottom 100 here on IMDb. And Im also sorry to all of you who are going to watch this film during your lifetime! "},{"Title":"Tries hard but doesn't cut it.","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Net is basically an Alfred Hitchcock style drama along the lines of bad guys taking your identity.  However, the plot is more or less updated for the modern era with the Internet and computers.  (The Internet being the hip trendy new thing of 1995.)  It makes a serious effort to sound technical and plausible, which probably works on people who don't know anything about computers, but fails miserably on those who do.  In real life a loner computer maestro wouldn't be the perky cute and hopelessly nice Angela Bennett, but more likely an overweight guy with poor social skills and even worse hygiene.  And don't get me started on how *everyone* uses Apple computers.  (Apple goes out of their way to get studios to use their computers, which is why in movie land it's a Mac world but in the *other* world it's all PC's.)Basically watch (and enjoy) this movie as a thriller with the usual good and bad guys, and ignore the technical mask it puts on. "},{"Title":"From the perspective of a Geek","Date":"1 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is unbelievably incarnate. It could happen to you. NO IT COULDN'T!! Computers don't have that much power! Not every computer is online and hackable! Also, every government organization doesn't use the same computer security system!! ALSO on top of all that, MOST top-secret important data is NOT kept on computers that are online in the first place! If you know what a computer is, or anything about them, don't watch this movie. If you know nothing about computers, and are very very very gullible, then watch this movie, but personally, it's a 0 star for me. "},{"Title":"A good review of a good movie.","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Net is one of my favorite movies.  I gave it a rating of a 10.  A lot of you will think that a '10' is a too high of a rating.  I know it's not a landmark movie about computers, the Internet, technology, etc. and it does have some plot holes.  The reason I gave it a 10 is for entertainment and for Sandra Bullock.  I'm a huge fan of Sandra.  Some of the plot elements are far fetched.  But, the main idea of people using technology to control things is not a bad idea.  I don't think that idea is that far out there. A good number of people have given this movie a hard time about its representation of some technology.  This is not a documentary on technology or a learning program.  The reason things seemed to happen unnaturally fast (especially for 1995) is that the movie makers have to fit everything within a couple of hours.  Nobody wants to sit around and watch people get on the Internet and watch things get downloaded slowly.  They had to keep the pacing of the movie moving somewhat fast.  One of my favorite things about the movie is the music.  I have the soundtrack on CD.  The music is by Mark Isham.  The music is great, but the sad thing is that there is only 29 minutes and 31 seconds of music on the CD.  There's alot of music they didn't put on the CD that was in the movie.  Oh, well.  All in all this is a very good and fun movie to watch.  Sandra is great in this movie.  If you want to be entertained, give this movie a chance and a break when it comes to it's representation of technology.  BYE.  Thanks for reading. "}{"Title":"Prequel to The Game","Date":"27 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  From the guys who brought you The Game, comes this movie which is very nearly identical to it.  Both movies have massive credibility problems, both in technical aspects and plot lines.  Both movies have the main character being chased by some mysterious high-tech organization.  But unlike The Game, at least in this movie you aren't getting slapped in the face every 5 minutes with some outlandish scenario that could never happen in real life.  In this movie, it is about every 10 minutes.  If you overlook the technical gobbledygook which is designed to awe and frighten the computer ignorant public, you have a movie which is mildly interesting but ultimately unfulfilling.  I find it interesting that half the reviews here claim how realistic the movie is; the other half claim how UNrealistic it is!  Unfortunately, I must deem this movie totally unrealistic, unless one views the identity theft and internet attacks as allegorical to real computer crime.  The writers could have made this a realistic movie with a good story, however they decided that all they needed to do was write a ludicrous script with explosions to capitalize on Sandra Bullock's current popularity and the internet boom.  And I guess they were right.  But I can't recommend this movie to anyone unless it is on TV at 2am and nothing else is on. "},{"Title":"Not one fact correct","Date":"15 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Got a peak of this movie for the second time a week ago and I just had to react to the incredible amount of errors in the movie. OK, so the Internet was quite new in the days when the movie was made, but that doesn't mean they have to make it wrong. The movie can't beat the virus-uploading-scene in ID4, but it's not far from. I don't wanna spam this comment with all errors made, I just wanna point out that if you like movies that make sense don't see this one. If it wasn't for Sandra Bullock I would never had seen the full movie. "},{"Title":"Sandra rocks!","Date":"4 March 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This awesome, action-packed little gem, is one of my all-time favorite movies!! Sandra Bullock, once again, outdoes herself in this wicked film all about the Internet and the taking-over of people's lives.In 'The Net', Bullock stars as Angela Bennett, a computer-whizz, who while on holiday, encounters a dangerous man, who steals her wallet... and her life.Soon, the real Angela Bennett disappears, and an ex-con, takes on her identity, swapping her life for Angelas!Of course, Sandy isn't the type to take this kinda thing lying down - and all on her own, she fights hard to get back the life they took away from her.A wicked film - that'll leave you breathless for start to finish!! 9/10 "},{"Title":"Oh.  Gee.  Another Chase movie","Date":"3 September 1998","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Other then updating for the information age, The Net isn't particularly different than any other One person on the run by a vast global conspiracy - nobody believes her.  The biggest suspension of disbelief is that Sandra Bullock's character is a computer nerd, and that drags down what little  realism the pic may have.  Other than that, it's by-the-numbers chases, escapes, betrayals, and friends dying. "},{"Title":"Unwatchable","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Are you kidding me? This movie is terrible. The plot twists can be seen a mile away by a blind man. There are big enough holes in the plot that a semi could be driven through them. Sandra Bullock is a charming actress, but the question is why would she make this movie? Dumb question, the answer of course is for a truck load of money. The script resorts to every cliche ever used in a thriller. From unnecessary chases that move the story along not at all to authorities that don't believe a word the victim says, we have seen this all before. And quite frankly, we have seen it done a hell of a lot better than it was done here. I can't even watch this movie because it is so methodical in letting you know what is going to happen next. It is just irritating. "},{"Title":"It Couldn't Happen to You","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"       Wow, when I first saw this movie, I was blown away at what a waste of money it was.  Shame on Sandra Bullock for signing on for this tired, predictable, hideously unrealistic mess of a film.  Oh yes, I know that when I picture a reclusive computer nerd, Sandra Bullock is the image pops into my mind.  And I also am quite impressed with the whole It could happen to you premise, which only makes sense if you happen to know exactly three people, like the protagonist in this film.  I suppose it really wouldn't be too hard to erase someone who hardly exists to begin with.  I am also definitely blown away by the whole if it's plugged in, its under their control setup, which makes total sense when you think about it.  In this film, even computers which would have no reason to be anything but a stand-alone, are totally under the control of the omnipotent bad guys. Right on.      I hate this movie on so many levels that in writing about it  my biggest problem is that I simply don't know which element of it I want to complain about first.  Now maybe if they'd set the whole thing in the future, at least we could write it off as totally science fiction, but since we're set in the good old present, its totally open to criticism and boy does it deserve it.  To sum up, the entire plot is centered around the hope that the audience knows absolutely nothing about computers, the main character is incredibly miscast, the conclusion is horribly convenient, and once again, the premise is horribly unbelievable.  What luck that the protagonist has virtually no friends, and only one family member who is so stricken with Alzheimer's disease that she doesn't even know her own name.  Yes, this further reinforces the scary, It could happen to anyone premise.  Because when you get right down to it, who in this world really has more than three friends?  No one as far as I see it, so yes, Sandra Bullock's plight in this film is universal.  So thank you, Sandra, for touching all our lives with a story that not only informs us as to the dangers of incredibly fictional, only-in-the-movies type cyber-badguys, but it also lets us know how close we all are to being erased.            When I retire some day, I'm going to devote all of my free time to seeing that ever single copy of this worthless film is stamped out of existence.  Until then however, all I can do is recommend to potential viewers that they watch a more believable computer-based film, something like Hackers (1995), for example.  At least that one was laughably ridiculous.  The Net, on the other hand, is good for absolutely nothing. It is absolutely useless.  How did this film ever get made?  What a pile of s**t.  Damn. "},{"Title":"terrible for computer professionals","Date":"8 January 1999","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie must have been written by an AOLer.  Come on, a virus that can infect any type of computer system, and it fits on a floppy, with all that multimedia?!  I did love the IP address that can't exist though.  Imagine if it had been a real IP address...the site would have been swamped by people trying to access it!This movie deserves a 1, but I give it a 2 since Sandra was in a two-piece on the beach.  "},{"Title":"If you believe a man can fly then believe this","Date":"9 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" OK yes, the tech is old but it's my era tech. I loved the 3 and a half inch discs, I even liked the 5 inch floppies before those, not keen on the tape though, and I loved Castle Wolfenstien, first game where I beat the last boss, anyway la di da great movie. I watched to the end (That's always a good sign). Although I would liked to see the main villain Gregg get more than prison, a bit of torment as he realized the game was up, beaten by female geek no less. Sandra Bullock always does a good job in any acting role so it's worth a watch just see her doing her stuff (A very attractive girl also)(Can I say that?) so, definitely worth a watch, recommend. Oh, Mellisa Bones, nice job. "},{"Title":"many complicated ways to kill people","Date":"3 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Angela Bennett (Sandra Bullock) is a software beta test consultant. She's a homebody with few friends outside of cyberspace. She collects computer viruses for her friend Dale Hessman. She visits her mom (Diane Baker) in an old age home but she doesn't remember her. Dale sends her a program that seems to access unauthorized sites and then he's killed. She goes on vacation and meets Jack Devlin (Jeremy Northam) who turns out to be a cold-hearted killer looking for the program. She barely escapes the attempt on her life and computers are going wrong giving her an alternate identity Ruth Marx. Her life is taken over by Devlin and she's pursued by the police. The only person she can turn to is Dr. Alan Champion (Dennis Miller) who actually knows her in real life.The question is why not just kill her. That seems to be the objective from before. Of course, he's trying to date her. If they want to know who she talked to, why not kidnap her? Torture is so much easier. Also why couldn't she make copies of the disk? Didn't she have access to the program in the hotel? There is a lot of stuff that is questionable even if the computer stuff is reasonable. The stuff surrounding the computer stuff makes little sense. Also the movie insists on killing people in the most complicated ways possible. And it seems like Bullock is always running in this movie. "},{"Title":"The net is the ultimate condom....","Date":"3 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Angela Bennett is a computer expert. The young and beautiful analyst is never far from a computer and modem. The only activity she has outside of computers is visiting her mother. A friend, whom she's only spoken to over the net and phone, Dale Hessman, sent her a program with a weird glitch for her to de-bug. That night, he left to meet her and was killed in a plane crash. Angela discovers secret information on the disk she has received only hours before she leaves for vacation. Her life then turns into a nightmare, her records are erased from existence and she is given a new identity, one with a police record. She struggles to find out why this has happened and who has it in for her....For some reason, after Speed, Bullock was given this car crash as her first starring vehicle. It was probably because Roberts and Steerp had moderate success with the pelican brief and the river wild respectively, but she hadn't held a film on her one, and this was a bad place to start.Firstly, this sort of film would obviously age badly, but unlike War Games, it doesn't have that camp value. It just consists of Bullock getting herself into scrape after scrape, and trying to avoid staggering plot holes.Secondly, as someone from the UK, it really irked me to see the Englishman with the posh accent as the bad guy. As soon as the guy opened his mouth, I knew he was the main bad guy, and he would die in some pathetic way.These films were rife in the nineties, and this avoided straight to video, simply because it was a starting vehicle for a very good actress.Luckily for her she has great charisma, and survived this mess.Seriously, the direct to DVD sequel is better. "}{"Title":"Nothing too special, just one of those movies to watch when you have nothing to do","Date":"7 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie is packed with action, suspense and thriller, but does that make it good? I don't think so, although to its justice it isn't bad.I don't know if I would call this movie ahead of its time, but it deals with stuff that was still Chinese to the common of mortals Internet and complicated computer technologies. Remember, this was in 1995, some years before the technological explosion that changed our world and society.Angela Bennett is an expert on that stuff. What she couldn't predict is that she was being spied online by criminals who knew everything about her and that they'd steal her life, that is, anything that can prove her identity and since very few people know her in person, to prove who she is won't be easy. And other strange things that happen to her...While she fights to undo the erasing of her identity, she is chased by criminals and even the police, but mostly by Jack, the criminal who started by seducing her, and is determined to kill her.Overall, this movie is okay, watchable, but definitely not one to include in a movie collection. At least not for me.Sandra Bullock's acting as Angela Bennett is great, but it's mostly her beauty and cuteness that captivates me. And this one is a chance of seeing her in bikini. She looks wonderful in bikini, what a lovely body she has. "},{"Title":"What is this crap?","Date":"17 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is where my boring adventure began. So the computers at my school were all being shut off all day because of some hackers. We spent TWO WHOLE DAYS in my technology class watching this crap on the screen. I decided to take out my iphone and listen to some music but the teacher said NO! Put that away and watch this amazing movie featuring Sandra Bullock The chick that was married to that one biker dude with all the tattoos and the one that made out with a girl? I gave it some thought and I actually enjoy old movies every now and then so I began to watch it. WHAT THE HELL WAS I THINKING?! This movie is junk. It's boring. Nobody is going to be entertained. If you want to see Sandra Bullock on a computer all day, making phone calls to 30 something people and making a huge fuss through out the entire movie, then this is the movie for you. The only part that I found entertaining is when she hangs out with some guy on a boat and some how he ends up being one of the bad guys and pulls out his gun and tries to shoot her. He should have so she can be put out of misery already. But anyways, this doesn't make any sense because she somehow manages to knock this guy out with random objects? He faints a couple times and she manages to escape and go to the boat that's next to her and leave. Then she awakens in some weird hospital place and then after this I kinda zoned out because I almost fell asleep. I told you the most entertaining part of the movie. Yes I understand the technology back then was OH MY GOD! She discovered how to order a pizza! Yaaaay! Big hype back in the day. Just don't watch. My teacher made a mistake, all the seniors and juniors in the class looked so out of it. It was the most boring period of my life. Watch something better. "},{"Title":"A true classic by Sandra Bullock!","Date":"3 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" If you love Sandra Bullock movies, this one is probably the right one for you. It tells the story of a woman whose identity is stolen from her just by hacking into computers and changing the main servers. It is scary in a way that this is quite possible. The acting in it was very well planned and will keep you on yours toes. The whole movie goes through all the obstacles she has to go through and the difficulties she encounters with existing as someone else. It really makes you think. It's full of love, lies, and scandal. It's a must see for any Sandra Bullock fan! It's a great thriller! Not much violence or blood either. "},{"Title":"The Christmas Bullock for 2009, v1.00","Date":"26 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The past few years I have purchased a few Sandra Bullock DVDs for the Christmas period. No surprise that such can appear to be sense. I tend to skip over those intended for a mature taste, but there is plenty of fun stuff that fits what I used to understand to be Christmas Spirit several decades ago. 2009 I forgot to purchase any, pressure against purchasing DVDs, but I found that I had managed to obtain three anyhow. Two were for mature taste but still interesting, The Net was perfect Christmas Bullock. This is classic, low brow, early Bullock, a nice and easy story to relax to. I prefer this to Speed, for that reason. I prefer While You Were Sleeping and Stolen Hearts for the same sort of reason. An impressive time zone for Bullock features. * The other two that I watched in the days just before were Infamous (2006) and Crash (2004). To me these are high brow Bullock and I tend to skate over such as these. I just watched them the once. They both relate to worlds that I think I know a bit about, from experience. I found Infamous interesting for considering how belief systems have progressed since the 1950's. Finian's Rainbow has a conservative politician calling for a need to progress towards the past and Infamous is rooted in how the beliefs of the past could have a certain tragedy? Interesting to watch it the once, then ponder. Crash as more complex, but there is an over-all structure to the story that tells me more about what it might be about while also offering a possible explanation re why the first three quarters of the story feels happier and more comfortable that I would have thought was merited by the story content. "},{"Title":"This is a comedy for the true Hackers","Date":"3 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I will admit, I liked this movie when I was a teenager, mainly because the movie involved computers. But over the years, I have quickly come to realize that this movie is really nothing more than a silly fiction story.First of all, for this exact reason, the government would never ask a single company to knowingly setup something linking all of the government's computer systems. But probably the most comical part of this movie is how everyone says our computers are protected by the Gatekeeper System, so it's not possible that anyone could have broke in to change anything. Anyone with a reasonable amount of knowledge in the computer industry will tell you that there is no such thing as a completely secure computer system. And more frequently, finding ways around the security system is a lot easier than anyone would ever like to think.I also love the end of this movie, where she unleashes the virus on the Gatekeeper System, and they say the virus is eating through the Gatekeeper System, nothing will be left, everything will be destroyed! All she did was stick the disk in the computer, and it instantly infects the Gatekeeper system, waiting for them to press Esc. By the way, I thought Mac's were supposed to be immune to viruses. LOL Isn't it interesting how our society becomes more and more attached to technology, yet the people using it are more and more clueless. From what I've seen, the only movie about computers that ever made reasonable sense was made 25 years ago... WarGames "},{"Title":"Underdone Internet Thriller","Date":"28 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A fantastic premise that bears no fruit. I am sure there's a great espionage thriller in the Internet somewhere, but this half-baked idea from co-writer/director Irwin Winkler is dreadfully underdone.The Net is seriously lacking in character development, so we never get a chance to delve into the minds of the players involved in this story of a computer freak who accidentally stumbles across a program which allows access to restricted sub-nets like the air traffic control network, and several other highly sensitive computer systems. Before poor Angela Bennet knows what's happening, she's fleeing for her life and trying to convince someone of the existence of the evil organisation that is infiltrating the Internet.The half-decent plot turns out very pedestrian in the hands of Winkler. Admittedly there wasn't a great deal he could do with this neglected yarn, but he appears to have gambled on the chance that the clever premise would alone be enough to carry the entire show. Not so! The Net is an enjoyable entertainment though, thanks to Sandra Bullock's natural every-girl appeal - she may not have the face of a model, and she's no Jodie Foster, but somehow Sandra manages to keep you interested in what's happening to her. Bullock not only carries the limping storyline, but the 'along for the ride' support cast as well. Mark Isham's score is catchy, but not utilised nearly enough.Good fun, but Disclosure it is not. Looking forward to a real Internet nail biter!Tuesday, November 7, 1995 - Waverley Pinewood Cinema "},{"Title":"Decent Cyber-Thriller","Date":"14 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Angela Bennett (Sandra Bullock) is a freelance computer analyst who spends her reclusive life tracking down computer viruses and chatting on the net. When she is sent a top secret disc, she finds herself caught up in web of corruption and conspiracy; and her life is turned on its head when her identity is deleted.Bullock does well in the role and is ably supported by Jeremy Northam and Dennis Miller. The Net has a interesting plot and some intriguing moments, but despite this i can't help feeling it never quite reached its potential.6/10 its a decent thriller nothing more "},{"Title":"Entertaining till the end","Date":"27 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I am not a Sandra Bullock's fan. But her performance in this movie is very good. Movie is very captivating till the end and a fast paced thriller.It is about the life of a programmer/hacker software analyst who is quite to herself and interacts very less with outside world. She has few friends over net. Angela Bennett(Sandra) get's into trouble when a disk is sent to her by a friend who dies in a plane crash and things start getting worse for her with her identities stolen and she starts to fight for her identity. Sandra bullock's role is amazing in the movie. Her next move keeps you guessing all the time. Time to Enjoy!!. Had a real good time with it. "},{"Title":"mildly entertaining....","Date":"1 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  note  some spoilers may be contained.the basic premise of this movie is that sandy bullock comes across some information she is not supposed to have, and spends two hours running from the bad guys.course, ole sandy has her demons...father ran off, mother suffering from memory loss...and pretty much keeps to herself.  so that bad guys (who have the power to break in to all these computers) just steal her identity.i read a comment that this was not a chick flick, but it VERY MUCH is.  the most all common element that draws it in are that all of the males in the film are either the bad guys OR are of no real help to the protagonist.  in my opinion, dennis miller has a pretty good role as her former lover/therapist who is the only person who can identify her, but he quickly gets offed.while it was mildly entertaining, the movie somewhat drug on and was just too predictable. "},{"Title":"mildly entertaining....","Date":"1 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  note  some spoilers may be contained.the basic premise of this movie is that sandy bullock comes across some information she is not supposed to have, and spends two hours running from the bad guys.course, ole sandy has her demons...father ran off, mother suffering from memory loss...and pretty much keeps to herself.  so that bad guys (who have the power to break in to all these computers) just steal her identity.i read a comment that this was not a chick flick, but it VERY MUCH is.  the most all common element that draws it in are that all of the males in the film are either the bad guys OR are of no real help to the protagonist.  in my opinion, dennis miller has a pretty good role as her former lover/therapist who is the only person who can identify her, but he quickly gets offed.while it was mildly entertaining, the movie somewhat drug on and was just too predictable. "}{"Title":"It's not rocket science but...","Date":"29 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  You could get into the nitty gritty of this film, and say how it couldn't happen, or how could the main character just walk into offices and start using computers etc without someone noticing and really pick the movie to bits...or you could just sit back with a bucket of popcorn and enjoy the story and the acting. Personally, I prefer the latter, I live real life and watch the news with all it's doom and gloom, and so would much rather be entertained by my movies, and see the bad guys get their just rewards.  Don't take it too seriously, and you can thoroughly enjoy this film. "},{"Title":"Updated version of 1984 (PLOT SPOILERS)","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When you think about it (if you've read the book) this story is similar to that of George Orwell's 1984 When someone dies their indenity is deleted, the main character is a fugitive and is on the run from the British. I(being English) thought that Jeremy Northam's portrayal of Jack Devlin was a little over the top. If he had shot Bullock's character in the first scene his plan would have worked!      "},{"Title":"TENSE 90'S TRILLER,...","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" ...with Sandra Bullock as a fugutive. Was she any good?Mediocre. As a movie. Sure, there are some tense moments, that made this movie watchable all the way tho the end. But on the other hand, since there's nothing special in this movie (story, camera movement, directing, etc), it will soon be forgotten. Heh, but that's o.k. I guess, since it wasn't made to be a classic. More like a sunday-evening thriller, where you can put your brain into the off position and enjoy computer-action moments with Sandra.  So, if I compare this movie to The Fugitive, I have no problem with grading it. Watch both and you'll see why.6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  What a miserable movie about the wonderful Internet. Sandy Bullock is for a sure a doll; I usually like all her movies but this one I could take for about an hour and off it went. A ridiculously confusing and impossible-to-believe story which was supposed to be Hitchcockian while turning out to be dumber than a Three Stooges reel. "},{"Title":"ty but no gr8 thrillr! Not 2 bad tho @s far as xciting 'net movies go.","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  For once I totally agree with the voted rating here. 5.6 is spot on! Sandra B plays a computer whiz, altogether one sexy package, who offers a customised programming and data manipulation service to her clientele. What a shock then when we find she has taken one job too many...or rather the WRONG job. Before you can say Norton's Utilities she finds herself pretty much electronically erased and on the run from the law, her boyfriend (ultimately poor choice here!) and a really bad holiday!Although cliche'd and not much in the suspense or logic department, Bullock keeps the thing moving along - she is by far the best thing in it! Predictable and hammy ending don't exactly spoil it, because there never was anything much to spoil. A few decent keyboards on display, but little else. Jeremy Northam turns in an over the top performance as Sandra Bullock's lover-come-lately and the film's conclusion reeks of cinematic desperation.Not suited to multiple viewings unless one is very easily pleased!  "},{"Title":"Didn't like it. In fact, I was violently SICK! YES, SICK!!!!","Date":"19 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I can't say much for this film. The scriptwriters knowledge of technical possibility is to say the least, scant. Whoever heard of hacking a microwave to cook a person from the outside? Anyone with an IQ over 70 must have been rolling their eyes over THAT one.It took a few issues on computer hacking, completely blew them out of proportion. The script ideas were just rubbish. Then again, I bet the scriptwriters were the type of people who unplugged their fridges, desklights and toasters on the turning to the year 2000, just in case they had the 'millennium bug'.Why did Sandra, whom I loved in Miss Congeniality, lower herself to the depths of gutter popular science (fiction), and make this Roger Cormanesque piece of trash? "},{"Title":"So-so thriller, silly computer graphics","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie turned out to be an OK thriller, at least for me.  It really moves slowly in places.  And, yes, the computer graphics are of the Only In Hollywood variety.  Macintosh users  our fave computer is used a lot throughout the movie(again, excuse the geeky, gimmicky graphics).  Also, look for a couple Photoshop filters to make cameos! "},{"Title":"Harmless filler","Date":"10 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  OK, I didn't watch this film for accuracy nor was I expecting a true thriller. I like Sandra Bullock a lot, and this was a film of hers I hadn't seen before, so I rented it. While You Were Sleeping is so dear to my heart (my favorite movie), but I wanted to see Sandra in something a little different. This slick movie was quite a departure for her. Not only for Bullock, but for Jeremy Northam, who was amazing as Mr. Knightley in Emma. But his villain is too cartoonish to really be believable, but that might be the writers' fault and not his. Anyway, The Net is fun, but to me it got pretty boring and tedious towards the end. Nothing great, but OK. "},{"Title":"We Ante In Microchips Now","Date":"22 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  	For anyone who has ever logged on to the internet (and of course you have!) this movie will have you looking over your shoulder and seeking enrollment in a twelve step program for computer addiction.  `The Net,' directed by Irwin Winkler, stars Sandra Bullock as a computer nerd who has her identity-- her whole life, in fact-- snatched away from her with the stroke of a single key.  Angela Bennett (Bullock) is a computer whiz kid who works out of her home finding flaws in and debugging new programs sent to her on disc by her employer.  One day she inadvertently stumbles across one that is so big it sets off a chain reaction of intrigue that places her at the eye of the storm, though she hasn't a clue as to what it's all about.  All she knows is that suddenly she's not herself any more; at least according the records stored on hard drives everywhere.  And it's only the beginning of complications, the likes of which would give anyone with even the slightest bit of paranoia nightmares. 	With a plot that would make Kafka proud, this precursor to the even more paranoia-inducing `Enemy Of The State,' is a dark, cautionary tale of the misuse of a  technology that has quickly encompassed virtually every walk of life, yet without anyone having first harnessed the full fury of it's potential.  A work of fiction?  Of course; one could even say `science' fiction.  But in this case the technology is already in place, and anyone who wants YOU badly enough need look no further than the data base of the DMV, a credit card bureau or the Post Office, and they will quickly know more about you than you know yourself.  For those who would scoff, there's an old adage that goes something like  Anything that can be used `for' you can also be used `against' you.  At the very least it's food for thought that could keep those with opposing views on the matter debating endlessly.  Or, as in this case of this movie, it's enough to drive the average computer hacker to the brink of madness.  Shades of Lovecraft. 	At any rate, Winkler has given us an engrossing film that is intense and so exasperating, as you can only sit by and watch helplessly as he puts Angela through her paces, while Bullock makes it all convincing with an excellent performance, making Angela believable as an average girl-next-door whose frame of reference doesn't go much beyond her computer screen.  And all without making her too innocent or naive; she strikes an honest chord with her character that makes her one with whom the audience can readily identify, which is one of the strengths of the movie.  She evokes such empathy that it's easy to feel what it would be like to be in her place; and through her eyes, it's not a pretty sight.   	The supporting cast includes Jeremy Northam (Jack), Dennis Miller (Alan), Diane Baker (Mrs. Bennett), Wendy Gazelle (Ruth Marx) and Ken Howard (Bergstrom). Along with the dawning of a new age in technology comes the birth of a new era in fiction that will forevermore be fueled by the microchip.  And if `The Net' is any indication, buckle your seat belts, because it's going to be an intense, bumpy-- and highly entertaining-- ride (as already evidenced by `The Matrix,' as well as the aforementioned `EOTS').  It's inevitable that the questions of possibility or probability will arise, especially when a film like this has a contemporary setting; but the most important thing to remember is that if projects such as this fall into capable hands, we'll all be in for some exciting cinema.  It's all a matter of using the magic wisely.  I rate this one 6/10.                "},{"Title":"Real TERROR of modern life.","Date":"2 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Imagine, you put your informations in the internet and your life is ruined by the internet. Real TERROR of modern life.I love this movie very much because it presented us the factthat Internet has a dark side too. Our life turn up-side down by internet can happen in our real life.  Everything in this movie can be real.I think that this movie tried to warn The Internet Users all over the world to be careful about using Internet or else you will be like Sandra Bullock in this movie.  Her life (in this movie) is totally up-side down. "}{"Title":"Catch our attention for most of the internet users out there","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film is incredibly fantastic. It is very relevant to most of us who are interested in using the internet. It must been very hard and frustrated for Bennett to face the alteration of her life from one direction to another, fears to lose everything. I believe that the film is very inspired me, and also shows me in a way that life is a very complicated network - the conflict between people may lead to a greater damage to the society that we're live in. I have to say that i really like the movie - i watched the movie about 4 times now, today is the last time.  "},{"Title":"Web thriller on it's edge!","Date":"26 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Pursued by an IT based terrorist to totally annihilate Angela Bennet(Sandra Bullock)in the world, she finds no one to relay her ordeal coz no one would going to believe such a story w/o anticipating the reality that connects user from the danger's of giving up personal information on the computerized system. A breath stopping chased ensued between Angela and her would be assassin played by(Jeremy Northam)and the chances of recovering her true identity from the Ruth Marx he shifted into her was dimmer w/o taking the risk of infiltrating the same software program w/c brought her to mess. Then in the end , she outsmarted the thugs raising the fact that no evil schemes could succeed good ones. Albeit I was little puzzled of how they over demonstrated the capability of computers, I can still brag that it was still a great movie compared to the flop, garbage cyber film,Hackers.Thrilling portrayal of the web world is how I summed up this movie. "},{"Title":"Unrealistic but still good","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  There is no doubt that Sandra Bullock can act, she also has a great deal of stage presence, she showed great chemistry with Dennis Miller and I'm gonna be bold enough to say that Sandra Bullock made this movie what it is.However, I had a problem with the unrealistic way the movie portrayed the Net. All those graphics (like the Mozart's Ghost one) were able to be saved on a floppy disk (when in reality, you need a zip drive to fit a file like that) and the Net wouldn't be able to handle that much graphic without Java or any other applet. When computers are concerned, it wasn't very realistic, and don't even get me started on that virus! But I gotta admit, I enjoyed watching this tech movie. Although for people who have no idea how the Net goes, this kind of movie will awaken feelings of paranoia and the notion that the Net is a horrible place.But I like this movie. I have always loved chase movies, but this isn't the typical chase movie, I don't know, I think it's the use of technology that makes it special. I give it a well-deserved **** I recommend it to anyone. "},{"Title":"Worth Watching","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Hi all,OK, so the writers don't know much about computers but they do know how to write good scripts. A lot of people say this is like any other chase-movie but it's a bit different. Of course there are some parts that remind you of The Fugitive but it's still different. If your a computer expert you'll for sure notice that some of the stuff in this film is unrealistic but it's only a movie. ****out of*****Watch It, you have nothing to lose -) "},{"Title":"Sandra is Yummy...but Give us more MILLER!","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It was a movie that made ya think a little. Some parts a little cheesy, some parts pretty good. Plot did thicken at times and just when you thought Angella (Sandra) found a friend the friend was fraud or dead. All I got to say is that DENNIS MILLER should have been in the whole movie. His character was the best, very refreshing after all the crap Angella went through. He would have lifted me and Angella through the dumps. "},{"Title":"Not Bad","Date":"1 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have to admit, I was only attracted to this movie due to the appearance of Jeremy Northam. After seeing him in Emma, I knew he was one of the greats. I didn't think he'd do well alongside Sandra Bullock, but I was proved completely wrong! They were dynamic. This movie is enough to hold you in your seat and then rocket you out of it. I've seen it three times, and still bite my nails for the last half hour of the film. The movie's pretty clean, so I think it's probably okay for most kids to watch (only a few bad words, and one scene where it's pretty obvious Jack and Angela made love; but it's not graphic and there's no nudity). All in all, I think it's a pretty cool movie. "},{"Title":"Interesting movie","Date":"5 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie on TV. It was one of those movies that really make you think. It was thrilling and fun to watch. Great entertainment! I give it an 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The prototypical two-and-a-half star movie","Date":"28 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie must have been what critics were thinking of when they invented the two-and-a-half star rating. The writing is average, the direction is average, the suspense is average, and the acting (besides Sandra Bullock) is average. Bullock has seen her share of flops (Two If by Sea, Speed 2, and most recently, Practical Magic) but she still manages to give consistently good, if not Oscar-worthy, performances. Besides that, the movie is, well...average. "},{"Title":"Beauty (black bikini) and beast (absurd computers)","Date":"27 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Why a rating of 5? Because 10 stars go to to Sandra's black bikini... To be more precise, to Sandra's wonderful body and her amazing face shot in close up. 0 stars go to everything else, especially the way they present software. I suppose that the at the time Apple managers sponsored the film, just to destroy their own brand A computer network that's so easy to hack and that lies about everything was not the best way to promote Apple... Thanks God Steve Jobs returned back and stopped immediately those ultra expensive, self destroying ad campaigns. If you love Sandra Bullock, watch this movie, it's worth it. Otherwise forget it. "},{"Title":"A Common Man's Psychological Thriller","Date":"21 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Net (1995). It's hard to assess THE NET as a computer espionage thriller. It is less action than Enemy of the State (1998) and less poignant in some ways that War Games (1983), and not quite as intimately juvenile/teenager and smooth and polished as Antitrust (2001). In some ways The Net is a psychological thriller that depends more on the subtle, covert computer focus than most of the other movies in as such might be considered a much better, pure form of the this subgenre of computer-espionage thriller. There is the mother-daughter subtext as well as the rather powerful deception twist and the friendship and loss scenes that have some impact. Interestingly the climax seems long in coming and the frustration level quite high in this particular movie. Much of Sandra Bullock's behavior and action seem to be consistent and reasonable considering the circumstance she finds herself and fascinating in that she doesn't need to depend on extraordinary measures outside of her on-screen character which in some ways dampens the excitement of the movie but at the same time places it more in the human-reality context. The overall effect is to make the movie less captivating and yet in a strange way more compelling because of its connection to the Everyman. 7/10. "}{"Title":"The Net is like art imitating life","Date":"6 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" If there is an example of a movie made years ago that is in my view relevant years later, it is The Net which deals with problems associated with computers being used to steal people's identities, tamper with files of people and so on.Talk about a movie where art imitates life years later. Sandra Bullock stars as Annette Bennett who is a computer analyser who has her identity stolen and changed to Ruth Marx who is a character met later in the film who takes the real Angela's identity. All of this is caused by a mysterious man named Jack Devlin(Jeremy Northam) who is framing her because she discovered a top secret program that was initiated. "},{"Title":"A solid underrated little suspense thriller, that has thrills-a plenty, with a cool story, Sandra Bullock is terrific!","Date":"4 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a solid underrated little thriller, that has thrills-a plenty, with a cool story, Sandra Bullock is terrific!. All the characters are great, and I was surprised by how unpredictable it was as there were only a few predictable moments, plus Sandra Bullock is simply amazing in this!. Jeremy Northam played an awesome villain, and I know what Bullock's character in this is all about, because I'm kind of the same type of person(I hardly ever go out), plus this is pretty well made and written for the most part. This should be higher then 5.5 in my opinion, plus Denis Miller was surprisingly better then expected in his small role. The scene where Northam terrorizes Bullock on his boat was quite suspenseful, and was one of my favorite moments, and I also liked the chase scene in the carnival, plus I liked the ending too, as it was quite well done, even If i did think Northam was defeated too quickly. There are lots of other good chase scenes as well, and it's also clever at times too, plus there are quite a few shocking moments as well, This is a solid underrated little thriller, that has thrills a-plenty, with a cool story, Sandra Bullock is terrific, I highly recommend this one!. The Direction is great!. Irwin Winkler does a great! job here with excellent camera work, adding good atmosphere, good angles and keeping the film at a very fast pace. The Acting is fantastic!. Sandra Bullock is amazing as always and is amazing here, she is extremely likable, tough as nails yet quite vulnerable, and I was able to feel for her because as I said I'm sort of like Angela,I hardly ever go out, I really enjoyed her work in this movie! (Bullock Rules!!!!!!!). Jeremy Northam is excellent as the villain, he was sneaky, unpredictable and very menacing, he was great. Dennis Miller is surprisingly OK and non annoying in his small role, and managed to bring some comic relief. Rest of the cast are fine. Overall I highly recommend this one!. ***1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Very good thriller","Date":"30 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I'm quite a fan of thriller movies, and remembered seeing this movie before it came on TV one night. I hardly remembered any of it, but watched it anyway. Boy, I was in for a lot. Sandra Bullock is great in this, we feel her loneliness, and get to like her as the film moves on. Angela Bennet is a woman who basically fixes computer viruses for a job. She is sent a top secret disc, that has massive power in the wrong hands. As she goes on holiday, it is stolen by a man, who is using it's power to access The Net to delete Angela's identity. Angela returns home, signing under the name of Ruth MArx so she can access the USA. But her house has been sold, no one remembers her, her car isn't there, and she has no one to state that she is Angela Bennet. She now has to stay away from the police, who think she is the outlaw Ruth MArx, AND uncover the Conspiracy behind the Disc, the man that stole it and a huge Software company. There are lots of suspense scenes when you'll be shouting GET OUT THE ROOM! at the camera, and lots of action as well. I really cant see why this got a bad review, the only bad point is that the computers in this movie age it quite a bit, and that the plot/conspiracy is a tiny bit hard to understand. But you'll have fun watching this. "},{"Title":"They Are Watching you and Even me at this computer!!!!!!!!","Date":"7 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This Movie is a warning to all people sat surfing the internet on a typical day at the office. My Warning is ,Do not reveal too much about yourself, 2 Be careful who you cross!! ,there are spies on this internet thing. I thought that it was so scary what that man and woman combination did to poor Angela Bennett, I did not realise that somebody could take ones life away in one click of this mouse Angela I thought did a sterling job of outwitting Jack Delvin and that awful girl my question is, why does that computer make that noise when it works? like a clicking sound mine does not do this or this one. This film also tells you that there is fraud on this internet Also why couldn't Angela do the virus destroyer programme at a CyberCafe? I also thought that like all computers the transfer rate to disk was slow that is correctly portrayed in this film when you save the programme to your floppy disk the bar only moved slowly!!! I quite liked Angela's house at the beginning of the film as well Why did no one believe Angela??? "},{"Title":"Intriguing!","Date":"5 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I liked this movie very, very much. And it shows what happens when you become a victim of ID theft. You know who you are, but everyone doesn't. Angela Bennet(Sandra Bullock), is a big time computer geek who spends time on computers and pizza. Really doesn't give much anything else, until now. Sandra Bullock really puts on a show playing the strong will, smart and cunning character. Not only was Angela was the victim, other around and outside her were as well. Though she encountered some phonies along the way. Ruth Marx(Wendy Gazelle) really had everyone fooled except the real Bennet and me. If it wasn't for the infected disk, the fraudulent happening would have continued to spread like a plague. So far, the movie wasn't boring, it was filled intrigue, suspense, and most of all a fine ending. Everyone got what they wanted and so did I. Well done, Sandra Bullock! Rating 3 out of 5 stars! "},{"Title":"My favorite movie of 1995","Date":"26 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Why all the negative reviews???  You didn't expect a movie like this to be a masterpiece did you???  What we have is a movie that tried to entertain us and it worked for me.  Not an oscar contender, just entertainment.  You can really see how the movie has aged, especially with everything the internet has to offer nowadays.  I still remember when this was first released and the net was still so new.  Crazy and scary thoughts when I saw this for the first time; I was 15 and seriously thought anyone could get a hold of your information on a computer and destroy you.  But, who's to say it can't happen???  I'm not the type of person to nitpick a movie to death, analyzing it until I'm blue in the face.  That's not my style.  Average acting, suspensful and once again, very entertaining.  Sandra Bullock as Angela Bennett is so cute.  This is my favorite movie with her in it because she's like the computer genius, which I find very attractive.  Of all the movies that were released in 1995, this would have to be my favorite, although, I didn't see it until 1996.  My rating, 9/10 because it did slow down a little. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable but disposable","Date":"3 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Sandra Bullock stars in a film which felt like it could have been much better.The premise, a trojan horse security product allowing the villains to alter data held on computers around the world and gain control through computer manipulation was interesting and the action set pieces successful, but the film was insufficiently engaging to make one really care about the outcome.  "},{"Title":"I like this film more than most reviewers!","Date":"9 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I enjoyed Sandra Bullock's portrayal of a vulnerable, intelligent young woman who is forced into a situation that brings out her spunk! It was easy for me to cast aside disbelief enough to care about the main character's predicament and go along for the ride. "},{"Title":"pretty good thriller","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I enjoyed this film, but I was disgusted with the portrayal of the psychologist/ex-boyfriend. I'm weary of Hollywood portraying doctors of all types violating one of our most important rules - never have sex with a patient - NEVER! The movie treats this subject so lightly that I'm sure the writer didn't have a clue about this. I did like her 'net smarts, her independent spirit and some of the plot twists. However, her getting on a boat and having sex with a stranger flew in the face of the intelligence of the character. Overall, I found it entertaining enough to purchase the DVD.  "},{"Title":"Pure entertainment","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I enjoyed this film when I first saw it back in 1995, long before I  became Net savvy.  Let's face it this film came out before ANYBODY was really that Net savvy.   Now, years later, the technology is unrealistic.  But if you see it as an interesting character, moving the plot along, rather than something to be dissected, it's a fun ride.  Think of it as that robot you saw way back when in Lost in Space--of course he was cardboard, but, boy, wasn't he cool?   I enjoyed Sandra Bullock in this role.  Pretty or not, I could imagine how lonely it could have been to be a women in technology in those days--visit any computer conference and you'll note that even now, we're a bit scarce.  And, I am a Mac Addict, so I'll willingly accept a movie world where Apple is the predominant technology.   I yearn for the innocent days of The Net.  The last time I went to see a so-called tech film, I was treated to John Travolta's character --in what was that, Swordfish?--utilizing it to sexually dehumanize women and murder dozens of people.  I will take Sandra Bullock saving the world with a floppy disk at MacWorld any day. "}{"Title":"It's good IF you're a Sandra Bullock fan!!","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I liked this film.  It kind of dragged in parts but for the most part it delivered all the goods.  One thing bothered me though.  Why didn't Sandra Bullock just cut her hair to avoid being discovered by all the people who were looking for her?  This movie is so 1995.  It's so dated in terms of the computer graphics that were used.  There are several scenes that were truly well done and suspenseful.  Everybody asks, could this really happen?  The answer is simple, yes. "},{"Title":"Only Sandra Bullock's Biggest Fans Will Get Anything Out of This One","Date":"27 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Annoying film about a young woman (Sandra Bullock) who stumbles upon some dangerous computer software and then becomes the target of a sadistic assassin (Jeremy Northam).  This film was made in 1995, when the Internet was becoming a curiosity with people around the world.  An all-over-the-map screenplay and confusing direction do not help out in the end.  Bullock tries hard, but she cannot save the film's wild screenplay.  Dennis Miller shines in a small supporting role.  2.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Suspenseful but with a human story","Date":"14 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Net is a fantastic film. Sandra Bullock is funny, refreshing, and tragic by turns, as a nobody caught in the middle of a major conspiracy to take over the Internet, and thereby, our very lives.Like many good films, The Net lets us see things from various points of view at once. When Angela is trying to explain her predicament to her court-appointed lawyer, we can see her paranoia as both understandable from her point of view and as the typical defensive craziness that her public defender might see.Jeremy Northam is perfect as the bad guy who can't seem to decide whether he wants to prolong the sexual tension of the chase or just kill her and get it over with.As one other reviewer here has noted, this film is very Hitchcockian. It reminded me of Strangers on a Train the carousel scene seems to be a direct reference to Train, and the whole theme of Angela meeting a stranger who then takes over her life is very similar. The film is very skillfully edited for suspense. For example, the scene on the boat when Angela discovers the gun she is shown just discovering it right before Devlin comes up to the deck, but by the time he gets there, she's quite prepared for his arrival, although you think she's a goner. This sort of editing is masterful and really adds to the suspense.The scene where she confronts Devlin on the boat is my favorite I just love how she says So.... who are you...Jack? -- she gives the word Jack just the right staccato emphasis. Devlin's response is classic, and gives away his badness perfectly; and then the camera focusing on only half his face at a time (eyes/mouth) is perfect, also. This recalls the camera's focus on Angela's mouth when she's typing to the chat room before. The implication is that we are just mouths on the Internet (typing words) and eyes in real life (sexual attraction), and we have to connect the two somehow.I also liked the use of names Champion for Angela's only friend, Devlin for the devilishly evil Jack, Angela (often shortened to Angel) to denote Angela's essential innocence.Angela's mother having Alzheimer's reinforces Angela being cut off from people -- the person she's closest to doesn't even remember her name. I always get teary during the scene where she's trying to get her mom to identify her to the cop (although Angela calling her may be putting her mom in danger, it's a very human thing for her to do).Over the course of the movie, we see Angela changing she's starting to value her friends and family more, and realizing that she's been cut off from people. Ironically, Devlin is one of the instruments of her growing understanding, when he tells her that we're really very similar, you and I. She's shocked into realizing that she *is* tied to her family (such as it is) with a bond of love (even her defense of her absentee father to Champion brings us some insight into her feeling for her family). This attachment to people is something neither Devlin nor the imposter Angela can understand (for example, the imposter Angela looks around at the computer convention and says Let's get outta here, all these people are making me nervous). Annie Lennox's cover of Whiter Shade of Pale is used in the film, most appropriately. Angela is a vestal virgin in many ways, who must go through some pretty psychedelic experiences to find herself.An important aspect of this film is obviously its portrayal of a brief moment in history when only a few organizations and hackers were aware of the vast potential of the Internet. Because this film was made in 1995, it conveys the feeling of newness of all the technology. This makes Angela's isolation from others both easier to understand (weren't all hackers at that time isolated from those who had no idea what the Internet was?) and more frightening will we all soon succumb to the Net's seductive pull? The computer aspects of the film were actually quite impressive if not totally realistic for the technology of the time, at least the film has aged well. For the time it was made, the film's understanding of the role the Internet would play in our lives was almost prophetic. The main point about the use of the technology in the film, however, is that it does *not* override the human story.Overall, I recommend this film as highly entertaining and suspenseful, with the theme of the dangerous implications, for both the individual and society, of our new computer technology.  "},{"Title":"A superb thriller","Date":"15 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Sandra Bullock who plays Angela Bennett lives and breathes computers. She does everything by the net- order pizza, book airline tickets or reveal personal details to someone who lives all the way in India. Even her neighbours have not seen her and her mother has a memory problem and does not recognise her daughter. She also works as a computer programmer for a computer company and gets rid of viruses attached to disks.One day a very valuable disk is sent to her with all the programming details and baddies decide that they want it. Angela Bennett is an appropriate person to snatch it from because nobody knows her and if she ends up dead nobody will miss her. Therefore her life is completely changed and turned around before you can even say watch out, you daft woman!.Watching how Angela Bennett gets herself out of the mess is very thrilling. It is superbly directed and Sandra is believable. You find yourself rooting for her until the very end. It is her show all the way as there is no hero opposite her though Jeremy Northam is very effective as the baddie.Rating 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The only value in The Net is retro value","Date":"17 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Net is a movie I never saw upon release, I remember giving it a pass upon the mediocre reviews and since then perhaps been noticing a snippet here and there when it's been on TV. Seeing it now, fourteen years after it's original release, I'm a little flabbergasted as to how time flies. Being in my mid 20's, it made my childhood feel ancient. I felt as if I should probably do some exercise before my body starts stacking up fat in all the wrong places. Cut down on fat and sugar. Too much coffee and cigarettes.Anyway, that was the best part of this movie experience for me. I'd say the first 30 minutes of this movie really kept me occupied with retro heaven. Look at those big cans they call computers. Look, they chat in chat rooms! I remember those tank tops! They look.... stupid. And hey, it even stars Sandra Bullock. First billed! Would you look at that.As a movie, The Net is just an unimaginative, plain and totally routine Hitchockian cat-and-mouse thriller. Nothing archaic about that, they made them then as much as they make them now. Bullock plays a reclusive computer nerd who's job it is to fix software for people who don't get that whole computer thingy. As it happens, she stumbles upon some delicate information and after her vacation trip ends up with her nearly getting killed by a sexy lay who turns out to be a killer (played by Jeremy Northam, and she should have been suspicious by the fact that they are in an American movie and the guy both smokes and has a British accent!) she gets her identity wiped out. Her house is empty, for sale, and upon checking it out, it turns out that she now has got a new identity. A convicted prostitute and impostor, no less.Now you might say that this is improbable. How could they possibly do that to her? Even in 1995, it's impossible! That's true, but back in '95 a lot of people didn't even know what the Internet was. I can see how it's a plot hole you could have accepted back then. What's far more disastrous though is the inconsistencies that have nothing to do with technology. The movie obviously owes a lot to Hitchcock movies (it's one of those thrillers that feature a merry-go-round by night) but Hitchcock always made sure that his movies were plausible. The characters didn't act like confused maniacs when trying to prove their innocence, and the plot didn't conveniently lay down for a structure where one obstacle inevitable leads to the other. The characters also tried a little before giving into the whole rouge chase. Has Bullock's character really no friends what so ever? Couldn't any old high school teacher confirm her identity? Or like... her nearest pizza guy? Oh right, she orders pizza from the Internet. Never mind. You figure the movie out pretty quickly. There seems to be hope in an ex boyfriend. You really think so? You should always count on at least ONE surprise. The Net offers none.The Internet poses a lot of danger, this movie seems to predict. But, had the movie been made today, imagine the troubles the villains would have to go through to ensure the identity wipe. Not only do they have to do all those boring literal things, she would still have her Facebook membership, with at least like 100 friends or so, and picture tags, not to mention she might be on YouTube or Linked-In, and what about her video blog with like 150 daily hits, or the webcams in her house and recorded video of her in other people's cell phones, webcams, web downloads... her IMDb membership? "},{"Title":"Excellent, nail-biting, edge-of-your-seat techno thriller","Date":"28 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Wow! In my opinion, THE NET is an excellent, nail-biting, edge-of-your-seat techno thriller that will leave you feeling good all over. When I first saw it, I was feeling good all over for days. When Angela (Sandra Bullock) went to Mexico, I thought to myself, That is a really nice place to vacation. From the moment Jack (Jermey Northam) and Ruth (Wendy Gazelle) began chasing her, I thought to myself, Don't let anything bad happen to her! Please! I also took quite a few deep breaths to prevent myself from screaming any more than I already had. On the bright side, if you ask me, the house was very luxurious and spacious. In conclusion, I give this excellent, nail-biting, edge-of-your-seat techno thriller four stars. "},{"Title":"Unbelievable piece of misogyny plus techy unknowledge.","Date":"4 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The lack of techy care in the movie is noted well in other reviews. No plot details here, as many other users give that. Just to clear up something elsewhere noted...easy to miss, as it's one line in a single conversation. The reason no one at Angela's office recognizes her and she doesn't go to the Chronicle building to use the computer is she has never been to SF or her office. She works out of her home in Venice Beach (near L.A.), making her a telecommuter before that was common, and incidentally pointing how very very good at legit hacker work she is supposed to be, that the company allows this.My comment concerns Sandra Bullock's character itself. Angela is supposed to be a supremely competent computer nerd on the level of a hacker, who is pretty much out of it socially. It makes sense that she is such a moron in regards to the men in the movie. But it's asinine that this extremely knowledgeable and competent woman would fly around squeaking help me help me! like a subnormally intelligent barefoot and pregnant little woman, taking actions like pressing every button on a radio three times fast and randomly while squeaking help me! help me! into the mic after the first murder attempt, make not the slightest attempt to protect herself (or anyone else) from the myriad and one things computers control which she obviously knew all about before any of this started, never be at all wary of anyone or anything until the movie is almost over...in short, she acts like the housewifey computer illiterate unable to even figure out the remote for the TV type awash in a sea of confusion throughout the movie, and the few moments of her sitting at some desk somewhere using some computer as if she knows all about it as well as the other character's comments about her switching servers and covering her tracks all ring utterly false because of it. This broad so clearly could not figure out how to hit the power button by herself, there is no way she would be able to handle a comp, much less do any of the things she supposedly does. That ruins an otherwise fun, if not technologically accurate, movie.Let's hope next time around Bullock's part isn't destroyed by a writer who believes that any woman who is good in a males only job must be shown up as really being the typical hysterical idiot female. (Anyone remember the can't be explained away by saying its supposed to be a comedy equally totally asinine incompetent female character Bullock portrayed in MS Congenialty?) "},{"Title":"I enjoyed it","Date":"28 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I thought this was an exciting thriller. Sandra does a wonderful job in her role. The most interesting thing about it is, that this could easily happen. That is what makes this whole movie so scary. You never know whom you will meet, in real life or on the internet. Our lives are on the computer. All of our information is on the computer. We sometimes can never know who to trust. This movie was very well paced. It started kind of slow, but it helped show us who Angela Bennett was. I know there are people out there who would love to have Angela Bennett's job, and not have to deal with the outside world. All in all, an enjoyable movie. One I can watch over and over. "},{"Title":"Kind of silly","Date":"16 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film aged as well as a carton of milk.  It is obvious that the lovely Ms. Bullock has no idea what she is talking about when she spouts her computer jargon.  And the continuous use of the Mozart's Ghost device grows real tired real quick.  Dennis Miller is completely annoying as he chuckles after every line he delivers.  Yet the movie can hold your interest! "},{"Title":"Technophobia - to be afraid of new inventions","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I wonder... What do the people who laud this film really know about the Internet?Still I have to say that it CAN happen to you. Only problem is that the Social Security people don't have their data available to the general public, i.e. on the Internet - or if they do, it's not deletable, (read-only), and, believe me, they have a backup safely stored away - not reachable from the Internet (something else would be down right stupid). There would have to be a physical break in (like the people who tried to break into the Watergate building - only they were caught, and correct me if I'm wrong it wasn't even a Federal building), if such a thing was to happen.Then there is your files at the IRS... Do you have a criminal past? If so, the Police have files on you - possibly even stored as PAPER COPIES. Have you ever gone to the dentist? They don't normally keep the X-ray pictures of your bad teeth stored digitally. In short, the data about your person is spread out over a wide area, so just DELETING you isn't that easy.Yes, cell phones can be triangulated, even tapped. Again, there would have to be a PHYSICAL break in. It isn't enough for a geek to find a wire dug into the ground. To achieve such an absolute control of a human being - or at least over the data on a human being, would require such a level of conspiracy and down right corruption that the whole country would probably be in danger of a coup d'etat (what I'm implying is that the country would have to be on the verge of civil war).As for the film; it's entertaining enough, and if your willing to let go of the Realities of Life (and the Internet) it's down right scary (besides Bullock is really cute). But it isn't anything more than pure entertainment. The philosophy behind it is too weak for that. Besides the film rides on a wave of technophobia, so it's basically a just a cheap sell out on the fears of the novice or non-Internet user.For something really scary - and a much better kick at the dangers of a controlled society, read 1984 or Animal Farm by George Orwell, or Brave New World by Aldous Huxley. These books at least doesn't try to hide the fact that they're Science Fiction. If you want to see a better film about the phenomenon, see Hackers. The Matrix is the sci-fi part, and a classic, and for pure Net-action see Swordfish. "}{"Title":"If this is not the greatest film in the world, that's only because Capricorn One is even better.","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Spoiler warning... Jennifer Bullock as a computer nerd with no friends.  Yeah, I believe it.  Man, I'm hooked right away. You got my attention, yes indeed. Jeremy Northam (a very good actor.  No, really.) as a charming bad guy with the superhuman ability to hack into every computer in the world in the blink of an eye.   Ms Bullock is a talented performer, with a huge range of facial expressions, both of which are shown to their full effect in this marvellous drama.  Firstly, she smiles.  This indicates that she is happy.  Then, right before your eyes, she does not smile.  This indicates that she is scared, sad, confused, asleep, or about to whack the bad guy in the face with a fire extinguisher.  It really is a privilege to watch. Mister Northam is also a talented performer.  I am still unclear as to his reasons for never wanting to talk about The Net or have it brought up in interviews.  Perhaps he's ashamed.  Yes, ashamed, because everything he has done since pales into insignificance.  Perhaps. You can tell this movie is going to be good because all the male characters have deliberately bad haircuts and awful clothes.  This is a sure sign of quality in any movie.  But especially this one. Also, the work we see people doing on computers is completely realistic and believable at all times.  For example, when Bullock goes onto some chat site she types in a comment and a reply pops up quicker than the person at the other end would have time to read it, never mind reply to it.  Yes, this happens to me every day. Also, when she wants to get onto some Swiss web site the screen displays something along the lines of Welcome to the Internet Suisse.  Every country has a site that acts as a gateway to all its websites.  This is true.   What this movie has in abundance, is heart.  I challenge anyone to pay money to see this in a cinema or on video and not to feel deeply upset afterwards.   I saw this on TV (so it was free.  Truly I am blessed) and I stayed awake for almost its entire running time.   Finally, I would just like to say that if Sandra Bullock does not get nominated for an Oscar soon, she should give up acting and do something else.  Anything else.  If she is not to be properly appreciated then she should just tell Hollywood to go to hell and let that be the end of it.  Perhaps it will only be after her death (Heaven forbid!) that her true talents come to be appreciated.  I can only hope and pray that The Net will one day be seen as the classic it is, and will finally be allowed to take its place in the pantheon of Great Movies, right next to Speed II Cruise Control. "},{"Title":"The premise is bordering on mentally challenged","Date":"6 December 2008","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The writers/film makers actually expect us to believe that in the year of 1995, there is no such thing as encryption and I.P. lock out. The most essential concept of the film requires the viewer to not simply be computer ignorant but ignorant without boundaries. I will admit, the film has it's moments but since it's poorly written and Bullock lacks the ability to carry the film, it's really just catering to the fans of the girl next door which is the image that made Sandra the success she is today. Put the girl next door we all know and love in a situation of suspense and danger which she charms and wits her way through and those fans are going to love it. As for the film buff that looks for something more, it's too much of a commercial popcorn flick. Something the parents can take the kids to and not have to worry about vulgarity, gruesome and graphic violence or sexual content. It doesn't require deep thought or understanding of the internet and at the time, that was certainly the case with a vast number of adults and their kids. Basically by targeting the family audience, they knew the parents were going to overlook the blunders and the kids simply wouldn't know any better.Understand at the time of it's release, it was promoted as this brilliant work of film that bordered on non-fiction. It was incredibly successful so when I finally saw it, I was rather unimpressed. I think film studios should understand they can push a film on the consumer without exaggerating the quality and people will still see it. "},{"Title":"Sandra's ok to me!","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I really like Sandra Bullock in all acting, but the net was the best! I don't care if the virus screens were a little fake, I liked it and bought it! I have seen it 10 times and are ready for more.Regards, RT "},{"Title":"Complete waste of time.","Date":"27 July 2004","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I see no reason to watch this film ever again. Actually I was only watching it for being curious about how much this movie could suck. Unfortunately it did suck big, big time! I am both a movie lover (with a relatively big collection of movies) and a computer geek (system analyst), so I believe I was able to watch the movie from more than just one viewpoint... I just wish they could have used some kind of networking/computer expert to help them out with the technical details and some able writers to avoid the problems they ran into with this movie, but it's always better to make some quick cash with a trendy subject, than making a movie with any historical value.The only good thing in this movie is sexy Sandra Bullock, who is one of my favorite actors. Unfortunately, a good actor can't save a crappy plot. Not even with help from a professional director like Winkler. It's quite obvious that the guys who put together this horrible screenplay had no idea of either computers or how to create some thrill... Naturally, in a movie based on playing around with computers, it's simply impossible to create any of the elements that make a good movie if you have no idea of what you are writing about.I voted 1/10, without Sandra it would have been -1 P  "},{"Title":"Great movie, timely plot, pertinent points, and excellent portrayals.","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I loved this movie!Movies and plays fulfill their purpose when they expose social, political, and other problems that affect the majority. This movie served that purpose.I identify with the plot and know people to whom this has happened. At the time this movie was made, concepts presented in this flick were advanced for the public, yet had already happened to friends of mine by way of people in powerful positions. And, I know what it is like when people do to you what they did to Angela Bennett, because they have done it to me.I greatly enjoyed Sandra Bullock's portrayal of Angela Bennett/Ruth Marx. She portrays a pretty, intelligent, and witty young woman who has the courage to avoid giving up to overwhelming odds, fight hard to keep her sanity and restore her life, and try to protect those whom she loves. Losing her self-concept and succumbing to that age-old attempt to bolster a sagging self esteem by indulging in sex with a stranger added a poignant touch of reality.The climax of the plot reveals the only real solution to this kind problem. "},{"Title":"This Net Not Worth Getting Caught In.","Date":"19 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Net (1995) Dir Irvin Winkler / Cast Sandra Bullock, Jeremy Northam, Dennis Miller, Diane Baker, Ken Howard Intriguing yet disappointing thriller about the Internet snare Sandra Bullock finds herself caught in. She gains access to a disc and encounters a peculiar guy while on vacation who seeks the disc. She makes her escape only to discover that she suddenly doesn't exist. She does a lot of running from danger to find out who is using her name and what the content on the disc is. Director Irvin Winkler does an effective job at creating Bullock's sudden world of paranoia. Bullock basically runs and makes narrow escapes. She could have out paced most marathon runners with the amount of running she does, and it effects the depth of the role, which slowly disintegrates. Jeremy Northam is cardboard as the sly villain. He talks the talk and gets blasted in the face with a fire extinguisher. He should be thankful considering how dull his dialogue was sounding coming from his mouth. Dennis Miller plays Bullock's only trusted friend who lands in trouble just for helping her. Or perhaps he landed in hot water for agreeing to do the film. Diane Baker also appears for all the good it does her. It is well made but it is unfortunate that the screenplay settles for tired thriller formula as oppose to examine the reality of identity theft. It teaches how easy one's identity can disappear as easy as the screenplay. Score 4 / 10 "},{"Title":"Preposterous","Date":"31 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Ridiculous. Totally insulting. It would be hilarious if it wasn't so dull. It's like sitting in the presence of a really bad fart for an hour and a half. The people who paid to see this flatulence are the reason why Hollywood continues to churn out stinking turds. Despise them. It's the whole package, really. Atrocious acting, absurd writing, awful direction, weak score, poor cinematography; but I have to give the nod to the writing as the weakest of a long list of cons It's a virus, Devlin. It's crashing the mainframe! Not one character, for even a moment, is believable. Wow, what a shitheap. Absolutely amazing SB's career survived this. Oh, and Dennis Miller...you really suck. "},{"Title":"Cannot find server","Date":"31 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Unless you are a Sandra-Bullock-lounging-around-a pool-in-a-bikini-fanatic, this is a truly forgettable movie. No, I really mean it, folks! All I can recall in The Net is that it was a cash-in movie (designed to cash in on the whole new Internet craze of ten years ago). Along with that, I remember that the movie fell apart in logic and pacing--you know, the way high concept movies so often do once the initially intriguing premise wears off.I read the cast list on the title page here on IMDb and I was surprised to see that Dennis Miller was in it. Miller is an enjoyable performer, but I have no recollection of his being in The Net.They're showing it on TNT or TBS or WGN this month and I'm tempted to watch it just to see if it's as bad as I remember . . . or don't remember.Or care. "},{"Title":"Unrealistic","Date":"29 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I don't understand why a woman so capable with the Internet would send and receive viruses via fed-ex-ed floppy disks as opposed to online. Hello, one of the things about being online is that every bit of information can be transported electronically. Did anyone else find this ridiculous? I don't understand why a woman so capable with the Internet would send and receive viruses via fed-ex-ed floppy disks as opposed to online. Hello, one of the things about being online is that every bit of information can be transported electronically. Did anyone else find this ridiculous? Don't understand why a woman so capable with the Internet would send and receive viruses via fed-ex-ed floppy disks as opposed to online. Hello, one of the things about being online is that every bit of information can be transported electronically. Did anyone else find this ridiculous? I don't understand why a woman so capable with the Internet would send and receive viruses via fed-ex-ed floppy disks as opposed to online. Hello, one of the things about being online is that every bit of information can be transported electronically. Did anyone else find this crazy? I find it so crazy, it is ridiculous. "},{"Title":"Very realistic and splendid adventure starring Sandra Bullock","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw 'The Net' only yesterday, but I believe I've actually seen it before. All I could think of was please let this not happen to ME! Because, dear readers, this movie is so realistic you can not help to get anxious every time you go online. With intense action from beginning 'till end and sudden changes in the life of Angela Bennett ( an outstanding performance by Sandra Bullock )'The Net' will keep you seated. Nobody wants to miss the end, nobody's going to think yeah, right,this is a bit overdone. I really recommend this one to people who's life is controlled by their job and computer geniuses ( do they still exist??? ).Overall score 9/10 "}{"Title":"Gripping, disturbing drama","Date":"13 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  While many of us dyed-in-the-wool techies will briefly notice some improbable items and circumstances here and there in this film, they won't detract from the gripping suspense and tension it skillfully builds. Sandra Bullock is impressive and convincing as Angela Bennett, a socially reserved work-at-home systems analyst whose reclusiveness is so extensive that when her identity has been stolen and replaced with another, she can find no one to vouch for her but her mother who suffers from Alzheimer's disease and cannot remember who she is and a former therapist who considers her terrifying story to be merely delusions.Though it's highly unlikely that a conspiracy such as the one in The Net could penetrate the world's institutions to the extent this one did, the issues of identity theft and Trojan-horse infiltrations are by no means far-fetched. The extent to which our dependency on computer-based data leaves us all vulnerable to those who can find ways to corrupt it is a quite realistic aspect of this film. Makes you appreciate those who insist that plain old paper records be kept around, just in case.There are a number of factual improbabilities and impossibilities in The Net, but by and large they are of the sort that one excuses for the sake of drama. After all, this is a movie, not the Discovery Channel. And there are a few rather formulaic predictabilities when she's had sex with the guy, you can be he'll either turn out to be dirty or doomed; much the same for the therapist.But no matter. It's a great film. If you haven't seen it, see it. If you have, see it again.  "},{"Title":"Finally a movie in which the characters assume using Windows!","Date":"13 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Following the advice of a friend, I got myself this movie. I'm very fond of computers in general - hence why a 1995 film about identity theft on the Internet could not be left unseen. I had some bad echoes about it, but in the end, I wasn't so disappointed  the story, though classical, is kind of interesting and must have been really new back in the days when it was released in theatres. I was gladly surprised when I figured out that contrary to what we usually see, computer-performed actions are somehow realistic, as they use Windows 3.x and normal computers. The storytelling is median and not bothering the viewer. The end is typically American. The actors' performance is globally OK, Sandra Bullock usually annoys me with her oh my god why me way to behave, but this time she seems to have controlled herself. I'd recommend that movie. "},{"Title":"By analyzing the user rating level of this movie...","Date":"22 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  We can conclude that there are 10 types of people in this world.Those who understand binary and those who do not. Those who understand binary put this movie to its grave along with hackers, while those who do enjoy this movie for the sake that none of this crap could happen. Ever. For a movie to attempt to be a modern movie with fiction applied to it. It has failed. Horribly. Only a 11yr old and below can enjoy and only 30yr and up could be scared to have their identity taken. It losses out on the main market for a resale value(i watch it now it is more boring than when it was first released).  "},{"Title":"The Net","Date":"31 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Following her first big role in Demolition Man, and her big boost in Speed, the leading actress was getting bigger, so obviously the filmmakers wanted to cash in on her popularity at the time, so came this tekkie movie, from director Irwin Winkler (De-Lovely). Basically in Venice, California is computer expert and a systems and software analyst Angela Bennett (Sandra Bullock), she works from home for Cathedral Software as a contract employee, and as she mostly communicates online and by telephone she has interpersonal relationships and hardly any with people, even her own mother (Diane Baker) who suffers Alzheimer's disease. A new security system called Gatekeeper is becoming universally used, it seems it will thrive for Cathedral in the computer software world as they created it, there also appears on a Cathedral game to be a virus, and a π (Pi) symbol appears on the systems occasionally, but Angela is ready for a vacation in Cozumel, Mexico. There she meets suave Jack Devlin (Jeremy Northam), he is not all he seems though, as he pays a mugger to steal Angela's purse to take the disk out of it, following a romantic night together on a speedboat she finds his gun and realises he was going to kill her, she steals back the disk and escapes in a dinghy, but she collides with the rocks, destroying the disk and falling unconscious for three days. Angela wakes up and finds that all records of her identity have been deleted, someone checked her out of the hotel, her car is missing, her credit cards are invalid, her house is for sale, and her social security number is under the name Ruth Marx, her name appears under a number of criminal offences. Another woman has taken her identity, the impostor offers to give her the life she had stolen back in exchange for the disk, which of course no longer exists, the only person she knows could help her get things back to normal, who recognises her facially, is her psychiatrist and former lover Alan Champion (Dennis Miller). With Angela's knowledge of computer systems she uses a password she found in Devlin's wallet and goes to Bethesda Naval Hospital to access confidential records, finding out a conspiracy and about cyberterrorists and hackers the Praetorians, of course she is tracked along the way by Devlin, working as a contract killer for the cyberterrorists. There is a point where she is arrested due to the crimes listed on her changed records, but she manages to escape, but she is now accused of murder, so she has to rush to prove her innocence and release evidence of the corrupt security system incidents, it is at a computer convention that she accesses the systems once again, while Devlin and the impostor Ruth Marx (Wendy Gazelle) search for her. By the time they find Angela she has already sent all the evidence she gained to the FBI, and she is able to trick Devlin into erasing her false identity, chasing her he unintentionally shoots dead Ruth Marx, and she sprays a fire extinguisher causing him to fall from a catwalk to his death, the film ends with Angela reuniting with her mother and life going back to normal. Also starring Ken Howard as Michael Bergstrom, Ray McKinnon as Dale Hessman, Daniel Schorr as WNN Anchor, L. Scott Caldwell as Public Defender, Robert Gossett as Ben Phillips and Margo Winkler, Irvin's wife as Mrs. Raines. Bullock certainly proves a good choice being the originally lonely computer geek turned innocent fugitive breaking into a number of computers to sort herself out, and it is likely that this was made to coincide with the popularising of the internet, but Northum is rather wooden as the villain, the story is a little overcomplicated and confusing at times, and it could have been a little more pacey and have more frantic hide and seek style chases, but it is near watchable enough, an alright thriller. Okay! "},{"Title":"Interesting early cautionary tale of internet vulnerability.","Date":"17 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Internet hackers and internet security specialists are all smarter than script writers, so that must be considered when evaluating this movie. It is fiction, it is entertainment, but it does raise some early (1995) issues regarding internet security. In this story the protagonist finds that her enemies know everything about her. Today (2007) the news has similar stories, but stemming from a different mechanism -- people putting too much personal information on sites like FaceBook and MySpace.Sandra Bullock is programming genius Angela Bennett. She works out of her L.A. area home, often getting programs on floppy discs (never see those anymore!) so that she can de-bug them and get her clients on their way. She goes on a much-needed vacation to a Mexico beach, where she meets an apparently nice British fellow, also a computer geek, Jack Devlin played by Jeremy Northam. But she quickly finds that not all is as it appears to be.The movie basically turns into a cat-n-mouse game to see if Angela can keep from getting killed, and also save the world from a rogue software company. Good enough entertainment, and Bullock is pleasant. Dennis Miller is good as her psychiatrist and friend Dr. Alan Champion .SPOILERS. Jack is a killer, hired by rogue software firm that markets a Gatekeeper software as a way to protect computer systems, when in fact it is the opposite, it allows its operators to hack into virtually anything. A high-profile Washington official kills himself because his records falsely show he has AIDS. Angela has her identity altered, so that she appears to be Ruth Marx, and with a long police record. All this makes it hard for her to gain credibility for the information she discovers, but her cunning eventually prevails. She saves the world. "},{"Title":"A++ Movie","Date":"9 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I don't know why this movie is getting such bad ratings on the viewer's behalf but it certainly is very thrilling and Sandra Bullock is sensational at her role. I myself am a huge fan of Sandra Bullock, but the only reason why I have become a huge fan is due to this film. The first time I saw this was in 1996 - it is a GREAT FILM I keep watching it over and over, and can never get tired of it. Everything plays together so well, it is just a great movie to watch. EVERYONE SHOULD see it at least once and not listen to these critics who have no idea what a GOOD movie is. I GUARANTEE you'll love it. I give this movie an A++ FOR SANDRA BULLOCK and for the movie itself! EXCELLENT!  "},{"Title":"PLEASE!!! THERE IS NO DISCUSSION! THE NET IS A GREAT MOVIE!!!","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I don't know who gave this movie a half of a star, but I am a huge fan of Sandra Bullock, and all of her work.  I am totally obsessed with this movie, not only because it is Sandra Bullock, but because it was so well written, and because it keeps you on the edge of your seat the whole time you watch it!  GREAT MOVIE! Please see it! You will love it! The action is great, and it is so neat to see how everything fits together in the end! Excellent A+! "},{"Title":"I like this movie very much!","Date":"18 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Just a short comment! I want to say that I like this movie very much! Sandra Bullock is my favourite actress. I like the whole story, from the beginning until the end! I have it on tape and I can watch it a 100 times, it doesn't matter!!!  "},{"Title":"Hitchcock would have been proud.","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is undoubtedly the type of film Alfred Hitchcock would be making, if he was still among us, an ordinary type of person, caught in extraordinary circumstances, not knowing who to trust. Sandra Bullock plays the girl next door computer analyst to perfection, as small, seemingly insignificant events accelerate way out of her control, and she finds herself on the run from just about everybody. Pretty much the same way as Cary Grant did in North By Northwest.  "},{"Title":"What a complete load of garbage.","Date":"1 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" When, oh when, will Hollyweird write a decent movie based around computers? I cannot believe people actually consider this movie to be a credible story.No computer operating system could ever survive wit that sort of annoying scrolling interface. It may look good on a movie screen but if you actually tried using it for any length of time you would go nuts.As for tracing people the way she did it simply cannot be done that way. Network security alone would prevent that from happening. The key stroke logging was laughable to say the least.Regarding the software that was supposedly being installed, no system administrator would allow such a critical piece of software to be installed on a production system until it has been tested, retested and tested again on a sandbagged system.But probably the worst possible part of the movie was the virus. There is no way that a virus that works on one operating system will work on any other system. And as for a virus that could take out a mainframe is a couple of seconds, that just beggars belief. There is no way that an open remote connection would have the required superuser access that would allow deletion of system files.I could go on but I can't be bothered.A porno has a better thought out plot that this pile of garbage. "}{"Title":"Ridiculous unrealistic fantasy","Date":"18 May 2004","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Suspension of disbelief is a important ingredient in motion pictures.But there's a limit to HOW much suspension of disbelief one can tolerate. This movie goes way beyond that limit.First off it's riddled by the typical hollywood cliches - it's got stereotype characters, lame acting, stupid story as well as off-the-shelf directing.But...It's also full of FACTUAL ERRORS (how the hell does one manage to hack into computers that are turned off??) as well as being completely silly to anyone who's ever been close to marginally using a computer.And cutesy Sandra Bullock as antisocial nerd trying to score pizza and dates on IRC? Pu-leeze.-1 out of 10 possible. "},{"Title":"not too realistic, but what it portrays should be a cause for concern","Date":"15 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" When The Net was first being advertised, the ads made it look ridiculous. Then, when I saw it, it was actually quite good. Angela Bennett (Sandra Bullock) spends her days working on the computer and has never gotten to know her neighbors. Then, through a series of events, her identity gets erased by a cabal of shadowy people, and she can't prove that she exists.Some parts of the movie are a little bit far-fetched; you'd probably know which parts if you saw the movie. Still, it's a good look into what the existence of the Internet may have wrought on unsuspecting people. I do recommend it. "},{"Title":"*** my 1st review *** A good depressing movie.... (DVD)","Date":"27 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  as a new resolution for this year 2005, i decide to write a comment for each movie I saw in theater (10%) or in DVD (90%). I must admit that DVD have revolutionized this habit. For instance, i can hear the true voice of the cast, which is an essential trait of the personality. In my country, non french movies are dubbed and we end up with aberrations french voice is terrible, very far away of its original tone ! the same voice for different people or a same people with different voices !!!! And well, if everybody found my comments unuseful, well, in 2006, I will stop my reviews... Ah,AH.... So, enjoy them now !!!! My summary means that the story, locations, cast is not very enjoyable...Only....Sandra bullock is there.. She is a talented actress, able to get the viewer to catch on the movie....It reminds of a feminine the fugitive.... So if you look for a moment of escaping your life, watching this movie makes it worse because Sandra's life is a mess....She got nothing left to hold on to, only her poor mother (Who is Alzheimer ill again the touch for depression)....In fact, she has a sad life in the beginning of the movie, has a sadder life throughout it, to finally get back to it at the end.... what a happy ending !!!!maybe the writers wanted to make a point about a nerd's life....very far away from the best computer movie of all time *WARGAMES* "},{"Title":"It was Horrible.","Date":"4 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie was horrible. No one liked it. We watched it in business. Iwrin Winkler is a funny name. Cody Rumball agrees. Just ask him. He'll tell you. He knows everything. He has a good brain. Unlike everyone who made this movie. This movie is bad. Ask Cody. He'll tell you. I'm not even joking. Ask him. This was a movie that was the opposite of good. Gaige DeConto doesn't exist.SPOILER this movie sucks.Everyone dies. Because of the meteor the virus creates. Dennis Miller has a beard. Cody Rumball does not. Neither does Gaige DeConto, mostly because he doesn't exist. "},{"Title":"Mediocre","Date":"24 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Computing . Can there be anything more boring ? Sitting in front of a computer all day typing away at some keys all day every day , tap tap tapping . That's much of the problem with this movie , the heroine sits in front of a computer VDU tapping the keys and no matter how many looks of agitation she gives , or how much suspenseful notes the composer strikes or how many extreme close ups the director uses there's not much excitement down to the fact that there's few things less exciting than watching somebody on a computer There's a few other problems too much of them factual errors regarding how computers work . Is it possible to hack into a computer that is both turned off and not connected to the internet ? I guess that when THE NET was made 10 years ago very few people would understand how computers worked so the screenwriters would have been able to BS at length but since we now live in a global village where nearly every household in the western world has their own computer the audience are certainly very clued up on the factual errors of this movie . And of course there's too many instances where someone acts stupid or out of character at crucial times in order to progress the plot which makes THE NET a very mediocre movie "}]