[{"Title":"A damn good time at the movies!","Date":"24 April 2001","Score":"122 out of 175 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's unfortunate that Judge Dredd wasn't accepted by mainstream viewers or even received a cult following.  I found it to be very entertaining.  I don't see too many movies based on comic book superheroes that I honestly enjoyed.  X Men for example went on too long, moved very slowly and took itself too seriously.  Judge Dredd is a fast-paced sci-fi-action thrill ride that delivers from start to finish and has help in the comic relief department by Rob Schneider.  Sylvester Stallone overacts throughout, but that's part of the fun.  Watching him scream out I AM THE LAW!! makes you want to scream it out along with him, which is what I do whenever I view this movie.  There are many quotable lines, which I enjoy reciting.  Judge Dredd is not a deeply intelligent, insightful film.  But it makes a great popcorn flick!  This upbeat, funny, nonstop entertainment is a real treat for me to watch over and over again.  My score  8 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"Delivers thought-provoking action in a fantasy sci-fi wrapping","Date":"25 April 2005","Score":"100 out of 154 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Judge Dredd is based on one of the most popular characters from the UK's 2000 AD comics. It is set in the 22nd Century, when most of the Earth has been turned into a desolate wasteland known as the Cursed Earth and most humans live in highly concentrated cities, walled off from the rest of the world. Society is fairly anarchic, except there for a class of humans, known as judges, who act as cop, judge, jury and executioner all rolled into one. Sylvester Stallone is the titular judge. He's notorious among the other judges, the general citizenry and the other judges for upholding the law in a harsh way. The film primarily tells the story arc from the comics known as The Return of Rico, and concerns a plot to get Dredd into trouble while overthrowing what's left of the existing order.This is a great action/sci-fi film with a tone reminiscent of Demolition Man (1993), Total Recall (1990), The Fifth Element (1997), Blade Runner (1982) and similar films. If you like Stallone, gloomy futuristic production design and/or intense action films, Judge Dredd should be a rewarding experience for you, as long as you're not a purist who is coming to the film by way of an intricate familiarity with the 2000 AD comics.The source material caused a slight problem for me, too, but not because I'm a purist. Rather, Judge Dredd suffers a bit from a flaw that plagues many films based on comic books--writers Michael De Luca, William Wisher Jr. and Steven E. de Souza had an extensive, pre-existent mythology (as is necessary when creating a complete, new world) on which to build their work, and they tried to incorporate a bit too much of it. Because of this, we're introduced to a large cast of characters fulfilling functions that we're not familiar with (in the details, at least), and we're regularly faced with new lingo, new cultural concepts, new technology, and so on, often with just a couple lines of dialogue. If you want to understand the details, you really have to pay close attention. But on the other hand, the general arc of the story is relatively simple, and you don't have to know every detail to enjoy it.Given the disposition that Stallone has as Judge Dredd in the film, he may as well have walked out of Kurt Wimmer's film Equilibrium (2002). Dredd initially goes about his business almost robotically; he only cares about enforcing the law. When he's recruited by a higher-up, Chief Justice Fargo (Max von Sydow), to teach ethics (which is quite an ironic idea when you see Dredd's behavior in the opening scene), he tells the students that being a judge basically means giving up one's life to the law. He says that one cannot have friends, for example--never mind that other judges, like Judge Hershey (Diane Lane) try to have social lives outside of work. Dredd later tells Hershey that he did have a friend at one point, but he had to judge him. Sending a friend to prison or killing him (we're not told exactly how Dredd judged him, although we find out later) isn't exactly the best way to encourage a healthy social life.So the subtext of the story, and Dredd's character arc, becomes that through a number of hardships, he finally learns something about ethics for himself--just in time to deal with a potentially shattering bit of information about his personal identity. He ends up accompanied by a man, Herman Ferguson (Rob Schneider, in a role meant primarily as comic relief, although more generously, he's an ironic emotional facilitator), whom he had just judged harshly, even though Ferguson wasn't really doing anything wrong on his first day out of prison. Together they have to go to a figurative hell (The Cursed Earth) to deal with figurative demons (a famed band of rogue cannibals who live in the tough environment) and back again to reach their fulfillment.Like many recent sci-fi stories set in the future, Judge Dredd has a pessimistic view of where technology and social conventions are leading humans. As the story has it, at one point, we had built massive, relatively unstoppable robot warriors, and one of the highlights of the film is when the villain finds one and puts it back into service. It's as much fun to watch the gadgetry as it is to watch the action sequences, and the computer generated landscapes throughout the film are spellbinding, with their sly jabs at various changes and similarities to present locations and cultures. The whole concept of the judges and their hierarchical structure is fascinating, even if some apparent inconsistencies (such as why judges are not summarily dealt with in the same manner that other citizens are) are never explained in the film.The performances are good, even if a few actors barely get enough screen time (like Lane and Joan Chen, who plays semi-villain Ilsa), and the premise is captivating. It's too bad this film gets unduly knocked by purists and those misguidedly looking for detail realism in the genre. Judge Dredd is severely underrated on IMDb. It deserves a first look or a second chance. "},{"Title":"Got all the basics of some challenging material right","Date":"9 June 2005","Score":"68 out of 91 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film, and its generally poor reception is a good example of what happens when huge marketing mistakes are made. Take a look at the cover of the DVD package Stallone Judge Dredd. The film should have been titled Judge Dredd - even in the packaging - and the emphasis for the marketing of this film should have been less Stallone, more content. On the flip-side, when the most consistent complaint you can find among IMDb psychofants is HE TOOK OFF HIS HELMET!, you really have to wonder if the film is quite as bad as so many believe. Eagle Comics 2000 AD character Judge Dredd was one of the most original, entertaining and intelligently written and interestingly drawn sci-fi comics of recent times. With story arcs varying from 2 pages worth of panels to 4 or 5 episodes, and sometimes multi-threaded plots, this violent, political and tough cyberpunk version of Dirty Harry set some pretty high standards for adult comic authorship both in its native UK and in the USA, once the imports started flowing in. It freely traversed from film noir to flat-out wild sci-fi action to nihilistic hard justice, and did so with style and originality rarely seen in the comic medium. Hence, although I like Stallone in this film, it's not only misleading but a little insulting to call this 'a Stallone film'. The producers had very big shoes to fill, and though I am in the minority here, I believe they did well.The production team chose a story arc which I was never very fond of, but one of the more do-able ones to be sure. Any Dredd-based film would necessitate a huge special effects budget, and most of them, even with the best special effects available, would likely be nearly impossible to pull off and might look ridiculous. To their credit, the Return of Rico story arc was rightfully recognized as good film material - it involves more emotional content than the usual Dredd fare, and actually required fewer outrageous special effects, than, say, the many Judge Death arcs might have.Dredd is a street judge - and the judges are the closest thing to a government in a post-apocalyptic future where nuclear war has concentrated all of the world's population into mega-cities - hotbeds of crime and chaos, surrounded by mutagenic wastelands called The Cursed Earth. Dredd is the best of the best, a very tough cop who knows method, theory, and has an incorrigible sense of ethics and dedication to the law. Dredd is also mentor to an entire generation of judges, including the brilliant Hershey (Lane). Rico, Dredd's former best friend, and a psychotic murderer escapes from a high security prison with some help from a fascistic leader of the judges who is bent on securing power and a new world order with himself in charge. Soon, Dredd is framed for murder and exiled to the wastelands, and judges start to die all over the city. About midway through the film, Dredd learns the truth of his relationship to Rico and begins to figure out the sinister plot. Of course, there is only one thing for him to do - return to Megalopolis to stop the conspiracy before it plays out.The film features good performances by a really nice cast. Armand Assante brings the character of Rico to life better than the comic book ever did. Diane Lane, Jurgen Prochnow and Max Von Sydow are always good, and though I had my doubts to begin with, Stallone pulls off Dredd very well. While some folks complain about Rob Schneider's irritating behavior, I found that his goofy character took a little of the edge off of Stallone's depressive performance of the most stoic law enforcement officer on planet earth. This is not one of Joan Chen's better roles. If you're a big Chen fan, you might think twice about seeing this.All considered, I see Judge Dredd as a under-rated and mis-marketed film, which, through its fast pace, sophisticated sci-fi plot, Excellent special effects and very good cast, took all of the screenable elements of the comic book and made them accessible to an audience a bit wider than its original fan-base. If this review peaks your interest, see it! "},{"Title":"Classic Stallone action movie.","Date":"7 January 2006","Score":"41 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Firstly, I am not a reader of the Judge Dredd comic books, so I have nothing to compare Stallone's Judge Dredd to, but honestly, I loved this movie and cannot imagine any other actor playing this role. I've heard people say that Dredd should not remove his helmet, but that did not bother me one bit. The action in the movie ranks along side some of Stallone's best and the movie is entertaining from start to finish. I think that Rico is a good villain, played to perfection by Armand Assante and Diane Lane is superb as Judge Hershey, providing all of the emotion and human qualities that are devoid from Judge Dredd, therefore intensifying the character of Dredd. Fergie is also a good character, played well by Rob Schneider who creates a sense of humour, making the film not just about raw action. Judge Dredd, as a popcorn movie is superb, it was never going to win Oscars, but at the end of the day, that is not the point of the film. It is intended to be pure Stallone-fuelled entertainment and on this level it is a resounding success. "},{"Title":"This is one great action flick","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"52 out of 86 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This has got it all, the comic lines, the action, the story a perfect cast (especially Stallone, whom you could presume modelled for the comic character of Judge Dredd, Assante who makes a real cool bad guy and Schneider as the comic sidekick). This really never puts you back an inch, while you are on the edge of your seat. It is great, although I would have liked it bloodier (show how they rip Prochnow's arms and legs of and show how that human is barbecued). While I am at the bad stuff, I feel that the effects were pretty poor sometimes although that didn't bother me that much I still enjoyed it. What bothers me that at 93 minutes this film seems heavily cut, or why does the lab at the end just start exploding and why didn't I see one clone moving around. That's it, nope, the ending could have been better, but it is OK.8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Underrated mastery of unnamed genres... kind of","Date":"9 May 2004","Score":"61 out of 104 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Two weeks ago, my sister bought a VCR from one of her friends... VHS... scary enough. For her ten bucks she also got two dozen movies... Judge Dredd was one of themSince I popped this movie in, I have watched it at the very least two dozen times. I watched it once today, once yesterday, twice the day before that, three times the day before that, twice the day before that... and I have a decent selection of other films to choose from. This movie is addictive. It has this pacing and style that, while not very realistic, and certainly not worthy of an Oscar, it just makes you grin. Every time the Alan Silvestri Dredd theme pops up, I just smile... from the Gianni Versace designed Dredd Armor, to the top-notch special effects, this movie brings together many elements into a 96 minute ride of pure cheese that keeps getting better each time you watch itThe CG can be beautiful at times, even to the point of photorealism, and certainly outdoes the the horrid cartooniness of Blade 2's or X-Men's CG...You just have to watch it to believe how addictive this damn thing is'Nuff Said "},{"Title":"Standard blockbuster fare for people who like things that go bang &#150; but not much more than that","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"31 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In the future the world has been scorched and is uninhabitable.  The cities are overflowing and cramped.  Violence and crime has gotten to the stages that the courts and juries of the past were unable to cope.  The Judges were planned to be police, judge and executioners &#150; the ultimate law keepers.  The strictest of these is Judge Dredd.  However Dredd's history is revealed when his long-forgotten genetic twin escapes from captivity and kills high ranking council members.  The DNA evidence points to Dredd and he is sentenced accordingly.  However he escapes with hacker Fergie and returns to the city to try and stop Rico's plan for his own laws.It's been a few years since I saw this in the cinema and I thought I'd give it another go.  However I had only average memories of it &#150; memories that were pretty close to the mark now that I've seen it again.  The film starts reasonably well and has a good little bit of humour in it &#150; the recycling bot that says `recycle waste for food, it's good for the environment and OK for you!' is my favourite!  However any nice touches like this and any debate on the nature of the Judges is quickly lost in a by-the-numbers blockbuster.The action is OK but not great and the film doesn't manage to ever really have a genuine sense of excitement or tension.  Director Cannon is much better at style than substance and here he proves that again.  The cartoon violence will be OK for teenagers but is too basic and undemanding for many I think.  The cityscapes are quite good but a tad OTT.  Bladerunner got it pitch perfect all those years ago and every film since has tried to up the ante unnecessarily.Stallone is a pretty good choice for Dredd because of his strong chin.  I didn't care less if he removed his helmet or not, but his constant speaking in catchphrases did annoy me a bit.  Oh &#150; and I've heard a life time of `law' and `court' puns and kiss-off lines.  Schneider is a misjudged comedy sidekick, he isn't used well and just gets in the way.  The film would have been better without his `relief' and gone darker.  Assante is a strong villain and the council is full of famous faces.  Lane has nothing to do as Judge Hershey.Overall this is a cartoon for teenagers and those just looking for lots of bangs.  However, even for that crowd this may prove a little basic &#150; I wanted it to be more sophisticated than it was and be darker (but not just violent as it has been misinterpreted as here).  Maybe worth a watch with a beer and pizza but the fact that we haven't been treated to a JD2 speaks volumes. "},{"Title":"Absolutely nothing original but shockingly good","Date":"22 August 2003","Score":"43 out of 72 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'll preface this by saying that I have never read the Judge Dredd comic.  That being said, I bashed this movie when my friends and I watched first watched it back in 1995 in the theater.  I am now throughly eating my words.  This thing is amazingly good and entertaining throwaway cheese.  There is zero originality here.  This is Blade Runner meets Demolition Man meets Texas Chainsaw massacre meets Superman 2 meets Star Wars Trilogy.  This movie is almost a replica of Demolition Man but is tons more fun.  Stallone, like in Demolition Man, plays a supercop.  He's accused of a crime he didn't commit and is punished, like in Demolition Man.  There are other parallels along the way.  He meets a Texas Chainsaw Massacre family in his exile, with an android member who looks suspiciously like Terry Bradshaw.  Armand Assante is really great as the villain, Diane Lane excels in a role that doesn't fit her and Rob Schneider is stunningly endearing as the third wheel in a party of two.  Max Von Sydow and Jurgen Prochnow add their talents to give the movie a seasoned flavor.  Stallone's intro is pathetic but he excels along the way.  The digital effects also work themselves into the story very well.  I'm stunned at how good this thing is upon reviewing it.   "},{"Title":"Rob Schneider is Satan","Date":"13 July 2006","Score":"33 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Never in the field of human conflict has one man rendered one almost-bearably big dumb action movie (fanboy sacrilege aside - everyone knows it should've been Clint Eastwood, not Rambo, playing Dredd) so completely unwatchable as Rob Schneider in Judge Dredd. Playing the amusing, comedy sidekick, over the course of 96 minutes, Schneider manages to out-annoy the combined powers of Joe Pesci, Willie Scott and Jar-Jar Binks, rendering the hard work put in by Max Von Sydow, Jurgen Prochnow and the rest of the (fairly sturdy) cast so completely redundant. Even when the f*cker gets shot, he continues to wisecrack in a cheeky but lovable fashion. WHY IS ROB SCHNEIDER? WHAT DOES HE PROVE? WHY DO PEOPLE WATCH HIS MOVIES? WILL HE NEVER DIE? "},{"Title":"My two penneth","Date":"5 May 2005","Score":"35 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Judge Dredd and 2000AD represent my childhood inspiration for all things creative, accumulating in my career in the creative industry (I still have a full set of early 2000ADs in my studio). So obviously the film holds very personal emotions for me and as such I have to admit that I had a negative bias from the start. Anyway enough about me.The film started and I was very impressed with the visual effects and design. At first I thought Judge Dredd's uniform was way over the top, even more than the comic version. However after remembering the visual style of films like Flash Gordon (1980) I put that down to personal preference.One of the problems is Sylvester Stallone's Performance. I am not one of Sly's detractors, I have enjoyed his performances in films such as Rocky, First Blood, Paradise Alley, Copland and even Demolition Man. However this performance bares no resemblance to the character of Judge Dredd.Stallone's character lacks the authority and quiet confidence of Judge Dredd. Sly seems to have replaced these aspects with standing in a tough pose, looking intense and shouting were applicable. Needless to say I did not see the dark and gritty anti hero I was hoping for.I realise that this is a tall order for any actor and Sly in not helped by the films biggest problem, the atrocious dialogue. Clichés and over dramatic speeches destroy any hope of realism.My final comment... Judge Dredd's helmet.This should stay on at all times. I know this seems superficial, but it is representative of certain aspects of Judge Dredd's personality. Firstly Dredd's lack of personal ego, secondly his almost robot like dedication, determination and 'perceived' invulnerability and thirdly Dredd's function as an executioner.There, I feel a little better now I've got that off my chest. Cheers. "}{"Title":"6/10 Some fun to be had","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"62 out of 115 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I feel Judge Dredd doesn't really get the respect it deserves.  Let me explain.  While this isn't a great film by any means, it is entertaining, and it doesn't kiddie itself up for teens.Judge Dredd is a R rated comic book.  That right there may limit its audience, because most filmgoers might feel comic books are just for kids, and they are goofy.  Well that is true with Dredd, it is goofy, but its far too violent and chauvinist for small children.  Perhaps that is part of its charm.It's a nice action movie, with a good hard helping of violence, and interesting characters including redneck cannibals and a giant robot.  The film would have been much better with out the comic relief of Rob Schneider.The film could have benefitted from some Diane Lane nudity. "},{"Title":"The Most Disappointing Movie EVER","Date":"19 June 1999","Score":"26 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you love the comic (2000 A.D.) do not, I repeat, do not watch this movie, because you may never see Judge Dredd in the same light again.  I had waited for this movie for years.  When I heard that Stallone was playing Dredd I thought nothing bad of it.  I knew that with him in the picture it would be in wide release, and I knew that much like Batman, Judge Dredd does not need a great actor to play him.  Stallone seemed to fit the bill of someone who could be tough, have little dialogue, and shoot up the enemies.  Little did I know that Judge Dredd would be put into the same category as Batman Forever, and Batman and Robin, in that they are all disneyland versions of a much darker comic.In the comic, the future is a bleak place.  Comic books don't get much darker or bloodier than this one.  It is not a fun, happy go-lucky comic. However, it is extremely exciting and if translated correctly could be the perfect action movie.Showing a human side of Dredd was the worst mistake of this movie.  For one Dredd does not take his helmet off.  For two he does not have a sidekick.If this movie had been made correctly it would have received comparison's to the likes of Terminator 2 and Predator.  However, after seeing this movie, I think it would best be compared to the likes of Teen Wolf Too, as one of the worst films ever made. "},{"Title":"I liked it..","Date":"4 January 2014","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" JUDGE DREDDNow the thing about this movie is everyone hates it&#x85; except me.The movie is about a law enforcer set in the future that gets falsely accused of murder and is sentenced to life imprisonment. He escapes and is on a mission to try and find the person who set him up.Anyone that has read the comics hated this film due to the fact that is apparently so different to the comics. From what I have been told, Dredd never takes off his helmet and reveals his face. Not in this film. His helmet is taken off within 15 minutes of the movies start. I never read the comic so I don't know any other differences, but that is probably why I enjoyed it.This film has a very 90s feel to it. It reminds me in a way to Demolition Man. They are both set in the future and are both really good action movies, although Demolition Man is better. I do love the action films from the 90s. They have a good over the top feel to them.The acting is alright in it considering it is a cheesy action movie. The movie stars Sylvester Stallone as Dredd. He looks uncomfortable in this role some of the time, but then Stallone does not suit some roles. A young Diane Lane plays his partner. She does a pretty good job. I was very surprised to see a cameo from one of my favourite singers&#x85; the legendary Ian Dury. He only had a very small part, but he was really good.The effects and explosions were really good and well done. But that is what was expected from the action films of that era. The gun fights were completely over the top too&#x85; in a good way. I also loved the giant robot in the film. It was one of my favourite characters.If you like cheese, Sly Stallone, futuristic films and never read the Dredd comics&#x85; then I can't see why you would hate this.I will give it 7 out of 10.I am the law!For more reviews, please like my Facebook pagehttps//www.facebook.com/pages/Ordinary-Person-Movie- Reviews/456572047728204?ref=hl "},{"Title":"A pleasant surprise, GRUDamnit!","Date":"1 June 2004","Score":"15 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  SPOILER WARNING mild spoilers throughoutGiven that all Hollywood adaptations of comic book heroes end up fundamentally flawed, this one does a pretty good job. Ok, so Dredd takes his helmet off (the abstention from this was merely a 2000AD in-joke anyway); Griffin is a bad guy; the entire Council of distinguished judges is wiped out in an instant; Rico is not the identical twin clone of Dredd; Aspen is substituted for Titan; neither Fargo nor Rico have badges bearing their proper name (Dredd)... but all these faults pale in comparison to what the movie actually got *right*.The casting was absolutely spot-on Dredd, Hershey, Fargo, McGruder, Griffin... all these actors looked and behaved exactly as their 2000AD counterparts. Fergie wasn't the same as his comic-book counterpart, but so what? The original character was such a caricature of a real person, had he been portrayed in that way he no doubt would have ended up the Jar-Jar Binks hate-character of the film. The costumes were also brilliantly realised from their comic book incarnations - something that is notoriously difficult to do, especially for a helmet design as impractical as that of the Mega-City One judge!The dark totalitarian political landscape of Mega-City One was admirably conveyed, particularly in the device used to convict Dredd (the assassination of pro-democracy journalists) and the underhand skullduggery of Griffin and his co-conspirators. The icing on the cake was the inclusion of the brilliant Hammerstein robot from the ABC Warriors, and that of the Angel Gang. A better screen portrayal of the Angel Gang simply could not have been wished for - Mean Machine was *exactly* as he is in the comic!My only real gripe with this movie is that the history of the 2000AD universe is significantly messed around with, but as I have said, this is expected of Hollywood and did not detract from this as a standalone film one bit. For me, the most disappointing change made was that of making Judge Griffin the bad guy. In the comic he is one of the most exemplary judges and indeed much admired by Dredd himself (as well as having an eye-patch for his troubles). It is a shame the film had to besmirch the good name of Griffin in this way - Jurgen Prochnow would have made a fine *upstanding* Griffin. That said, the changes are nowhere near as bad as those made for Batman where the origins of both the Batman and the Joker are changed in such a way as to spoil the entire essense of the Batman mythos.Brit director Danny Cannon can congratulate himself on having done a fine job of preserving the essense of the world of Judge Dredd in the face of Hollywood revisionism! "},{"Title":"In a post-apocalyptic metropolis the only law is dispensed by judges-cops with the power of judge, jury and executioner","Date":"7 November 2012","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Exciting , big-budgeted film dealing with a standard comic book dystopian near-future City where rules fearful judges and happens fantastic events . The source comic book has been a cult favorite in England for thirty years . Loud , spectacular and violent movie set in a future world of urban chaos and based on the comic books by Carlos Ezquerra and John Wagner ; being well adapted by Danny Cannon . In the third Milennium , the futuristic world changed , climate , nations , all were upheaval . The Earth transformed into a poisonous scorched desert , known as ¨The Cursed Earth¨. Millions of people crowed into a few mega Cities where roving bands of street savages created violence the justice system could not control . The Planet Earth has changed into a virtually uninhabitable place . All of the Earth's population have crowded into the cities across the planet , now known as Mega Cities¨ . Law as we know it collapsed . From the decay rose a new order whose rule of law is administrated by authorities on motorbikes . A society ruled by a new elite force . A Force with the power to dispense both justice and punishment . They were the police , jury and executioner all in one . They were the judges . Around desert lies Mega City One . It is a violent, futuristic city where a new Justice System came from the ashes , the police has the authority to act as judge, jury and executioner, they were called Judges and dispense justice on the riot-torn streets and buildings of Mega City . They fight to control the block riots that over-running the city . The crimes in this Mega city became so violent and so powerful, that the regular justice system was powerless to contain, then it collapsed completely . A cop named Dredd , most feared of all , teams with a another judge named Hershey (Diane Lane) to take down criminal gangs , but Dredd is double-crossed and being framed for murder . Dredd fights to clear his name helped by the women-judge and a likable delinquent (Rob Schneider), a renegade misfit named Ferguson , must confront the odds and engage in the relentless battle for their survival . But an escaped convict named Rico (Armand Assante) overtakes the compound's control center and wages a dirty, vicious war against the Judges that proves she will stop at nothing to protect her empire . Rico is an ex-judge who was artificially created and seeks vendetta and power confronting his half-brother , Dredd . Judge Dredd soon released from his imprisonment looks for his genetically contrived evil brother and takes place the final battle . This slam-bang film packs big names , noisy action , thrills , chills , suspense , convoluted screenplay , high body count , loads of massive villains and lots of violence . Some interesting plotting is partially lost in a sea of hard-edge violence , overripe acting , exaggerated explosions and excessive shots . Visually imaginative action Sci-Fi that contains fast and furious fun with echoes of ¨Metropolis¨, ¨Things to come¨ and ¨Blade Runner¨ . The exciting screenplay throws in Femme cop and a likable inmate , Rob Schneider , who acts as comic relief. The highlights of the movie are a smashing Airbone pursuit on flying motor-bikes and the breathtaking , overwhelming finale . Silvester Stallone's iconic presence is good as a helmeted , emotionless future-cop who dispenses the square jaw-lines and a summary justice. Fizzing visuals , video game-like special effects and impressive production design showing a large megalopolis in ¨Blade Runner¨ style . Praiseworthy set design by Nigel Phelps who creates a doleful as well as amazing ghetto City . Atmospheric original music by Alan Silvestri , composed by means of synthesizer . Colorful , though sometimes dark cinematography by Adrian Biddle . The precocious technical mastery displayed by Danny Cannon is spectacular and he delivers narrative fluidity . However , the film failed at box office ; Silvester Stallone , Sly, hoped , in vain , the project would provide him another profitable franchise but it didn't take place . Many years later was shot Dredd 3D (2012) by Pete Travis with Karl Urban , Olivia Thirby and Lena Headley . Rating  6,5 . Acceptable action film and it will appeal to Stallone enthusiasts and action fans . "},{"Title":"I am the.....HELL!?!?","Date":"31 January 2003","Score":"13 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  To be certain, a film adapted from a comic book prior to Spiderman was often met with trepadition and curious sideways glances, a reaction similar to passing a midget on the street.  While we can now all have hopes for a future with faithful and enjoyable adaptions of our favorite colored characters, we must remember that, while the future IS bright, the past really sucks.  When trolling for worthwhile comic book titles, only pay attention to Judge Dredd if you are looking for reasons to shed this mortal coil.The film opens with a moderately interesting intro, showing page after page of JD comics.  Trust me, the only inspiration that the filmakers drew from these comics has to have been from the cover art.  Put simply, nothing in the movie actually reflects the comics.  Whereas the comics were dark and built for adults, this film was a fairly weak 'R' rating relying on twelve year olds sneaking into theaters to make a profit.You see, in the movie, Judges are pansies who run from every thug with a gun instead of doing their job.  The Judges body armor is made up of a bulletproof helmet and shoulder pads.  One can only assume that they will be playing the Raiders soon.  Judges also get voice activated guns that can do wonderful things, like fire flares, which actually has no use in their giant city where light exists everywhere.  Judges also get the ugliest motorcycles in the history of automobiles.  Simply put, their choppers look like amusement park bumper cars.  The fact that these bumper cars can fly seems to make wheels useless, but I guess the budget excluded any more than one scene of horribly blue screened flying bikes.Something else that the budget seems to have excluded is any mention of original design.  While this is an adaptation, much of it seems adapted from other, better, films.  Most of Mega City is right out of Blade Runner, while the police sets are essentially cribbed together from The Rock, Alien 3, and the Fifth Element.  I do consider Alien 3 to be a better film.  At least in that movie you can understand what people are saying.  When you have Jurgen Prochnow, Armand Assante, and Sly Stallone in the same film, some confusion as to what is going on is sure to happen.Sly and Armand probably gained thirty or forty pounds of beer gut, or maybe their are a trillion hot girls off screen, because they spend the entire movie sucking in their guts.  Maybe that explains their inability to say more than three or four words at a time without breathing.  Watching them reminds me of Freshmen Year, where every cute girl that walked by required you to suck it up, puff out your chest, and give your best lantern jawed grin.As a last note, look for some of the terrible dubbings done in the movie, Rob Schneider's on again gone again wounds, the ever changing Stallone scar, and the giant armor plated robot that is beaten by pulling a few wires. This is a definite three of ten film.Wink, Wink, Nudge, Nudge, Say no more, Say no more. "},{"Title":"Not what was required","Date":"21 December 2003","Score":"14 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Ok so Im biased!  Im a big fan of the comics this excuse for a movie were based on.  And this movie falls short in replicating the action, the feel and the pathos of those comics.  Sly was all wrong for the role of Joe Dredd (and he removed his helmet?  Noooo!) The plot was cobbled together from many different stories and characters from many different eras were all thrown together in a weak movie.What worked  The opening Block War was cool, as was the ABC warrior. beyond that, this movie fell way too far short. "},{"Title":"what a chance wasted","Date":"4 April 2001","Score":"20 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  oh dear, oh dear, oh dear. it's hard to judge this without comparing it to one of the greatest comic characters (and certainly the greatest comic character to emerge from this sceptered isle, 'Dan who?').the opening scene is great, a visualisation of what Mega-City 1 looks like as first thought of by the great artist Carlos Ezquerra. But then it just goes down hill. And fast. It takes a great, bleak, blackly funny view of a near future (and in some cases present day view of America) and ignores everything that makes the comic great. Instead it turned it into a standard rogue cop with buddy type movie. The whole idea of Judge Dredd was that he was the perfect embodiment of the legal system. He never fought the system because he WAS the system. In all its brutal and unpalatable forms.JD's greatest ever writer wrote a screenplay for this film (the i'm not worthy to type his name JOHN WAGNER *sigh*) but the studio merely wanted to have it off him for peanuts. he told them where to go and as a result a great character (and indeed great enemies) were wasted by a film that said nothing new. and in many cases said it very badly as well.The only bright spot is that JD has been taken over (2000AD for the first time in it's history is being run by people who are actually fans of it, go go go Rebellion, run with it and make things happen) and who knows maybe we will one day see ol' Joe Dredd in all his big chinned, tight booted, fascist glory. Maybe as a cartoon (think Akira, not bugs bunny) and maybe as a film but if anybody saw this film and thought what rubbish. well, you are right. but get a hold of the comics (especially 'Song of the Surfer' or 'America') and see why this film was attacked on sight by all fans of the comic. Oh and by the way, in the 24 years (yes, 24 years) readers have never seen JD's face. And if we do, it's not gonna look like Stallone.'No-one is innocent citizen. We're just here to determine the level of your guilt'. Joe Dredd. Crime Blitz. Mega City One "},{"Title":"Highly under-rated","Date":"20 September 2004","Score":"23 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Years ago, in 2000AD, they held a poll to which who could play JUDGE DREDD. With this poll taking place in 1980-81, most readers voted for CHARLES BRONSON or JAMES COBURN. To be true, either BRONSON or COBURN had the 'DREDD' look, but were getting on a bit, in years. Finally after many legal wrangles, the movie got made in 1995, and SYLVESTER STALLONE was picked to play the futuristic lawman. Once made, the fans picked holes in the movie. DREDD takes his helmet off (the fans could not forgive this) but allow Hollywood, a certain 'artistic licence'. Obviously STALLONE had to show his face (if only in the scenes were he's incarcerated, unlike the 2000AD 'JUDGE CALIGULA' stories, whereas he was bandaged up, due to a snipers wound) Now nearly ten years on, the movie is still fresh, the effects still special, and STALLONE still shines (despite what people say, STALLONE is the only 'tough-guy' i'd want to see play DREDD, right down to the comic-book 'snare') Every performance is great in this movie (especially MAX VON SYDOW) and director DANNY CANNON has come in for a lot of misguided flack. And it's also good to see that other minor 2000AD elements have been kept intact. The 'ANGEL FAMILY' are exactly as i remember them in the comics, and the set design, is MEGA-CITY-ONE come to life. So for those, who are to geeky to accept a little change, just imagine, that JUDGE DREDD had been made in 2004. DREDD would be played by either VIN DIESEL or THE ROCK..........Holly drok!!!!!Big lee gives this fine movie a solid ten, and would readily welcome a sequel (but it must be either the JUDGE CALIGULA or JUDGE DEATH plot-line)  "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"11 April 2011","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Judge Dredd comic strips offers up a post-apocalyptic world where urban American sprawl has gone berserk, development has gone upwards because radioactive fallout limits outwards, there is huge overpopulation, lawlessness is rife, and maintenance of law and order in Megacity One is given over The Judges - law enforcement officers with the authority to be judge, jury - and executioner. It is a precarious profession, and legendary among the Judges is Dredd, whose summary judgements are particularly lacking in mercy.It is worth pointing out that, notwithstanding its notional North American location, there is something peculiarly and resolutely English about the comic.This movie adaptation gets most things right, and stands as a fairly satisfactory science fiction action thriller in its own right. The depiction of the Judges, Megacity One, and all the trimmings is spot on.Stallone is an inspired piece of casting, too - with his helmet on he absolutely IS Dredd. However, he does take his helmet off quite a lot of the time, which is absolutely NOT the comic Dredd. I can forgive him that in the interests of an entertaining movie.Rob Schneider is somewhat less easy to forgive. Fergie, in the comic, may have elements of light relief, but he isn't the wisecracking clown Schneider portrays. Which matters not a jot to the ticket buying public, most of whom will have no idea that there ever was a Fergie elsewhere than in the movie.The story is effective (with part of it taking place in the radioactive wastelands outside the city), the casting is excellent, and the whole thing is a decent romp.One understands that Stallone and director Danny Cannon did not get on. This movie should have lifted Cannon's career off, but he has been pretty much restricted to TV ever after. It would be interesting to know why. "}{"Title":"Another excellent SciFi movie!","Date":"1 February 2006","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I enjoyed this film for what is was. SciFi Entertainment. If you had never seen Stallone in a movie before I'm sure a lot of people would have been a lot more impressed with his rendition of Dredd. You didn't even have to read the comics to get who he was and what he stood for. Stallone was good choice for Dredd as his features can be very inanimate but still convey a sense of hidden emotion and conflict. Armand Assante as Rico was brutal! The rage and raw emotions he portrayed were chilling. Jurgen Prochnow also turned in another fine performance. The way Armand and Jurgen play off each other is electric! With the addition of Max Von Sydow was a nice touch lending more credibility to the characters portrayed. I recommend this to any who enjoy Scifi action. "},{"Title":"I LOVED IT!","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'll be honest, when I first heard of this movie I had never even heard of Judge Dredd, so I hadn't the foggiest idea what to expect.  I thought it was a fantastic film, with a really cool story, great action, cool actors, decent acting and some great bits of comedy.Sylvester Stallone was the PERFECT choice for the role of Judge Dredd!  He completely fits the mold and does an outstanding job portraying Judge Dredd.  Rob Schnieder was an excellent choice for the part of Herman Ferguson as well.  Rob added a great deal of comedy to the film and it was all good comedy, nothing terribly cheesy or annoying, just perfect.  Diane Lane looks nothing short of fabulous throughout the film, and pulls off a fine performance as well.  Max von Sydow is not someone I would expect to be in a film like this, but nonetheless, I'm glad he did, because he did a fantastic job.  Armand Assante was excellent in the antagonist position.  He makes and excellent bad guy, I'd love to see him in more films.  The rest of the cast was good as well.The special effects in the film are very good for the most part, there's nothing much to complain about.  The thing that completely made this film for me is the ABC Warbot.  What a beautiful design!  Truly fantastic!!!  The only thing I would have liked to see is a long shot of the Warbot walking, but I'm sure with the budget of the film that was virtually impossible, so I'll deal with it.  But all the scenes with the Warbot are just fantastic!I don't really see why people tend to dislike this film.  I thought it was an all around fun movie with plenty of good things going for it.  I would definitely recommend this film to anyone that like super-hero movies, or just futuristic action films.  I hope that you like this film as much as I do.  Thanks for reading.-LebowskiT1000 "},{"Title":"Fun action-book movie","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie got blasted hard by critics, when it shouldn't have. Like the 'Superman' & 'Batman' movies, well the first 2 'Batman' movies, this is a movie based off of a comic book & is pretty good. It has a good balance of action & comedy. Sly Stallone plays Judge Dredd, in the future where the law id held in the hands of The Judges, who act as the police, jury & judge. Dredd is set up for murder...with him away, a plan is devised to let chaos run throughout the city. Fans of Stallone will love the movie. If you aren't a huge fan, give it a chance; just leave the common sense at the door & have a good time. "},{"Title":"Sylvester Stallone IS Judge Dredd!","Date":"19 February 2004","Score":"12 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Judge Dredd is a very good film! Sylvester Stallone IS Judge Dredd! He played this awesome character awesomely! James Remar, Diane Lane, Max Von Sydow, Armand Assante, Jürgen Prochnow, Scott Wilson, Joan Chen, and Rob Schneider were all good! The costumes and action were terrific! The ABC Robot was fantastic! The music by Alan Silvestri is tremendous! In My opinion Judge Dredd is an underrated and misunderstood film that deserves a lot more than it has received! The movie is a must see! "},{"Title":"Worst movie I've ever seen","Date":"13 January 1999","Score":"15 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I suppose it may have had to do with my expectation going in, but I have to say that is the worst movie I've ever seen.  The acting is atrocious, the jokes are rarely funny, and the story is stupid. I believe that's the first movie I've ever walked out of.  Absolutely awful.   "},{"Title":"More Fun Than Xmen 2 or Spiderman 2","Date":"17 September 2004","Score":"17 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is far more fun than the boring Xmen 2 or Spiderman 2. Why simply because it does not have a hero constantly whining about being a super hero. The whole point of a super hero is he is super. I don't need a action movie to have less action and more character study. Action movies should entertain not bore the pants off people. I want my heroes to be like heroes, not ones that could do with a slap. This is fast paced and one of the best action movies of 1995, just compare it to Waterworld, Batman Forever and Die Hard with a vengeance. This is superior to those movies yet flopped. If Schwarzenegger had been in this it would of done well, but Stallone movies never got a fair review. The Special FX are superior to the awful Playstation 2 cgi rubbish we get now. It's a real shame there wont be a sequel.10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The Great Sly Stallone Is Judge Dredd Down To A Tee","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"27 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Sylvester Stallone did a great job as the stern Judge Dredd from the 2000 A.D. comic book.I used to read a lot of the early Judge Dredd stories in 2000 A.D. Dredd was a law enforcer in a future time where there were no juries, no trials, just instant justice dispensed on the spot. If you were guilty the emotionless Dredd would issue whatever punishment he saw fit.Back to the movie anyway. It's not always easy to translate a comic book hero to the big screen without changing things but they did a great job with this movie. If you were to look at a photo of Stallone in this movie and compare it to a drawing of the comic book Dredd you would see no difference. Stallone was Dredd down to a tee.The story is great as well. Dredd is accused of a crime he did not commit and he must prove his innocence. The action scenes in the movie were fantastic.All in all, a brilliant film. I just wish there'd have been a sequel. "},{"Title":"A guilty pleasure","Date":"5 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have to admit liking this movie. If you watch it without thinking too much about the dark, gritty 2000AD pretext there's a good time to be had here. Yes there is cheesiness and tacky lines (I AM THE LAW!!) and bad acting, but my goodness they do it well. It's a bit like Snakes on a Plane - if you go in expecting it to be a bad movie then you'll probably enjoy it. I love the music though. Really. It has a theme that sticks with you after it's finished. Good action too.All in all - for me this is a guilty pleasure. I don't gain enlightenment by watching it, but I do have a fun time and I'm entertained. What more could you ask for? Citizen Kane of the future? Sit down with some munchies, drinks and popcorn and enjoy the show. "},{"Title":"Fun...just don't think too hard about it","Date":"3 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" From the pages of Britain's 2000 AD comes the futuristic lawman, Judge Dredd. The original comic series, drawn by Brian Bolland, was a mixture of Mad Max and Clockwork Orange starring Judge Dredd, a lawman working and living in a society where law and order have completely broken down and the police are now called Judges and have to power to judge and pass sentence on any criminal they apprehend on the spot. It's a visually fantastic movie that brings the future metropolis of Mega-City One to complete life, from the rarefied heights where the wealthy live all the way down to the street-level slums where life is a constant stream of out of control street crime and block riots. Sylvester Stallone, as Judge Dredd, is the perfect granite-jawed embodiment of the complete judicial hardass that is Dredd&#133;until he opens his voice to intone, I am the law! and you just start convulsing with laughter! With Armand Assante, Jurgen Prochnow and Joan Chen as the villains and Bruce Schneider as his comedy sidekick, it's a fun way to spend an evening as long as you just want escapist entertainment and aren't looking for any deep comments on humanity or the meaning of it all. "},{"Title":"Not the comic, but becoming classic and individual adaption","Date":"27 April 2013","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" A lot of reviewers turned down this one due to the non-true adaption and the obvious irony plus the Stallone-type action style.Well, in fact this movie is extremely entertaining, has a good plot, excellent visuals and give the actors a lot of room and space for their character development. All this makes it better than the recent version of Dredd.And even that difference between these two movies makes the original Stallone-Version even more better and much more entertaining. Also the violence in the 1995 adaption of the comic is present but does not need any gore to be effective.Judge Dredd and Demolition Man were true highlights of Stallones action sci-fi period, which unfortunately we not that successful as they probably should have been. "}{"Title":"Terrific Sci-Fi Thriller","Date":"21 September 2012","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I Still Know What You Did Last Summer director Danny Cannon's larger-than-life crime thriller Judge Dredd introduced movie audiences to the futuristic apocalyptic comic book hero who appeared initially in the British science fiction comic anthology 2000 AD back in 1977. Cannon's fast-paced but formulaic cinematic adaptation toplines Sylvester Stallone as the eponymous policeman who serves not only as a judge and jury but also as an executioner. Indeed, Judge Joseph Dredd can impose an immediate death sentence on a criminal that he encounters on the street if the crime calls for such a consequence. Comparatively, in terms of sci-fi, Judge Dredd resembles Blade Runner partially because the action occurs in a dystopian future where overpopulation and anarchy plague a mega-metropolis. Citizens fly around in cars and motorcycles. Terminator scenarist William Wisher and Commando writer Steven E. de Souza have created a textbook perfect melodrama that neatly deploys exposition without interfering with the momentum of narrative. Cannon orchestrates the action with speed and clarity so this obstreperous, overwrought, 96-minute epic never wears out its welcome. Wisher and de Souza have fashioned a gripping actioneer with charismatic characters that boasts the kind of outlandish violence, suspense, tension characteristic of an Indiana Jones cliffhanger and a sense of sarcasm that makes this predictable but entertaining fare enjoyable. Stallone's co-stars include Armand Assante as our hero's chief adversary and he is no slouch. Rob Schneider provides the comic relief, while Diane Lane backs up Stallone as more than just a pretty face. Max von Sydow and Jürgen Prochnow portray Stallone's superiors on the council who are concealing a secret about the relationship between Judge Dredd and his brother Judge Rico. Unfortunately, Judge Dredd failed to generate the critical and audience appeal necessary to justify a sequel, but it still surpasses the most recent live-actioneer version Dredd. "},{"Title":"Stallone's serious sci-fi film","Date":"2 October 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" There are three reasons why I love this film.1.) It's based on a comic book 2.) It's science fiction 3.) Jürgen Proschnow While Judge Dredd is undoubtedly guilty of featuring a number of action-movie clichés it also has an interesting story. The setting of the film, which raises some thoughts about fascism, among others, has always appealed to me, especially if compared to Stallone's decisively less serious Demolition Man.While some of the plot-elements can be considered somewhat over done, it's the little intricacies of the plot and the subtlety of the films pace that make it into a credible film. I also can't deny that the production values were appropriate and the special-effects still look convincing by today's standards.While Judge Dredd is not really among the all greats of the science fiction genre, it definitely deserves mention for depicting a believable future-society and a hard-hitting plot. The more human and comical elements undoubtedly take away some of its credibility but over-all, it's a good movie. "},{"Title":"Comic book movie","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A comic book movie, like the Punisher, and Batman.  People will hit this movie for its story, acting etc, and I beg to differ on their opinion, this movie is a comic book movie and is meant not to be Terms of endearment, instead its a fantasy flick.  Stallone know fantasy or comic book films with his creation of Rambo, and does a excellent Judge Dredge.  This movie has a strong cast, of many recognizable faces who create strong performances. The story is along the lines of comic book, backed up with great special effects.  I went to the theater expecting this, and give this one a thumbs up. "},{"Title":"Fun action flick","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Sure, it's not some emotionally heavy film or some deep, thought-raising movie, but it's a damn cool action movie and a funny one at that. Stallone and his sidekick, Schneider fight, run, and squeeze their way through the many hazards and giving some awesome special effects and some laughs.  If you are one of those hardheads who only appreciate moral or theme in a film, then you wouldn't necessarily like this movie, but if you are looking for a cool sci-fi flick with lots of gunfire, explosions, and special effects, Dredd is your man. "},{"Title":"Sticks to the Comic.","Date":"22 January 2013","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" After watching Dredd(2012), I expected less from this movie. But it has all the things I felt the new movie missed. The plot is like one that would be seen in the comic itself. Dredd doesn't really utilize much from the comic, besides the setting and characters. But this movie goes above and beyond! Even one of Dredd's classic adversaries is put in the movie! Stallone hits the personality of Judge Dredd dead on, having the serious love of the law while having his occasional comedic moments. Dredd is dark, serious, and more gory than Robocop! But this movie, all though not having the best computer animation (it was released in 1995), is a total blast! one of my personal favorites. "},{"Title":"I knew you'd say that......","Date":"29 November 2012","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Urban areas have grown into mega-cities that cover entire coastal regions.The justice system has evolved to a single person invested with the power of police, judge, jury, and executioner.Among the Judges of Mega-City One is Dredd, who is one of the best, and a particular favourite of the Head of the Council, Judge Fargo.But there are evil forces at work, block riots and the escape of Rico, a homicidal maniac, are only steps in a plan that ultimately lead to the sentencing of Dredd for a murder he didn't commit.And Dredd must discover the secrets of his own past and survive to stop the evildoers....Beyond some terrible dialogue, and comic book atrocities, Judge Dredd is simply a summer blockbuster starring an actor whose best years were back in the mid-eighties, which didn't help the film at all.1995 was a poor year for summer blockbuster. We had Waterworld, Batman Forever, Casper, and of course, Congo.So in all fairness, this is the reason why this film endears me more than others. Stallone is how you would expect, pretty bland, but still a big screen presence whatever the film he's in. And if you were brought up on eighties action, you'll lap it up.The rest of the cast are okay, Lane is a standout, but whatever Assante is on, I really need some. I have never seen a villain so over the top in a movie. Yes, he's supposed to be a psycho and everything, but having literally scream every line and sneer every five minutes is just bonkers.Effects are okay, and Schneider provides unnecessary humour, but all in all it's a big, dumb, fun, summer movie.So what if he takes his helmet off. He was judged. "},{"Title":"A  fun ride, cool looking flick","Date":"27 April 2007","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I dug this one quite a bit. I watched it years ago and liked it. Recently I bought it on VHS the other day and checked it out for the second time. I actually liked it better this time around. The film is extremely well produced with great effects and sets. The costumes are excellent as well. While action is the meat of this film, the plot isn't terrible and there are some decent sci-fi concepts at play throughout. Diane Lane looked so freaking hot...man what a babe. There is an awesome terminator style robot and a freaky cyborg dude with an adjustable rage setting that looked super cool also. This film is very fast paced as well, its over before you realize it. While Judge Dredd doesn't really make you think a lot, it certainly delivers with blast away action (and even a couple of laughs). I think fans of The Chronicles of Riddick or the Terminator flicks will dig this one a lot...give it a look!!! I enjoyed myself. "},{"Title":"Good Sci-Fi Movie!","Date":"29 March 2007","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" After viewing this movie, i got impressed with the weighted user rating (4.6), for me it is really underrated and the movie is well obtained and entertaining.The story about a post-apocalyptic future, where people live in walled mega cities to protect themselves from the desert wasteland of the outside; and in which you can see that the crime is out of control, is watched by some elite police officers called the Judges, who are trying to maintain order in the city; this officers have an almost total autonomy to conduct the law; they are police, judges, jury and executioners all in one (an interesting subject and way to see the evolution of justice). Judge Dredd (Stallone) is the greatest and more admired and respected judge in the city, but suddenly he is accused for the crime of a journalist an his wife. Dredd then faces the challenge to probe that he is innocent, with the help of Judge Hershey (Diane Lane), an extremely good Judge and Lawyer, Herman Ferguson or Fergie (Rob Schneider) an coward and funny computer hacker who was convicted by Dredd and the support of Chief Justice Fargo (Max Von Sydow). He has to fight against one of the more evil criminal minds in his time, Rico (Armand Assante), and some of his allies.The special effects in this movie are really good, and the futuristic view has a resemble of the fifth element (flying cars, and the sense of chaos), the acting performances are good; some people critic the role of Stallone, but if they had read the comic in which the movie is based (2000 A.D.) they would see that Stallone plays the role as it is (you can feel that the Judge Dredd of the comic is now in the screen as he is); Rob Schneider plays a good comic role and complement the depressing and cold Dredd Character; Diane Lane, makes good as an intelligent officer too.This entertaining sci-fi film is good to have a good time with good action and excellent visual effects, worth to see 7/10 "},{"Title":"Max von Sydow and Sylvester Stallone","Date":"13 September 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" You can say what you want about Sylvester Stallone, his wooden acting and his slurred speech. There is no actor, NONE at all, that can keep a straight face like Stallone.Just think about it. Here Stallone plays the ultimate bad-ass cop, the comic book-hero Judge Dredd. A cop who not only arrests the bad guys but also passes immediate judgment on them - and effects the punishment immediately (most of the time it means he just shoots them in the face). Not only does he in this part get to bawl lines like I am tha law!, he also gets to wear an armor built from what looks like 300 pieces of shiny LEGO and carry a pistol that talks and fires all kinds of funny ammo. As his sidekick he has the chronically annoying Rob Schneider, as his foe an Armand Assante on speed (or so it would seem).And all through this Stallone never breaks his perfect facade of brutal law-making machine. He never smiles, never laughs. He doesn't even break down and spontaneously cry over the lines he's given. That takes stamina, and i must admit i'm quite impressed with the man. The movie itself though is a train-wreck of ideas gone wrong. The comic-book feeling is intact if by that you mean every prop looks like enormous pieces of plastic toys firing sparks. The story is not really important but it involves a plot to overthrow the system of street-judges and take control over one of the two remaining cities on the planet.The funniest part is when Max von Sydow (how does he always end up in crap like this movie?) comes in and talks to Stallone about the true meaning of justice. It almost brought a tear to my eye seeing a distinguished actor like Sydow explain the philosophy of justice in a dignified way to Stallone who is dressed in plastic and a tank-top.In a funny way though i can't really hate this movie. While it's certainly bad it still holds a certain entertainment-value. But don't get me wrong, you'll never laugh with this movie, only at it. I rate it 2/10 and consider myself generous. "},{"Title":"A future that includes one man as the law!","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In 1995 while on vacation in Canton, Ohio the night before going to the Pro Football Hall of Fame I decided to leave the motel room with my friend and go to the local mall cinemas and see this. I can't speak for my friend, but I am a big Stallone fan and even when a film like Judge Dredd may not be his best if your a true fan you come out and watch. The concept of this film is nice and neat which takes place in the future with Stallone judging people and being a one man police world! Many don't know that Judge Dredd is based on a comic book, and sure it's not as entertaining and exciting as Batman but this movie is a nice watch for any Stallone fan. "}{"Title":"That's Judge Bitch to you!","Date":"8 April 2007","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm a huge fan of the Big Five action stars of the 1980's and '90's (Sly, Steven Seagal, Chuck Norris,Bruce Willis and Arnold Schwarzenegger)and it's always interesting to see with whom they co-star in their flicks. Sly is probably the best at finding good actresses to team with and he doesn't disappoint here. His teaming with Sandra Bullock in DEMOLITION MAN works great and Diane Lane (Judge Bitch to the evil scientist she battles) holds her own with him almost as well. Action films demand really mean villains for their heroes to overcome and Armand Assante is a capable actor, but he doesn't give Sly a really memorable final battle sequence, and their scenes together weren't nearly enough to illustrate how their characters became the way they were. I think some flashbacks to their lives together would have fleshed this picture out much better. All told, this film doesn't measure up to Stallone's other action flicks, but it's still pretty entertaining for its visuals of the future and a few decent action sequences, and some clever throwaway lines by Stallone, Lane and Rob Schneider.Dale Roloff "},{"Title":"The Jurisprudence of Judge Dredd Determined","Date":"27 December 2005","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I gotta say I love this film. Today was the first time I saw it. They just don't make films like this anymore. It's damn funny, doesn't take itself seriously and is just pure action.I'm a law student and really into legal theory although it's not an original idea of the movie makers since it was a comic before the jurisprudence of Judge Dredd is fascinating.The law has been deified in the future, the statute book is even has a gold edge to its pages hinting at the sacred status of it. The judiciary are subservient to the law, to the letter. There is no implied common law system but the 'good book' contains all that needs to be known. Summary executions are common and trials rare. The law cannot be wrong, it cannot be sorry it just is.17th and 18th century English legal history have come full front in the film. In that century Parliament enacted an ever greater number of capital offences for a perceived endemic problem of lawlessness. The bloody code as it was termed sentenced defendants to death for trivial offences such as wood taking, wrecking, and property offences. The law was deified, the judges helpless to her power to carry out sentences. The magic, mercy and justice of the law was admired by all from the working class to MPs. This is precisely what happened in the Judge Dredd verse.So yeah that's why I think the film is damn neat. And in the year 2005 in light of recent international and national law infringements of the governments of the west; we have to question - do we need to be completely serviant to the law, when those in charge of its administration have such wanton disregard for it? Indeed do we need Judge John Dredd to enforce the law and pronounce I AM THE LAW! in the UK Parliament and US Congress?! OK yah that's kinda lame but whatever it'd be cool.Dredd's opening line I AM THE LAW, now that shoulda been up there with I'll be back. "},{"Title":"Need I mention that Stallone is HUGE overseas???","Date":"25 December 2002","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I first saw this film in Asia, and thought it was an OK action/sci-fi film (Max von Sydow gave the film his blessing).  But when I returned to the U.S. shortly afterwards, I was surprised by how much the film was being vilified.  And the reviews didn't seem to bear any relation to the film I saw in Asia.  There seems to be an anti-Stallone lobby in the U.S., which attacks every film he makes (even some of the better ones like Cliffhanger and Assassins).  I simply don't get it.  He happens to have appeared in some of the best action films of the last decade or two.  He still commands 8-figure salaries for every film.  He lives like some kind of Olympian god.  OK, so 'Get Carter' was a pale, pale (PALE) shadow of the original (though beautifully photographed!), but Sylvester Stallone is as big as Jackie Chan overseas.  This might make some of you glad that you aren't overseas.  It makes me glad that I am (that and the low cost of living).  Keep up the good/bad work, Sly!   "},{"Title":"I knew you'd say that!","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie, when viewed with the understanding that it's basically a comic book on film, is really not that bad.  Sure there is some severe overacting by Stallone and Assante, but on the whole it's pretty entertaining (especially Schneider).  Some very good special effects also help the very mediocre script.  A very good job of directing and photography are also a plus.  A rating of 7 out of 10 was given.  "},{"Title":"Puking","Date":"23 March 2008","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie has to be one of the worst I have ever seen. Its genre is supposed to be action, yet I found it to be more fitting in comedy. It could have been a great movie because of its neat and clever premise, but it was just ruined. The dialogue was awful. Sylvester Stallone said three lines three to six times each. Also, the guns were very obviously fake.Rob Schneider seemed really out of place as a man whom Dredd had convicted at one point erroneously and now one of Dredd's only allies. His attempted comedy was not funny and was really quite annoying because he just acted cowardly and stupid. Diane Lane's character was totally unnecessary and only acted as a filler and a short distraction from the violence. The ending was extremely predictable and clichéd. I would recommend it to someone who like mindless Sylvester Stallone movies or cheesy/corny action movies. "},{"Title":"Another underrated Stallone film (small spoilers)","Date":"30 May 2001","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film is surely inferior than the brilliant Demolition Man but it HAS redeeming qualities . Personally I understand people who disliked because they read the comics. Maybe the point of the comic was different , maybe they wanted other characters to appear like the horrifying Judge Death , maybe important characters were altered , not to mention Dredd NEVER takes his helmet off . But every viewer will have to compromise whenever a book or a comic hero or historic event or even a fairy tale(!) is being transferred in big screen . They always undergo serious changes . For us who have not read the comics this movie can definitely stand on its own . There are accusations that it is a rip-off of Blade Runner and other sci-fi films . Come on people ! Matrix was also a copy from Dark City but it was praised beyond all measure . The screenplay with the poitical conspiracies , the clones etc also reminds Demolition Man , Total Recall and others . Who CARES ? The brilliance of the script is that it created 4 VERY STRONG characters . It reminded me of Batman Returns . Despite the plot flaws the basic heroes were so well written and reliable that each of them could carry a movie by his own . Here we have Judge Dredd (Stallone) , Judge Hersey (Diane Lane) , small crook Fergey (Rob Schneider) and Max Von Sydow excellently playing Chief Judge as a father figure . Diane Lane is one of the most dynamic female heroes . She plays a crucial and ACTIVE part in the plot . At last , not some decorative beautiful doll just for love interest. Unfortunately the villains are miscast and somehow disappointing . It does not matter . The direction and SFX are good (but could have been better) but the music score by Alan Sylvestri steals the show . The acting from the good guys is quite good . I will have to admit that there were subplots not well developped like the Dredd - Rico relationship . Also Dredd is somehow bullet repelling !!! (he is never hit). There is much unwanted violence and the desert hiibillies are a bit corny (but in a sense cult) Despite the flaws there some classic moments like the Council 's sessions or the trial scene . The plot is unfolding very fast and you are never bored (and I have seen it 6 times) . Also there are classic one-liners . But probably the best scene is when Dredd is in row to be transported to jail while the echo of Griffin 's words says that he should be erased from our heart and our memories forever .Simultaneousley the aged Judge Fargo departs in full honner for his exile in desert someone says  May he be written in our hearts and our memories FOREVER  it is one of the most heartbreaking scenes in cinema. Don 't get carried away by obsessed comic fans . Give it a shot.JUDGE DREDD                                          7.5  /  10 "},{"Title":"What I think of Judge Dredd","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Loved this movie.  It is SERIOUSLY underrated.  The ABC Warrior is by far one of the best movie robots in a long time. Stallone looks like he was drawn for this part.  Rob Schneider is hilarious as comic relief.  Great gadjets and premise.  I had never read Judge Dredd before the movie. "},{"Title":"One of those films I can watch over and over again","Date":"26 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm a big Stallone fan, have been since i was little and saw Rocky. A lot of people complain about this film, mostly the comic book fans and namely because Dredd removes his helmet and because it doesn't follow any of the comic book story lines. However, I thoroughly enjoy this film for many reasons. It's just entertaining, and overall well made in my opinion. Stallone fits the role of Dredd brilliantly, and Rob Schnieder is entertaining as Fergie along with Diane Lane as Judge Hershey. I have read that this film was originally supposed to have a darker tone than the one that ended up getting made which is a shame. I do feel sorry that Danny Cannon the director had creative differences with Stallone about this film. I can imagine dealing with an actor with that much star power can be intimidating and as much as I am a fan of Stallone I'm sure he can be very difficult to work with, at least I'm sure he was in the past.This film is a fun ride, and I never get tired of it. The special effects and sets are great for the times.You can tell there was a lot of attention to detail when they made this, and making it in the England where Judge Dredd was created was also cool since so many of these big films are made over in Hollywood.If you are looking for an entertaining action film with some comedy then check out Judge Dredd. Many people claim that the New Dredd film with Karl Urban is a better film since it is more closer in tone to the comics. Whilst it isn't a bad film, I found it quite boring and didn't buy Karl Urban as Judge Dredd at all, unlike Stallone who is clearly a tough guy and not just *acting* the part.Dredd is a good film. It was made at a time when the market wasn't saturated with super hero movies like it is today, and I think it has an originality to it along with nostalgia from seeing it when I was younger, and growing up with it very much like the Rocky movies. "},{"Title":"Judge Dredd","Date":"10 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Comic book hokum that pales in comparison to what we have been fortunate to see a lot of in multiplexes of today has Sylvester Stallone as the titled character barely ever wearing his helmet as one of many judges that are the judge, jury, and executioner of those who are found guilty according to the law. Armande Assante is his brother (created through a clone project called Janus), however, Dredd is unaware of this until much later when his mentor (and father in some respects) reveals the Janus clone project to him as he lays dying. Jürgen Prochnow is Judge Griffin, a corrupt judge wanting the Janus project restarted so he can have an army of clone judges under his own maniacal rule, allowing the release of Assante's highly unstable Rico so that he can see all those who stand in his way (judges of stature and lawful repute) are put away. So Stallone (thanks to Assante's having relatable DNA) is set up as the murderer of a reporter (Mitchell Ryan) considered a major critic of Dredd's, sentenced to life imprisonment (a camera caught Rico disguised as Dredd, wearing Dredd's badge, with Ryan calling out his name before being obliterated), is fortunate that a family of cannibalistic, scavenging, murdering fiends (led by Scott Wilson!) blow down his prison transfer ship. Narrowly escaping them, with his mentor (Max Von Sydow, in a film that's a far cry of his work with Ingmar Bergman) not so lucky thanks to a barely-held-together cyborg, Dredd, accompanied by a weasel sidekick Rob Snyder (I can only imagine his casting made fans of the comic cringe), will seek out Rico and Griffin to restore justice and the law. Mostly a reason to have hi-tech weaponry destroying structures and people, and actors intensely delivering lines in over-the-top fashion (especially Assante, who has zero restraint), Judge Dredd is all explosions and dead bodies in Judge costumes. There is Diane Lane as an advocate of Dredd's who failed to save him from a prison sentence eventually joining forces with him, and Joan Chen as a supporter of Griffin's, both of who duke it out eventually. And, obviously Stallone and Assante fight it out at the top of a moved Statue of Liberty in the heart of the city. This film is almost Demolition Man, substituting Assante with Snipes, except without the sense of humor and satirical future comedy. Assante wishes to clone his corrupt and free DNA and create an army of his own psychopaths to be commanded by Stallone! The detail regarding Dredd judging Rico is an important plot point that drives home the tension and rage that exists between them. A lot of action bluster and a waste of talent such as Lane and Von Sydow. Definitely one of Stallone's worst 90s films. This features voicework from James Earl Jones and Adrienne Barbeau. Assante is rather embarrassingly hammy as the villain, and Schneider as the miniscule low-scale crook tries to liven scenes as Stallone skulks and wears his scowl. Some decent effects of the city, travel cycles, and weapons help a little but not much. "},{"Title":"Judge Dreddfully average","Date":"29 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Upon first viewing this back in the 90's I recall actually enjoying it somewhat. 18 or so years later as a 33 year old I just re-watched it with some mates and the feelings of nostalgia could not help me enjoy this revisit. The problems  1  Anyone can read trivia here on IMDb and see how difficult a time Danny Cannon had with Stallone . If Stallone wanted so much creative control perhaps he should have Directed and not try influence someone else's vision. 2  The tone is all over the place, is it a comedy or straight action. Robocop 1987 got the balance spot on but here its uneven, it also feels like a PG13 film with gore. 3 The acting, can you keep a straight face when Stallone spits out I AM THE LAW!!, The normally reliable Diane Lane also struggles in some scenes looking embarrassed, Max Von Sydow was only performance I liked, less about Rob Schneider the better. Pointless character. 4 Dated effects, The bike chase through the city skies is not cringe inducing as green screen is so obvious and distracting that I felt sorry for the actors. 5 The costume the Judges wore looked like cheap plastic props. 6 Keep your helmet on Stallone. But I sound like a hater here. It wasn't all bad. I like Alan Silvestri's triumphant score, Armand Assante is hilariously over the top and the production design is impressive eye candy. Overall a deeply average movie. "}{"Title":"Mediocre comic book adaptation. VFX already dated","Date":"25 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a mediocre Sci-fi action satire based on a comic book. The premise is clichéd and seems an excuse for lots of action. Stallone is bland as usual in the lead. He is unable to rise above the material and seems more comfortable with the slam-bang stuff than the satire. There are lots of Special Effects but they already feel dated. Diane Lane is alright in a thankless part. Rob Schneider provides the comic relief which works occasionally. Armand Assante and Jürgen Prochnow play the teeth-gnashing bad guys. Max Von Sydow has a brief welcome appearance. Watchable only if bored.Overall 4/10 "},{"Title":"Guilty!!!","Date":"3 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I liked it.  Even though it differed quite a bit from the comic version, especially the fact that you NEVER saw his face.  Stallone and Assante are well cast, but the director, who I hear was undermined by Sly a few times, certainly shows his inexperience.  Danny Cannon, had only directed music videos and two other films before helming this, one being The Young Americans with Harvey Kietel.  It didn't set the world on fire.  Joan Chen is always good to see, and Diane Lane makes for a great Judge Anderson.  If you read the comics in your younger days like me, it made great viewing to see certain characters you'd only seen previously as drawings, brought so vividly to life.  But that's one of the main problems with the film...Rob Schnieder is the other.  If you don't recognise certain characters, the film doesn't really bother to explain who they are.  I guess if it did, that would've resulted in a 3 hour movie. "},{"Title":"Drek!","Date":"24 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As a staunch fan who has vague memories of the first 2000AD issue I have mixed feelings about this one. I was hoping the film would reflect the serious detective based Dredd stories instead of the 'comic-booky) product released.It's not a bad film really, but it could have been a lot better if they had chosen a better director (Danny is from my home town and I've nothing against him...he just wasn't right for this film). Getting rid of Rob Schneider would have been a good thing too...he was just annoying and belongs in kids films.Dredd removing his helmet, killing half the council and the Angel gang didn't help either.Still, it's worth checking out even if only for curiosity. I hope one day someone makes a remake or a sequel. "},{"Title":"Hey yo, Adrian, I am the law!","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Like the original The Punisher, Judge Dredd is a movie that should have stuck to its comic book basics. Although I know little of the character, I am aware that Dredd's face was never shown, never helmet free. I'm also pretty damn sure that it is not nor should have been Stallone's kisser. To compensate for the lack of original casting, they gave him odd-looking contact lenses. But seeing Sly in a position of authority is cool. You can see that he really liked this role. Alas, the mystery of the Dredd character would have made this comic book adaptation a lot better, and perhaps change the whole story around. Now we've got a routine action/sci-fi movie, with the Dredd name attached to it. In it are some okay characters, the best being the cannibals on the desert. And Dredd should have shot Rob Schnieder into another movie, for his comedy relief was very misplaced.Good if it is the only Stallone movie on cable. But if Cliffhanger is on, then seriously, watch that instead. "},{"Title":"Fun Camp","Date":"14 January 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the future, most of the world has become a desolate wasteland. The population is crowded into Mega Cities. However these city states turn chaotic and a new law & order system is established. Judges become the new police, jury, and executioners. The strictest of them all is Judge Dredd (Sylvester Stallone). Meanwhile dangerous criminal Rico (Armand Assante) has escaped from the Aspen Penal Colony. Rico has a past with Dredd, and there is sinister plan afoot. Dredd is framed for murder. While power mad Judge Griffin (Jürgen Prochnow) takes over the council after engineering the departure of Chief Justice Fargo (Max von Sydow).This movie is camp of the highest order. The visual look is a mix of 'Metropolis', 'Blade Runner', and 'Escape from New York'. It is a good representation of its British comics roots. Sly is quite good as the stiff muscle bound Judge. It's the perfect role for him. Goofy Rob Schneider is kind of funny which only adds to the camp.The story is somewhat too complicated. It would probably be better to have just one villain. It doesn't help that Prochnow and Assante sort of have a similar look. They both excel playing the same character. For a comic book movie, a bit of simplification would probably help. It would be better to keep just one of them. "},{"Title":"What A Waste!","Date":"22 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Such a shame to see a creative comic series turned into another low brow Stallone vehicle. Could of been great. A very strong cast and great source material simply wasted. I realize this entertained many, so I guess it accomplished its purpose, but this had the potential to be so much more. If you liked the comics, I would think you would be upset to see what they spent millions to ruin. Stallone has made a few good movies in his career, but as a general rule, I associate his name with juvenile scripts and unimaginative action. This is no different. If you're a big Stallone fan, you should enjoy it, but I'm surprised at any Judge Dredd fan liking this. All the special effects in the world can't save a bad script. It is so rare that Hollywood ever does a book or comic adaption justice. "},{"Title":"Great movie, cheesy, but great.","Date":"11 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Let me start by admitting that this movie is extremely cheesy you have the obvious action hero (Stallone), the comic relief (Schneider), and the clever remark (Lane) in almost every scene; not only that, the script stresses each character's role to (what may be for some) the point of nausea.Perhaps it is that cheesiness which so attracts me to this movie. There are no unexpected plot twists, simply a well mixed combination of decent storyline, semi-funny humor, and action sequences. The chemistry between Dredd (Stallone) and Fergie (Schneider) is surprisingly delightful as Fergie is so obviously misplaced in Dredd's world of the Law.Another unexpected, yet pleasant, surprise would be the performance by Armand Assante; his part as the antagonist plays perfectly alongside Stallone's powerful protagonist role, offering what would seem to be a well-balanced opposition instead of a measly opponent to be easily conquered.I may have seen this movie a few hundred times since its release in 1995, and each time I see it, it's resonating effect is the same; it's a pleasant stroll down the 80's-90's action movie, easily grouped with others such as Predator, Demolition Man, The Fifth Element, etc... worthy of watching at least once, if not for the story, the humor, or the action then at least for the incredible cast. "},{"Title":"Perhaps a B Grade Movie, but still worth a watch.","Date":"26 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you like Stallone, then this is definitely worth a watch. He is typical action hero in this film, with everything you would expect, from the gun that seems to be able to destroy anything, to the fairly cheesy monster-man that attempts to kill the hero. While the film is by no means something that will win any Oscars, it is still surprisingly entertaining. The plot is quite typical of an action/sci-fi movie, a respected hero loses his title due to an envious villain, then he has to regain it by a great deal of pointless killing. However, it is this that allows you to like this film, yes the plot is very cliché, and it is not a cult/classic but if you are either a geeky teenager who thinks plastic body armour and ray guns are awesome, or if you just like watching violent action scenes then this film is perfect. "},{"Title":"Entertaining throughout... and yes, Sly, you probably *did* know I'd say that","Date":"9 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've never actually read the comic book... prior to watching this, I just knew about the universe of Judge Dredd, the gist, the basic idea. This is a fun ride from start to finish. From the opening moments, with a brief introduction to the world presented herein, by the booming, powerful voice of none other than James Earl Jones, to the very end, it's entertaining. The pacing is fast and good, the film neither overwhelms nor lulls the viewer to sleep. The plot is actually pretty good, well thought-out, though I guess it may not be the most original. Stallone does well, and the relationship between him and Schneider(who, well, he does well, as well... well) is quite funny(in general, the humor is nicely done and tends to work). Assante makes up for whatever acting talent he may lack by bringing a lot of energy and passion to his performance, with great results. Prochnow proves here that The House of The Dead was more Uwe Boll's fault than his. Max von Sydow is marvelous as always, and if anyone's wondering what he's doing in this, hey, it's not the only role he's done in a film that isn't all serious(and this never intends, or claims, to be)... the man was in a Bond flick, for crying out loud. Keep your eyes open for Balthazar Getty in a fairly small role. The film has its share of one-liners. The action is cool and well-done. As others have said, the effects hold up well, and production design is quite well-done. It's a sure way to spend an hour and a half being entertained. It is set in a dystopian future, but I've heard that it's not as dark as the comics are. I recommend this to any fan of comic books, action and/or science fiction. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Wait, so they actually want us to take it seriously?","Date":"23 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" My Take Another instance of awful eye-candy. When I saw a TV commercial for Judge Dredd, and saw Sly Stallone in a silly superhero/cop outfit, I was prepared to laugh, big time. And I did, for most of the first part, then pretty soon, Stallone takes of the funny helmet, I guess it's time to stop laughing. Is it gonna get serious? Surprisingly, it tries to. And by that point, Judge Dredd got even sillier than it was before.Judge Dredd, though, is not as campy as it sounds, but it still is. Most especially if it takes itself way to seriously. The film is based on a series of comic books I haven't manage to read, but these comic books aren't those things that are taken to seriously. That's what this film does wrong. It's just a fun, campy action adventure, much like Robocop perhaps, wherein a fighter of justice fights thugs and shoot bad guys. In the film though, we have a frame-up (a common plot outing in futuristic-setting films like this) and a lot of violence than could be too much for its younger audiences.There is no problem, obviously, to add a plot to an otherwise ridiculous premise. But Judge Dredd took it too high. The plot is for films like Total Recall, yet the film is definitely marked for sci-fi buffs 10 and below. One, wherein a futuristic hero fights bad guys and saves cities and stuff. Judge Dredd pushes the envelope as well by having a lot of violence. The film is rated R, yet you can't stop kids from actually going to these kind of things. And obviously, adults will just laugh at it. Judge Dredd will have a hard time finding its audience, because it's too violent for the kiddies to watch alone, and too campy and just plain silly for the adults to sit through without laughing.Rating ** out of 5. "}{"Title":"Garishly Effective Crime Drama From Dystopia","Date":"21 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Judge Dredd is the ultimate law enforcer of dystopia.  In the world of the lawless, he is the ultimate law, and Danny Cannon's 1995 film brings him to cinematic life.  Sly Stallone nicely captures Dredd's rock-hard persona, and also imbues human warmth to the character.  Though Rob Schneider's comedy relief is abysmal (as bad as Jar-Jar Binks, and that is bad), the film survives him and succeeds with garishly attractive visuals, sets, props, special effects, and an otherwise superb cast, all fleshed out with Alan Silvestri's magnificent score with The Sinfonia of London.   "},{"Title":"This is a Darn Shame","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"       Judge Dredd is one of the greatest comic heroes of all time, who sadly never got his due in this country because he wasn't in the stable of the Big Two (Marvel & DC). Although DC did finally publish a version of him for a while in the 90's, it was a half hearted effort.       Further injustice was heaped on this great character by this movie. Although I give them credit for trying to get small details right, the overall film is just bad. Short, mush mouthed Sly Stallone is mis-cast as the titular hero and Rob Schneider as his sidekick was ill advised. An underutilized Diane Lane, on the other hand, did a fine job.     Hardcore Stallone fans may like it, but comic fans are advised to look elsewhere for their fix. I'd rank this up there with Dolph Lundgrens The Punisher on my list of worst comic adaptations.   "},{"Title":"TV movie quality comicbook adaption","Date":"30 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When even Sylvester Stallone says one of his movies sucks, how can anyone else defend it? Judge Dredd is one of the least original movies ever. It's virtually impossible to see anything in this movie you haven't seen somewhere else. Dredd, obviously, is from the infinetly superior 2000AD comic. The visuals are the typical futuristic metropolis seen in everything since &#145;Blade Runner'. The plot is simply a cross between &#145;Demolition Man' and &#145;RoboCop'.  The performanes are pure cardboard. The sad case of a unique British comic turned into a typical Hollywood action movie, avoid it at all costs. Dredd-ful.Sly Stallone IS a boring, monotous actor, so playing a boring, monotonous character could  be seen as good casting. But it's not going to be fun to watch. "},{"Title":"Looked promising, melted into mindless, boring dreck.","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was actually looking forward to seeing Judge Dredd, because I figured it might be the superhero movie I was waiting for after the disappointing Batman Forever. It turned out that my time would have been better spent watching Batman Forever. This movie fails to generate any sort of suspense or humor mainly because all of its characters have very little screen time, so we don't care about them in the least. The villain (Rico) has absolutely no air of menace, and we end up wondering why people thought he was so evil. The comic relief provided by Rob Schneider is not at all funny and merely seems distracting. The whole movie is very badly handled (besides the special fx) and generates no emotions or atmosphere. Truly a waste of time. Rated R, but the mild action stuff wouldn't bother a toddler. "},{"Title":"this movie is a fun Action Packed film that you will enjoy","Date":"1 September 2013","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" i Enjoy Dredd (2012) it was awesome as well even i Love This Movie but it wasn't balls to the wall Action scenes was good and fun but i agree what Stallone said it wasn't balls to wall agree and i did enjoy Judge Dredd movie with Stallone i liked the acting and his anger in movie like new one and i am not judge Dredd comic book reader sorry i am not but i enjoy and love the movies and i haven't read noting to books to it and i know Dredd doesn't take the helmet off that's what people say and never read the book of it i know people got Disappointment about this i didn't i liked it enjoy i am big Fan of Stallone big one and character Rico Dredd (Armand Assante) was pretty much of Psycho Path crazy guy well i know he is bad guy and Rob Schneider was worst in this movie i didn't find him funny in this film he played in 2 Stallone movies in Judge Dredd and Demotion Man but in this as apart from this movie not really that good when he was in Demotion Man he wasn't really part of movie only in 2 parts that's it in this in start and middle and end i really don't want Rob Schneider to be in this movie it was bit silly when he was in it that's why people saying why Rob in this movie ? people say Stallone Cartoon Version i don't find this Cartoon version i think that's how old movies was like that back then this is why Stallone had a bit Problems was this movie in Thirteen years after the release of Judge Dredd, Sylvester Stallone discussed his feelings about the movie in an issue of Uncut magazine in 2008 and he loved that property when I read it, because it took a genre that I love, what you could term the 'action morality film' and made it a bit more sophisticated. It had political overtones. It showed how if we don't curb the way we run our judicial system, the police may end up running our lives. It dealt with archaic governments; it dealt with cloning and all kinds of things that could happen in the future. It was also bigger than any film I've done in its physical stature and the way it was designed. All the people were dwarfed by the system and the architecture; it shows how insignificant human beings could be in the future. There's a lot of action in the movie and some great acting, too. It just wasn't balls to the wall. But I do look back on Judge Dredd as a real missed opportunity. It seemed that lots of fans had a problem with Dredd removing his helmet, because he never does in the comic books. But for me it is more about wasting such great potential there was in that idea, just think of all the opportunities there were to do interesting stuff with the Cursed Earth scenes. It didn't live up to what it could have been. It probably should have been much more comic, really humorous, and fun. What I learned out of that experience was that we shouldn't have tried to make it Hamlet; it's more Hamlet and Eggs that's what he said the film director for me was idiot Judge Dredd doesn't take out his Hamlet i agree maybe the director said F**ck his idea then the director did his own so he thinks Judge Dredd Fans people might think it's going to be great but you know what you didn't do it well i like movie like i said i love Action scenes him fighting with Rico was awesome and motorbike flying Motorbike and cops chasing Stallone was awesome start is Kinda Same as Dredd (2012) in Apartment shooting kinda same but 2 different movies but in Judge Dredd (1995) was kinda same at start in Apartment shoot out then in Dredd in awesome movie different not remake more of restart like batman Begins but different movies so Judge Dredd awesome and Dredd 2012 awesome both different movies if your a Stallone fan or Judge Dredd witch ones would you like better then first watch this one don't listen to fans they read comic books they comic book reader me i am not i am watch movies so yeah i enjoy this movie 10/10 for Sylvester Stallone "},{"Title":"I Am the Cloned Law!","Date":"7 October 2012","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Judge Dredd is directed by Danny Cannon and written by William Wisher Junior and Steven E. de Souza. It stars Sylvester Stallone, Armand Assante, Diane Lane, Rob Schneider, Joan Chen, Jürgen Prochnow and Max von Sydow. Music is scored by Alan Silvestri and cinematography by Adrian Biddle.Adapted from the Judge Dredd stories in British comic book 2000AD, the plot finds Stallone as Joseph Judge Dredd, a ruthless law enforcer of the future in Mega City 1. Framed for murder, Dredd finds himself on the other side of the fence, literally, as he is sent to prison beyond Mega City 1's walls out in the Cursed Earth. He must somehow escape to clear his name and stop Mega City 1 from becoming corrupted by those that framed him.OK, it's hardly brilliant, Schneider irritates, the real thesps in the film are wasted, it lifts from other notable sci-fi movies, so therefore it's lazy, and it has plot holes galore, but is Judge Dredd worthy of the critical mauling it got? Well no, actually. That is if you take it on its own mindless popcorn terms....The action is fast paced, it's loud and brash, but not in an insulting way like Batman & Robin, Stallone positively plays it dead right with a glint in his eye and chin perfectly chiselled, Lane is sexy as heck-fire in figure hugging futuristic suit, while the production design, the colour toning and the effects (with one exception) are undervalued eye pleasing delights. Add in Assante having the time of his life as villain of the month psycho Rico Dredd, and it's a more than adequate blockbuster.I understand the fan's reactions, those of the comic book that is, because I'm one of them, I treasured my 2000AD and Starlord copies right into my 20s when I foolishly sold them on. This is without doubt a watered down version of Dredd, clearly caught between a fan director's will and a studio's insistence on popcorn munching appeasement. So it's a fact we don't have the ultra violence and general fascist wallop that permeates 2000AD's stiff backed hard bastard, but their are delicate hints of totalitarianism and Nazi overtones in Cannon's movie, whiffs of satire are there as well. It really isn't the directionless adaptation some insist it is.Many flaws for sure, but it makes for a nice companion piece to the better Demolition Man, for that is the bonkers popcorn world it sits in. A guilty pleasure? Well I don't feel guilty about enjoying Judge Dredd a lot, but yes Mr. Fascist, I'm guilty as charged. 6.5/10 "},{"Title":"Great Popcorn Movie!","Date":"17 July 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've been reading all these bad reviews on this highly entertaining movie, and I can't get my head around it as to why people hate it. I'll admit, it's no Citizen Kane, but seriously, what did you expect? Whenever I see Sly's name pop up, I know I'm not in for a movie with high quality dialogues or top of the line acting. This movie, however, is a great adaptation of a great comic book. I wanted to see a movie with a high entertainment factor, and it's exactly what I got. The SFX isn't half bad either. It's not top notch, and sometimes it does appear they're wearing plastic, but all in all it has a good atmosphere and that's what really matters, isn't it?Just get some popcorn or crisps, sit down and enjoy an entertaining flick. Nothing more to it.6.5/10 "},{"Title":"A good no brains action flick","Date":"13 January 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the future a normal police officer is called a Judge and he has the power to pass Clement on offenders and carry out executions. The most hard-ball judge of them all is Dredd, with an impeccable career. But soon he finds himself on the other side of the law as he's framed for a murder he didn't commit and it's up to him to pass Clement against those who rule the system.These comic book incarnations don't ever seem to satisfy all. I remember when this came out there were a lot of Judge Dredd enthusiasts who ripped the movie to pieces, along with critics who almost universally despised the film. As for myself, I've always thought this was enjoyable popcorn fare not to be taken too seriously. There's a lot of good action, top notch set design, OK special effects and a not too bad story to set everything in motion. Still, I found myself backed in a corner when defending the flick.Stallone is perfect as Dredd. People may have different views concerning his acting talents but in roles that require much muscle and less talking, the guy excels. In the few instances that he has to express some dramatic gestures, well, I think he nails that too. And what a roster of supporting actors; Max Von Sydow is always good, Jurgen Prochnow is appropriately slimy, Rob Schneider is sporadically funny, Diane Lane is wonderful eye candy and Armand Assante is brilliant with his over the top interpretation of the main villain.As a no brains action flick Judge Dredd delivers in spades. I think it's judged a bit too harshly and should have a better overall rating. "},{"Title":"Good adaptation","Date":"31 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I got to admit I know nothing on the comic book or as the Political Correct dorks put it now, Graphic Novels. But I must admit I liked this movie. The only time I read anything with Judge Dredd when the two companies crossed over and Dredd went through time to fight Batman. That's it. The effects are impressive, there is tons of action. But doesn't the Constitution guarantee the right to a trial by jury? So the comic book and this movie raises questions of ethics. So, not only do you have a great and funny action movie. But you have something to think about, the ethics behind the Judge program. I don't know why this movie didn't do well in the box office, I went to see it and I don't go to see many movies in the theater. I think it's underrated and I give this movie 8 STARS. "},{"Title":"Mediocre mess adapted from a classic.","Date":"17 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Judge Dredd is an institution in British comics, making his first appearance in the second issue of 2000 AD. in 1977. He was the creation of Pat Mills, John Wagner, and Carlos Ezquerra. He was an instant hit and paved the way for the other great stories that would appear in 2000 AD. The series has a dark, satirical bite, with over-the-top violence and wry social commentary. Sounds perfect for a cinematic adaptation, right? Wrong! Judge Dredd, the film, is a complete mess, beginning with the casting of Sylvester Stallone. Stallone can be a great actor, when he is challenged. He can deliver a great action movie; again, when challenged. He did neither here. He plays the character as a joke, thereby removing any real humor from the story. The essence of satire is to play it straight and let irony carry the joke. Stallone all but winks at the camera throughout the film.The next issue is Rob Schneider as comic relief. He's just not funny here. Whether that is a result of the script, changes made by Stallone, or his own disinterest is debatable. Suffice to say, he detracts from the story.What does work are the performances of Max Von Sydow, Jurgen Prochnow, Armand Assante and Diane Lane. They at least play it straight, and Assante is perfectly over-the-top as Rico.The costuming is also excellent, wonderfully adapting the look of the comic, while making it work with real clothing. I wondered how they would handle Dredd's uniform, especially the shoulder pads and helmet, but the filmmakers got it right and made it look good. They also handle the Lawmaster well and improved on the look of the Lawgiver (never liked the comic design).It's been said that Stallone took over the film and moved it completely away from the script. It certainly veered sharply away from the source material, although it took bits and pieces from it. Had Stallone played it straight, the film might have been more entertaining. As it stands, about a third of the film is very entertaining, but the rest ranges from a mixed bag to plain awful.The shame of it is that there is a wealth of material to explore for a Judge Dredd series. This is a movie that would be perfect for a remake. Robocop proved you could do an over-the-top, darkly satirical movie, with some subversive social commentary mixed in and a sense of fun. Most of that was nicked from the original Judge Dredd. Here's hoping someone else will take up the gauntlet and create a better film. "}{"Title":"A rising star but, alas, he wears it a little crooked.","Date":"4 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" My first reaction to the film was wishing I had a cycle like that and that I could fit into the uniform Judge Dredd wears. Totally cool, and in the future -- the time portrayed in the film -- that word cool will likewise still be useful. Then it hit me, that tell-tale sign I've adopted as a result of my watching many a film when the name of the Lord gets thrown around EARLY in a film, it's just a short matter of time that any moderate reference to Christianity will sink to debauch at those hands of the movie screen writers. And case in point when cannibals show up, they are New Testament-quoting fiends. The star of the film, I feel, must rise to the level of censor over the content (words, especially) that are thrown about by its speakers. Speaking of loud speakers, somehow -- it is said -- there was an off-stage, real life romp by one Mr. Stallone with a female who he gave the very loud special request Slap me, slap me. A spoiler to this is that the entire crew heard his amplified voice during that sex. I like it when Stallone's cycle doesn't work, or start right up. It lets me know that the future won't be perfect, even if I don't -- and I know I won't -- live to see it. On this screen I always trusted Judge Dredd, though dread earmarks him as causing anxious or fearful anticipation to Websters readers. Comic or not, many of the scenes were, thanks to an artful sidekick whose stage entrance is from within a nonworking spaghetti machine. Max Von Sydow is wise and dignified but loses his Social Security benefits towards the end of the film. Since we can't audience participate and help with taking up a collection, we will just have to wish him well and give him comfort that his prize pupil, the eminent Judge Dredd turns out, in the end, in a way that would make him very proud. So, I give it an eight; without the fore-mentioned ecclesiastical objection, it would have surely been, in my mind that is uncluttered by many tens, a TEN! "},{"Title":"Stallone's most underrated film","Date":"9 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Yeah, I know a lot of people is gonna hate me for saying this, but I don't care. Judge Dredd, the 1995 action film starring Sylvester Stallone is in fact a great film and is probably the best action film to come out during the Summer of 1995. I will go as far as to say this is Stallone's most underrated film. Never have a seen such a Stallone film get trashed by fans and critics alike. What do you expect. This film was not trying to grab any Oscars or special awards. It was just a feel-good action film that I felt had a good plot. Now at times, I will agree that this movie had a certain level of cheesiness but it was good cheese. Did I mention that this film had very good special effects? That was another plus about this film. Now I will say that Stallone and Schneider didn't have the best chemistry in the world, but they could've easily worked on that so that was a minor to medium flaw, in my opinion. This film definitely doesn't deserve the criticism that it gets. It's a shame that this film only took in a meager 34 million out of it's massive 90 million dollar budget. People, give this film a chance, it's at least good for one viewing. "},{"Title":"Holds up well after all these years...","Date":"28 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I watched this film again after not seeing it for many years&#133; I was surprised at just how entertained I was. From the stoopid expression on Stalone's face&#133; to his over-acting. This part suited him *perfectly*. This is not a movie you take seriously. This is a movie that you sit back and have fun with. It holds up brilliantly over time and I would say, hasn't aged at all. I knew you were going to say that. If you're after a movie with solid acting, a good plot, intricate story-line&#133; forget it!! BUT if you're after good action, corny one-liners and fine entertainment value, then this will do it!! (it certainly did it for me!!). "},{"Title":"Another film wrecked by Rob Schneider...","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Schneider is like Jar Jar Binks but without the charisma... Sheesh, does he suck or what? Every 5 seconds we get to hear him utter some annoying joke or phrase, too bad Dredd didnt put a bullet in his characters skull, it woulda made the movie much more palatable. Assante was pretty good as usual, however this film coulda been great if it had centered on Judge Death. Too bad comic book fims are almost always garbage. "},{"Title":"A Fun Film For Sci-Fi Action Lovers","Date":"13 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  While Judge Dredd may not be a classic movie, it is a fun action sci fi movie ala Demolition Man and Total Recall.Sylvester Stallone plays a great Judge Dredd and Diane Lane is as good as ever. This is a film about a comic book by the way, so take it as a fun film, not Ghandi or Lawrence of Arabia!  "},{"Title":"I didn't think it was that bad","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The movie may have been a flop at the box office, but I didn't think it was awful. What kind of acting do you want from Sylvester Stallone? His memorable quotes are actually funny such as, I am the law and I knew you'd say that. Armand Assante is great as Rico, Dredd's brother. It's the classic good vs. evil. Don't think that I loved this movie. Judge Hershey wasn't even a factor in it(Diane Lane would do better things later on in her career). Jurgen Prochnow was completely awful and should start thinking about singing with Rammstein. Rob Schneider was funny, but got annoying after awhile. All in all, this film was okay; not awful, but not great, either. "},{"Title":"As Good As Any Comic-Based Movie","Date":"29 November 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  OK, this isn't Hamlet or Saving Private Ryan (yes, I liked that movie), but it is definitely one of my all-time favorite action movies.  Sylvester Stallone was classic, Diane Lane brought believable balance, Armand Assante was evil, Rob Schneider was hilarious, and the rest of the cast did just fine in each of their roles.This movie has equal amounts of drama, comedy, action, and sci-fi coolness that all still stand up today.It's definitely an excellent choice to watch any night you want to watch a blockbuster-type movie. "},{"Title":"don't dread dredd","Date":"17 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Most people feel that Judge Dredd was a really bad movie but as far as the genre goes it really wasn't that bad. sure the dialogue left something to be desired( I am the Law) but the story line was okay and the comic relief of rob schnieder was good too.so rent the movie and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Why do people hate this movie?","Date":"13 April 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In a distant future, the world has gone down the pot. Only three large cities remain in the United States. Everything else is a wasteland, destroyed by (presumably) a Nuclear War. However, these cities are really big, and really, really high-tech. Massive skyscrapers everywhere, and hovering and flying vehicles filling the air. The cities are more living than any cities today. Unfortunetly, the violence has also increased. There are crimes going on everywhere. From gangwars and riots to murders and stealing on every street, 24/7. Not exactly a paradise.The Judges (The police force of the future) keep the law and order in the city. They are both Jury, Judge and Executioners. If they find someone guilty of murder, they might execute him on the spot. The Judges live a life full of danger, and every day might be their last. The most respected Judge out there is Judge Dredd (Sly Stallone). He was born geneticly and his childhood was one of lonleyness and despair. He therefore lacks emotions and human feelings. One day, Dredd is framed for a crime he didn't commit, and is sent to a prison colony. But he escapes the transport, and finds himself in the wastelands outside the city walls, with a new companion. Ferguson (Played by Rob Schieder, almost the highlight of the film)Dredd must now get inside the city, and find the maniac who framed him, and most likely putting a bullet between his eyes as well.I really like this movie. I liked it from the first time I saw it. Even though its nowhere near an Oscar winning movie, or an intellectual film, its a really good action film. Then again, it might have something to do with me being a Science-Fiction freak. I can't think of a single Sci-Fi movie I don't like... But I like this one a little bit more than most of the others. Mostly because of its great scenery, fun story and good characters.I give it a 8 out of 10. Good action, nice plot, nice characters, nice scenery.  "},{"Title":"One of my all-time favorites","Date":"15 October 2006","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well, I voted for the 'Return of the King' for a full ten - now you may ask, why I vote 8 for this movie? This is easily 'chewable' popcorn cinema at it's best. If you like Sci Fi, as I do, this is for you. This movie offers you a bunch of ideas about the future, Sylvester Stallone is really funny but the cast is great and believable. Don't forget, this is a comic adaptation and people act like this. It's a real fun movie and I often quote in real life 'I knew, you would say that'. Ha, this movie is cool, intelligent and has an excellent and entertaining story. What else do you want? It is not serious about itself but like 'Fifth element' or 'Tiger and Dragon' it's just fun to watch. And it doesn't bore you, even you watched it five times. Just give it a try. 4.5 is really too low IMO. "}{"Title":"Pathetic","Date":"18 February 1999","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Being a long time reader of 2000AD I found this movie a lifeless, shambolic attempt.  To my mind, Dredd is as strong a character as Batman, Superman or Robocop, all of whom have had decent movies.  Instead of exploring Dredd's world, its politics, and the almost fascist judges and the like, what we have here is a watered down standard action flick with some reasonable visuals. Perhaps there will be a sequel that will do the character some justice (no pun intended).  If so, I hope it's a hell of a lot better than this... "},{"Title":"Diane Lane's Finest Film","Date":"19 June 2007","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is on my list of one of the ten or twenty best films ever made, even though I am not likely qualified to Judge it, since I watched the movie not because I am a fan of the comic series that gave birth to the well-developed characters, but because I went to high school with Diane Lane, who also happens to be my cousin's ex-girlfriend.Diane's career has left me on cable watching films like Unfaithful, The Outsiders, Rumble Fish, or Touched by Love, and the god-awful Perfect Storm, where death and happy endings are not mutually exclusive. I've never disliked her work, as she's a highly competent actress, as well as a physically stunning, highly intelligent, socially polished and engaging lady, but this was the first time I actually saw her stand out in a role, and make a film far better than it would have been without her. On that note, if the producers of the long-awaited Dallas movie can find a better Sue Ellen (or Pam), please let me know who that is. In Judge Dredd, Diane absolutely, positively shines as Judge Hershey, second-year street judge and sidekick to the title character.America has been reorganized in the future due to climate catastrophe, leaving us with a cursed earth wilderness that doubles as an outdoor prison camp requiring no guards, and several megacities where the old justice system has been replaced by a new system that centers around the judges, men and women sworn to uphold the law, by functioning as police, DA, judge, jury, and if need be, executioner. What is fascinating about this film is that the new society is not fascist, and despite the judges holding all of the power, the commitment to human rights and fairness appears to exceed our own in the present day. Power which we would call unconstitutional is not used to suppress the people, but to empower them by maintaining law and order in the best way possible under their circumstance.The plot is pretty standard comic action fare, so I won't delve too deeply here into it, other than to note the strong supporting cast, including Rob Schneider as the action buddy with all its inherent humor, Armand Assante as the line-blurring Rico, and Joan Chen as Ilsa. Still, it is Diane who stands out, and who managed to make Stallone a convincing romantic lead in a way Talia Shire never could. Hershey softens Dredd just enough while respecting his aloofness and inflexibility; she laments his inability to display emotion even as she admires it. Hershey seems to accept, reluctantly, that what causes her to love Dredd is also what makes it impossible for her to be with him. This subplot is explored with just the right touch in the film.The people who NEED to see this film are those who believe that the American way is the only way. Dredd's era and his society have their flaws, but no more or less than could be expected of any society of any generation, living under any system of rules. This is an exceptionally thought-provoking and well-acted film that every serious DVD collector should own. "},{"Title":"Avoid at all costs!","Date":"25 June 2002","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A cinematic abomination and, as one of the 2000AD generation, I must say a complete travesty of the Dredd legacy for reasons to numerous to mention in less than a thousand words. A perfect way to screw up a potentially winning idea and leave no credible room for a sequel. Those responsible should indeed be judged! "},{"Title":"Judge Dreddful...","Date":"2 May 2005","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I just finished reading a comment with the headline Not all that bad! They should've edited to PG-13 though for more audience members!. I really do not think this author has really seen Judge Dredd, because the idea that this film could not pass the MPAA with a PG-13 certificate is one of the most telling signs that the censoring of film has gone too far in America. Indeed, this conception of Judge Dredd is so watered down you could almost cuddle up to it in your sleep. The sins of this film are numerous and heavy, but by far the worst is the attempt it makes to please everyone. That old saying about trying to please everybody and winding up pleasing nobody as a result was invented for a reason. Sadly, film executives once again misinterpreted this as a sign that our films need to be more censored and watered down in order to appeal to everyone. If only they could realise that the varying nature of individual taste means that there is never going to be a film that everyone in the world will pay to see twice.Not that the childishness of the film is limited to its marketing approach. In the big introduction of Dredd, we have Dredd getting off his motorcycle, stepping out in boots and armour that look far too big for him, and announcing to his fellow judges that the weapons being fired at him from some hundreds of metres above him have an effective range around a hundred metres too short to reach him. I don't know who put this doozy in the script, but I wish they had at least paid attention during a basic lesson on the principles of gravity. Bullets tend to stay effective when gravity is aiding them on their journey down. It is why so many have been killed by falling bullets when they fired their weapons upwards into open air. Mind you, this is by no means the worst blunder in the film, even if it is the most obvious.Exactly how Sylvester Stallone got his name attached to this project, I don't know, but this is probably the biggest of the mistakes. From what I have heard, Dredd never appears anywhere other than in this film without his mask, and he is a much larger specimen than Stallone to boot. Of course, the studio wanted to have a big-name star to sell this adaptation on the back of, but this results in the actor overwhelming the character. What little I knew of Dredd was definitely nowhere to be seen in this impersonation. Stallone simply recites a bit of exposition here, a few catchphrases there, and the rest is just sheer phoning in. Attempts to capture the hardened, flatlining personality of the Judge simply fall flat, and the support cast simply look lost. Max Von Sydow and Jürgen Prochnow look as if they are embarrassed to be there, and how much their asking fees contributed to the estimated ninety million dollar budget is something I can only guess at. Diane Lane, Joan Chen, and Balthazar Getty all do a good job of hiding how embarrassed or disappointed they are to be there, while Stallone simply looks oblivious to what a pile of garbage he has helped make.Director Danny Cannon has vowed to never make another film with a big name star, and it isn't difficult to see why. Apparently, Stallone had a big say in the final film, and the script was often subject to rewrites as the film was being shot. Now, while Stallone has penned some brilliant scripts in the past, this is not a Rocky film, and the requirements of the story or continuity were quite obviously beyond Stallone. Indeed, it is because of films like this one and Batman Forever that the reputation of comic book adaptations needed such a major rescue in the form of the X-Men films. Those films also proved beyond a shadow of a doubt that compared to casting a superstar whose acting range is, shall we say, a little limited, casting a relative unknown for a role that has specific characteristic requirements is a much safer bet.Judge Dredd is not even so bad it is good. It is so incredibly bad that it is utterly stupefying. It has somehow uncovered that secret universe where every performance is utterly stilted and every line is howlingly bad. Every so often, I get to thinking that maybe people who complain about corporations spending ninety million dollars on what is basically nothing when there are so many who barely have enough to eat, are whining. Then I see films like Judge Dredd. "},{"Title":"Could've been better or worse","Date":"27 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I guess if I was a fan of the Judge Dredd comics, I would have disliked this more. From what I saw, it isn't really THAT bad. It's really cheesy and over the top, but it is kind of entertaining in that way. Don't get me wrong, I still wouldn't recommend this film, but it's not quite as bad as people see. I mean, a movie that pairs Rob Schneider and Sylvester Stallone is pretty much doomed to fail. There are so many ways to make this better. And wouldn't you know it? They did make it better with the new Dredd movie...even though I personally wouldn't quite recommend that either.It tells the story of Judge Dredd, who's framed for a murder by his evil brother, Rico. I guess it's hard to hate this movie, because there really is the sense that it was never intended to be anything that good. I will compliment this film on having some great settings. I mean, this film is truly beautiful to look at! These are backgrounds and sets that really hold up! It really does make me miss the designs of the mid 1990's. Yeah, Rob Schneider's quite annoying, but at least he has more serious actors to work off of, I guess. A lot of what they do is actually pretty creative and the characters are kind of colorful.It's still way too hard to take seriously. Stallone's dialogue is way too silly to care. I believe that this guy was nominated for the most Razzies. My advice is just ignore this one, but I can see how some people would consider it a guilty pleasure. I just wish we could have seen those clones fight at the end. Those last scenes had so much potential! "},{"Title":"a good action film, but a great entertaining film","Date":"23 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Stallone is one hell of a unique actors around. He was type cast as the action hero, because he doesn't have much of acting range. This movie was sold, like all comic book movies of the 1990's a pure action film, with bits of laughter here and there.This film is a fun ride, and I never get tired of it. The special effects and sets are great for the times.You can tell there was a lot of attention to detail when they made this, and making it in the England where Judge Dredd was created was also cool since so many of these big films are made over in Hollywood.If you are looking for an entertaining action film with some comedy then check out Judge Dredd. Many people claim that the New Dredd film with Karl Urban is a better film since it is more closer in tone to the comics. Whilst it isn't a bad film, I found it quite boring and didn't buy Karl Urban as Judge Dredd at all, unlike Stallone who is clearly a tough guy and not just *acting* the part. "},{"Title":"The shadow of a much better movie","Date":"4 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" First question a lot of you are asking; who or what is Judge Dredd? Well in answer Judge Dredd is a British comic book series. In a dystopian future all of mankind has been wiped out except for one gigantic city. In this city crime is out of control so the people in charge introduce the Judges; Law enforcement officers who can serve as judge, jury and executioner, of these Judges the most feared is Judge Dredd whose unshakable sense of justice make him a force to be reckoned with. Now this is a great concept, especially in the 80s and 90s which were the best age for action movies in my opinion, Sadly this movie had a bit of a rocky production; Director Danny Cannon was in fact a fan of Judge Dredd and wanted to make an adaptation that had the same gritty edge and dark sense of humour as the original comics. As a result the first cut Mr Cannon submitted to the MPAA was NC-17 and had to be tossed back and forth between the two of them to finally get and R rating. On top of that Stallone (who was playing Judge Dredd) and the studio decided they wanted to make the movie into a PG-13 action comedy and the film got hacked up even more. Danny Cannon was so unhappy with the finished result that he hasn't worked with a big name actor since. After all that this movie was a commercial and critical failure, falling quickly into obscurity until certain critics on the internet resurrected it with the reputation as one of the worst comic book movies of all time. And yet&#x85;It's not all that bad. This movie could have been awesome; the cast aren't half bad, the production design is great, and the score is cheesy but fun. Unfortunately this movie also has its fair share of bad-in-a-good-way points and just plain bad points. I Love Sylvester Stallone but in this movie his portrayal of Judge Dredd reminds me of Buzz Lightyear done as a live action 80s action movie, which is fun but a misrepresentation of the source material. A lot of the acting in this movie is cheesy, not helped by dialogue that is both clunky and awkward. The scene with the Angel family is weirdly entertaining in this The Hills Have Eyes 2000 kinda way and of course there's Rob Schneider's character. This was a bad idea. Rob Schneider plays a bumbling thief who ends up unintentionally partnering with Dredd. This character is annoying, superfluous, and reeks of studio interference. Bottom line if you're looking for fun cheese you'll like this movie but for fans of either 80s action films or superhero movies this is a miss. Which is a shame because thee are times Cannon's original idea rears its head above all the garbage and you wish you were watching that movie. "},{"Title":"1995's Judge Dredd isn't the law. It's the flaw.","Date":"8 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Created by comic book writer John Wagner and artist Carlos Ezquerra, and first appeared in the second issue of 1977's 2000 AD, a weekly British science-fiction anthology comic book magazine. Judge Dredd is that magazine's longest-running character. He became so popular, that in 1995, a movie was made about him with top action star, Sylvester Stallone in the main role. Directed by Danny Cannon, and set in the not-so distance future, Earth has become an uninhabitable wasteland. While some humans manage to survive in the barren Cursed Earth, the majority of humanity resides in huge Mega-Cities where crime has risen to ungodly levels due to over-population and the lack of resources. To combat crime, the traditional justice system has been replaced by a corps of Judges whose role combines those of police officer, judge, jury, and executioner. This is the world that Judge Joseph Dredd (Sylvester Stallone) lives. Things get worst for Judge Dredd, when a former Judge name Rico (Armand Assante), escape from prison, and frame him for the murder of a new reporter. Now imprisoned, Judge Dredd must go against the system of law, in order to prove his innocent, while also stopping Rico from his evil plan of taking over the world. Without spoiling the movie, too much, I have to say, the plot has way too much elements from a bunch of different arcs from the comic book, including The Return of Rico (Dredd's corrupt twin brother Rico returns from a prison colony to get revenge), The Day the Law Died (an insane and tyrannical senior Judge seizes power), The Cursed Earth (Dredd traverses the bombed out territory outside the city), The Judge Child Quest (Dredd encounters the cannibalism family), and Oz (Dredd thwarts a plot to conquer the city with an army of clones). It was a mess. It lead to many plot-holes, like how Judge Largo's DNA (Max Von Sydow) isn't shown to be relation to Dredd in the trial, nor the fact, that the Janus cloning project was hidden from most of the Judges. Also, when you think, deep about it. It doesn't much sense for them to have this technology in the environment in which this movie is set in. How did they do it, with limited resources!? Also, why? Over-population is already a problem. Why, add more people? Yes, I guess, it would be, easier to control the population, if you replace them, with mindless clones, but if they had the power to genetic engineer people, you would think, maybe they would use that resources for better use; like I don't know, solving the barren wasteland, by genetic engineering food and crops. In my opinion, this cloning sub-plot seem unrealistic and ridiculous, for even for the Dredd comic. The whole cloning arc was never my favorite from the comics. Nevertheless, I also didn't like some of their changes from the comics like how Judge Griffin (Jurgen Prochnow), is now a villain. Wasn't he originally part of Dredd's main allies in the comics? Honestly, they should had call him, Judge Cal in the movie. It would make more sense since he's a villain from the comics. Another thing, I didn't like, about the movies, is how Dredd is willing to kill his former buddies, the judges in able to prove his innocent. He rarely did that in the book. Isn't the point of this film is show that Dredd can act more human, rather than a totalitarian figure piece? He seems more-cruel now without the law, then the beginning of the movie. Despite the over-used of catch phrases and one-liners and the slurping of certain words, Sylvester Stallone does make a good Dredd. He does have the built at the time. I just wish, the movie didn't allow the character to removing his helmet, because he never does in the comic books. Another thing, I wish the movie kept, was the Rated R violence. It need to be grounded and gritty. This movie should had never been PG-13 with the over-the-top and clichés action. The source material was mature, gritty and gory for a reason. The world is supposed to be dark and depressing. The Judge Dredd comic strips were originally conceived as UK satires of the Thatcher government and its authoritarian police like state. It was then put in a Reagan-era fantasy about the liquidation of the underclass. It's supposed to incorporating obvious fascism, but it's never truly mention in the film. Instead, the movie makes the Judges seem like the good guys. Also, the movie made Mega City look way too futuristic, for a society that is supposedly on the brick of collapse. As much, as those things were jarring. The worst thing about this movie had to be the Rob Schneider's comedy relief character, Herman Ferguson. Yes, I know that his character was in the original comic, but Rob Schneider's performance as Fergie is annoying. Plus, his character in this, is pretty much, useless. In the comic, he was a muscle bound mutant, not a wimp. There is little to no reason for Dredd to care for him, here. I know, a lot of critics, has also bash, Armand Assante's performance as the villain, because how hammy, he was, but in my opinion, he was alright. The world of Judge Dredd is full of out of their mind, villains. I just wish, the movie choose Judge Cal over Judge Rico. It would make the film, a lot more fun. Overall The film has a certain comedic and entertainment value that for reasons, outside, my views, people has find fascistic to the point that it has been call a 'guilty pleasure'. However, I don't share that same view. In my opinion, the movie is garbage. If you want to see it, go ahead, but in my view, check it out 2012's Dredd, instead. It's closer to the source material than this trash. This movie is dreadful. "},{"Title":"A Missed Opportunity","Date":"29 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Continuing my plan to watch every Sly Stallone movie in order, I come to 1995's Judge Dredd.Plot In A Paragraph Judge Dredd, (a blue eyed Stallone) is convicted for a crime he did not commit, and he must fight to clear his name. Armand Assante (an actor I normally like) tries too hard and over acts awfully, but he is not alone. Diane Lane and Max Von Sydow apart, the acting is bad, bad, bad (Stallone included) In the Dredd comics, tradition dictates that Dredd does not off his helmet, thus his face has mostly only fleetingly appeared in full, but this mean Stallone would never show his face clearly, so to placate his ego, 15 minutes in to the movie and the helmet is off. It's a shame this movie doesn't work, as Sly looks the part, and it could have been a franchise. However the ball is dropped and he must take the lions share of the blame.In interviews, Stallone said he felt the film was supposed to be a comedy/action film, and demanded rewrites to make it even more comedic. The director and screenwriter, however, had intended a darker approach, which led to many difficulties behind the scenes.Director Danny Cannon was so disheartened over his constant creative disputes with Stallone that he swore he would never again work with another big-name actor. He also claimed that the final version was completely different from the script, due to the changes Stallone demanded. "},{"Title":"What? No Anthrax??","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I couldn't believe that Anthrax (who has probably done more to publicize  the Judge in America more than any other entity before this movie) was excluded from the soundtrack.  I Am the Law would have fit perfectly in this movie...maybe they saw the movie, realized it wasn't that good, and backed out of it.  All in all, this is a pretty decent, standard action movie.  The ending was very satisfying.  See it if you're really, really into action flicks.   "}{"Title":"An underrated fun film but not for Dredd purists","Date":"29 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you are wedded to the comic books, then you will probably hate this film. That does not make it a bad film - taken in isolation or as a twist on the classic Judge Dredd character, it holds its own. A comic book character that never reveals his face and a film where said character spends 90% of the film with his helmet off will never be compatible.For everybody else, it is entertaining as long as you don't take it too seriously, and a good enough story to flesh out in a feature length film. There are some seriously fun moments and it belongs to an era of films where special effects did not constitute the majority of the film but rather punctuated the narrative. Without giving spoilers, there's a war robot that is especially fun.It is by no means perfect. Some of the early scenes are a bit cringe-worthy, sometimes the comic relief is too goofy, and some of the characters are ill conceived and contradict the world they are in. Despite its flaws, it has a charm and personality that seems to have been lost in modern comic book adaptations which seem to be either very serious or slaves to special effects. "},{"Title":"Judge Dredd is Sylvester Stallone","Date":"15 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Excellent movie. Sylvester Stallone is the real Dredd, a cast simply magnificent, tremendous world of the future, pathos dialogs, it is a lot of variety, the robots, flying cars and other. I heard many negative responses that a pier the movie foolish and doesn't correspond to original comics, moreover John Wagner told it. I got the comics, both the earliest and more modern. Impudent lies! The first releases (1977-1978 - about 150 issues) absolutely same on the atmosphere to pathos and a visual row as well as the movie of 1995, the only thing just Dredd in comics doesn't remove a helmet, but it is impossible to consider only therefore the movie bad. All the rest if in the movie something isn't present that it was thought up much later, in the mid-eighties - if at all was. Danny Kannon made the screen version of original classical issues, the first issues, issues which were thought up from 1977 to beginning 1980s. Also it turned out at it perfectly. Moreover all humor in the movie corresponds to humor in comics, at least in the old issues. Sylvester Stallone has a unique charisma and voice, he was born for this role.For an hour and a half, director managed to acquaint the viewer almost and a half Dredd's huge Universe. He showed Mega City and block-wars in the lower part of the city and council and Aspen's colony and the desert of Cursed Earth and spiteful garbage which there live, various equipment from different futuristic planes and cars to fighting robots to which 50-60 years, work of artists and founders of special effects is higher than all praises. Cast simply ideal - Max Von Sydow and Jurgen Prochnow simply descended from the pages of comic books, Dian Lane as Hershi is very brutal, I like her command voice. Well and funny Schneider too very much in a subject. But the main thing is Rico in Asante's execution, it is so good that I simply have no words. The cast also is very good in episodic structure, from James Remar to garbage-people from the desert of a Cursed Earth. It is the best statement of the blockbuster, such good direction and casting happens usually only at theater, from movies I can remember only David Lynch's Dune, well and Danny Kannon's Judge Dredd. 10/10.In the comics a lot of extra, a lot of silly things, time travel and space aliens, totally inappropriate allusions to fascism - all this is not present in the film.And a shame on John Wagner for impudent lies. And the movie of 2012 which he consulting-produced at all wasn't pleasant to me. Here it really has mediocre relation to original and even to more modern Dredd's issues. "},{"Title":"I've got a soft spot for this movie","Date":"16 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is the kind of movie I'd usually rant about. It takes a dark, sarcastic, satirical comic and machine-tools it into a lightweight summer action movie, adding goofy comedy, a happy ending, and the high crime of having Dredd remove his helmet. In terms of character and plot it is, by any objective standards, a failed adaptation.In terms of visuals, it gets a lot right. Mega City One looks terrific, the Judge costumes are spot on, and so are the ABC robot and the Angel gang. Up until Dredd removes his helmet to reveal Stallone's expensive mug, there's not much to complain about (except Rob Schneider, of course). It's a shame the movie doesn't continue in the vein of that first twenty minutes or so.On its own merits, though, it's not a bad movie. Cheesy, sure. Trashy, oh yeah. Armand Assante hams it right up, chewing on every line like it's his last meal, selling what would, on paper, be routine action dialogue. Stallone has his moments too, although Dredd shouldn't be so damn likable. Max Von Sydow brings a dignified gravitas to his role. The recent 'Dredd' got a lot more right than this movie did, but for my money a truly faithful Dredd movie would lie somewhere between the two. "},{"Title":"Case dismissed - 51%","Date":"17 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" For my second Sylvester Stallone outing of the week, I decided to revisit a much maligned comic book adaptation. I've no idea how close it is to the source material, having never read '2000 AD', but I do recognise a derivative and fairly generic sci-fi shooter when I see one. The setting looks like Blade Runner but on a sunny day while our hero has to put up with the usual trappings of those stuck in an average action movie - comic sidekicks, love interest, revelations about their past, etc. It's frustrating because somewhere in there, a good movie with good ideas is fighting to get out but it sacrifices its origins to simply settle for being a blockbuster. And frankly, not a good one.In the future, when most of the Earth's surface has turned into a wasteland and the populations are forced to live in vast cities, law and order have basically broken down. Attempting to restore civic order are the heavily armed Judges who act as police, judge and executioner if need be. The most respected and feared in Mega City One is Judge Dredd (Stallone) who has dedicated himself to uphold the law absolutely but after he is framed for murder, out-going Chief Judge Fargo (Max Von Sydow) is forced to jail Dredd for life. While Dredd's partner Hershey (Diane Lane) seeks the truth, Dredd finds himself teaming up with petty criminal Herman Ferguson (Rob Schneider) in order to clear his name. But Dredd's past is coming back to haunt him in the shape of ex-Judge Rico (Armand Assante) who has plans far bigger than taking Dredd down...Judge Dredd makes an odd choice from the get-go by ignoring the vast history and traditions established since 1977 in '2000 AD' and instead turns the character into the very thing he was intended to be a parody of - a gun-toting, no-nonsense meat-head who mistakes the law for justice. In one respect, Stallone is ideal in the role right up until he takes the iconic helmet off and the character dissolves pretty much right away. Schneider adds very little to the film as he's basically being Rob Schneider while Lane & Assante have little to do besides look pretty and sneer maniacally, respectively. The film's look is probably the best thing going for it - Mega City One stretches for endless miles as flying vehicles and Judge bikes swerve between buildings and giant billboards. The sets, sadly, can't match the background as they still feel like parts of the Blade Runner set, complete with extras dressed in outlandish Goth-like clothing and cars built like roughly-chiselled boulders. Even the action seems substandard - guns make weird 'laser' noises when they're fired and the robot bodyguard that Rico picks up looks clunky and amateurish.While fans of the character may have nothing but hatred for Judge Dredd, I find my personal judgement a little more reserved. It's not the most original sci-fi shooter out there but most action fans aren't as demanding as I am. It ticks the necessary boxes without providing anything unexpected or surprising. I've always felt that Stallone is a second-class Schwarzenegger and this felt almost exactly like Stallone's Total Recall - full of action in a sci-fi setting but it doesn't make the most of its ideas or environment and resorts to blowing stuff up and fisticuffs between our square-jawed hero and sneering baddie. They even include such staples as Stallone running away from an explosion in slow-motion (which I swear he does in every film he's ever been in) and even a decaying, semi-ruined Statue Of Liberty. It's little more than a spiritual sequel to Stallone's earlier sci-fi actioner Demolition Man, only it takes an existing licence and then ruins it. I understand that the more recent Dredd is a closer fit to the source material and is also the better film, although I'll be the judge of that when I get around to watching it. As for Judge Dredd, it couldn't be any more middle-of-the-road of it was wearing crash barriers and I find that a real shame. "},{"Title":"I am.. The Law!","Date":"29 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" In 2139 AD, Earth has become crowded and polluted. Mega Cities are crowded everyday with the monstrosity amount of people within this secured city. Villains too has become violent and the city desperately needs a new kind of law enforcement.Dr. Ilsa Hayden (Joan Chen) was part of the cloning project. Hershey was captured by Rico's combat robot while Fergee was shot and wounded. The battle gets down between Dredd and Rico.It was revealed that Rico has plan to rule the city with the cloning vats which has been activated. And each of these clone contain his DNA with the help of Dr. Ilsa.Fergee uses his hacking skills to deactivate the robot from behind as it frees Hershey. Dredd fought with Rico while Hershey against Ilsa. When Dredd finally defeat Rico after plunging his death from the Statue of Liberty, the remaining Judges welcomes him and proposed that he should be the new Chief Judge of which he denies and rather continue to patrol the streets.--Danny Cannon has brought Judge Dredd to a live-action from 2000 AD comic books.Judge Dredd (1995) lacks of a good story plot. The story which focuses on Rico has taken a fast turning and the bombardment of the Judges and many other scenes are combined in one storyboard. Too fast, too furious &#x96; I did say.The infamous quote we all remembered I am THE LAW! is still echoing in my ears. Sometime I feel like donning that helmet and suit. Looks so cool. But the motorcycle is lack of its design and power. Feels like riding on a giant ostrich. "},{"Title":"Did the law have to be this dull?","Date":"14 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw this a year ago, and absolutely hated it. I was honestly bored to tears, and felt Stallone was miscast. I got the feeling as of late I was a bit too harsh on the movie, and maybe I was missing something. I popped in my DVD, and gave it another whirl. I was both correct and wrong with my original feelings on the movie. I was correct with my initial thoughts, being that this movie isn't very good. It's rather murky and kind of dull as well, but it wasn't the disaster as I initially felt either. It has elaborate production values, and the futuristic setting is especially well done. My problem with this movie is that it's so serious I ended up becoming rather bored. The average action scenes don't exactly help. I honestly can't think of one action scene that stood out in this film. This movie was troubled right from the outset. Sly Stallone & Danny Cannon clashed over the movie, and egos ended up prevailing. Why on earth was Rob Schneider in this movie? For some reason during Stallone's comeback in the mid 90's, he was somewhat of a fixture in Stallone movies, including Demolition Man. I'm a die hard fan of Stallone's. I collect everything he's in, whether it's good or bad, so naturally I picked this up on DVD. It pains me to do this, but Stallone shouldn't have been cast as Judge Dredd.It's not that he's bad, he just felt so out of place, and unsure on how to portray the role. He has moments of greatness, but he plays it too straight faced, and lacks the lovable Stallone humor that I am accustomed too. He has cheesy lines, such as I am the law! I knew you'd say that but he's a bit of a stickler overall, and I had trouble warming up to him. I realize he's supposed to be void of emotion as Dredd, but that doesn't mean I have to like it. This isn't one of his best performances. His subtle romance with Diane Lane felt pretty contrived as well. Speaking of Diane Lane&#x85; She is hotter than donut grease, but I didn't buy her performance. She felt very awkward as an action type, but she was amazing to look at, so I didn't pay much attention to it. Armand Assante is very OTT as the villain, and the shoddy brother storyline with Stallone did me no favors. I really didn't get what made him tick. He's fun to watch at times, don't get me wrong, but he's clearly hamming it up. Max Von Sydow is barely in the movie, and serves as a mentor for Stallone. Final Thoughts This was much too heavy handed to be enjoyable. For die hard Stallone fans, I guess it's worth a look if you have nothing else to do, but don't expect that much. It's pretty mediocre4.2/10 "},{"Title":"Enjoyable popcorn fare &#x96; good campy fun","Date":"28 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm no expert when it comes to Judge Dredd . I 've only read few comics book with him .I thought they were quite good. I have only some basic knowledge about Dredd mythology . From what I've noticed the movie had potential to be Robocop of the 90's. The 2012 movie Dredd is better movie and more accurate adaptation of the comic book.Judge Dredd is a movie caught between director Danny Cannon (fan of the comic) will and Stallone/studio insistence on making a standard popcorn fare. I can understand the hate of comic book fans for this movie to some extent. Hollywood took a dark, sarcastic, satirical comic and turned it into lightweight summer action movie. In terms of character and plot it is, by any objective standards, a failed adaptation. The history of the 2000AD universe is significantly messed around with . However , it really isn't the directionless adaptation some insist it is. It got all the basics of some challenging material right. Mega City One looks terrific. The casting was absolutely spot-on Dredd, Hershey, Fargo, McGruder, Griffin... all these actors looked and behaved exactly as their 2000AD counterparts. Fergie wasn't the same as his comic-book counterpart, but the movie version of him is much better than original. The costumes were also brilliant . We have also a cool Hammerstein robot from the ABC Warriors and the Angel Gang. Mean Machine is exactly as he is in the comic book. There are delicate hints of totalitarianism and traces of satire as well.The movie has political overtones and a pessimistic view of future where technology and social conventions are leading humans. The whole concept of the judges and their hierarchical structure is fascinating. Too bad that the movie never really explores those interesting ideas. It could be thought provoking film.Another problem is that the plot has it's share of plot holes and dumb moments . There is also too much of shouting (because for the filmmakers shouting equals big drama , obviously) which makes some of the scenes cringe worthy.Sylvester Stallone and Armand Assante both give a hammy performances as the undestructable hero and crazy villain. They have their moments of good acting , but mostly they overacting. It is however completely intentional , as you can see that they not taking their roles seriously , so in the end your having fun with them. Rob Schneider mostly irritates as the comic relief, however he does have some occasional funny moments (the voice impression , I'm alive&#x85;oh, so are you , We don't have time for that) and he helps Dredd twice near the end of the movie. Diane Lane is OK as Dredd's friend/love interest , even if the movie doesn't really give her much to do. Max Von Sydow adds a touch of class to the whole movie. Jurgen Prochnow is uneven &#x96; sometimes good , sometimes bad. Joan Chen makes a rather pointless appearance (probably for catfight only ?).The special effects are OK , if not little dated in some places (the chase). The music by alan Silvestri is great &#x96; catchy and heroic. I liked the one-liners - I am the law , I knew you would say that.The movie is fast paced, loud , colorful and brash but not in an insulting way like Schumacher's Batman movies. It has a charm and personality that seems to have been lost in modern comic book adaptations which seem to be either very dark , gritty and serious or slaves to special effects.It's not a bad movie. It's a obvious crowd pleaser which doesn't take itself too seriously. An adequate blockbuster. Mindless fun. (unlike say Michael Bay movies which are just annoying). There are far worse comic book movies and movies overall than Judge Dredd. I give it 5/10. "},{"Title":"A disappointment","Date":"7 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Judge Dredd is supposed to be based on a comic book. In the comic, Judge Dredd is a fascist. The whole concept is satire. This movie, however, which reads like a tediously directed bastard child of RoboCop and Demolition Man, presents the judges as good guys. So the movie is not in fact a reasonable adaptation of the comic. That's the biggest and most basic problem.The movie could still have been a success. It starts out with some pretty good humor, and as he has demonstrated time and again Stallone is not a bad action hero. The rest of the cast is promising, too Diane Lane, Armand Assante, Max von Sydow, Jurgen Prochnow. Unfortunately, the story, involving clones and an evil twin, is very dull and unoriginal, and by the time the end rolls around, the movie feels unfinished and without a proper climax. A big and sad disappointment with no underlying vision or message. Bleh.Assante was pretty good as a crazy bad guy (the laaaawww! - you should really go to Youtube and watch the YOU BETRAYED THE LAW! clips - they are the funniest thing about this movie), but he couldn't save the movie. A shame.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Simple really","Date":"27 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Five words sum it up Where is Judge Dredd 2? Stallone is brilliant. The supporting cast are awesome. The emotions and storyline are completely epic for someone who never read the comics. Silvestri's music & theme...da naaa NA-NA-NAAAA! AWESOME.There may be imperfections for some people but this is one film well deserving of a sequel or 3 - I can't believe nothing has been done since '95!I AM THE LAW! One of the greatest but sadly last great sayings of a magical era of one-liners in film history. It's like they've completely done away with it. I may be a slightly biased Sylvester fan, but GOD I'd love to hear him say those words again!!This film is great entertainment. What more could you want? Judge Dredd 2, please ) "},{"Title":"Robocop met Joel Schumacher's Batman in Bladerunner's house and they had a bastard child...","Date":"13 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" ...I think it neatly sums it all up. And to even imagine it is a lot more fun than watching the dreadful Judge Dredd.What else to say about it to make for required ten lines for the article? That it's been such a confection from the scene one? That the direction is disjointed like a regular MTV video? That the dialog is inane and the plot predictable? That Stallone cannot command necessary respect with that lisp of his? That he is also trying too hard to impersonate Peter Weller when under the mask? That the cinematography and sets look like made for TV? That there have been dozens of movies about dystopian future and they have all been better? That a bowl of pudding is more thought provoking than this drivel? That Hollywood in general really needs to let go of the concepts of sidekick and love subplot? That the music score......nah, I'll pass - it's been done to death.I will say this though - this successfully dissuaded me from ever reading the original comic. Probably my loss but, hey, why taking chances? "}{"Title":"Forget the script, just watch","Date":"22 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" No surprises in store from this loud, explosive movie that's jam packed with expensive special f/x and amazing sets ( much of which is akin to Bladerunner, Star Wars and Robocop).Stallone is Judge Dredd, and he's perfect for the role. Sly does Sly like no one else can. He seems to have one-dimensional down pat. Rob Schneider manages to provide light humour to proceedings as sidekick to Stallone's tough, emotionless I am the Law Dredd. Jurgen Prochnow, Armand Assante, Joan Chen and Max Von Sydow lend obligatory yet uninspired support.Script is based on the graphic comic strip about a futuristic law enforcer whose enthusiasm for justice is reflected in his no holds barred attitude to meting out punishment for the crime scum of the decaying megacity.Monday, September 4, 1995 - Village Centre MelbourneBut look, forget the script, the direction (it's highly debatable as to whether such films require any) and the acting and soak up the wiz bang effects (including some sensational stop motion animation), the audacious sound f/x and the incredible sets, along with a few enjoyable action sequences. "},{"Title":"Not Stallone's Best Futuristic, Renegade Cop Movie","Date":"27 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the future, the police are transformed into a unit that can both arrest a person for a crime and judge them for it. They can even execute them if necessary. One of the most noteworthy is Judge Joseph Dredd (Sylvester Stallone), who is hailed as a hero by some and a loose cannon by others. When he is arrested on charges of murder, he finds out the hard way that the law isn't always right.Although this film was fun and in general I enjoyed it, it really wasn't a very good film. Let's start listing why first, the really bad CGI. Granted, this is 1995 and the budget is lower. But as I like to point out, Jurassic Park was 1993 and their effects are amazing (or even The Thing back in 1982). When the motorcycle is flying over the city, it shouldn't look more fake than E.T. does -- that's just not believable for an audience.Rob Schneider's presence was a mystery. Was it good or bad? On the one hand, I love Rob Schneider. Sure, his humor is often stupid or juvenile, but he still appeals to me in some way. Yet, he made this movie which should have been dark and menacing (this is a bleak future) and made it a joke. Sometimes the comic relief just isn't necessary.And I hear it's a good thing I didn't read the comic. I thought the love interest aspect was unnecessary, and I guess that's even more true in the books. And they don't like it because he removes the helmet, although I think it served the plot well for this so that doesn't bother me. Probably wouldn't have even noticed, especially after seeing Matt Salinger in Captain America.I didn't understand the pirate mutants. I had no problem with genetically engineering clones (although why a whole arm is needed for a blood sample is beyond me). I had no problem with robots and cyborgs, or the never-ending supply of Wild Turkey whiskey. But why are there pirate mutants with robotic parts who also happen to be cannibals? That just seemed like something that would never exist -- like Morlocks with cybernetic features. Cool but extremely unlikely.Diane Lane was fine as Judge Hershey. Armand Assante made a great Rico (Dredd's brother), but why not cast Frank Stallone? Credit must go to Max von Sydow as Chief Justice Fargo. I love Max and he really came through here, adding a seriousness that this film sorely lacked. He was the Ben Kenobi to Stallone's Skywalker and it was great to see that father/son bond. He needed a bigger part.You want to see Stallone as a renegade cop, see Cobra. You want to see hi mas a futuristic cop, see Demolition Man. You want to see hi mas a cop, see Cop Land. This film is only something you need to see if you just can't get enough of Stallone as a cop, a future cop or a renegade cop. Because it's far from his best work. "},{"Title":"Cheesy and Glib, But Still Fun If You Like Blockbustery Popcorners","Date":"8 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Judge Dredd was a terrible attempt at a comic book movie. Superman fared well for the first couple of movies, and the Burton Batman line did okay for the first couple of installments, and Judge Dredd does hold potential for a successful franchise line. However, this was done well before the current technological CG age, and it shows something awful. The dialog is trite and glib, delivered with about as much reality as plastic, and comes off like they were trying SO hard to have fun that they couldn't actually have any, if you can understand that.Coupled with the fact that this work takes itself far too seriously, Stallone in particular considering he was the ONLY serious thing about the work, Stallone comes off as an over-dramatized ego maniacal schmuck. A. Asanti does portray a competent villain, and Stallone contributes a decent performance, all things considered. I think it was more...everything else, that went wrong with this production...Rob Schneider, for one.Whose idea WAS it to cast that moronic imbecile in a Judge Dredd movie? Is it possible that some idiot considered him the comic relief?! Not possible when one realizes that Rob Schneider is about as funny as a bad case of syphilis. He drug it down, if that is possible.The set designs were another thing. The budget existed to have built good sets, but these looked worse than some of the original Star Trek episodes' sets and props! In places, it looked good, but for the most part, they were pretty cheesy. Blend that with Stallone's over-acting, and trite dialog, Rob Schneider's presence, and everyone else just milling about as if there was no point to the plot, and you've got a pretty bad movie. Fun, but still pretty bad.The sound track and the plot (when it is discernible) are the only enjoyable elements of this work. Unless you're a die hard Stallone fan, I'd suggest you pass on this one. If you're a fan of the comic book series, do yourself a favor and reread the books.It rates a 4.2/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"It Could Have Been Worse...At Least It's Not Rhinestone!","Date":"26 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I actually enjoyed this film and can see where the hefty film budget went. Stallone is pretty good, although sometimes it's hard to understand what's he's saying most of the time. In the future Judges are basically the law. They are judge, jury and executioner. The best of the lot is Judge Dredd. When Dredd is framed for a murder he didn't commit, he ends up being exiled. He soon finds out that a former friend of his (Armand Assante)was behind the murders and has a plan to create a new order in the city. Saving graces are Armand Assante, doing his best villain role, Diane Lane as Dredd's fellow Judge and Rob Schneider, doing his usual comic relief. Worth renting if the video store is out of new releases and you just HAVE to rent something fun, or if you just want to have a Stallone fest party. Worth checking out! "},{"Title":"Fair Sci Fi/Action flick","Date":"13 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Unless you're a rabid 2000 AD fan who can't get past Dredd taking off his helmet, this movie is marginally enjoyable sci-fi/action fare which should appeal to fans of the genre and certainly doesn't deserve all the criticism posted on this site.True, Sly Stallone turns in a woeful performance, and the script isn't really up to much, but this is compensated for with decent enough support from the likes of Max Von Sydow and some truly stunning visuals. It's this that saves the film from mediocrity, as we're presented with a visualisation of the future which is over-the-top but at the same time gritty and believable. The vistas of Mega City One are every bit as impressive as the city scapes in The Fifth Element and Attack of the Clones, and are alot more believable and detailed to boot. In my opinion, this is what is Coruscant should have looked like in the Star Wars prequels. Additionally, in the ABC Warrior, the movie boasts probably the most impressive robot ever to appear on screen. The special effects, with the exception of some truly awful compositing in the bike chase sequence, are all top notch, and have a warmth lacking in modern CG.The real problem with this film though isn't the acting but the length - at only 96 minutes it makes same the mistake as X-Men of having to set up characters and provide a resolution in far too short a space of time. It's just a shame that the technical skill and artistry that went into making this film couldn't have been provided with a better story.Rating - 6/10    "},{"Title":"He IS the LAW; and makes a few mistakes (in judgement!)","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Sylvester Stallone returns to the silver screen in the leading role of this movie as the alert, tough, sober, vigilant and determined kind of police officer/judge combination that sends fear down the spines of all criminals. He is the ULTIMATE weapon against all forms of crime. After all, this IS set in the future and crime has gotten so out of control that justified the need to give more powers to public safety officials. Life for him is as well as could be expected and he enjoys a perfect record of service to the community. That is, until he is framed for murdering two other judges and must then stand trial for these capital offences. Being a good detective, he eventually discovers just who framed him which leads us to the exciting climax where he confronts the real culprit. This movie has some comical elements to it as well as some serious lessons about the criminal justice system. Just enjoy it for the good elements and  remember to never attempt to hide in a vending droid! Especially when Dredd is on the scene! Otherwise you may be stamping out license plates for someone's flying car! "},{"Title":"great start, sorry ending","Date":"7 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's as simple as that. A movie that in my opinion starts off great, but then very quickly goes downhill.Trying to make Judge Dredd human by putting him in the same slot as the criminals was a major mistake. All through the comic book we learn that he isn't human. At least in the sense that he has no real emotions whatsoever. And taking off his helmet was an even greater mistake. The chance that Judge Dredd would take off his helmet is about as big as the average person learning how to fly to the moon. He does NOT take off his helmet, it ruined the entire movie. At every point where he is his brutal, chilling, helmeted self, the movie soars. At every other point, it sucks.Acting isn't half bad, and I have to admit I can't think of anyone but Stallone to play the part of Dredd. It's as if he's created for the role. Max Von Sydow is also great, but he's that in every movie he's been in, so that's no surprise.If you haven't read the comic book, you might get a kick out of this. It has it's rather funny moments (like every time the lawmaker 3 is involved, or when Dredd does something very bad and is sarcastic about it), and it has some very impressive visuals. But if you've ever read/loved the comic book, I wouldn't recommend this. You'll feel rather betrayed afterwards.But all in all, it's good clean, violent futuristic fun. "},{"Title":"Good old stupid fun","Date":"1 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First off, I'm going to say how stupid this movie is.  Number 1 it's about clones.  No, it's not like Gattaca.  Number 2 it has cannibal hillbilly Christians.  Number 3 the guns in this movie make a zapping noise that is very familiar to ray gun I had when I was 6.  Number 4 cheesy PG dialog in an R rated movie.  Number 5 stupid one-liner catch phrases that repeat themselves way too often (I knew you'd say that).  Finally, Number 6 Rob Schneider is so stupid that I'm surprised Stalone hasn't killed him yet.  Number 7 the city in the movie is a direct rip off of Blade Runner.  I'm not saying this movie is any better than Blade Runner, because I hated that movie.  If you want to find out why, then go read my review of it.Now, I'm going to tell you why this movie is fun.  Number 1 GIANT KICK ASS ROBOT!!!!!!!!!  Number 2 cool uniforms.  Number 3 Armand Assante is sooo good in this movie.  Number 3 flying motorcycle things.  Number 4 good CGI effects.  Number 5 great sets.  Number 6 Stalone was made to play Judge Dredd like Arnold was made to be the Terminator.  Number 7some of it is funny.  Okay, so what did I think of this movie?  I liked it because it's fun.  It has its fair share of problems, the entire desert sequence with the hillbillies should have been cut out completely.  But, it's just fun to see.  If you haven't seen this movie before, don't rent it over some other movie.  But if there is nothing else you want to see, and you got some spare money, pick this one up, preferably on DVD for the sound.  If you like classic SCI/FI, then you will hate this movie.  If you just want to relax and watch something that wont make you think too hard, see this movie.  I do not think this is a great movie in any way, I just think it's entertaining.  4 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Fun if you get to see it for free.","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw part of this movie on television so it was edited and thus shorter, and more importantly it was free.  If you don't spend money on this movie, it's a pretty good time waster.  It's stupid, no doubt, but it's not really as bad as most reviewers have said (that's not saying a lot, though). Dredd's evil twin was a pretty cool character only in that this is the kind of movie that involves evil twins, bad robots, and cannibal hillbillies. And, hey, there are people who love this kind of movie!  It is to them that I heartily recommend this.  For everyone else, this is the movie that will make you REALLY appreciate the Fifth Element. "},{"Title":"Mr.I AM THE LAW = Stallone","Date":"1 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Wish I could hear the dialogue over all the noise of 'block wars'. Wish I could understand Sly's character (Judge Dredd) when he whispers. Wish there was more time given to each character so they could develop. Wish Fergie had more air-time for comedy-relief. I know that's alotta wishin' but I liked the movie anyway. I could do without the violence but then, EVERY movie about the future seems to be violent! (No one has any pictures of peace for the future??!? Come on!!)When 1st viewing this film, James Earl Jones' deep & languerous voice explains to us that there are really 2 worlds out there in the future - the city with it's block wars & the one out in the 'desert' where cannibals dwell. Sly is unrightly put on a 'plane' to prison out there but a fire ensues & he somehow gets free w/Rob Schneider's Fergie tagging along. Sly finally finds out it's his brother (Armand Assante AGAIN!) causing all the ruckus. Diane Lane lends a hand as the committed to the law female officer w/a heart for Dredd. She gets her screen kiss at the end, but HOW in the world can he go back to work on the street after what he's just been thru, ripped up uniform & all?? He's just too stalwart for his own good!I know this one was 'dead on arrival' at the box office, but I taped it from TV anyway. I know if you're a solid Sly fan, you'll see it. "}{"Title":"NOT THE BEST FILM EVER, BUT OKAY","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this film again on Sky TV last night, and remembered just how good it is. Granted, it's not as good as it could be, and doesn't live up to other Sci-Fi films like Star Wars, but it is still worth watching. Stallone makes a good Dredd, but Armand Assante is not evil enough in his role as Dredd's brother. A 3 star film (out of 5 stars) "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"2 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of those all-brawn no-brain movies from Hollywood. But you will found it interesting. The story will pass but the direction and special effects are good. You will enjoy all the catchy one-liners and phrases. I quite strongly recommend this movie if you are in the mood for an action movie. It also depicts a futuristic law-and-order scenario which I don't think is impossible. "},{"Title":"Goofy Cartoon Book Movie...","Date":"5 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" ...but entertaining nonetheless, in a no-brainer type of way.  Basically a Stallone ego-pic, but he and Rob Schenider make a surprisingly effective comedy team, considering I can't really stand either one of them.  In some ways, it does a remarkable job of bringing the British comic book to the big-screen, but in other ways (humanizing Dredd) it fails miserably. Generally, it's an entertaining big-budget action/sci-fi flick.  It's not going to beat out Robocop or Total Recall, but if you can catch it during a video store special, it's probably worth the dollar two you'll spend on it. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"30 August 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I never thought that a movie would change my life. I never dreamed that a message could come through so loud and clear, as this movie's message. In a dystopian future, Joseph Dredd, the most famous Judge (a police officer with instant field judiciary powers) is convicted for a crime he did not commit while his murderous counterpart escapes. This is a great film with a tone reminiscent of Star Trek III The Search for Spock. If you love Stallone, Judge Dredd should be a rewarding experience for you. While this isn't a great film by any means, it is entertaining. The premise is clichéd and seems an excuse for lots of action. "},{"Title":"So much better Than the Karl Urban remake","Date":"15 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" First off let me state I am a HUGE fan of Karl Urban as Dr. Leonard H. McCoy of the Star Trek reboot. I think he got the feel, intonation and mannerisms of DeForest Kelley's Dr. McCoy right on the money.Although, as Judge Dredd I think Urban blew it. That is not to say that Sly Stallone's movie was perfect. It most definitely could have done without Rob Schneider! I think Stallone was more in tune with the Dredd of comic book fame. He had the kick butt attitude and mannerisms,to use a British phrase, Spot On, and who doesn't love Armand Assante as a villain. He does it so well.Gotta love the Judge uniforms in both movies, but I think Sly's is more impressive over Urban's. Not to mention the weapons and other great toys. I do prefer the 1995 Dredd Lawmaster Cycle to the Karl Urban bike.Enough for now. For those interested in the Odd, Unusual, & Weird check out my blog http//maddoctortom.blogspot.com/ Then you'll understand why I am called Mad Doc. "},{"Title":"A very decent and polished action sci-fi film, but will never be lived down by comic book vultures!","Date":"7 April 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" For the people saying this was the worst movie ever made, get over yourself.The venom of comic book geeks astounds me sometimes, I know because I am one but I pride myself on being able to 'judge' a film on it's own merits.As an adaptation of the comic it is flawed with major points. The now infamous helmet issue seems to be the thing that everyone remembers about the film and Dredd's emotional injection is way off course. The film reeks of studio interference and writers ego when at that time, it was pretty common to stray from the source material for the sake of playing to a certain audience, which was not the fans of the comic. This is the bad!The good is the fact that there is lots of it here. The film looks amazing! The subject has been given the full big budget Hollywood treatment and boy does it show. The sets, scenery effects and make-up are all top quality and really give a great image of a dystopian future. Danny Cannon has a great eye for gorgeous wide shots that really show off an image and it's used to full effect in the film. Mega City one really looks the part and everything bar maybe a few plasticy looking costumes has a real sheen to it! Like it or not, Stallone is perfectly cast as Dredd. He has the physique, the voice and the jaw, it's just a shame that ego got in the way of such a perfect match.The actual film itself, if you are able to pull your head out of your comic book loving arse, is quite honestly a really decent 90's action sci-fi flick. There is lots of excitement and enough to keep anyone occupied for a couple of hours. It does feel however that more could have been explored in the film.Glaring flaws aside Hollywood in the 80's and 90's had a really nasty habit of making a film about a subject matter then writing a story that takes the main character totally out of the norm.This is rectified in the 2012 film where it's just Dredd doing his day to day job and that's what we want. Here Dredd is taken out of his job and thrust into a situation that we just don't want to see him in. At least they kept Rico instead of a generic made up villain and much of the genetic lore of Dredd.If you want a fun action film with a good look to kill an hour or two that Judge Dredd is well worth checking out but if you're looking for authenticity well.....you have the alternative now, so enjoy this for what it is, however an annoyingly missed opportunity it may be! "},{"Title":"Most enjoyable, if you don't this film seriously.","Date":"2 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the future world, in a time when all Powerful Polices could be Executioner with Judges at the same time. This world of Urban Chaos only the Judges with the supreme authority of both the Police Force and Legal System could control the violence from the street gangs or dangerous criminals. Judge Dredd (Sylvester Stallone) is caught in a conspiracy that can overthrow the government and eliminate the judges, when Dredd is framed for murder.Directed by Danny Cannon (I Still Know What You Did Last Summer, Phoenix, The Young American) made an entertaining, over-the-top, sci-fi action film. Based on a cult comic book by John Wagner and Carlos Ezquerra. Stallone is well cast as the lead. The film has an strong supporting cast like Armand Assante, Diane Lane, Rob Schneider, Joan Chen, Jurgen Prochnow, Joanna Miles, Balthazar Getty, Mitchell Ryan and Max Von Sydow.The film has some interesting plotting but the film gets lost with it's extreme violence, game-like special effects and some over-the-top performances. The film was actually longer in theaters, cutting an action sequences when Dredd is destroying the Judge Clones. Originally the film was supposed to be PG-13 but since the filmmakers were trying to make a PG-13 movie (That explains the film's lack of blood). But the MPAA (The Motion Picture Association of American from the Rating Boards) gives this film an R-Rating for it's extreme violence. The film plays better on video. Worth seeing, if you are an fan of Stallone or Comic Books (Since the Comic Books, Dredd never remove his Hamlet in the Comics). If you love non-stop action, don't miss it. James Earl Jones reads opening narration. James Remar and Scott Wilson appears unbilled. Panavision. (****/*****). "},{"Title":"An undeserved flop!","Date":"28 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Why? Because it's one of Sylvester Stallone's best movie but sadly it has become one of his biggest flops alongside 1991's stop or my mom will shoot!.Judge Dredd is an excellent sci-fi movie with plenty of action, explosions and shootouts.The story's about a dystopian future where the law is dished out by a group of judges. Sly's Dredd is the most respected and experienced street judge but is framed and sentenced to life without parole at a penal colony when his prison ship is attacked and crashes giving Dredd the chance to escape and with a fellow convict (Great comic relief Rob Schneider who wisecracks his way through the movie) to clear his name.Great supporting stars including Diana Lane as Sly's love interest, Armand Assante, Jurgen Prochnow & Max von Sydow. The movie's a visual treat with fantastic special FX which most of the film's $90m budget seems to have gone on and at just over 90 mins dosen't outstay it's welcome, So why was it a flop I hear you say? Because the comic book geeks this movie was primarily made for thought it didn't follow the Comic Books as much as they'd like, and being a 18 or 'R' Certificate most teenagers who would have flocked to see it would not have been allowed. Could have been a great franchise with many exciting sequels but due to this totally unfair Flop the studios didn't bother If you liked Blade-Runner, Arnie's Total-Recall and willis's The Fifth Element, You'll love this My Rating 9/10  "},{"Title":"I'll be the judge of that!","Date":"28 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Had I read the comic books, maybe I would be a much harsher critic of Judge Dredd.  Having not had the experience, I can only judge the film I saw.  With the exception of a couple of lulls in the action that were necessary, I guess, to further the plot along, Dredd moved briskly from start to finish.  Rob Schneider was the perfect foil for Stallone's Dredd, allowing him to play the character straight, while still recognizing the absurdity of it all.The rest of the roles were perfectly cast, as well (though I still don't see the supposed resemblance between Stallone and Armand Assante).  Diane Lane added a much needed voice of reason to the proceedings, and showed herself to be just as capable a Judge as the legendary Dredd.From other reviews I have read here, I have learned that the Angel family portrayed here was taken straight from the comic, itself.  I have no way of knowing if they were portrayed faithfully but, whether they were or not, they didn't seem to belong in this film.  While some kind of additional action was probably necessary, they came across as more of a cartoon than I thought necessary, even for a film based on a comic book.That criticism aside, I would still say that Judge Dredd is definitely worth watching.  It's fun to see Sylvester Stallone essentially send up his macho image and actually look as if he's having fun in the process!  The whole movie is over the top, from the opening street war, to the final shot of Stallone, in the distance, taking a page out of John Wayne films!  It may not always make sense, but it is certainly never boring! "},{"Title":"Could have been so much better...","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As a fan of the original comics upon which this movie was based, I have to say that I found this a major disappointment. The movie took the intelligent, satirical and unique ideas behind the comic and turned them into another production line science fiction action movie. The premise of the movie (and indeed the comics) is that in the future, most of the world has been wiped out by nuclear war, leaving the enormous Mega-Cities as the only major centres of population. To keep the peace in these overpopulated, high-crime, high unemployment cities, a new type of lawman has been introduced the Judges. Possessing the right to try and execute criminals on the spot, the toughest of them all is the ice-cool Judge Joe Dredd. The story is the basic hero-accused-of-a-crime-he-didn't-commit with a science fiction twist. Potentially, this could have been a great movie. But issues that really needed to be examined, such as Dredd's character, are skipped over. The intelligent satire of the comics is abandoned in favour of pointless violence and a romantic ending is tacked on. As a brainless action movie it's fine, but as thought-provoking science fiction it's a failure. "}{"Title":"I am.....The law","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Just a great movie. There's nothing else to saw about it. You got sylvester shootin' dudes and things blowing up, I mean, what else could you ask for. Of course the plot sucks, but what do you expect from a movie based on a comic book. A must see. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Good film, bad script.","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film has a bad script...  There I've said, now I can get onto the positive bits.  For a start the vision of the future is perfect and the special fx are excellent.  The action is well handled, the comedy pairing of Sly Stallone and Rob Schneider works and the acting is good.  Like I said, the only bad thing is the script, which goes from okay, to bad, to shockingly terrible. "},{"Title":"Somebody must have used a CGI terminal and a scan quad to make this. State of the art. twenty years ago","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Warning - Slight Spoilers AheadI really, really dislike Judge Dredd. It's a surprisingly violent and soulless film; a patronising moronfest that treats its audience with no respect whatsoever. Even the titles annoy, the opening music with its silly bombast and a pompous monologue by James Earl Jones. The accompanying images are a series of the 2001 comic from which the Judge Dredd character came. It's quite exceptional that a major Hollywood picture should credit a minor British comic in such a prominent way. Even more exceptional as the film is nothing like the comic. Did the cartoon Judge really have romantic entanglements and monotonously quip anti-catchphrase I new yuud say dat?The film opens out with a future cityscape ludicrously indebted to Blade Runner. Except where that picture had depth, this one throws it all up on screen, a garish splurge of CGI movement. To be honest, they aren't that convincing either, particularly later scenes where Dredd is flying his bike. Yet this was made 12 years after the more realistic-looking Blade Runner. Odd. Other rip-off, er, homages are a flying bike chase sequence straight out of Return of the Jedi. Though a scene where Hershey (Diane Lane) saves Stallone from falling by telling him to take my hand is a nice spoof of Cliffhanger.Stallone makes his first appearance as Dredd with the musical cues and iconography hopelessly indebted to the Terminator. He then proceeds to tell us that he's in no danger standing in the street as the criminals firing on him from a tower block are using weapons that are non-lethal from their range. This is strange, as less than two and a quarter minutes earlier we had seen one of said weapons killing a civilian from the same distance. I mean, if a movie can't maintain continuity over a three minute period then what sort of confidence can you have in it?Maybe part of the reason I dislike the film so much is Stallone. I've always had a great deal of time for Sylvester, and feel he's extremely underrated as an actor. However, at this time the sheer number of cursory action roles he was playing were dampening his reputation. Particularly as the action roles were not the equal of those given to an actor with infinitely less talent, Arnold Schwarzenegger. There was also an interview printed around the time where Sylvester gave a great number of right-wing views, and also laughably claimed that he'd read Homer to study for the role of Dredd. Maybe it was Homer Simpson. However, I've since told myself that the publication probably made it all up, and a reputable publication, Empire magazine, conducted an interview with the star in 1998. When asked if there were any film he would want to apologise for, he apologised for not really applying himself to Dredd and claimed that the film could have been a great satirical farce. His dislike of Danny Cannon's methods also led him to suggest that Terry Gilliam would have been a better director for the movie. So at least Stallone is humble enough to admit his mistakes. Pre-Dredd we got a boastful, posturing actor - post-Dredd he said sorry. In a way that kind of makes it okay. Because Judge Dredd is Stallone's worst acting role bar none. Wooden, wearied and with awful diction, he seems most ill at ease when playing opposite Max Von Sydow. Maybe he was intimidated by Sydow's status, or maybe his stories of Cannon shouting Fear me! Just fear me! had led him to be frightened away from anything approaching a performance.Rob Schneider's irritating Fergie is only there for comic relief, though he's hardly comic and the only relief comes when he leaves a scene. His sole saving grace is to prick Stallone's ego with a cracking mickey-take of his I am the law! What really worries is the transparent formula of the piece. The whole structure of Dredd is virtually identical to the far superior Demolition Man. (Schneider was lame comic relief in that, too). There are the political machinations that spring a villain from jail to aid in a plot, and also a whole series of defrosting baddies. Except the clones in the fridge never do anything, making this element doubly fatuous.One thing that I did find disturbing at this stage in cinema history was the worrying predilection for violence against women used as titillation. Tia Carrera's sole purpose in the boorish True Lies was to be beaten and slapped in the face by Art Malik. Worst manifestation of this was Jamie Lee Curtis turning her wedding ring inside out before slapping her face. Seeing a woman's face being slashed open by another woman who is supposedly the heroine is not a positive message. That this scene went by without warranting any moral implication and was there merely to arouse the audience is deplorable. This is thankfully softened for Dredd, though in her battle with Hershey, the similarly-Asian Joanna Miles does take the unusual step of trying to kick her in the crotch. Hershey eventually wins, though; proving Hollywood likes to see Caucasians beating up on token minorities.Films like Dredd are patronising to an audience. They are dumb, conveyor-belt movies that are produced to earn money and have no artistic merit whatsoever. The plot points and the emotional journeys work to an equated rule, so that they ultimately become hollow and artificial; while the romantic interest is merely a quota to be fulfilled in order to satisfy a demographic. I don't like going to the cinema and being told I'm stupid by a lame film. I don't like seeing a film that makes you think I could do better than this - even with the acting. And I don't like Judge Dredd. As a film it contains no content that engages the mind and is merely a series of witless set pieces. Don't get me wrong, I do enjoy a good no-brainer, if presented well. When shot with an element of pretension - such as Stallone failing to emote in front of a statue while what sounds like the full Hallelujah chorus plays in the background - it becomes silly and overwrought. To be honest, the film's elements are so unengaging there really is little to actually review. So why did I bother? Well, I just wanted to get it off my chest.I new yuud say dat!  "},{"Title":"Not too bad","Date":"3 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've seen Judge Dredd a couple of times now....Once in the movie theatre, a couple times on VHS and I just recently rented it on DVD. Some of the action was definitely cartoony due to the fact of a PG-13 rating. If this movie would've been intended for adults instead of teenagers, it could've been better.The best performance by far was by the one and only, Rob Schnieder. This guy is hilarious and he gave the movie some comic relief. Sylvester Stallone, on the other hand, did a pretty terrible acting job. Armand Assante wasn't too bad as some say, but he did get annoying after awhile.The visuals for the movie were excellent. The car scene gave me kind of memories of the cars in Fifth Element. Overall, given the visuals and Rob Schnieder and the robot was very cool....this movie was actually quite enjoyable. I recommend it.  "},{"Title":"One of the Great Bad Movies of the '90s","Date":"5 March 2014","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Judge Dredd is a bad movie it's hammy, it's flawed, and it's nothing like the source material, which, given how the fans of the comic go nuts over that boring remake, might be a good thing.The making of bad movies is a lost art, but one that might be rekindled by Robert Rodriguez's Machete series. It's hard to tell when a movie goes from being bad to awful, but it can be accurately summed up in one word shameless. Films that came out in the '90s didn't try to be emotionally riveting or emphasize some kind of lesson like all of Christopher Nolan's comic book adaptations. They just wanted to do what film originally did ENTERTAIN.And by God is this movie entertaining. Stallone as Judge Dredd was PERFECT casting on the director's part, since he wouldn't have to emote as much and his bad acting wouldn't become that apparent. Max von Sydow is good as the old and tired Chief Justice, and Diane Lane is good as the more human Judge Hershey. Armand Assante as the villainous Rico is a surprisingly complex ham and cheese sandwich with some very interesting viewpoints on innocence and guilt. Yes, Rob Schneider has some rather annoying moments but, to the film's credit, he does help out on more than one occasion and even saves Dredd once.The story is told pretty well through what I can only describe as throwaway exposition. This is a method of delivering story by slowly feeding it through seemingly throwaway lines that become relevant later. The JANUS project is hinted at by most of the characters in their conversations along with the incidents that led Rico's downfall. It's a good way of storytelling as the audience is kept wondering about what all this talk of conspiracy and murder is leading up to, and this film doesn't disappoint in its final revelation.All in all, this is a fun and ultimately enjoyable film. What elements that don't make much sense (like the motivations of one judge on the High Council) become irrelevant as the story takes off and the forces driving the plot shift around. If you're a fan of bad movies like I am, give it a watch.And if your a killjoy AD2000 fan who hates different interpretations of his beloved source material, then stop whining about Dredd's helmet being off and go watch that crappy 2012 remake. "},{"Title":"Okay but nowhere near as good as 'Demolition Man'","Date":"22 March 2011","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the nineties Sylvester Stallone made two films with remarkable similar plots 'Judge Dredd' and 'Demolition Man'. In both he plays an enforcer of the law in the future, in both a corrupt official releases a particularly dangerous criminal from a maximum security prison and in both he has a race to defeat his foe before he can release even more danger&#x85; unfortunately the two films are not of equal quality and this is by far the weaker of the two. Stallone plays the eponymous Judge Dredd; a man who rigidly upholds the letter of the law until one day he finds himself sentenced for a murder he didn't commit. The DNA evidence seems irrefutable but he doesn't know he and the perpetrator are clones! The other clone is Rico, a man who has no respect for Dredd's beloved law. As Dredd is being transported to jail the transport shuttle is shot down and he and a petty criminal called Fergie are the sole survivors, they are captured by a group of cannibals but manage to escape and returned to the walled Mega City where they must confront Rico.On the plus side this film packs plenty of action into its short run time and Stallone isn't bad as Dredd even if his 'I knew you were going to say that' catch phrase is far from classic. Rob Schneider who plays Fergie is just irritating though; he is meant to provide comedy relief but is just irritating, Diane Lane is fairly good if terribly underused as Judge Hershey, the film might have been a lot better if her role had been expanded and Fergie dispensed with. The special effects were probably good at the time the film was made but many of them look rather dated now. If you want to see Stallone playing a hard hitting cop in the future you are far better off watching 'Demolition Man' it is much better. While this isn't terrible it isn't all that good either; certainly not as good as I'd expected when I first watched it. "},{"Title":"A confused film that deviated from the source","Date":"24 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" One of the biggest questions I have when watching a film is determining which is more frustrating a film with no redeemable value which does not entertain, or a film that could have been great with a few alterations. Judge Dredd is the latter. The director claims that Stallone overpowered the movie as it was originally done, and I wonder about that.One of the things that dooms the movie is its ignorance of the conceit of the comic book Judge Dredd is not a character. 2000 A.D. was not interested in his background, he had no character arc, in fact, he never took his helmet off, and was never shown off duty. Dredd is an adventure story at its purest, filled with colorful characters, and fantasy/sci-fi locations.The movie mimics the non-stop mayhem of the comics books, something was always happening. Rob Schneider's character was an attempt to replicate the cheeky perp that always gets stuck with Dredd while he's in the middle of some adventure, except he was used sparingly and never got annoying. The film ignored that as well. Judge Hershey and the reporter character hold this film back as well, as part of a clumsy lecture on totalitarian justice, but that sort of thing has no place in a movie like this.Sadly, this is a film with really cool ideas, and great movie serial fun, that was hampered by a couple really bad stylistic choices. "},{"Title":"I'm alive... oh, so are you. I rather liked it.","Date":"6 December 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Judge Dredd tells the story of human society in the near future, the entire world population has been crammed into a few 'Mega Cites' where millions of people live, outside the confines of these man made cities is what's now know as 'The Cursed Earth' our once green beautiful plant has become a hostile wasteland. Living inside these Mega Cities isn't easy & someone has to try & control the unruly locals, step in the likes of Judge Dredd (Sylvester Stallone) who have the power to try, convict & sentence. Dredd is feared throughout Mega City 1 as being very harsh & tough on criminals, that is why his brother Rico (Armand Assante) devises a plan to frame Dredd for murder, cause unrest & retaliation amongst the population & try to get a genetic cloning program called 'Janus' reopened by misguided Judge Grffin (Jurgen Prochnow) so he can use the technology for his own evil plans in an attempt to create a genetically cloned army of himself to help him gain complete control over Mega City 1, however Judge Dredd has other ideas...Directed by Danny Cannon I'm going to have to go against the general opinion here (as usual) & I'm going to say that I really rather enjoy Judge Dredd as a film & for that I apologise to no one. The script by William Wisher & Steven E. de Souza moves along at a nice pace, tells a decent enough story although it doesn't match the darkly clever comic book equivalent by any stretch of the imagination & generally speaking it entertains throughout. I liked the character's for what they were, Dredd is a tad clichéd as he starts out tough but ends up showing some emotion while I quite liked the usually annoying Rob Schneider's comic relief character & Rico was an OK if somewhat unimaginative villain, I'd have loved to have seen Judge Death & his mates but I guess we can't always have what we want can we. The story lacks a certain political or satirical angle which it could have used to great effect, I must admit that I used to read the Judge Dredd comics when was younger & while I have't read any in donkey's years I have always remembered the story with Judge Death, no idea why I just have. Anyway, I can probably see why many dislike the somewhat standard American action film that the Judge Dredd name has been turned into here but when all said & done I thought it was a good watch & I enjoyed it & that's all that matters to me.Director Cannon does a good job, the special effects are still pretty good even now as they mix CGI, model work & live action. The whole look & feel is here, sure the helmets look a bit daft but otherwise the film hasn't dated badly at all & it still looks impressive. A special mention goes to the huge war robot who is totally cool. There is one part that I've never got, that's when Rico hatches the clone early & we see at last one sit up in it's pod but then they are never seen or referred to again, I suspect that more was filmed but ended up being cut out, a theory that would seem to be backed up by the IMDb's 'Alternate Versions' section. The film has a few violent moments & sufficient amount of action.Wit a supposed budget of about $90,000,000 Judge Dredd obviously has that Hollywood polish to it & is very well made with neat special effects that hold up even today. The acting was alright, Stallone makes for a good Dredd as he has to be virtually emotionless throughout.Judge Dredd seems to have a bad reputation which to an extent I can understand but I don't care about what anyone else thinks, I liked Judge Dredd for what it is & it's as simple & straight forward as that. Personally despite the lapse in logic at the end I think it's well worth a watch "},{"Title":"Underrated classic","Date":"11 October 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Yes, there are problems with the film, many many problems. The script is filled with clichés, Rob Schneider's character is annoying and rather pointless, the story is pretty unoriginal, as are the characters and action sequences. But watching this movie, despite everything wrong with it, is a very enjoyable experience. I don't mean enjoyable like you enjoy it because it's bad. I genuinely liked it. I found the whole thing to be a good sci-fi action movie, with some mildly though provoking themes. It's a pity that critics didn't like it, otherwise I'm sure Judge Dredd would be up there with classics like Back to the Future, Star Wars etc. Although I'm definitely not saying it is as good as those movies. Definitely worth watching at least once. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Not exactly a good movie but damn did I have fun watching this","Date":"3 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is your typical 90's action flick, so its kinda cheesy with over the top, well... everything. Big action, big explosions, garish skin tight costumes and laughable (but bad) one liners. As far as being faithful to the comic, it fails big time as its more of a Stallone movie than a true Dredd movie, but if you're in the right mood its also entertaining as hell.Stallone IS the law here as Judge Dredd, a futuristic cop from Mega city who holds unilateral power as judge, jury and executioner over overpopulated and violent cities. When he's framed for murder and banished from the force (and the city) he must fight his way back to reclaim his badge and take down Armand Assante -who is pretty awesome as the bad guy.This movie is generally hated but I had a ton of fun watching it (except for Rob Schneider as the comic sidekick -he was terrible) The story is decent though and there are a ton of interesting characters (and actors) involved (Diane Lane, Max Von Sydow, Scott Wilson). I also liked this future view, yeah its kinda 'Bladerunner'-ish but interesting with cool gadgets, giant robots, flying motorcycle chases, redneck cannibals and a ton of unintentional laughs to be had along the way. 12/1/14 "}{"Title":"A Guilty Pleasure Movie For A Lazy Afternoon Weekend","Date":"3 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Judge Dredd is a action science fiction film that was based on the strip of the same name from British comic known as 2000 AD. It stars Sylvester Stallone in the title role together with Diane Lane,Rob Schneider,Armand Assante and Max von Sydow. The story is about the premiere judge of a futuristic city known as Mega City.The year is 2080.Majority of the people have lived in places known as Mega Cities. The justice system has been replaced by a group of Judges who act as police officer,judge, jury and executioner all in one. The most dedicated of them all is Judge Joseph Dredd. Things get complicated when Rico escapes from a high security penal colony and Judge Dredd is commissioned to stop him from doing lots of damages.This film is guilty pleasure action film.No question about it.Its futuristic setting as well as law enforcers who act also as judge,jury and executioner could provide some fun to the viewer aside from the explosive non-stop action scenes.Too bad that there is nothing more to it but mindless entertainment.A movie that one would enjoy in a lazy afternoon weekend when there is nothing else to do.But for viewers who want something critically acclaimed,stay away from it. "},{"Title":"Ambitious, but Flawed!","Date":"28 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Based on the strip of the same name in the British comic 2000 AD, Danny Cannon's 'Judge Dredd' is an Ambitious, yet Flawed Sci-Fi Flick, that works in parts. 'Judge Dredd' Synopsis In a dystopian future, Dredd, the most famous judge (a cop with instant field judiciary powers) is convicted for a crime he did not commit while his murderous counterpart escapes. 'Judge Dredd' is visually par-excellence & some sequences, especially in the first-hour, are Wow! However, the film falters in its second-hour. It loses pace, even though the climax is well-shot. 'Judge Dredd' isn't boring at all, but sadly, not legendary either.William Wisher, Jr. & Steven E. de Souza's Screenplay is good in parts. Danny Cannon's Direction is imaginative. Cinematography & Editing are functional. Graphics are outstanding!Performance-Wise Sylvester Stallone as Judge Dredd, delivers ably. Armand Assante plays the lecherous villain, superbly! Diane Lane looks angelic & does a fine job. The Always Stellar Max von Sydow, is flawless. Jürgen Prochnow is good. Rob Schneider raises a few laughs. Joanna Miles lends support.On the whole, 'Judge Dredd' could've been much more. "},{"Title":"One half good... Other half... well... not so good...","Date":"19 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I guess I have to class this one as one of my guilty pleasures&#x85; at least for the first half of it anyway. The second half; well, to be honest I could take it or leave it really. Based on the character from the 2000AD comic book, this film has both the look and feel of the very same. Even some of the angles used for the cinematography and the sets look like they've just been ripped right off the page. Unfortunately the same cannot be said for the plot. As I've already mentioned, the first half is great, but it gets a bit full of itself about half way through and the third act ends up becoming a bit of a farce. Here's a brief summary.In a long distant future the Earth has become a desolate wasteland known as 'The Cursed Earth'. People live in Mega-Cities where crime is rife and the only form of justice is meted out by the 'Judges', who are Judge, Jury and Executioner (if necessary). Foremost is one Joseph Dredd, he dispenses justice with an iron fist and does not suffer fools gladly. Having been framed for a murder he didn't commit, he is sentenced to life in prison. His transport is shot down while crossing the Cursed Earth and he is taken by scavengers. He is rescued by Chief Justice Fargo, a retired judge who is to end his days wandering the wastelands. Fargo tells Dredd the truth about himself and about a man he must stop back in Mega City 1. Can Dredd get back in time? Will this plot make ever any sense? All these and many more questions are answered in Judge Dredd.There is a lot more to the plot that I have outlined here, but I didn't want to make it more complicated than it already is. Made in the aftermath of films like Star Wars and Superman, the effects in this film are, for the most part, pretty good for the time. There are parts where, by today's standards, they look a little ropy, but over all, not too bad. Performance-wise, well, Sylvester Stallone was his comic-book best as Judge Joseph Dredd, Armand Assante played the bad guy, Rico, pretty well and Rob Schneider handled the comic relief pretty well too, as Herman 'Fergee' Ferguson. Also worthy of note were; Jürgen Prochnow as Judge Griffin, Max von Sydow as Chief Justice Fargo and Diane Lane as Judge Hershey. Oh, and finally a mention for a very brief appearance from Ian Dury as Geiger.I don't quite know just what the makers of this film were thinking as far as the plot goes. As I've already said, it starts off really well and then just goes off into a totally wrong direction (IMO). Having said that, I love the look of the film, it looks like it just came fresh off the pages of 2000AD. I guess, for a guilty pleasure, I should have scored it higher than I did, but I just can't forgive the over-complicated and messy second half&#x85; If you're really into comic-book adaptations they maybe this one is for you&#x85; otherwise, I'd give it a miss&#x85; Oh, and before you say it&#x85; 'I knew you were gonna say that. My Score 5.1/10 "},{"Title":"Stallone is Judge Dredd. Too much Sly, too little Dredd.","Date":"19 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well, the main problem with Stallone movies is Stallone himself. We prepare to see Sly so much, that we can't really participate in plot.On the other hand, there is something wrong with Sci-fi genre while we've got only several true masterpieces, like Blade runner, Space Oddysey, Alien, etc., there is not much decent, average title to see. Compare it with horror movies - each year a hundred of new title is creating, and probably horror fans hasn't time to see it all. Sci-fi fans are discriminate. If you saw Star Wars and Terminator's fifteen times you know what I mean.But get back to Judge Dredd. It's rare example of decent Sci-fi movie. No, it not great, not really interesting. To be honest it's predictable and often dull, but it's true sci-fi movie at least.Best part of movie is set and design Judges (visually, not moral of course) are something between Nazi's officer and g.i.joe puppets. Yes, that's kitschy, plastic and looks artificial, so what? It's still great for people who loves Blade runner.The rest is... not so bad, but that's of no significance now. "},{"Title":"I am the Lawww!","Date":"17 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" OK, OK so Judge Dredd is not in any way a great film - but that's not to say it's horrible or doesn't have anything going for it. On the contrary, it's actually very entertaining on several factors. 1) Sylvester is in full over-the-top (no pun intended) over-acting mode in this film and he delivers his lines with so much cheese and enthusiasm that it's hard not to love him! 2) Rob Schneider contributes a healthy dose of mediocre comic relief which for the most part is a little annoying. It's Dredd's reactions to him which are the funny part and offer the punch line to many of the gags. 3) The action scenes aren't too shab. There are enough explosions and gun-fights to keep any 13 year old boy with A.D.D.'s attention from whaning! 4) The whole look of the film is quite bleak and dark and the picture it portrays of the future is reminiscent of films like Total recall and Highlander 2....heck even Star Wars!!! 5) The special effects and CGI aren't half bad for 1995. Granted it's no Matrix but I've honestly seen worse special effects in movies this year than in Judge Dredd! 6) Diane lane as 'Judge Hershey' is nice to look at. 7) the film is not too long, as if it were made today - it would surely be 2 and a half hours in length as most Hollywood blockbusters which is too long. It's also not too short either. Just the right length to hold your attention. I'm sure there's other reasons why this film is enjoyable and I'm sure there's just as much if not more reasons than this not to enjoy it but honestly...it's a 1995 action flick starring Sylvester Stallone, what more could you expect? Demolition man???? "},{"Title":"Watchable but the source material is butchered","Date":"26 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Someone had a quick flick through 2000AD before making this movie but they didn't grasp the setting completely. Nor did they stay true to the idea of Judge Dredd as a ruthlessly efficient lawgiver in a necessarily fascist city. Instead we have him taking his helmet off, learning lessons about being a normal person and changing to a more socially acceptable version of himself complete with a laughably abrupt romantic ending.This is all just completely wrong but in fairness the acting is OK, the effects aren't bad and they did do their best to shoehorn in as many recognisable characters as possible. It's a shame the film is burdened with Rob Schneider as a wisecracking sidekick because instead of coming over as funny or quirky he just fills the role of a jar-jar binks kind of skidmark that nobody really needs.If you're not a big fan of 2000AD then this is a reasonable action movie but if you happen to be a fan then then the liberties they took with the setting will probably ruin it to a large extent. Shame really, Judge Dredd has an excellent if dark setting that could have been explored more deeply than this noisy action flick allows for. I could list a dozen glaring errors in the films version of Megactiy-1 but what's the point, either you spotted them too or you couldn't care less. From a fans perspective though it could have been a heck of a lot better. "},{"Title":"A good British Comic Book movie (the movie is not British the book is)","Date":"18 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" now I like this movie a descent Comic Book Movie unlike some true true crap out there like Captain America and Punisher (THE DOLPH LUNGDREN ONE) This movie is about the funniest Comic Book Movies ever made besides Howard The Duck this is an underrated movie and I like this and Rob Schneider does a great comedy Relief the plot is that Judge Dredd is the best at fighting the law and one of the worst people at crime gets released and at times with every crime you ask What the #### is wrong with him or Why does he have to destroy almost everything to do with the crime. This is a very good movie I would recommend it to anyone who takes movies lightly.Rating 5.7/10P.S Do Not Be Worried If You Can't Understand Stallone In This Movie I Couldn't To Me It All Sounds Like A Russian/Italian "},{"Title":"Confusing gawdy caper","Date":"4 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Confusing production which has the potential to be one of those great big-budget movie capers and on more than one front showed the potential to be a massive disappointment to fans of the 2000AD comics. The production design is in places brilliant, and in places shabby and cheap. Made before the use of CGI became prevalent in these kinds of movies, it has a feel of the highly coloured sets and costumes that the decade's other comic book adaptations (Dick Tracy) also fell for.... instead of the dark colours and slick style of Burton's Batman. In contrast this now looks and feels cheap and nasty, but it has a place in the history of comic-book adaptations, and even features set and prop design by Chris Cunningham (assume that's the good stuff then!) "},{"Title":"Simple movie worth one watch!","Date":"8 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" There are some movies that are meant only for one thing and that is mindless fun. These are those movies that are filled with fun, do not emphasize much on the other aspects like deep story or a plot and other elements. Judge Dredd very clearly comes under such a range of films.I have read that this movie is based on a comic book. However, I have not read the comic so I cannot comment about the faithfulness of this movie to the comics. As far as the story is concerned, the plot is pretty simple with only an occasional twist here and there. In the end, the movie is far too predictable in terms of its end. A typical Hollywood action flick. Bad and the good show down for one final time and guess who triumphs.The catch phrases in the movie and the one-liners are definitely not something you are going to feel like reciting after coming out of the movie hall. Stallone's acting is simply absent. He is just a scowling rough guy with a very little range of emotions and expressions on his face.In the bundle of all that it lacks, I feel that the movie is ignored for its imagery. The movie is filled with impressive imagery and computer graphics that are worthy of respect. This movie is worth one watch though unlike other Stallone movies you would not feel like going back and seeing it once again unless you really like a few aspects of it.All in all &#150; a one watch movie that won't leave so big a lasting impression. "},{"Title":"More a Stallone movie than a Judge Dredd comic-book one","Date":"1 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Never a huge fan of the Judge Dredd comics to get worked up by this film by Danny Cannon, and starring Sylvester Stallone. Though I can understand some of the disparaging comments towards this movie. To me, 'Judge Dredd' is more of a Stallone action film rather than a decent interpretation of the comic. I don't even think Judge Dredd ever takes off his mask in the comic. Stallone did look good with the mask on, but I think when this film became a Stallone movie the mask had to come off, as it just used the comic to become a vehicle for him, and I can I understand why some fans were annoyed.Nothing great here! Stallone gets the wrong man accused treatment and finds himself on the run. He was da law, but now he has to fight it. Some decent make-up ala Mean Machine, and Rob Schneider added some needed comic relief. As an interpretation of Judge Dredd, it's probably not that good- but as a Stallone flick, it's merely okay escapist sci-fi action.*** out of *****! "}{"Title":"you can enjoy your time watching it","Date":"13 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" No way to rate that movie below 5 I watched it and enjoyed my time till the end of itbut there is no strong story behind it, it is simply an action movie, Stallone matched the Role nicely, can't think of someone else to do it, except Shwartznigger maybeThe visual effects and guns and costumes are OK I liked the camera man, he really knows how to shoot a film so overall you won't get board watching it but don't expect a RoboCop here.the movie starts up in a strong fashion that gives you a feeling that a strong story will take place, but when the crime happens and building on what happened in the first 15 min, you can expect every detail coming without least effort.So simply you expect what will happen but wait to see how it happens. "},{"Title":"Mr. I Am the Law - Judge Dredd (Sly Stallone)","Date":"28 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" (See the edited version) I have never heard of this comic book hero but the piece goes like this In the future, there are street judges who can instantly judge you when you break the law. They blow vehicles up & try & keep order in very disorganized city blocks (Mega City). Outside the walls of this city is The Cursed Earth where cannibals dwell & cite religious quotes! You don't want to go there but Judge Dredd (the stern-faced Stallone 'wearing a Buick') is wrongly judged & guess where he's sent? You guessed it! Along for the ride (& comic relief) is Fergie (Rob Schneider). He has the line that says of Dredd that he is Mr. I Am the Law! The whole film centers on Dredd going back to Mega City to clear his name by going after his 'brother', Rico (the deliciously evil & handsome Armand Assante). Rico tries to create more judges but with his own evil DNA, only they get caught in mid-life & die. Interesting bit of sci-fi there. Diane Lane is the natural beauty who believes in Dredd & is 'secetly' in love with him. And he respects her as 'top of her class'. He seems incapable of love. He holds to the letter of the law, not the spirit of it. Thus how Fergie ends up judged. With Dredd's helmet on, it's obvious who he is by the jutted-out chin & thick cupie-bow lips. The flying motorcycles are just too unbelievable though. So is the last scene atop the Statue of Liberty in the rain. Tidbit Stallone with BLUE EYES?! Yes, they're contacts. So are Assantes'. Afterall, they're brothers! (They also played brothers in Paradise Alley. Remember that Sly film?) "},{"Title":"Should have been great","Date":"28 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I had high hopes for Judge Dredd after reading articles in magazines on the movie and seeing the fabulous trailer, then the first review I seen had the headline Judge Dreddful, my heart sank. I've never been into Judge Dredd or read 2000 AD but I always knew about the character as many of my friends were big fans and read the comic and I always thought it would make a fantastic movie. I remember rumours that Swarzenegger was to play the role way back in the late 80's but nothing came of it, then Stallone was announced to be playing the part. I thought that was a great choice as I have always been a big fan of Sly, plus he was coming off making Cliffhanger and Demolition Man and appeared to be back on form after a few lousy comedies. But something went wrong as Judge Dredd is pretty disappointing to say the least. It does however look absolutely brilliant. Stallone is pretty good but Rob Scheidner doesn't seem to fit in at all. The music is fantastic as well. The story isn't that great however and I think they didn't get the right director for the film either. Sadly this seems to have killed off any hope of another attempt at what could be a great movie franchise. Judge Dredd will however live on in the comics and video games. ***5/10*** "},{"Title":"Fun, but watch it every once in a while to prevent brain damage","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  While I have never been a huge  Sylvester Stallone fan, I really  enjoyed this film. With the likes of  Max Von Sydow, Rob Schneider and  Diane Lane supporting Stallone  every step of the way, we didn't have  to subjected to his typical array of  bad jokes and funky sounding dialogue.  The future has never looked more  wretched in this film, for it has its  sense of appeal, yet is evil enough to  make dislikable. Not the greatest of films,  but  decent one worth seeing a couple times. "},{"Title":"good fun, until end","Date":"23 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Unlike most people here, I think that for the most part, Judge Dredd was pretty good.  The movie almost succeeds as a cheesey, sci-fi flick in many respects.  The set is beautifully done, probably the best part of the entire movie.  Likewise, the effects are well-done, and many of the action sequences are quite entertaining.  The plot's not great, but it holds up (until...read on...).However, this movie not only trips at the last hurdle it falls flat on its face, weakly staggers back to its feet, and limps awkwardly to the finish line with this goofy look on its swollen face as the audience gawks, not knowing whether to laugh or cry.  I've never seen a movie go from alright to bad to even worse in such a short period.  In the last half hour, the plot starts to crumble; the last 15 minutes are simply atrocious.  It was almost as if the filmmakers ran out of money halfway through and had to spontaneously end it. "},{"Title":"Mistreatment","Date":"8 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is an action movie, barely connected to the comix.  Yeah, sure, Dredd removes his helmet; this happened only once in the comix, with a large CENSORED stamp on it, and the only viewer of the face had a nervous breakdown.  He also smiles!  He's only a tough macho guy with a lot of sensibility very well in him.  Sure.There were reasons for Dredd not removing his helmet (one of them being that he was the LAW, therefore his uniqueness was unimportant), and not ever smiling (he was an instrument with little to no personal life; he was committed to be a cop/judge in a very probable future society of much unemployment, crime and misery; what's to smile about?).This film was a nice try perhaps, but not enough.  What was the target audience?  People who knew Dredd, or people who didn't?  Cause as far as I can tell, there is no way people, who frantically expected the next issue of the comix, loved this film. "},{"Title":"I AM THE LAW!!!","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  While not Stallone's best (see original Rocky or Cliffhanger for that) it's got good humour to fill in the patchy plot problems. For Stallone to allow another onscreen character to mock his real life speech impediment I am the law! was a memorable scene in an otherwise forgettable film.It's not Stallone's fault that DREDD is not a well received film. Many comic book characters have tried to aspire as entertainment for mass audiences on the big screen and failed (First 2 Superman movies and original Batman movie not included).Overall the film is about 2 1/2 stars out of 5.I'll leave you with what I thought was the biggest laugh of the movie.... in one scene Armande Assante and Stallone are described as from the same gene sequencing and both are supposed to be 2 metres tall!!! Boy did I laugh at that one, 6'7 of Stallone? I was looking for a stepladder to be mentioned in the closing credits!!! "},{"Title":"Could have been a whole lot better...","Date":"23 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Being a regular reader of 2000AD comix for many years and a fan in particular of Judge Dredd, I waited for this film with some trepidation. Unfortunately my fears were'nt groundless. They lost the whole idea of the socio-political comment that JD was, and went for the over the top action approach instead. Some of the best characters were missing ( The Death Judges ), the ones that they did include were just plain silly ( The Angel Gang ) or just plain wrong ( Fergie was a massive moron that generally went around clubbing people for no real reason. And he had pet flies ). Still, it was good to see the Big Meg in all its glory. One thing though... Dredd never,never,NEVER took his helmet off, even in the bath. Five outa Ten.  "},{"Title":"Not What It Was Supposed To Be","Date":"17 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" JUDGE DREDD was meant to be the summer blockbuster of 1995. The fusion of Stallone asskick and the newly hot comic book genre was supposed to be irresistible to audiences. Visions of a franchise a la BATMAN danced in the minds of studio execs.Instead, JUDGE DREDD went down as one of the biggest disappointments of the year, a huge critical and commercial flop and another skid stain in the descent of Stallone's career. And it's easy to see why.JUDGE DREDD is loud and contrived. It is poorly edited with a guaranteed cliché every ten minutes. It flows with as much ease as a sandpaper Slip 'N Slide. While it cost $70M, huge dollars back in '95, today it looks like something you'd see on the CW.Stallone, his pupils blanketed by icy blue contacts, alternates between so-so and apathetic in his titular performance. He does, however, spew his ridiculous dialogue with the zeal of a man falsely convinced the words will become catchphrases. (How could he not see the folly in a line like, I should have taken care of you myself -- personally? Well, what exactly can you take care of yourself but not personally?).The supporting crew is no aid. Armand Assante, our evil-for-the-sake-of-being-evil villain, is given surprisingly little to do except cackle like a Saturday morning cartoon baddie. Diane Lane looks like she's trying but never fits into the nonsensical mishmash. Comic relief Rob Schneider serves up exactly one laugh (We don't have time for this he disgustingly remarks as Stallone unclothes a judge to pilfer his uniform) and is generally annoying otherwise.The whole thing is overseen by Englishman Danny Cannon, then an inexperienced director in his mid-20s who was inexplicably handed the keys to this wreck. The action sequences -- of which there are actually few -- are not Cannon's strength. He seems confused and over his head, not knowing quite what to do other than shout Action! on random, pointless explosions and trite fighting sequences. One suspects there must be a director's cut of this film floating around somewhere that makes far more sense than what made it into theatres.But I'm convinced that the biggest reason JUDGE DREDD was an unexpected failure is its appearance and source material. With his gold-armor-covered spandex and very plasticy helmet, Stallone looks like Captain Power, the hero of the 1980s TV show at which children fire their light-sensing guns. Sure it's a faithful replication of the comic-book Judge Dredd, but who cares? Judge Dredd was (and still is) such an obscure character that to think his name recognition would draw bums into theatre seats is naïve to the point of absurdness.Who didn't want to like this movie? Stallone, despite his many poor career decisions (this being perhaps the worst... and that's saying something!), is a great action hero. But this is just a mismatch for him, and I can't imagine he was pleased with how it turned out. The final verdict mindlessly mediocre. "},{"Title":"Throw down your weapons and prepare to be judged!","Date":"10 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is the type of movie where comic book is justifiably used as a put-down. The sets, costumes, and props are all appreciably well-made. Unfortunately they are filmed in such a way to make the whole thing look kind of cheesy. There's no craftsmanship in the direction. The performances are mostly tongue-in-cheek. This was made at a time when, despite Batman's success, comic book movies were still being treated as a joke by the industry. This campy approach is the movie's biggest flaw. Sylvester Stallone plays the whole thing like a parody. Rob Schneider is the completely unnecessary comic relief. He's terrible in every way. Diane Lane plays the 'sort of' friend/love interest. Not exactly on the list of her career high points. Jurgen Prochnow, Armand Assante, and venerable Max Von Sydow are all better than the material they're given. James Remar has a brief but memorably awful performance at the beginning of the movie. So over the top. The movie is ultimately a failure but there is some value in watching it for so bad it's good reasons. One last thing corner of Abbott and Costello ...seriously? "}{"Title":"5/10","Date":"23 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" When i was a child i loved this film, having read a lot of Dredd comic books i am a huge fan. I recently watched this film again and cringed at how bad the plot/acting etc was. Rob Schnieder ruins this movie for me.But at the same time it has some fun action and brings me back some happy memories.If you are looking for a good movie with good acting this might not be for you, after all the star is sly Stallone, Although, if you are looking for a fun action film with explosions then give it a go. "},{"Title":"Pathetic attempt at a futuristic movie.","Date":"3 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" The future is really easy to incorrectly portray, and instead of listing all the faults of this movie, I'll just say what sucked the most. Stallone was terrible, and nothing about his character was enjoyable or even tolerable. Laughable special effects are a given, but half of the time they went overboard for no good reason (besides the fact that this is Judge Dredd). I felt like most of the dialogue was unscripted as well.Rob Schneider's comic relief was funny at times (except the beginning), but he had all the makings of a good main character. Diane Lane was great, but I didn't like her resolution. Probably not worth watching unless you listen to the How Did This Get Made? episode about it. "},{"Title":"An sloppy written but good future film","Date":"9 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Sometimes in movies, it is hard for the audience to like certain characters. And at first, I wasn't quite sure if I was truly going to become attached to the character of Judge Dredd. Even after the film ended, I couldn't fully side with the fact that I really liked the character. Unfortunately, this is all due to how the screenplay was written, credited to William Wisher Jr; not Stallone's acting. He was only following the script and the story line. That's the major thing that brought my approval down.Stallone is Judge Joseph Dredd. An elite officer who knows the law like the back of his hand. Speaking of which, this is an interesting trait. All officers are judges, which means there's no court sentence, the lawbreaker is assessed in the open and is determined to what will happen to them right then and there. Imagine if reality was like that? Things would actually be moving a lot swifter when it would come to courts! Plus it's cool how the officers can site immediately what the criminals sentence will be. Talk about photographic memory.What isn't worth appreciating in this film is the screenplay. The character of Judge Dredd is so callous, that it'll be hard for the audience to really gain an understanding of why Dredd is the way he is. This is not explained until much later in the film. But even after that, the personality of Dredd doesn't change. It's almost like the idea of character development was totally left out of production. Either that or Michael DeLuca as a storyteller, really doesn't know how to tell a story. This is why I still can't decide whether I like Dredd or not.Co-starring with Stallone is Rob Scheinder as Fergie, a goofy feeble computer hack who practically has all the funny lines. If Scheinder weren't in this film, I'm not quite sure I would have liked it as much. Diane Lane plays Judge Hershey, which the last name describes her nicely. She's candy to the eye. Everything about her face is very attractive. Playing the villain, Rico, is Armand Assante. As for him, I felt like Rico could've had a better voice. Assante's voice was too high-pitched and shrill to be a villain in this film. It just didn't fit.For the most part, I did like the special effects. They all around looked well in their place. The judges' bikes though seemed a little bit over-sized, like they were riding Honda Gold Wings or something. Two characters that I thought were cool looking were Mean Machine and the ABC Robot. Mean Machine reminded me of Kroenen from Hellboy (2004), while the ABC Robot looked like an early T-600 prototype for the Terminator Salvation (2009), just slightly clunkier and a little more loyal.This whole area that this story takes place in reminds me of the first fifteen minutes of an earlier Stallone movie, Demolition Man (1993). The only difference is that the world is not futuristic, however it is still a mess. One thing I felt uncomfortable with in this movie was the city itself. Everything was too close together; in other words, there wasn't enough room for the audience to get a sense of position on the screen. As for music goes, which Alan Silvestri made the score too, there were some moments that just seemed overly dramatic. Majority of the time I don't have a problem with Silvestri's work, but this one bothered me a little.Judge Dredd could have been a really entertaining futuristic cop movie but it ends up running by the book a little too often with Stallone being almost emotionless. Thankfully, the rest of the movie is held up with some fair action sequences, interesting special effects and a unique supporting cast. "},{"Title":"I knew I wouldn't like that","Date":"27 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well, this film is very nineties. It contains thousand of clichés, predictability and cheesy conversations, as expected from a nineties action movie starring Sylvester Stallone. Thought it's not good or clever, it entertained me for a while.The script is an imaginary world where Judges would take policemen jobs and they'd be the law themselves. Of course it wouldn't work; giving more than one power of jurisdiction to a person would make it less democratic and more subject to corruption and authoritarianism. That's a good thing that movie kind of showed (maybe not if you're not a law student). Fergee is a funny character that delivers some silly laughs, and it's impossible to not remember Black Eyed Peas' Fergie when Judge Dredd call his name. Interesting and entertaining movie, with decent special effects for 1995, but no big deal. "},{"Title":"I Don't Exactly Dread Judge Dredd","Date":"12 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'll start off this review with a simple statement I actually do recommend this movie. That being said, let me explain the parameters of this recommendation don't go into this movie expecting quality effects, acting, or plot. If you're looking for that, pass this film over. It's honestly just one of those guilty pleasures of being so bad that it's entertaining. I'll note some of the things that personally got me laughing.1.) The movie starts off with the classic cheesy 80s back story, shown in scrawling text (which is simultaneously narrated by James Earl Jones.) It describes that in the third millennium, the world changed... and is decidedly called Cursed Earth, which seems to only have two kinds of areas Deserts and Mega-Cities. The desert is actually right outside the Mega-City...trust me, it makes no sense.2.) The entire cast seems to only need to fit two requirements -They are shorter than Sylvester Stallone. -They talk WORSE than Sylvester Stallone (just for fun, try to see if any one person in the film says law normally...I dare you.) Don't get me wrong, those requirements are no small feats to accomplish, but it just made the film more peculiar; but entertaining nonetheless.3.) They have the funniest names for things -What would you call a big city? If you said Metropolis, you've clearly never heard of MEGA-CITIES. Does Mega-City just sound more intimidating and dark and brooding? I don't know--don't spoil the fun. -Also, what sounds like the worst prison in the world? Something even more dark and shady than Mega-City? Think again; for the main villain escapes from the highest-tech security facility in the world, known as...ASPEN PENAL COLONY!!! I swear, I could not make this up. -Not to mention the main antagonist is none other than Judge Dredd (Sylvester Stallone)'s little brother RICO DREDD!!! No, he's not a 10 year old Mexican kid, though he is about a foot shorter than Stallone and tries to talk like Hannibal Lecter...too bad he has a lisp...4.) The technology of the time period is some of the weirdest things I've seen -There are droids that serve food who all the while say Eat recycled food. It's good for the environment, and OK for you! -There's also a droid which is basically a horrible rip-off of the Terminator, except incredibly rusted, much more gargantuan, and punches incredibly slow--yet it sends people flying. But don't worry it can easily be turned on and off if you just switch ONE wire...ONE! I have a suspicion that this story must be where Terminator fails go to die. -The Judge's guns (which are handguns) have at least 10 different kinds of ammo in it semi-auto with rapid fire, armor-piercing, grenade-launcher, double whammy (which is two bullets that shoot at the same time to hit two people.)...need I continue? Oh yeah, and every time a bullet is fired, the gun (and this just a hand-gun, mind you) is able to stamp on a DNA-identifier so that ballistics can say who fired the bullet....all right, now I'm done making fun of the guns.-Not exactly technology, but the Judge's suits are definitely not at police-standard tights, helmet, gold shoulder pads, and (just for The Italian Stallion) a gold codpiece...I can't even go on.All in all, this movie is just kind of a cheap humor experience, but I enjoyed it and recommend it to anyone who likes to make fun of those good old cheesy 80s sci-fi flicks. Afterwards you may say that you wish there was a legitimate action version for the Judge, but don't worry a reboot is approaching which stars Karl Urban as Judge Dredd. I'm hoping for the best. "},{"Title":"Damn good","Date":"26 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" One of the best films I have ever seen. OK,, so it does start Sly, but he does a credible job in the role of Joe Dredd. Juxtaposition is key.The fact of the matter is that based on Ezquerras strip from the 70's coupled with wangner';s artwork gives rise to a superhuman strength enhancing subtext on superhero reality. Give me I'm a celebrity anytime. This is the real strictly come dancing. Forsythe can it back and count his alaurels as far as i'm concerned. This is the real wheel comic deal. Realism, violence, and comedy all rear their fanatastic head in this capable sci-fi romp through space and time. There is no room for improvement as Joe takes to the skies in his power bike super yacht super flying machine. Accept no substitutes as we near the completeion of the fink brothers classic shoot em up. Oh, it's oh so entertaining. "},{"Title":"Why I Have a Heart to The Heartless Judge Dredd !","Date":"23 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" OK, so this was nearly the end of the metallic heroes on the screen. After something like 15 years of (The Terminator, Ropocop,..) the wooden lifeless, semi-merciless hero came down to the rejection point. Though it was Box Office Flop, but it's a good live comic book that would enjoy you for 96 min. I'm not a fan of the comic books nor the metallic characters (or stars !) but this one captured my attention.Actually the direction was better than a lot of things. (Danny Cannon) was so enthusiastic about it. All the scenes seem snazzy. Scenes such as the one in which Chief Justice Fargo goes to the desert or the movie's last shoot were mighty cadres that evoked brilliantly the comic books' style.After it the great music of (Alan Silvestri) ranked as the second best; its grand sense concentrated strong feelings, personified cleverly a massive heroism, and created epical shadows.Then the lovely catchy plot of (Steven E. de Souza) that got  framing Dredd, the escape to prove the innocence, insane evil brother.. When it comes to (de Souza) &#x96; as one of the 1990s' Action masters &#x96; he can explode it fine. Look carefully at the construction of the climax; tough guy vs. another, catfight, a ticker bomb (or imminent catastrophe) in the same time. A construction that became sacrosanct at next action movies to have the majority of them imitate it blindly  (Die Another Day - 2002), (Bulletproof Monk - 2003), (Torque - 2004), etcetera.All the cast gave me wonderful time  Rob Schneider, Diane Lane, Max von Sydow, and Armand Assante who looks very agreeable as the mad Rico.Although a lot of elements privileged this movie unlike a lot of the comic book movies that we're having yearly and absurdly during the whole 2000s, but I hated here a lot of things  the awful loud performance of Stallone, the evident special effects sometimes (the chase over the buildings), the fabricated climax which was lesser than previous action scenes in the same movie, not to mention the biggest of them all; the matter of non- changeable hero whereas you'd never feel any alteration at Stallone's character in the end, like they forgot that !?? Specially when the movie had him ruthless at the beginning and put him into that hot conflict to end up with him as the same ! Rare time to observe main character like that ends the way it begins, it's in the manual catalog of the drama's students as not to be done in films ! Maybe the high disputes between Cannon and Stallone (which made the final version completely different from the script) caused matters like that. Anyhow it's not the movie to evaluate fairly the honorable Steven E. de Souza, as he wrote more powerful crazy actions before.True that I don't like those metallic heroes but considering our days of too many kids (Harry Potter, The Lord of the Rings, The Chronicles of Narnia, ..), and too many superheroes (Superman, Fantastic 4, The Hulk, Daredevil, Catwoman, Ghost Rider, and Spider-Silly-Man) I may find a reason to deem Dredd more sweet and classical than other contemporary flicks. All in all it's the noisiest valium you can ever have, if only you overlook so many things. "},{"Title":"well, gee, i kinda had fun...","Date":"30 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Probably every criticism I've read on the movie is true. Especially about Rob Schneider, whose starring films probably amuse some toothless hillbillies living in a swamp where they're waiting for some fat city-slicker to force to his knees and squeal like a pig. I mean Rob Schneider is definitely the male-rape poster-boy of white trash everywhere, he got a purty mouth. Which is why the cannibal Angel Family sequence works as well as it does, I guess.Having added my agreement to the hope that Rob Schneider retires really soon, I must now buck some of the negative reviews here - this film is very fast-paced campy fun. Schneider aside, the acting is uniformly hammy, to the extent that I can't imagine it was intended otherwise. Sly Stallone is clearly having the time of his life.The camera-work and editing are generally very good, and the story just takes us from one action sequence to another, with hardly a moment to catch our breaths.Director Cannon gets special credit for having realized this fantasy world to the max. I never have any sense that this is just some Hollywood appendage to the real world, it is entirely self-contained without ever feeling claustrophobic.It's definitely a film that you want to watch without trying to use your brain - but don't we all want to 'give it a rest' on occasion? As for Rob Schneider - well just bear in mind how utterly unbearable all of his other film appearances have been - this is easily the most tolerable of the lot - that counts for something, doesn't it? 7 stars for the roller-coaster ride. "},{"Title":"Exciting And Eye-Popping But Heavy-Going Comic-Book Fascist Cops Caper","Date":"15 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" In a nightmare future, mankind is crammed into huge mega-cities, and crime is rife. Law and order is maintained by the Judges, elite police troops with absolute authority. When arch-criminal Rico breaks out of prison and frames the powerful Judge Dredd for murder, Dredd must prove his innocence, defeat Rico and expose corruption at the highest level.Hmmm, tough movie to review. Good points - it's derived from an excellent 2000 A.D. comic-strip by John Wagner and Carlos Ezquerra about an unknowable neo-fascist antihero, the cast is terrific, the visuals are eye-popping and the pacing is breathless. Bad points - it's an overly familiar mish-mash of ideas from other superhero action flicks - particularly Robocop and Batman - there are lots of lame one-liners (though I must admit I like the, I knew you'd say that. one) and the characters are frequently annoying. It's fun, but it's stodgy, dogmatic fun. Compare it with Tank Girl for example, another comic-book movie made the same year, which is just as inventive visually but takes itself far less seriously and as a result is much more original and enjoyable and has aged far better. Movies are about images but they are also about people, so when your heroes are a confused macho man and his unfunny sidekick, I ain't exactly riveted. However, the cast is great; Stallone is a perfect choice to play Dredd (although in the comic-book his face is never revealed, he's just a chin), Lane is a lovably gutsy Judge Hershey, Assante and Prochnow have fun trying to out-shout each other, good old Max lends the film some much-needed dramatic gravitas, and don't miss funny bits by Wilson and Dury as a scavenger-cannibal and a doomed gun-runner. Young director Cannon (he was twenty-seven) turns in an ambitious and exciting film - there's nothing wrong with his technical ability, and the visual realisation of the comic-book's environment is spot-on. Where I suspect this movie went a bit awry is in the multiple-screenwriters, multiple-producers film-making-by-committee trudge so many big-budget films fall foul of. Well worth catching though, with a strong score by Alan Silvestri, great costumes by Emma Porteous and exciting photography and visual effects throughout. Jones (who does an opening narration), Remar and Wilson all appear unbilled. "},{"Title":"Tragicaly inferior to the comic","Date":"31 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Judge Dredd, one of the most brilliant and intriguing comic books of all times is effectively humiliated by this sad attempt at a blockbuster. The marketing necessity of showing Silvester Stallone's face led to the, unthinkable to Judge Dredd fans, crime of Dredd appearing without a helmet. His performance is, to say the least, sad. Equally, the inclusion of the otherwise not entirely untalented Rob Schneider as some sort of comic relief was a bad mistake, further cheapening an already problematic film. Jurgen Prochnow, a great actor by any measure, is condemned here to yet another strident baddie performance. Probably the only survivors are Max Von Sydow as Chief Justice Fargo and Armand Assante as Rico Dredd, although Diane Lane, a far better actress than this film would suggest does embellish the proceedings with her magnetic beauty. All in all what could have been a memorable film due to its first class source material, had it been given a batman type treatment, has effectively and rightly, been consigned to the cinematic dustbin. A great pity "}{"Title":"Greatness reduced to mediocrity","Date":"20 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Judge Dredd wasn't a total disappointment, but did come near close. It must be noted tough, that Judge Dredd is one comic, that is rather hard to turn into a movie, because the comic itself lacks a continuing story arch and it has always been a kind of a play ground for a bit more unconventional ideas.That's where the movie goes to the woods they make JD a regular hero, a cop with morals and a personality, when we all know, that law is only personality Judge Dredd has. Everything else secondary. And they show Dredd's face which was something the comics never did at the point of that becoming a some of a joke among the fans of the comics. And the makers as well.Another big flaw in the film is, that the script omits all satirical pointers given in the comic books. There always is some sort of criticism provided towards fascistic society in the books, like the judges right on random house searches in hopes, and usually even most minor offenses mean jail time here, of finding criminals.Stallone was actually very fitting in the part before they decide to show his face and remove his shirt. Armand Assante does okay job as the main villain Rico, Dredds brother and Max Von Sydow does what he can as Chief Justice Fargo.Other than that the film has been reduced as standard action, with annoying sidekicks (Schneider) and mandatory female partner (Diane Lane). There are some good scenes, but the special effects and make ups are rather disappointing. Best example of this is The Mean Machine Angel (Christopher Adamson). The film lacks the appeal the comic has and one can only feel a bit disappointed of the lack of using the source material at hand. "},{"Title":"A Hymn to Fascism","Date":"29 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Judge Dredd owes his origins to a British science-fiction comic book named 2000 AD, although the series is set considerably further into the future than that date, at some time in the 22nd century, a time when most of the earth's surface has been laid waste (presumably by a nuclear holocaust, although this is not made clear in the film) and, apart from a few outlaws, virtually the entire population lives in a number of huge mega-cities. It is never explained where, in a world without farmland, the food to feed all these people is produced. The action of the film takes place in Mega-City One, a hugely expanded New York. This is a violent place where order is maintained by the Judges, a group of men and women who not only exercise judicial functions but also the functions of police and lawyers. The senior Judges also act as the society's politicians and rulers. The title character is the city's most famous Judge, a man known for his incorruptibility as well as his stern and unbending approach to law and order. The plot concerns an attempt by a group of corrupt Judges, including Dredd's evil brother Rico, to frame him for murder and thereby pave the way to a seizure of power.This is one of a number of science-fiction films that portray the future as a sort of high-tech City of Dreadful Night. Like Tim Burton's Batman films and Ridley Scott's Blade Runner, it is set against a dark, gloomy urban landscape. Blade Runner seems to have been the strongest visual influence on Judge Dredd, but the two films are very different. In Blade Runner (by far the better of the two), the gloomy look corresponded to an equally gloomy, pessimistic moral atmosphere. Judge Dredd, however, was clearly intended as a more straightforward, bad-guys-against-good-guys, type of thriller.I say intended, because in my eyes this intention was never successfully realised. Although Dredd is not a villain in the way that Rico is a villain, a man who deliberately commits evil deeds in pursuit of his own self-interest, I could not see him as a hero either. His main qualities are incorruptibility and a rigid adhesion to the letter of the law, but despite this he still comes across as a deeply unsympathetic character. The problem is that his is a society where democracy has been dispensed with, where political power is concentrated in the hands of a small, self-perpetuating elite, where peremptory justice is dealt out to alleged wrongdoers, where the people have no say in how they are governed; in short, a dictatorship. It is hard to make the loyal servant of a dictatorial system into a sympathetic character, and matters are not helped by Stallone's deliberately emotionless, unsmiling interpretation of the title role. (None of the other acting contributions stood out except for the irritating one from Rob Schneider as Dredd's petty-criminal sidekick Fergie, which stood out for all the wrong reasons.) The original comic strip had a strongly satirical bent and encapsulated what was quite a common British view in the seventies and eighties of America, particularly of urban America and above all of New York, seen as a lawless urban jungle ruled by gangsters and where the only order was provided by a corrupt and brutal police force, only marginally less criminal than those against whom they fought. This view contained elements of both left-wing anti-Americanism and British patriotism of the Our unarmed bobbies would never behave like those trigger-happy Yankee cops variety. The Dredd comic strip represents the urban jungle view of America projected forward into a dystopian future.This is perhaps an example of a film that was made in the wrong place and in the wrong time; a British version made, say, ten years earlier might have been more interesting. Unfortunately, the British film industry of the eighties rarely had either the budgets or the self-confidence to tackle a large-scale science-fiction project, and so the responsibility fell to the American industry. For obvious reasons, Hollywood preferred to tone down any elements of anti-American satire, and by the time the film was actually made the world had moved on. After the end of the Cold War, post-apocalyptic scenarios were no longer so fashionable, and in the Giuliani era of the nineties New York's crime problems no longer seemed as insoluble as they once had. The solution seemed to be to make the film as a sort of futuristic Western, with Dredd as the guy in the white hat, but the result reads, probably inadvertently, more like a hymn in praise of Fascism. There have been other recent films which have revealed a certain sympathy for authoritarian methods of government; First Knight and The Last Samurai were examples, but in those cases the impact was lessened by a historical or exotic setting. A science-fiction film which presents an authoritarian society not as a dystopia but as a viable option for the future is, to say the least, disturbing. 4/10 "},{"Title":"JUDGING DREDD","Date":"2 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Because one way or other we, as viewers have to judge him. I think that the movie does its commitment keep you entertained for almost a couple of hours and it is a great deja-vu for the fans of this comic character. As for the means of special effects and characterization, I dare to compare it with Batman or Spider-Man, call me crazy but they are great, state of the art of the middle 90's. Now as for the acting, Sly is Dredd! This futuristic cop-judge who brings justice to those ones who doesn't have it, but sometimes he overacts, like when he's on his way to the Aspen prison and discussing with Fergie (Rob Schneider) about how justice CAN'T be wrong. Hello? A riding accident without his helmet on? He's convicted for a crime that he didn't commit for crying out loud!! If it were me I'd throwing pests and curses all over the system! On the other hand Armand Assante shouldn't be cast for this kind of movies, I don't know but there was something out of place being he the villan. Anyway if you're a fan of the comic book this is a must see, if you are a fan of sci-fi action movies, again, this is a must see, and if you are fan of Sly, defiantly, a must see.Court's adjourned!  "},{"Title":"I am the law and I sentence this film to 25 years hard labour","Date":"14 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Frankly I was appalled by this film. How could they? What possessed them? Why, at some point during production, or even upon reading the script, didn't somebody put a stop to this disaster. Anybody that had ever read the original comics couldn't fail to realise that they were annihilating this superb imaginative idea with one poorly written, hopelessly crafted turkey. Instead of creating an original interpretation of one of the most popular underground works of imaginative fiction in the past 3 decades, the production team decided to pull various plots at random from the comics (the angel family), take these beautifully crafted plots and subject them to 20 minutes of poorly written film time and then destroy them forever. In the hands of somebody like Tim Burton we could potentially have had years of cinematic viewing pleasure as a veritable gold mine of material is available for a series of films. After that shambles though (and I don't even blame Sylvester Stallone)(much) there is no way. The Judge Dredd series as conceptualised in 2000AD and its own franchise publications is a triumph of dark humour and satirical grittiness. The film was a commercial copout that shows a complete lack of respect for the subject matter and the viewing public as a whole. I truly believe that everyone with a stake in the production of this gut churning rot deserves to rot in an ISO CUBE for at least 25 years. "},{"Title":"Wasted Chance","Date":"20 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's such a shame a huge wealth of background material - hundreds of characters, thousands of stories, a whole new society and culture and this is the result a poor mish mash of ideas and concepts. And worst of all Rob Schneider's comedy side kick routine - has ever been in a good comedy - which really does kill this film. It's not that there shouldn't have been any humour in the film, just with a more subtly deliveryThe look of the film with its realisations of the Judges, Mega City One, The Angel Gang and HammerStein, goes to show that some people working on this film did appreciate the source material. Pity the likes of the script writers, producers and director choose to not follow their excellent example  "},{"Title":"Absolutely Brilliant Rubbish!","Date":"28 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you liked 'Demolition Man' watch this film; if you liked this film watch 'Demolition Man'!This is basically just another Stallone taking the mickey out of himself film, and it's great as that; it's good to have a laugh at. If you'd take it seriously though, don't watch it - it's a waste of time.The story is set in the future, where 'judges' - super policemen with the power to be the judge, the jury and the executioner all in one - fight against increasing crime in the overcrowded cities. Judge Dredd (Stallone) is the best and most feared of these judges, he IS the law.But Dredd is wrongly accused of murder. He is sent to prison for life, but because of seriously unbelievable circumstances never manages to get there.Along with another extremely annoying, but very funny convict - Fergie - and later fellow Judge Hershey, he must fight against a corrupted government of Judges to clear his name and restore order.One slight hitch is that he comes up against his old friend and enemy, escaped from prison, who has an evil plan of his own. (All good stuff!)You get lots of action, interesting special effects, hardly any bad language, an almost believeable plot and an altogether great film if you like that sort of thing, and don't take it seriously.7/10 "},{"Title":"Switch off your brain... and enjoy!","Date":"16 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film is neither demanding in any way nor is it similar to its comic model Judge Dredd is just an action flick in a futuristic environment and a surprisingly good cast (Lane, von Sydow, Chen, Assante, Prochnow...) for that kind of film. Only Rob Schneider is penetrating your nerves after a while, so they had better engaged Joe Pesci or Martin Lawrence for this part. Anyway, the design of Mega City One is great and director Danny Cannon has definitely done one of his better movies in comparison to rubbish like I still know what you did last summer... there is explosive action around the clock and the film has got enough ironic aspects a good comic adaptation normally should have. Perhaps it was a mistake for Sly Stallone to perform in two Sci-fi movies one after the other, because his predecessor Demolition Man was much more successful at the box-offices than Judge Dredd. Nevertheless, he does a good job in playing a comic figure, where he´s not making a fool of himself as he did it in his so-called character roles or awful comedies like Stop! Or my mom will shoot..!. By the way, Arnie Schwarzenegger, who played Conan the Barbarian in 1981, had one of the best performances of his career in John Milius film , and Wesley Snipes was a pretty cool vampire hunter in Blade. Judge Dredd is much better than it is often said (An IMDb user voting with an average of 4.4 is very underrated!) Just don´t be too demanding, don´t expect a second Batman and don´t take this movie too serious!!! (7/10) "},{"Title":"Good, surprisingly funny movie.","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I must admit, this was Sylvestor Stallone's worst movie, except maybe `Stop or My Mom Will Shoot', but I liked Judge Dredd. Besides the very bad acting on the part of Armand Asante, the character's were strong and the plot was sound. Maybe all the actors just want to forget this film, but I will never forget it. In conclusion, Long Live Rob Schneider! "},{"Title":"Entertaining....But Still Lacking","Date":"22 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Fast-paced, funny, with plenty of action and eye-popping special effects, Judge Dredd still strikes me as an incomplete movie.  According to some reports, both Stallone and director Danny Cannon were hoping for a PG-13 rating.  What a mistake.  The original comic book on which this film is based is alot meaner (even fascisistic) and by trying to cut much of the violence, they took the guts out too....rendering a potential classic merely a good flick.  The film appears to have been ruthlessly edited to try to get that PG-13 rating and suffers for it.  Some scenes in the film are cut WAY too short (the one where the half-formed clones are released from their pods could have been a hair-raising highlight, but it's tossed off before reaching its potential)  The climax comes too abruptly and the movie doesn't really end....it just STOPS.  Despite these complaints, I very much enjoyed Judge Dredd and only hope that someday we might be afforded the chance at seeing how much of the film ended up on the cutting-room floor.....maybe they'll release an advanced DVD with deleted scenes. "},{"Title":"Don't Go Out Of Your Way","Date":"3 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Beware of movies that require an explanatory prologue, even if it is read by James Earl Jones.A cross between wannabe BLADERUNNER effects and Saturday morning Superfriends-type characters and stories, JUDGE DREDD offers the tale of a future society so lawless that ultra-police judges roam the streets dispensing inflexible justice right and left. Among them is Judge Dredd, played by Sylvester Stallone at his least expressive, a legendary incorruptible who must be gotten out of the way if an evil take-over is to be staged. In classic manner he is framed for a crime he did not commit--and the rest of the film is as predictable as last night's popcorn.A major critical and box-office flop when released, JUDGE DREDD isn't quite as bad as some would lead you to believe. True enough, it is EXTREMELY predictable from start to finish and INCREDIBLY heavy-handed in execution; even so, the special effects (which borrow heavily from everything from BATMAN to ROBOCOP to BLADERUNNER) are watchable, and if you're in the mood to waste time on junk cinema you could probably do worse. I won't trash it, but even so it isn't a movie you'll want to go out of your way to see.Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer "}{"Title":"one greatest film version of a comic","Date":"4 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I love that film. It's great! Best film version of a comic I've seen. Forget Hulk, Spiderman, Hellboy, and Batman as well... The only one that rules is Chief Justice Dredd.And don't worry about the play of Sylvester Stallone. It's a role that fits.Not like Copland (his best film), but who could play this role better. A guy who fights on his one. It's a bit like his role in Demolition Man. So don't blame him too much. And don't forget about to think of roles in Rambo and Rocky. (only Rambo First Blood and Rocky 1-3)P.S. And it's great tribute to Gianni Versace!! (He designed all costumes.) "},{"Title":"He took off his helmet!!!!!!!!!","Date":"25 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was a big fan of the Judge Dredd comic strip when I was a kid, and yes,I waited with anticipation to watch the movie when it first came out back in '95.However,after Sly took his helmet off, I lost interest.......fast!!!!!! In the comic book series. part of the mysique surrounding Dredd is that he is never seen without his helmet,and if he does take it off, only his back or the lower part of his face is shown,BUT NEVER HIS ENTIRE FACE!!!!!!!!!Sure,the movie wasn't all that,but Stallone should have known better.That's like Spider-man doing his thing without the mask.....in public!!!!!!!Are there any other 200AD/Judge Dredd fans that agree with me????? "},{"Title":"Pretty good flick!","Date":"17 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It was decent.  It had action, Rob Schneider, and a decent plot.  But a few things bugged me which ruined the film.The microphone on the back of the neck of the man who runs Geiger's Bazaar disappears and reappears.When Judge Dredd is undercover as a judge, a young judge runs up and pulls off Dredd's helmet and says, Dredd! I knew it was you, but his lips are not moving.When Dredd and Fergie are on the law master escaping the guards, fergie makes a remark about washing the seat of the vehicle. Dredd responds with, Eeewww, but his lips are not moving.When Dredd says his final line to Rico - Court is adjourned - his lips say something else.If they fixed these things, I might have given it a 9.  But instead I gave it a 5. "},{"Title":"Rob Schneider steals the show","Date":"28 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Set in the future where crime has gotten out of hand, there is an elite group who uphold the lawJudge Dredd(Sylvester Stallone)is the best the force has.But when Judge Dredd is set up for a crime and convicted he sets out to clear his name.Rest of the cast includes Rob Schneider, Diane Lane, Armand Assante, Jurgen Prochnow, Max Von Sydow, Balthazar Getty and Mitch Ryan.The Script was ok nothing great but did have it's moments.Director Danny Cannon did an ok job, he was unable to make Judge Dredd any different then any other action flick.Sly is awesome like always, but Rob Schneider is clearly the standout as Herman Ferguson.Rob Schneider is the side kick and pretty much provides all the laughs.I give Judge Dredd 6/10 "},{"Title":"An appalling travesty.  Disgracefully bad.","Date":"12 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" *WARNING* This contains many spoliers, and should be read by people who have seen the film, or people who will appreciate my advice, which is not to see the film at all.--------------------------------------------When a teenager, I read 2000 A.D. magazine, which featured the exploits of Judge Dredd. For my generation, he is the equivalent of Superman or Batman.  When I heard that Sylvester Stallone was to play the movie Dredd I was apprehensive.  The three main things required for the part of Dredd were 1. A clear commanding voice; 2. Height (Dredd is tall), and 3. An unknown face (Dredd's face is NEVER shown in the comic &#150; no one knows what he looks like).  Stallone is famous, short, and bordering on unintelligible.  Nevertheless, fans were for the most part glad that the film was going ahead, because, as we all agreed, it really would make a terrific film.The film opens with a montage of comic covers featuring Dredd. It immediately breaks the spell which a film tries to create.  How are we meant to suspend our disbelief when the first thing we are told is that he is just a fictional comic character?  Also, the pictures of Dredd do not match the depiction of him in the film. Megacity One is portrayed as the standard modern Hollywood future city, and the images derive not from the comic, but oddly from the film Blade Runner.  Whereas Megacity One is depicted in the comics as a bright sunny city, with mainly rounded buildings, and with numerous fly-overs and heavy wheeled traffic, the film instead shows us a city of perpetual night, dominated by square buildings covered in neon lights and television screens, and with a constant flow of flying vehicles of many kinds.  Soon, as expected, Judge Dredd removes his helmet, and we see Stallone's face, with blue contact lenses.  It is difficult to tell you how much of a no-no this is, if you have not read the comic.  You might say that it doesn't matter, since it is `only' a comic.  Let me try and come up with an analogy.  Perhaps you know about Superman.  Imagine that you went to see a film called `Superman', and you saw that Superman was played by a short blond tubby man in a mask, and that he had no cape, no S on his chest, and that he was a villain.  Wouldn't this annoy you a bit?Dredd stands trial for murder.  No one asks him where he was at the time of the murder, despite this surely being rather important.  As any reader of the comic would know, Dredd is almost permanently on duty, and his whereabouts could be ascertained at all times.  Adding to the farce, Dredd cracks, and half-shouts half-sobs to his defence counsel `You gotta believe me!'.  The scene lacks the power it would have had in the comic.  In the comic, Dredd would have stood stoicly in his helmet, and when the due process of the law convicted him, he would have spoken a few laconic remarks, accepting the supremacy of the law above all, and then would have strode from the room with a dignity that would have left his sentencers feeling one inch tall.Characters in the comic which had been long established and much reused get slaughtered out of hand in the film.  Chief Judges Silver and McGruder are killed in a single burst of unnecessary gunfire.  The entire Angel gang (in the comic, villains who returned a hundred times) is killed off in one quick and unconvincing fight.  Chief Judge Griffin, who for the purposes of the film has been changed into a villain, also bites the dust.Showing a rare inability with comedy, the makers give Dredd a humorous sidekick called `Fergie'.  In the comic, Fergie is a gigantic and violent simpleton.  In the film, he is a small wise-cracking coward i.e. about as different as possible from the original.  In the comic, there are many citizen characters, and these are often quite funny, because they are so irritating and stupid.  Contrasting with these, the Fergie of the film is trying to be funny all the time, but is just irritating and stupid.  At one point his is hit at short range by a burst of quadruple-barrelled heavy machine gun fire.  The git survives.Dredd is dealing with a man who has committed a traffic violation.  Dredd fires a grenade into the man's car and blows it up.  He does this in a crowded street, endangering many passers by.  In the comic, the judge next to Dredd would have arrested Dredd on the spot for reckless endangerment, destruction of property, inappropriate use of a firearm, and probably a few other offences.  Mind you, in the comic, Dredd wouldn't have done anything so stupid.For plot reasons, Rico and Dredd are identical twins in the film, with identical DNA.  It is odd, then, that the two of them do not look or behave the same way.  In the comic, Dredd knew that Rico was his brother, and knew that he, like almost all judges, was cloned and raised artificially.  In the film, this news about Rico comes as a shock to Dredd, and he gets tearful about it, and judges are not clones, but are normal humans.  This is not Dredd.Amazingly enough, John Wagner III and Carlos Ezquerra are given writing credits on the film.  Both these men worked on the comic version of Dredd, which is surprising, given all I have written above.  Perhaps all that they contributed was ignored by the film makers, and they were given the credits just to please the fans. After the film came out, the value of my back issue collection of 2000 A.D. comics was cut to a third.  "},{"Title":"Holds firm to a true comic book escapade","Date":"16 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a Stallone classic. I really felt this movie held firm to a comic book foundation. It envisions and instills what one might get from reading an adventure comic book for the first time. Follows through to the last page and leaves you with a complete taste...yet wanting another edition of this classic tale of the future. Stallone is a great 'comic book' character and perfect for this part. I get the feeling the public eye always holds out for something Stallone cannot offer...and so this film never surmounted with ratings, but this film was never meant to offer anything like that. A true hidden treasure that i would put up against any comic book derived movie. A great escape. And a great depart from modern emotional tugalongs more common at the theater. "},{"Title":"Worthless in every way","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  At face value, Judge Dredd isn't a particularly bad film. There's nothing that makes you want to take a sledgehammer to your television while watching it. There's nothing that will cause your brain to scream at you for exposing it to such trite.But then, on the other hand, there's nothing that could be considered to be engrossing, or exciting, or moving, or interesting, or worthwhile. This film is what you'd expect a computer to come up with when faced with the task of turning the Judge Dredd license into a film. Everything's there, it all fits together, but it's all cold, soulless and emotionless. This film displays no passion, no joie de vivre, no emotion, no humanity. It's a product churned out of a factory with the sole purpose of earning money. It's a slap in the face to cinema as a means of human expression, and as such completely, totally worthless and deplorable. "},{"Title":"Great Production but...","Date":"13 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Great looking film, with a fantastic production design/budget however they just didn't get the comic. Becomes yet another example of what happens when you don't take your source material seriously. This should've been done by Ed Neumeier and Paul Verhoeven.  "},{"Title":"Just terrible. This film makes me want to puke","Date":"4 November 2007","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I felt i had to write this due to seeing a review on the main IMDb page saying good things about this film. The person who wrote that is a liar. Simple as that.The film is some sort of horrible amalgamation of lots of different 'judge dredd' stories and it feels like it. You get the impression that they tried to cram lots of stuff in for fans to acknowledge instead of spending some time developing characters or plot.Right from the opening, when there's a riot going on and dredd arrives, and the first thing he does is stand in the open and shouts i am the law like some crazy spoilt brat, you hate the character. You hate the stupid incoherent world he inhabits with it's horrible inconsistencies and terrible 2-dimensional characters. And it goes downhill from there. I know it sounds like a stupid cliché someone says to wittily highlight how bad a film is, but honestly, it really does get worse.The sad thing is that the world of 'judge dredd' had, at the point this travesty of a film was made, almost 20 years of history put into crafting a believable, complex universe, rich with complex political power struggles, class struggles, characters with strong, complex personalities, and much more than i have the talent to express myself; in short a wonderfully believable universe.And yet somebody managed to spew forth this rotting donkey (ie. ass) of a film, that i couldn't even finish watching.The only reason i've not thrown my DVD of this in the bin is because some of the effects are very good. The ABC Warrior was top (although why they have to put more fanboy rubbish in is beyond me. Why not just have a robot?) and the backgrounds were good in places.And that's all there is that stops me defecating on this stink of a film and hurling at the nearest solicitor. Honest to God. I wouldn't lie to you. This film makes me weep. "},{"Title":"Lame","Date":"30 December 1998","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is supposed to be a big action movie, but I'd have to admit, the action sucks.  There are a couple of gun and fist fights, and a decent chase scene, but most of the action consists of everyone and their uncle sneaking up behind someone.  And if Stallone ever had a less emotional role, I'd like to hear about it.  There's no acting here.  I might even suggest Stallone's DeathRace 2000, one of the lesser known works, over Dredd, because DeathRace has some interesting social and political ideas.  Judge Dredd is just bad. "}{"Title":"The Good & Bad Of Judge Dredd","Date":"11 July 2006","Score":"16 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" This was a loud, wild, silly, sophomoric science-fiction action film that had a number of good and bad points.THE GOOD - If you have a surround system, and particularly with a sub-woofer, the sound in here is excellent. For the most part, the film entertains and stays away from profanity until the last 15 minutes. Armand Assante plays a convincing villain.THE BAD - There is some stupid dialog, especially by Rob Schneider's character Fergie. He isn't funny; he's just plain annoying. There's another cheap shot at Christians as the villain out in the desert is shown to be a Believer. None of the good guys are, of course. This also has a script that isn't easy to follow and it gets too loud with too many explosions. That stuff wears thin after the first hour.OVERALL - The negatives outweigh the positives. There are so many other good action movies that I wouldn't waste your time with this. "},{"Title":"A Dreddful, yet entertaining film.","Date":"26 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Judge Dredd is one of the worst comic book movies from the 1990s in my opinion. It is dreadful to watch with all the hammy dialogue and terrible acting, but there is something about it that makes the film intriguing to me. One of the biggest issues that I have with Judge Dredd is that it has a hard time conveying tone. The comic series that is based in the UK was dark, melancholic, and full of dread while the film pulls a 180 on what could have been a solid action flick. Physically Sylvester Stallone was a good choice to play Judge Dredd. His muddled dialogue and hammy acting makes him more of a joke rather than a threat to me. Stallone is a tremendous actor in quite a lot of his films like Rocky, First Blood, and even The Expendables. In those films his lines are quite simple and can be intimidating as well as understandable. In Judge Dredd I couldn't make out most of his lines throughout the film. Even the subtitles felt like they weren't really synching up with his mouth.Having a comedian as your sidekick in a superhero movie hasn't worked yet and it most likely won't. Richard Pryor was horrible in Superman III and Rob Schneider as Fergie Furguson was unbearable throughout all of Judge Dredd. Every time I see Rob on screen I don't envision him as the character he is supposed to be portraying. Instead I see him as Rob Schneider playing Rob Schneider. His acting makes the movie feel like a Saturday Night Live Sketch. At any moment Adam Sandler, Chris Farley, and Phil Hartman could appear with Adam playing Khan from Star Trek II; Wrath of Khan, Chris as Jabba the Hut from Return of the Jedi, and Phil as Flash Gordan from Flash Gordan. Taking Rob out of the picture entirely would have helped the tone immensely or if they got a different actor to play him like James Spader or Philip Seymour Hoffman as well as rewriting the dialogue than I would be more forgiving of the character.I can't take Judge Dredd seriously at all. When Stallone says I am the Law my insides hurt from laughing so hard. Nothing in this film makes sense, but it is too stupid to be truly mad at it. I am just thankful that the 2012 reboot Dredd is the gritty action film that fans of the series deserved.Judge Dredd is a dreadful film to say the least. It is campy and over the top unlike the melancholic comic book series that it is based on. This is a terrible film, but I still have a blast every time I watch it. I plead guilty to liking Judge Dredd and Dredd can by my judge, and jury for enjoying this film. I don't want him as my executioner though.For the full review go to http//www.thriftymoviecritic.com/reviews-1- 5.html "},{"Title":"Should have been so much better.","Date":"30 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Mega City One's toughest cop, Judge Dredd (Sylvester Stallone), is framed for murder by his supposedly dead clone brother Rico (Armand Assante) and evil Chief Justice Griffin (Jurgen Prochnow), who intend to seize control of the city with an army of cloned judges under their control. Aided by cheeky, wise crackin' criminal Fergie (Rob Schneider) and loyal friends Judge's Fargo (Max Von Sydow) and Hershey (the lovely Diane Lane), Judge Dredd endeavours to thwart their dastardly plan.When 2000AD fan Danny Cannon secured the job of directing the big screen debut of comic book hero Judge Dredd, it was to be the realisation of a long-held dream (amazingly, his design for a Dredd movie poster had been printed in the galaxy's greatest comic 8 years earlier!).That dream was to turn into a nightmare, however, once production began working from a script that displayed little respect for either the character or his many dedicated fans, and with a major star who demanded a say in creative matters, Cannon found himself struggling to deliver the movie he had envisioned. In short, the project was doomed to fail.It's a shame, because I've no doubt that if Cannon had been left to his own devices, he would have produced a masterpiece that would have not only satisfied long time fans of the comic strip, but also mainstream audiences who had probably never even heard of 2000AD's lawman of the future. The evidence is definitely there, in the pitch-perfect comic-book tone of the film, the incredible set designs, the confident handling of the action, and the excellent casting (Diane Lane as Hershey great call!). Oh yes, Cannon was more than up to the task; it was Hollywood that killed Dredd.It was Hollywood that called for the inclusion of a comedy sidekick (indeed, Stallone himself suggested pal Rob Schneider for the role of Fergie); it was Hollywood that was responsible for the sacrilegious script that turned Chief Judge Griffin into a bad guy, killed off the Angel gang within minutes, and gave Dredd an annoying catchphrase (I knew they'd screw that up!); and it was Hollywood that demanded its expensive star to show his face, thus destroying an important part of the Dredd mythos.If, by some kind of miracle, another Dredd film ever goes into production, for Grud's sake, let's hope that Hollywood keeps its drokkin' nose out that way, we might get the truly unmissable movie we deserve.I rate Judge Dredd 5.5 out of 10 ('mindlessly entertaining, I suppose, but seriously flawed'), generously rounded up to 6 'cos I enjoyed seeing Diane Lane duke it out with Joan Chen. "},{"Title":"Movie Drudge.","Date":"6 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Sylvester Stallone has a very limited acting range. He can do tough guy. He can even mildly amusing. He can't do stoic without seeming like a piece of drift wood. It isn't in him. The movie is dragged down by his humorless performance. Armand Assante is over the top, Rob Schneinder proves a few laughs, Diane Lane tries to show Sly how it's done, and Max von Sydow is wasted. Assante completely overshadows Stallone, to the point where the movie belongs to him. The costumes are dopey, the effects are mediocre, the wastebillies are annoying, and the script is inane. One other highlight is the surprising meaty fight between Joan Chen and Diane Lane, they really go at each other. Other than that, the movie is an utter mess. It can't be taken seriously. "},{"Title":"Good, but not quite good enough","Date":"18 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Judge Dredd is an awesome, British-made character that appears in a weekly comic to this day. 'Judge Dredd' the movie, is not Stallone's finest performance by any means. The irony is, that in the comic, Dredd is a battle-scarred character that is driven only by the law. In my view, Sylvester Stallone would have been the perfect Judge Dredd since he did so well in films such as the excellent Rambo Trilogy and 'Demolition Man' (made a year before this release). However, it would seem that Stallone was afraid of being typecast and so, he twisted the character and script around in awful ways, turning Dredd into an emotionless machine. If Stallone had stuck the script and played Dredd as the wise-cracking Dirty Harry type figure from the comics, the movie would have been far better.The story is slightly mediocre, and tends to emulate a lot from 'Demolition Man' (watch both films and you'll definitely see what I mean).SPOILERS Set in a futuristic 'Mega-City' where local law enforcement have the right to 'judge' in the field rather than let the perpetrator run free until a lazy jury finds them innocent, Judge Dredd is the best at what he does. However, in a plot perpetrated by a crazed fellow Judge to rule Mega City, Dredd gets framed for a murder he didn't commit.Dredd spends most of the film (WITHOUT HIS FAMOUS HELMET ON!) shooting 'Judge Hunters' (pretty self-explanatory I should think) whilst trying to make his way back into Mega-City from the ruins of the Cursed Earth (Rob Schneider helps him along the way)so he can apprehend Judge Rico (Dredd's psychopathic brother) and Judge Griffin (the brains of the scam).Visually, the film is excellent; but the mediocre storyline which bears little resemblance to anything from the comics really lets the film down. Another disappointment that really let down hardcore Dredd fans, was that for 80% of the screen time, he's not wearing his famous ornate helmet! In the comics, Dredd was never seen without the helmet (it added to the mystery, leaving the reader to wonder what Dredd looked like underneath), yet in this movie, he is almost never seen WITH it.Overall, I give this film 4/10. It was set up to be the perfect comic book movie, but was let down because of Stallone's fear of being typecast. "},{"Title":"watch Judge Dredd - it's good for the environment, and okay for you","Date":"6 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Ah, Judge Dredd. Here's a movie that I'll forever associate with high school. I vividly remember the hottest girl in class pointing out to me that, since Judge Rico and Judge Dredd have exactly the same DNA, they should look exactly the same. What a quibbler! You start applying that kind of sophisticated analysis to this movie, and the whole thing will peel apart like a wet napkin.Judge Dredd must be appreciated for what it is, a brain-shutter-offer motion picture experience. But what joyous escapism it is! This movie has it all cool CGI cityscapes (quite ahead of their time), an awesome killer robot, hammy muscular guys, and great European actors slumming for a Hollywood paycheck. I love all two-and-a-half of its stars to pieces.The first half is actually quite good, as it occasionally borders on being a clever satire. Of course, much of the dialog is too functional for the social commentary to really work, but every once in a while a little gem of a scene appears. Or a little gem of a line, such as they're non-functional - like my wife.The casting is just about perfect. Max Von Sydow classes up the film no end, and Armand Assante is good for a laugh. Dorky sci-fi addicts such as myself should keep an eye out for Maurice The Caves of Androzani Roeves in a cameo as the prison warden. Maybe the only person who really doesn't fit is Rob Schneider. He's funny at the beginning of the movie, but he rapidly becomes less amusing towards the end, when the stakes are really too high for his wisecracks to work. I think he was supposed to die in the original cut of the movie, and if you look closely during the final scene, he's never visible in the same shot as Dredd or Hershey. Methinks he was added later.Too bad the movie degenerates rapidly in the final act. Prochnow's motives are never clearly explained (he wants to cause chaos now in order to install order later - I guess that makes some sense), and it's clear that lots of the material with the clones was cut; they really should be involved in the final battle, but they conspicuously vanish. Bo-ring. I also intensely dislike the silly catfight between Lane and Chen (JUDGE bitch! - how witty). But you can't have everything.Who else is up for Judge Dredd II? I know the original was a bomb, but c'mon, the definitive Dredd movie is still waiting to be made. The villain will be Judge Death, the heroine Judge Anderson...come to think of it, that's what they should've done for this one...  "},{"Title":"Student The picture is fake.  Hershey You mean it isn't real?","Date":"23 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Judge Dredd (1995) D Danny Cannon. Sylvester Stallone, Diane Lane, Armand Assante, Rob Schneider, Joan Chen, Mitchell Ryan. In a futuristic world ruled by cops with instant judiciary powers, Judge Joseph Dredd, who is highly regarded as the best, is wrongly accused of murder in this futuristic version of THE FUGITIVE. Entertaining, with loud special effects (that seem dated now), but is hampered by stupid dialogue (Student `The picture is fake, Hershey.' Hershey responds `You mean it isn't real?') and an all-too-familiar climax. The film loses 2 points, however, for including probably the most annoying character I have ever seen in a film Fergie, played by Rob Schneider. I kept wishing for him to just hurry up and be killed, but unfortunately he lives. RATING 6 out of 10. Rated R for graphic violence.  "},{"Title":"A crime of a movie!","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I read 2000 AD (the comic Dredd came from), and the film is crap in comparison.It is an Americanised piece of garbage that should never have been made. I don't blame Stallone, but he dose not help (you never, and I mean NEVER see Dredd's face in the comic). The story is nothing like it is in the comic Dredd never met Fargo, he new he was a clone, and that Rico was his brother.The addition of Hamerstine (the ABC Warrior, from the ABC Warriors strip) was a big mistake. He's a lot smarter in the comic, and he dose not have machine guns in his arms.Mega-City one is almost the same as it is in the comic, so at lest they got that bit right.I give it a 5 out of ten for effort, but I should have been better. "},{"Title":"In one word Weak","Date":"25 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I just sat through Judge Dredd and didn't like much of what I saw. I'll start out with all the good points. Stallone over-acts in a way that's comical and he seems to like it, giving the the movie almost, but not quite, that Starship Troopers feeling. But where Starship Troopers went all the way, Judge Dredd only has a few moments of fun, fluffed up with tons and tons of cheap action, cheesy one-liners, a dumb sidekick (more coming up one that one) and no story worth mentioning.The only thing that kept me going all the way through this inedible hunk of cheap sci-fi rip offs was the desire to see Judge Dredd's hacker side kick get killed. If I were the actor with that role, I'd probably have to get myself committed to a mental hospital and be treated for suicidal self-loathing.'Why then 3 out of 10 and not just 1?', you ask. Well, even though most of the material is a rip off, there are some nice effects in there, I liked the old chief officer of justice (or whatever his title was) and Stallone made me smile here and there with his hero-cheesiness. I was going to give it 4 out of 10, when the recall of the flat and unimaginative soundtrack took off a point.So there you go. I'll just tell you the sidekick does the predictable thing, so safe yourself the trouble and disappointment and rent another movie. With or without Stallone, whichever pleases you more. "},{"Title":"Judge Dreddful","Date":"18 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Sometimes watching a bad film can be fun, it can be entertaining, Judge Dredd is not one of those films. To see a beloved character like Judge Dredd so horrifically brought to life on the big screen is a very uncomfortable experience. The film seems to believe that it understands the source material, we are shown a collage of Dredd comics in a somewhat tender homage to the comics but this film is anything but a faithful representation of the titular hero. The entire cast and crew of this film completely missed the ball park with this one, gone is the satire of American culture and the fascist undertones highlighting the dark path Western politics often takes, instead we are left with this confusing mess that doesn't know whether to go for authentic Dredd ultra-violence or to appeal to adolescents and idiots. Instead it manages to appeal to no one. Stallone is awful as Dredd, physically he could have worked but his monotonous drawl and hammy acting are blindingly apparent, not to mention the fact he spends 99% of the film without his helmet on, stealing the inhumanity that defines the source character. But Stallone is not even the worst actor in this film, hands down that accolade can go to Rob Schneider, who makes the obvious faults of this film even more obvious. He is the comedic sidekick for the hero but in true Ruby Rhod fashion he grates heavily on the viewers nerves and makes an unlikable film unbearable. The only shining light in this film is Armand Assante's turn as the villainous Rico. He does his best to make the character appear as threatening and maniacal as possible, but alas even he cannot perform miracles and the material he is given to work with is poorer than a Sudanese prostitute. Judge Dredd is a poor film and I urge anyone with a hint of intelligence to steer clear, let this film fade into obscurity never to be spoken of again. "}{"Title":"Laaaauuuwww!!","Date":"3 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" $70,000,000 dollars... straight down the drain... I remember seeing this film as a kid, boy... it was a hot summer. You know, as a kid, you'll be impressed by everything. What's another Stallone film for you? A whole fun all the time just for you. Being older now... I can easily review this film... for starters... it's a crap. Danny Canon... read the comic.The comic book was ruined by this film. And you know why? Because it has Stallone written all over it! Stallone, being an famous action hero of 80s, he was already famous for his action star status. Judge Dredd (1995) is nothing more than typical, everyday Stallone film. And guess what? He did it terrible. Stallone's retarded talent for acting gave us a bunch of face palms over and over. And he removed his helmet in the film. Judge Dredd always has his helmet on his head, well of course, because it's Stallone film... he can't afford not to show his face to the audience and his beloved fans. That... high-blown, pretentious, selfish pr*ck. Guess what, Sly? You are not pretty at all, keep that helmet on. Under the helmet he looks kinda alright, but when he speaks... damn... he is loud mouthed, and incomprehensible, that's ordeal that you need to tolerate. Disgusting. Loudmouthed... midget, stallion co*sucker... unbelievable.Armand Assante was great. He is a great actor, though on few occasions I thought that he is going to dance or sing, just like in Mambo Kings, well... I wouldn't mind. Assante really gave us a fine performance here, and he can pronounce law better than Sly. Diane Lane, well she was OK, but I don't understand why joined this testosterone crap? Rob Schneider? A comic relief that ruined the film, now I won't deny that I laughed on a few occasions, but still he ruined it more. Max Von Sydow? Why? What is he doing here? Waste of such a good actor from Bergman's films. And Jurgen Prochnow? Here too? Stiff as a board. But still we need German actors to plays traitor villains... Joan Chen who came out of nowhere... she was kinda hot. And to mention Ewan Bremmer... a good guy in British, but in US, you are evil. And James Remar as a gang leader who looks like futuristic Gantz from 48 Hrs (1982)... what a hell? Other things as cinematography, costumes, music score, CGI... well that was OK, Alan Silvestri's score was good, set decoration was excellent, very good these things were OK... but.. can't save the film. Because it already failed at most important things. The story is kinda over the top, created for these kind of films where leading actor is bigger than the film, and it should be other way around. I gave this film 6 out 10 because it's highly entertaining, and that's the only thing this movie is worth watching for. OK, perhaps maybe... the ABC warrior, he was pretty cool, very nice work and Mean Machine from Angel family. That was good.My advise... go see Dredd (2012). "},{"Title":"Judge Dredd","Date":"16 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" From director Danny Cannon (I Still Know What You Did Last Summer, Goal!, CSI shows), this is an explosive comic strip thriller. The film opens with narration from James Earl Jones, it is the future, 2139, and the Earth is populated with Mega Cities, while the rest of the virtually uninhabitable planet is the Cursed Earth. The justice system has also changed because of the high violent crime, with the three systems (police, jury and executioner) have now all become one person, these officers are known as the Judges, and the most feared by all criminals is Judge Joseph Dredd (Sylvester Stallone, who was for reason nominated a Razzie). Then one day he is charged for murder, with both some video footage of him murdering reporter Vardas Hammond (Liar Liar's Mitchell 'Mitch' Ryan) and his wife, and the definite evidence of his DNA on the gun and bullets. Dredd does manage to escape the criminal carrying ship, going across the Cursed Earth, along with his judged prisoner Herman 'Fergie' Ferguson (Rob Schneider), and he is now determined to find the person who framed him. Chief Justice Fargo (Max Von Sydow) reveals to Dredd, before he dies, that he is in fact the result of an experiment to create the perfect judge, and it also resulted in him having a brother of the opposite side, who he thought was his student friend, Rico (Armand Assante). Anyway, now you get the DNA connection, Dredd will not stop till he has found his evil brother, who is planning to eradicate the Mega Cities with many clones of himself. Also starring Air Force One's Jürgen Prochnow as Judge Griffin, Diane Lane as Judge Hershey, Joanna Miles as Judge Evelyn McGruder, Joan Chen as Ilsa, Balthazar Getty as Olmeyer, The Blockheads' front man Ian Dury as Geiger and Christopher Adamson as Mean Machine. From the poster I saw, I thought this was an 80's film, it would make a bit more sense if it was, but anyway, filled with over-the-top destruction, snappy catchphrases, and some cool special effects, this is a fun enough (apparently underrated) action film. Good! "},{"Title":"Appalling film adaptation of superior comic strip","Date":"5 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film was a poor adaptation of the '2000AD' comic strip and had an awful script. It's difficult to appear 2 dimensional compared with a comic strip character but Sylvester Stallone managed it. The film was devoid of humour and human interest - why didn't they just cover what Dredd did in a duty shift? That's how the comic garnered readers.The only things worth seeing in the film were the depiction of MegaCity1 aerial & streetscapes, the block war at the start & the ABC warrior ('Hammerstein' without his hammer).  Seldom has a robot upstaged human actors! >> A V O I D <<.For devoted Dredd fans maybe someone will make a cartoon film that does him justice - and alows him to keep his hat on all the time! "},{"Title":"* OUT OF FIVE","Date":"13 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Sylvester Stallone stars as the comicbook hero Judge Dredd who gives street punks a break to take on a nemesis who is framing Dredd and is his brother while Diane Lane plays the love interest  Judge Hershey in this very dull movie. Stallone just doesn't seem into the part and the whole movie comes off as dreadful. "},{"Title":"Not all that bad! They should've edited to PG-13 though for more audience members! Otherwise, I had some fun watching 'Judge Dredd!'","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"    I think one reason this film did so bad at both box-office and film criticism is because of its MPAA rating. The film editors should've known no one 17 or over is REALLY going to want to see a movie called 'Judge Dredd.' They should've been smart enough to cut out some violence, and make it PG-13.  But despite this, I actually had a fun time watching this movie! Yes, really, I did! Of course Stallone's a horrid actor, and of course some of the scenes/action is ridiculous, but it captures the feeling that you're watching a live graphic novel (otherwise known as a comic), and it does this so well that I had a really fun time watching it. I mean it's not great, but it sure as heck is fun, and I recommend this film despite its flaws. Just keep in mind when you're watching this, that it's just a fun film. Nothing less, nothing more. 3/5 stars-JOHN ULMER "},{"Title":"Sadly, very bad","Date":"24 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was just sorting some old magazines when I fount the ones with judge Dredd that I was religiously reading when I was a teenager. Then I remembered the movie I saw years later and I thought I would comment on it.If you have seen the X-Men and like myself believe they did a good job bringing a comic series to the big screen, Judge Dredd the movie was quite the opposite.The plot and characters are a mishmash from many different stories from the comic series that were unrelated. Like putting together a movie with scenes stolen from many other movies.It just doesn't work. Perhaps in ten years there will be a good Judge Dredd movie but at the meantime read the comic. It is a excellent example of the 70's vintage.The only good thing I can think of are the excellent props like the robot, the villainous family etc. that were so well reproduced from the comic pages to the screen. Nickos "},{"Title":"God awful","Date":"11 February 2013","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" As a fan of the comic, this was *dredd*ful. (good one) I own every single one of the comics and was disappointed and unimpressed when I watched this. Problem 1) they got Dredd's helmet wrong. If you are a fan of the comic, Dredd's helmet has a cross across the front. Im so annoyed that they missed this small but distinguishable feature. Problem 2) Dredd is a clone of another judge, and is famous for being a rigid follower of rules. He spares no-one and will carry out punishment as necessary. In this film, he shows too much emotion, which I believed took his authority as 'Dredd' away. Problem 3) They take his helmet off. Why??? You are *not* supposed to see his face! That's the whole point! Maybe i'm over exaggerating, but seriously, that's not good. If you want to understand the point of Judge Dredd without reading all 2000-something comics, see Dredd3d. Thank you. Rant over. "},{"Title":"Bad Beyond Description","Date":"21 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Any Hollywood attempt to make a movie out of a Classic Comic seems destined for mediocrity (especially before the leaps of CGI in their making), the Hollywood script writers, directors and producers seem to reserve an extra special level of ineptitude and incompetence when filming Classic Comics from the UK - all I can say is 'Please, No More!'This film has appalling casting, and has almost no concept of the story lines behind the original comic. The script writers have mashed about 5 or 6 story lines together to try and make one film. It would have been so much better with an unknown playing Dredd and maybe just picking one story line - maybe the Song of the Surfer, or the Return of Rico, or maybe even the Angel Gang. Any of these would have been excellent stories. Alas poor Hollywood, you haven't a clue.... "},{"Title":"What a mess!","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Saw this movie a couple of years ago. I cannot believe that they could screw up Judge Dredd as badly as they did with this sorry excuse for a film!While I believe that Stallone was a decent choice for Dredd, they storyline and visuals were horrid! They mixed in Rico's revenge, the Judge Cal story, a breif nod to any Angel family story, and just ruined it all!! Any true fan knows that 'bent' Judges went to Titan! Who thought up this Aspen thing???Hey, why not throw in the Apocalyse war and the Cursed Earth run as well? Sheesh! If they EVER do an animated version as a series, I would hope they stick to what Judge Dredd was in the graphic magazines, not this rancid pile!My rating 2/10 "},{"Title":"Juge Dredd Comic Fans Whiners","Date":"19 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" WAAAAHH He took his helmet off it is not like the comic and whine some more. Tell me just one film where it kept to the comic? None. So pee and poop in your diaper Judge Dredd comic fans. Movies are supposed to be different than the comic, since you have to attract all consumers.This was the best film possible. The best movie props were made for this film,. And, Dredd does not look like a circus sideshow freak. The Angel Gang was a lot more realistic in today's society. So wear your diapers Judge Dredd comic fans and sperm in your Dredd Comics.You missed out on one of the best films ever. And, yes Dredd Comic Fans Hershey and Dredd were in love even in the comic. You need to look between the lines. And know the signs. THEY WERE IN LOVE. "}{"Title":"Pure Fantasy","Date":"8 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" As far as critics go, the critics have lost the plot. Have they forgotten how to fantasise? The film follows several plots from 2000AD Magazine/Comic, call it what you like, re-enacted by real life characters. I don't see why it got such a bad review at the Cinema. LISTEN Critics. IT'S NOT REAL. It's just someone's imagination. Can't you see that?The violent content is no more than a regular 2000AD reader would see each in comic-strip-form each week, but this film is not really suitable for *younger* children.Sylvester Stallone plays a very commendable 'Judge Dredd', (although he does remove his helmet in the film, which never happens in the drawn stuff.)Christopher Adamson played the part of 'Mean Angel', but the splendid makeup job hid him completely, making him totally un-identifiable.My last acolade must go to Diane Lane (later seen in 'The Perfect Storm' as Christina Cotter,) for her rendition as Judge Hershey. Her attributes are very commending, and it's no wonder that Judge Dredd took his helmet off to her!I am The Law comes across very well verbally, just as you might imagine from Dredd as depicted in 2000AD.In the futuristic Mega-City 1, there is only one law. Dredd. Basically, it revolves around him, and how he solves all the ongoing problems. To say anymore would reveal the plot, but look out for one amusing problem with a vending robot.Watch for a Cameo role from an old leader of 'The Blockheads'. (Ian Dury)Costumes are fairly authentic to the original artists' designs, but artistic license has been applied to the Lawmasters and Lawgivers. (Bikes and Guns) If you like following a visual extension to a weekly magazine series, then this film will work fine for you. If not, you must be a critic! All in all, a splendid adventure into futuristic fantasy, and more-or-less, it follows it's original background.Watch it more than once, because you'll see something new each time. "},{"Title":"A slap in the face to Judge Dredd faithful - A waste of one of the Comic book greats","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As much a fan of 2000ad and Judge Dredd as i am, I've avoided seeing this until it was shown on Network TV this weekend just gone... If only i could have gone for another 40 years, id have hopefully have died with JD still an Icon of mine...Admittedly, the opening scenes, flying over the Mega city were pretty awe inspiring, but we are rapidly bought down to Earth with a bump when Sylvester Stallone makes his on screen presence felt... I am ... The Law! - Ohhhh dear...Lesson no 1 for film makers, when attempting to portray the finest the future of Law enforcement has to offer, FIND SOMEONE WHO CAN SPEAK!!!! Sorry, but Sly Stallone is a terrible choice to portray JD, his on screen presence is pretty cool, but JD is kinda like a futuristic Dirty Harry, as in he's pretty articulate, whereas SS comes across as ... well ... slightly challenged. Bruce Willis, Steven Segal, Bruce Campbell - the list goes on, action Heroes can be literate!To base my hatred for the film soley on Slys presence would be a little shallow, so, we'll continue.Okaaaay, now, if they wanted to do a film about futuristic Law men, then go ahead, but please not at the expense of one of the Comic Book greats! Once a Judge has made a commitment to upholding the Law their personal life ENDS. Remember cadet Giant telling his father to go flake coz he was a judge now and didn't have time for him? If i remember correctly weren't there Judges facing getting the boot coz they were in love? Didn't JD get an admirer confined to a Psycho cube? Well, we get JD getting it on with Judge Hershey and being branded a freak because he devotes his time to being a Judge.. Hells Bells! If this was the Mega city there'd be a few people on a one way trip to Titan! The amount of inconsistencies with the JD we know and love is upsetting to say the least. True, certain artistic licence should be taken in bringing comic book heros to the silver screen, but to reinvent...I am sickened..Oh and the script is just bad! Terrible dialogue! Absolutely cringeworthy! I had to leave the room it became so embarrassing! I'm sure i didnt miss anything don't worry! The guy who played Fergie (excuse me, wasn't Fergie a 7ft tall Neanderthal with a Baseball bat - King of the Smellies??) is 1995s equivalent of Jar Jar Binks...One small saving grace was the appearance of Mean Machine Angel, who looked pretty gnarly -  he didnt get stuck on 4 1/2, but in context with the state of the rest of the film, i count my blessings... Otherwise the Angel Gang are completely wasted in the film...Overall, if you love the Apocalypse War, Judge Death, The Judge Child Quest and the Cursed Earth, please try and ignore this film... it really isn't worth tainting you image of JD. If you like cheezy Hollywood action films and have never heard of Judge Dredd, you may get along with this...A terrible waste of a great license 2/10 "},{"Title":"Over produced","Date":"1 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This comic adaption has some great things in it. Max von Sydow for example, some of the photography in some sequences, but it has too much wrong with it to be anything other than okay. Stallone of over the top, Rob Schneider is too silly, a misreading of the characters and a bloatedness that only too much money can buy.The problems with the movie are best summed up by the main street set which is huge. It looks great, it looks wonderful. It is shown repeatedly from only one angle. You never really move off this one street, and you never change perspective, it always the same shots from the same angles probably because they couldn't shoot it any other way.Its not as bad as you've heard, but its not good. My suggestion is a big tub of popcorn, some friends in a bitchy mood and this movie for a fine roast fest of Hollywood excess. "},{"Title":"Does NOT suck as badly as you'd think","Date":"25 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Before this movie even premiered, critics almost universally panned it. Because of this, many made fun of the film and few went to see it (I was among them). However, a few years later, I saw it on cable TV (on a day I was too lazy to change the channel) and was shocked that I didn't hate the movie. While a little dopey at times, the movie kept my attention and surely didn't deserve all the bad press. Another Stallone movie that falls in the same category was Demolition Man. A decent film--and this is shocking since I am a film snob.FYI--do not think I am a crazed fan of Stallone or a family member. There are MANY movies he made that I hate--such as Lord of Flatbush, Rambo 2 (one of the DUMBEST movies ever made), or Rhinestone. "},{"Title":"Oh dear.","Date":"25 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This started out as quite a long review, until I realised that if I listed all the things the film got wrong it'd be far too long to post. Let's just say that the resemblance between this film and the comic upon which it's based is superficial to say the least. If you're a fan of Dredd as he appears in 2000AD, avoid this like the plague because he's not in it.On the upside, Mega City One, the Cursed Earth, the Angels, and the ABC warrior look cool. On the downside is pretty much everything else. I live in hope that one day a Judge Dredd movie will be made that does justice to its roots. "},{"Title":"Judge This Dread...","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Synopsis Futuristic actioner about a sun scorched Earth with civilization living in enormous cities. The law now functions in the form of cops who patrol the streets where they are judge, jury, and execution. One such officer, Judge Dredd has been framed into a murder he didn't commit, by an escaped convict who has a personal vendetta against Dredd.The Review This is just a dreadful movie filled with nothing but dumb lines and poor plot devices. I really don't want to waste my time judging this studio funded tripe, because it's a real piece of crap. All I can say is, Sylvester Stallone, no one can forgive you for this, or Driven.Grade F "},{"Title":"Laughable...Really","Date":"30 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  *Hey, I guess there are NUMEROUS SPOILERS AHEAD*  So even though ruining this film may be an impossibility you probably should skip down to the end of the review if you haven't, and still wanna, see Judge Dredd.  You poor, poor individual.I saw this movie on cable the other day.  I'd imagined it as a kind of challenge to myself.  I'm telling you, except for the few times that I was sickened to the point of vomiting, I found myself laughing non-stop.  From the time I saw Sly dressed like he was ready for a rousing game of laser tag, to when Rico emphatically yelled Send in the clones and I answered blithely, Those laughy, daffy clones, I was laughing so hard I got a cramp in the bottom of my foot.  I think that maybe I was amused by the way Stallone towered over everyone, when he's obviously not a tall man. Though the camera never really showed the platform shoes, they must have existed, and it was fun to imagine him stumbling about like a 12 year old girl wearing high heels for the very first time.  You know, just trying his best to make it look effortless but secretly worrying about breaking an ankle. Of course, the laughing might have come with the prospect of Rob Schneider actually being funny once or twice.(Though I should say he was hilarious in Big Daddy.)  The way he played the line, I'm alive! I'm alive! I'm alive! Oh, so are you. was just priceless.I don't believe my laughter was a healthy laughter, though.  After the credits were rolling I felt oddly fatigued, even a little confused.  Not about the ending or any part of the movie, mind you, just confused in general.  It might have been the callous, numerous, bloody, sometimes-played-for-humor killings that did that to me.  Who really knows? All I know is I gotta come clean.  I was never really rooting for Dredd. In fact, I was quite happy when he was handed the conviction, wrongly or not, for First-Degree Murder.  Though innocent of that particular crime, it's fairly clear that he'd done his fair share of shoot first and ask questions never.  I don't care if he was a combination of all the good council members and therefore engineered to be the perfect police, judge, jury, and executioner; he was still a loathsome human being.  Yet, even when feeling sick to my stomach at the graphic portrayals of guiltless violence, I couldn't step entirely away from the humor.  With this bit of  engineering truth uncovered, I found myself being reminded of Dredd's absolute foil and archnemesis.  That is, of course, Arnold Schwarzenegger in Twins.Throughout the rest of the movie I couldn't quite escape the desire to see a showdown between the two of them, you know, mano a mano; hand to hand.  No weapons, not even any closed-fisted striking; just little girlie slaps. Sadly, I didn't get my wish.  What I did get was a hastily applied romance and a stupid joke or two by the comic relief, who, by all accounts, should have been dead.  What a world.  Anyway, after a long nap for maintenance and defragmentation, I looked in the channel guide and saw that the day before, that evil cable channel had followed up Judge Dredd with Lost in Space The Movie, and had preceded it with Blade!  What are they trying to do to us? It seemed to me like a Pinky and the Brain-ish scheme by the Turner Empire to achieve world dominance.  But I'm afraid that, unlike The Brain, Hollywood (and Turner) is actually succeeding.*END OF SPOILERS*Though fairly stupid, I frankly quite enjoyed watching Judge Dredd, and I think the average viewer will, too.  It's strangely entertaining as long you go in expecting sub-par special effects and all-around suckiness.  Believe me, if that's your state of mind, Judge Dredd will not let you down. Actually I'm gonna give this one a 6/10.  I didn't laugh this much watching Blazing Saddles...really.  "},{"Title":"JUDGE it to be DREDDful. After all, I do.","Date":"24 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" If I could have given this film less than one star I would have have, but unfortunately I can't. I would have liked to have given it no stars at all it is seriously that bad! Where do I start and how do I keep it brief....? Oohh I know, let's start with the fact that the artists in 24 - 25 years of drawing the character have NEVER and I mean NEVER revealed his face. The reason for this is it is a much more menacing force when confronted by the unknown. In this case it is unknown what he is thinking, and it is unknown what it is he is going to be doing. The perp (short for perpetrator) cannot play him and therefore he becomes everything that is right within the law up right up to the line. If a perp puts a foot over that line into unlawful territory he/she is served justice in no uncertain terms. Now I know that in a Hollywood film the main lead has to show his/her face all the time (especially if it is a big name like Sylvester Stallone but couldn't they have just this once embodied the spirit of the comic and got him to permanantly (just as it is in the comics) keep the helmet on? They could have done with reading a lot more of the comics because Stallone's performance must surely go down as the worst of his career. He has put in some wonderful performance in his time like in Copland, Over The Top, Oscar, and Tango and Cash to name just four of his many non-action roles in which I think he was superb but in this film he and the director completely fail to hit it at all.Mega City 1 is not bad and the bikes and helmets are OK as in they all look pretty much as they are supposed to but there weren't enough Mega City 1 residents for my liking. And of the ones that there were there weren't enough doing what the residents do to give Mega City 1 a totally authentic Mega City 1 feel. For example there weren't any that had had body parts placed in the wrong places due to botched surgery or fatties walking with belly-wheels. They even could have done with showing the 'lighter' side of Mega City 1.As I watched the film I kept getting the feeling that something was missing to make it a true representation of 2000 AD's leading and main character and city. Actually I kept getting the feeling that there was a lot missing and instead of it being a serious film of a serious character and city, it became a caricature of one of the most fantastic comic creations that has been created within the last 30 years because it really does poke fun at it (not in a nice way but a 'heck-it's-only-a-British-character-and-story-from-a-British-comic.' 'Let's-not-bother-with-making-it-into-a-decent/good/very good/excellent-film-but-do-just enough-and-I-do-mean-just-enough-to-get-this-film-into-the-cinemas.') and all it is meant to be. Shame.Definitely less than 0/10! "},{"Title":"I actually thought that this would be a great sci-fi epic!!!","Date":"14 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" The thing about the movie Judge Dredd is that the set design is eye-catching it isn't dull and rehashed. The characters are comic book/cyberpunk noir to the extreme. Dredd has the workings of a hazardous future expected in these films. I actually thought this would be a one-up to Demolition Man until I was an hour into the movie.First, the plot is watered down like cheap and skunky beer, not only that it was poorly executed and has more fillers and preservatives than a hot dog at a 7-Eleven. The dialog is at times very over-the-top, melodramatic but much of it sounds like the work of a chimpanzee! Of all the people in the world to play the comic book hero, why Slyvester Stallone? I'm used to him being Rocky, Rambo, and Ray Tango, but not some cold, emotionless, boring, tightass neo-fascist obsessed in the Law in a rarely known British Comic book. They way he portrays this character is nothing less than mind-numbingly disturbing. Stallone with blue contacts? 'nuff said. Even the profanity isn't profanity! It's quasi-swearing! What the hell does Holy Drok means? There are certain times when censorship is necessary but; this is an R-rated movie for chrissakes! Where is the toughness, the edgy dialog, the youth appeal, and the gritty cyberpunk realism! This should've been a Heavy Metal meets Anime animated feature film!!! That way the producers would've been laughing all the way to the bank instead of spending a Friday night drinking the blues away over a bottle of scotch and sobbing over the dozen or so box office recipts.Spoiler Alert!!! Second, if a movie is this weird than it should be an anime cartoon not a live action disaster with Rob Schneider in it. This movie was interesting when Dredd came to the rescue in the riot at the beginning of the film. Then, when the reporter and his wife were murdered the movie became little retarded, but salvageable nonetheless. But the ending, the ending....My God. Why? It wasn't mediocre....IT WAS HORRIBLE...IT SUCKED!!! that's the only word that can describe it. Of all the places why in hell is the Statue of Liberty the site of a secret laboratory? Get real, here folks. Why not the Empire State Building? That would've been more plausible. The ending was for lack of a better word BAD! not good BAD! ...BAD!! It was bad especially when Rico used undeveloped clones for reinforcements! We only see them rise out of the clone chambers and that's it! RIP OFF!!! REFUND our tickets!!! At least show them running amok like a sci-fi movie should! Question is; why would Rico need reinforcements if it's only him and Dredd? Third, put some idea of how this post-apocalyptic civilization thrived on recycled food. There should be an explanation on why the earth became a worthless desert. It's damn near impossible! 6 decades after the last war there should be plants growing in the soil somewhere! Come on, here! Even Blade Runner(the original cut, not the director's) had all the smog, corrupt political systems, and the social instability a corporate-ran hell hole should have has a forest or a farm growing somewhere! Alas, Judge Dredd is one in the frat house of mediocre action films only and loosely based on a comic book rarely anyone reads in this country at least. "},{"Title":"The Jury Is Still Out On This One","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Can`t really say I was much of a fan of the JUDGE DREDD . My favourite 2OOO AD strip was INVASION ( That`s the one where Britain is is invaded and occupied by a bunch of commies from the central Volgan Republic ) so I wasn`t going to judge ( Geddit ? ) the film version as some sort of comic book geek , but even so I found Danny Cannon`s film version disappointing . I know he`s trying to do a film based on a comic strip but he does so too literally , there`s no character development , the villain is just sooooooo evil because he kills everyone he comes across , makes the occasional wise crack while commiting murder and gives an silly evil laugh and shouts very loudly when riled . But Cannon and the screenwriters fail to introduce the razor sharp satire and gut wrenching irony that made the strip such a success so you`ve got a film that won`t really appeal to either the average cinema goer or fans of the comic strip .I doubt if anyone will ever bother making another DREDD movie but if they do I think Paul Verhoeven directing a script much closer in feel to the strip ( Only the scene involving the preacher in his cave with his sons feel like they came out of the strip ) could be a major blockbuster hit . As it stands the 1995 version isn`t much cop ( Geddit ? )    "}{"Title":"Just Dredd-Ful (I know this has probably been done already)","Date":"3 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I didn't really expect much when I went to see this one and boy I wasn't disappointed.  The problem here is that Rob Schneider is probably the best part of the whole film as the comic relief...so you know it can't be to good.  Diane Lane is a complete waste of time in this piece, but of course nearly every action movie made since 1990 has to have the great super female who can fight every bit as well as the men.  And then there is Stallone, who is speaking less clearly with every movie that he makes.  The plot seems more fit for a sequel as we are only briefly introduced to Dredd and learn what he is as he is framed rather quickly.  There is one scene in the desert wasteland that is ok, but other than that this film is just bad.  Sure some of the effects are pretty good, but effects alone just don't make a movie worth watching in the end.   "},{"Title":"Are You Joking?!?!?","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is just terrible. The story is just too unbelievable. That 4000 years in the future everybody in the world live in several MEGA cities around the world, and that instead of cops and a court system that punish criminals there is just one person a street judge. They capture, try and sentence you right on the street. C'mon!Also whats the deal with the old judges instead of retirement they are sent into the outside of the MEGA cities to bring justice to were there isn't any. Thats crap too!Sadly this is the best semi-serious acting performance by Rob Schneider. Either he needs to do a better movie or stick to comedy like Duece Bigalow.Terrible movie. I would give it one star out of ten because i feel sorry for the writer and Sylvester Stallone. If you want to so a good action movie with Sylvester Stallone see Cliffhanger, Any Rocky (except for 5), Assassins, or any Rambo. Or a semi-serious movie like Cop Land. "},{"Title":"Horrible.","Date":"1 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The movie was horrible for all of the reasons previously stated.  I would like to add that the movie portrayed Christians as cannibals.  I have never seen a more offensive portrayal of evangelical Christians.  This movie will forever live in my memory as my all time worst theater experience. "},{"Title":"A live action cartoon for kids--total waste of time for anyone else. * out of ****","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  JUDGE DREDD (1995) *Starring Sylvester Stallone, Armand Assante, Rob Schneider, Diane Lane Director Danny Cannon   97 minutes   Rated R (for violence)By Blake French	Judge Dread is the most violent live action comic book movie I have ever seen. A few years ago one of my kids was begging me to allow them to see it at the theaters. I said no, due to the fact that the film's star, Sylvester Stallone, is usually very obscene and foul. But I was wrong. What made his film an R-rated production is the violence, on the same level as Batman and any other childish super hero flick. But Judge Dread is adult, according to the MPAA, who have limited this movie as a children option by giving it an R. This movie is adolescent in every minute of its length, and when I saw the film last week, throughout the movie I was thinking to myself  This is ridiculous, both in comparison to the MPAA's rating and the movie's altogether badness. The film stars Sylvester Stallone as the title character, Judge Dread. However, before I get into the story, maybe it would be appropriate to develop a setting and atmosphere for you first. The time period is way in the future where violence is no longer a random occurrence, but a part of everyday life. Cities are filled to the rim with massive buildings, which mostly are in shambles, futuristic technology, and riots, killings, and nonstop uproar.By now you should be asking yourself who is keeping order here. Well, they call them the Judges; live action cartoon characters that have bulletproof armor all over their bodies, drive flying motorcycles, and have really big guns and a lot of guts. Since there is so much crime present, however, and the fact that the old  law system where a jury of twelve decides the fate of the criminal is impossible to keep up with here, the Judges are the jury, judge and executioner. If they chose to sentence someone to death it is kaboom right there on the spot. The most feared of the Judges Judge Dread, who has no mercy, compassion, or human emotions. I suppose the point of the movie is the discovery of sympathy for Dread.  Judge Dread has a pervasively overwhelming production design. The futuristic cities are so over the top in towering enormousness that looking at them almost makes us dizzy. I am not trying to say that is bad thing, but it is kind of recycled. And yes, there is lots more content here that is taken from other movies. Like the flying motorcycle scenes that were surly inspired for the pod racer sequences in Star Wars. And the whole concept of the futuristic mood and the powerful judges is sort of Terminator territory. Lets not forget about the combat scenes just like the ones in Demolition Man.The performances are not your Academy Award material here, to say he least. Big time action star Sylvester Stallone can't act worth a hill of beans. Or perhaps that is just because of his poorly developed character. Remember in Soldier (1998), where Kurt Russell, whom we all know can act very well, was developed in a way in which there was no possible way his performances could have been effective. Well, that may be the case here as well. Judge Dread is so boring in his character that I was actually rooting for the visually innovative bad guys to win. About those bad guys, they are wonderful. The filmmakers give us lots of variety in the villains. They vary from random acts of violence from rioters to cannibals who have captured Dread and plan for him to stay for their next meal, from revenge plots to brotherly un-love. But the villains don't have any depth to them, along with all the other characters in this film who lack development and comprehension. Judge Dread is a real disappointment...one of the years worst films.  				  "}]