[{"Title":"For a B-flick, better than you'd think","Date":"12 December 2004","Score":"24 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Most of Christopher Lambert's filmography reads like a guide to B-movie hell. I got conned into watching this by a friend years ago, and will be forever grateful. The story is solid, Lambert turns in an almost-acceptable performance, and most of the rest of the cast does well. My favorite thing about the movie is the (by martial arts flick standards) realism. The gaijin does not miraculously learn to swing a sword like a samurai in a matter of weeks, months, or ever. The action sequences are exciting and fairly well-executed (by 1990's b-movie standards, at least), particularly a ninjas vs samuri scene on a Japanese bullet train. Some of the characters have a bit of complexity, there are a few little plot twists, and the character interaction is often believable. They also answer that age-old question who'd win a fight between a middle-aged ex-athlete with a few months of kendo training and a ninja who's just lost an arm and leg? (Lamberts's character is a former fencer turned businessman, but that bit's cut out of the home video/DVD version, as is the monologue by Kinjo the ninja, which helps to serve---in part, at least, as an explanation as to why this movie, set in Japan, has almost an entirely Chinese cast). If you're in the mood for an fun, entertaining, semi-intelligent B-action flick, I whole-heartedly recommend this one. Oddly enough, the writer of Pretty Woman wrote and directed this flick, which may explain why my wife liked it, too. Of course, the same guy did a flick called Cannibal Women in the Avocado Jungle of Death. "},{"Title":"A good film","Date":"31 July 2006","Score":"17 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Hunted is surprisingly high in production values, acting and story. It also provides a nice inside look into Japanese culture and society. Blood and Gore of course, are a plenty. Christopher Lambert played his role very well and kept his naiveté and innocence very well portrayed, while finding himself in the middle of a war. The sword-fight choreography is decent and very realistic. The Japanese actors put on a splendid show. This a gripping, colorful and highly satisfying film that will never have you bored at any point. I find it quite under-rated because it is quite well developed despite its obscurity. This is something I would recommend to any viewer. "},{"Title":"How far can a code of honor go?","Date":"19 February 1999","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Hunted is one of those movies that tries to give you an insight in the Japanese code of honor. So when a western business-man, a witness in the murder of a call-girl, becomes the hunted, the question arise How far can a code of honor go?. What struck me in this movie is the excellent use of the Japanese scenery i.c. Tokyo, the bullit-trains, the temples, the ninja way of life...The score is by the heart beat drummers Kodo. A great action packed movie with a lot of tension in a very beautiful package! Don't lose your head!  "},{"Title":"American confrontation...","Date":"31 July 2006","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Christopher Lambert stars as a businessman who witnesses the slaying of a woman (Joan Chen) who he had just slept with, when the ninja (John Lone) is spotted face and all, the ninja stops at nothing to kill Lambert and it's only a rival ninja clan which teaches Lambert how to defend himself and win in a sword fight, Sean Connery of course is nowhere to be found this time. Lambert has a weird charisma about him, he really isn't that strong of an actor but for some reason he is able to get us to watch him and his screen presence almost always makes his hero generally more interesting than a musclebound action star who projects little sympathy. Lambert comes off rather vulnerable and the villains he's up against are no slouches either. They are ruthless SOBs, for instance they actually slaughter a train of innocent by standers all because they don't want any witnesses. This includes old people, children, mothers you name it they bit the big one. In theaters this was an experience which shocked a lot of us and the crowd I was with, were prepared for brutal action. The Hunted works as a Ninja actioner and is generally better polished than almost anything made in the 80's. It's slick, brutal and overall a fast paced actioner which in the end, is all we ask for.* * * out of 4-(Good) "},{"Title":"How much blood do I have to bath in, to get clean?","Date":"3 October 2008","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Samurai flicks may be considered a guilty pleasure, but this one is well worth watching.It is not a Toshiro Mifune classic, but it features plenty of Samurai action and lots of blood is spilled.Christopher Lambert (Highlander I, II, and III; Mortal Kombat) plays an American businessman who picks up an extremely lovely Joan Chen (Lust, Caution; Xiu Xiu The Sent-Down Girl) in a bar and they have a pleasurable time before ninjas arrive to kill her for a transgression. The leader, John Lone (The Last Emperor, Year of the Dragon) is identified and the hunt begins.The businessman enlists the help of super Japanese actor Yoshio Harada and Yôko Shimada (Shogun and Shogun). What he doesn't realize ifs the Samurai isn't really interested in helping, he just wants to do battle with the Ninja.It's fast paced and exciting with enough exploitation to make it special. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable trash without too much flair","Date":"26 April 2003","Score":"15 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Businessman Paul Racine is in Japan for work when he is picked up by an attractive young woman.  He goes back to her flat but leaves early.  Going back after second thoughts Racine witnesses her being killed by the mysterious ninja assassin Kinjo.  He survives Kinjo's ninjas but is badly hurt.  In hospital he is approached by Takeda and his wife, who offer him protection as everyone else who has seen Kinjo face has been killed.  After a ninja attack on his hospital Racine goes with them and they prepare for a final showdown.I've seen this film twice now.  This second time I watched it because I wanted to review it but couldn't remember it clearly enough to be fair on it.  The second viewing reminded why it had faded in my mind &#150; it is trashy yet enjoyable fun.  The plot is poor (laughable parts and inconsistencies) but it is short, has energy and requires no thought.  The idea that this businessman would survive several ninja attacks when training samurai are easily killed is silly.  Worse still is the idea (no matter how justified) that Racine could even temporarily match any of these men after only a few basic lessons in how to hold a sword!  However it is quite exciting if you're in the mood.  The high point is probably a train journey that is exciting simply because it is shockingly violent in it's intent.  The addition of some comic relief in the final third (the old swordmaker) helps the film along to the conclusion.Although it is not great, it is slightly refreshing to see a film of this genre without tonnes of flashy wire work or moves (having just suffered Bulletproof Monk and Cradle 2 The Grave I was glad of the basic fights).  Little inconsistencies spoil it slightly &#150; in one scene Racine is saved when a samurai sword jams in a wooden door, however later the same swords easily cuts though thick wooden pillars.  Those looking for something trashy and slightly exciting should be pleased I think.Lambert is not great in the lead and the film suffers form his character being the focal point.  He mumbles his way through his lines (I think he thinks it makes him tough and mysterious) and his transformation from green businessman to ninja warrior is of no value.  On the flip side of this is Yoshio Harada.  Harada gives a really cool performance &#150; he is strong and driven with an air of mystery, the script even makes him a little dark and complex too!  The film would have been better if it had gradually swung the films focus from Racine to Harada's Takeda.  Lone is OK as Kinjo but is not as meaty a role as Takeda.  Considering the quality of the film I was watching I thought Harada did very well.Overall I was ready for a trashy ninja movie with low value but reasonably entertaining &#150; and that's what I got.  Anyone looking for more than that should look elsewhere, but if you're in the mood this forgettable ninja movie will pass 90 minutes without being disappointing. "},{"Title":"OK actioner with swordfights. But not quite Shogun Assassin!","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film, The Hunted, is written and directed by the guy (J. F. Lawton) who wrote us the first Under Siege movie with Steven Seagal, directed by Andrew Davis. The Hunted stars Christopher Lambert who was OK in Highlander by Russell Mulcahy and who is not too bad action star. The Hunted is not a great movie but it should satisfy action fans, especially mainstream action fans.Chris is an American businessman visiting Japan and he sees the secret face of a masterful assassin, somekind of a yakuza cult member/leader. Soon Christopher finds himself in the middle of bloody and fastly edited swordfights and understands that his life is what they want. He gets some help from a rival gang and now they must destroy the evil clan that is on their tail..There is one extremely suspenceful sequence in a train, which is filled with evil ninjas and so no passenger is safe. The train goes fast and there's no way to escape. That sequence is a highlight of this film and proves that the director can direct great action scenes if he wants to. The film runs pretty long, approximately 1h 50 min in NTSC speed, but there are no significantly irritating boring moments and the film is easy to sit through.We are not talking about a classic picture but it is nice to see that these kinds of films were still made by big studios in USA as recently as 1995. The fights are often bloody but not too bloody. If one is bored with PG13 crap and stupid films which try to make money as much as possible, then I suggest trying this film for example. And fans on Seagal, Damme and other action kickers/fighters should also like the often nihilistic attitude of The Hunted.6/10 and I recommend this to action film fanatics especially! "},{"Title":"A ninja movie as it should be","Date":"7 October 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" People should realize there is a difference between ninja movies and action movies. They aren't necessarily one and the same. And this, my friends, is a ninja movie. Sure, there are fights and violence to be found, but they don't give a 'Hollywood' feel to it. Especially the train scene comes to mind, where the ninja's decide to kill everybody in order to leave no witnesses. It's calculated, and it gives a sense of murder and terrorism to it instead of action. The victims aren't generic enemies, they're real people. A lot of care is put into the realism. Cops show up after a murder scene to investigate. How often have we seen a ninja movie where ninja's or people are killed, without that ever happening? The whole movie involves ploy and strategy, leading to the fight scenes. Christopher Lambert receives sword training and his enemy is wounded before the final fight, to give Lambert a realistic underdog chance to win. There's nothing 'romantic' about his training like, say, Van Damme in kickboxer. Lambert is scared and clinging to every edge he can find to live, whilst most of the samurai consider him worthless.I first went into this movie expecting an action flick, and was disappointed. Then, I watched it again, and realized it was great. The movie deserves credit for staying true to the formula. "},{"Title":" I am fighting a thousand year old spirit who will not die ","Date":"15 September 2009","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" If you are a fan of action films, like the kind Steven Segal is usually seen in, this one is for you. The movie cast is superb with veteran actor John Lone, playing Kinjo. He is usually a good guy but most recently is seen wearing black hats. His acting is incredible as is Yoshio Harada who plays Takeda, a master of Kendo or combat art. Another actor who is more famous for his 'Highlander' series is Christopher Lambert who plays Paul Racine. Adding sympathy, compassion and remarkable loyalty is Joan Chen who plays Kirina. The story is of a businessman who happens to be at the wrong place, when he witnesses a Japanese woman being murdered. Although he is severely wounded, the assassins do not kill him as instructed, but allow him to become a pawn in a thousand year old feud between two rival clans. The drama is top notch, the sword action is exciting and extremely good considering it's set in modern Japan. The element of spiritual combat is well blended with good old fashion martial arts. Recommended for anyone seeking a fine film. **** "},{"Title":"Ninja film in which a Samurai couple helps an American executive against a sect led by a nasty warrior","Date":"22 December 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Samurai movie with well staged scenes , colorful ambient , professionally directed and Japan set . The story starts with a quote by Daidoh Yuzan , 16th Century  ¨One who is a Samurai must before all things keep constantly in mind . By day by night..the fact that he has to die¨. It deals with Paul (Christopher Lambert) a computer-chip executive from New York travels to Tokyo , there he finds a gorgeous Japanese girl (Joan Chen) . After that , he inadvertently interrupting his meeting by a killing . As he is now the only man to have seen the figure of the cult's warrior-chief (John Lone) named Makato and nobody has survived after seeing his face , as he soon realizes that he is taking on a markedly foreshortened life-expectancy . Then , he joins forces with a friendly samurai couple (Harada and Shimada) who helps him . Later on , at a speed train takes place a violent face off between Ninja-sect hoodlums and Sensei , his wife along with Paul ; the result is an astonishing massacre . Ultimately , Paul recuperating on an island-fortress and learning about life and sword-play . Finally , there occurs the definitive final duel between Ninjas from Makato clan and Takeda faction . This Ninja film packs bloody swordplay , spectacular martial-arts and noisy action sequences . This is a colourful , mostly filmed in Japan and medium budget movie ; leave no cliché untouched , though the rife fighting is magnificently staged . Amid the glamour of the scenarios is developed an intrigue about feud among Japanese factions , a two-centuries-old blood-confrontation with the Ninja and Takeda clan , including betrayal , crime and exploring the dark side of vengeance . Overwhelming and rousing fights with deadly use of Katanas , feet and palms , along with such weapons as swords , sticks , lances and ¨Shuriken¨. It contains usual learning period in which the naive businessman learns a little about courage, honor, love, swordsmanship and loyalty . The picture is full of tumultuous sequences with frenetic action , surprises , climatic combats and groundbreaking struggles . Passable acting by Christopher Lambert as a businessman who finds himself struggling to survive in the wrong place at the wrong time , and John Lone is good as a feared Ninja chief . And enjoyable couple formed by Yoshio Harada as Takeda Sensei and Yôko Shimada as Mieko Takeda . Nice production design with exterior shots of the train were filmed on location on Japan, however, the interior shots were filmed on a set at Bridge Studios in Vancouver, B.C. ; the scenery rushing by outside the windows was simulated using large rotating drums with blurred scenery painted on it . Colorful cinematography by Jack Conroy , full of red shades and bright images . Monotonous and syncopated musical score by means of continuous drum sounds .The motion picture produced in moderated budget was well directed by J.F. Lawton, though with no originally . He wrote a number of feature film scripts including one called Three Thousand, which was selected by the Sundance Institute , Touchstone Pictures purchased the script and later he changed the title to Pretty Woman (1990). He also wrote a script for Blankman (1994) , Chain reaction (1996) and DOA Dead or Alive (2006), a film based on the huge video game series success of the same name . After that , he then wrote and directed Jackson (2008), a failed comedy-drama-musical . ¨The hunted¨ turns out to be one an acceptable film , including exciting attacks and groundbreaking fighting perfectly staged , the result is a strong entry for action buffs "}{"Title":"Christopher Lambert the samurai, count me in","Date":"23 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Have you ever watched a samurai movie and thought this would be so much better with Christopher Lambert in it? Probably not, but here's The Hunted anyway. And you know what, it's not too bad either. Lambert himself doesn't really get to do much fighting until the last fifteen minutes, but in the meantime his co-stars manage to squeeze out some truly impressive choreographies. I especially liked the train scene, which not only featured highly entertaining action but also the very quotable is this Kinjooooo?. The ending isn't very believable all in all but hey, what kind of movie are we dealing with here? It doesn't exactly ruin the movie for me, mainly because it defines the movie. As for a conclusion uhm, how about IS THIS KINJOOOO? "},{"Title":"Ninjas vs Samuries and Chistohper Lambert","Date":"16 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I love this film, i remember i watch it as a kid , as a teen and as an adult and it still holds up.Its an action film with martial arts in it,The Hunted, a slightly better than adequate B thriller,Within limits, though, the film delivers. It has one standout action sequence, an extended samurai-ninja battle aboard a bullet train, and a good match up in its two warriors.Christopher Lambert¨Highlander¨gives a good performance as the protagonist as Paul Racine a good guy trapped in a war he bumped by accident Mr. Harada, a handsome-ugly actor in the Charles Bronson mold, projects the tragic aura of a man who knows he must wade through an ocean of blood to avenge ancient wrongs. John Lone, known for his androgynous roles in The Last Emperor and M. Butterfly, makes a convincingly sleek killing machine as Kinjo.This movie is a good example of the 90s well paced, fake blood not cgi, the actors can pass as ninjas and samurais , not pretty boys trying to look there best, i say give it a good and see what you think of it for yourself. "},{"Title":"This is actually damn good","Date":"8 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" A second hand store was selling a whole pile of movies for 50cents and I felt like trying to find some funny bad movies. This is the first movie I watched.This isn't a bad movie thou. This is actually really engaging, with well shot action and a fantastic taiko influenced soundtrack (Japanese drumming).I have to talk about the train scene. Where Lambert and his new saviors board the high speed train and move to the bar section (around 12) while the assassins kill the train drivers then start moving through the carts killing everyone is sight. Lambert's savior moves down to meet them and move out the passengers then starts killing them and toying with them as he moves back to the bar section to finish them off. This scene is brilliant and well worth the watch.I'm not going to rattle on. If you haven't seen it yet then you need to give it a go. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"5 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is not an intellectual movie, it is not a love story, and it certainly is not Rambo. This is possibly one of the worst films ever made. To be fair, I did not have high expectations of the film, and it definitely lived up to those. The action sequences are extremely unrealistic (but great!), the whole premise of the story is fairly ludicrous and I think it highly doubtful that Lambert will ever be asked to play the lead character in a Shakespeare play. Nevertheless, it is flashy, fast and furious - and therefore highly enjoyable. Dysfunctional families live in decaying shacks, without money or food. Violent dogs are barking everywhere. Disagreements are settled by fistfights or, in some cases, by bullets. "},{"Title":"Pretty slick time-filler.","Date":"31 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Paul Racine (Lambert) is a New York businessman on a business trip to Tokyo. After getting involved with the beautiful Kirina (Chen), he finds himself inadvertently drawn into the shadowy world of Ninjas. When he tries to stop her murder, it's Businessman to the rescue! but he doesn't realize what he's up against. None of the Tokyo authorities believe Ninjas still exist in modern-day Japan. Obviously they're not aware of the highly-trained, yet evil Kinjo (Lone) who now takes Paul as his main enemy because he knows too much. So Paul trains in the ways of the Ninja to face off in the eventual final confrontation with Kinjo. Who will win? The Hunted comes from a not-so-distant past when Christopher Lambert movies came to the movie theater. And ones about Ninjas no less. Ah yes, it was a different time in our nation's history indeed. Part of the interest of a Christopher Lambert movie is attempting to decipher and determine if it's a Christopher Lambert movie or a Christopher Lambair film. The jury may still be out on The Hunted, because it is a fairly glossy, professionally made product with an almost two-hour running time and a pretty slow pace by today's standards. But because it's a movie about Ninjas with a lot of Sword Violence, it's probably an Ert title, not an Air film.We give the movie credit for the fact that when the Japanese locals talk, it's in Japanese with subtitles. So many movies have locals in foreign countries speaking English to each other. Speaking of voices, Lambert's is kind of odd. It's accented, of course, but the real problem is that it's a bit thin and quiet to boot. With a more powerful voice, his screen presence could have been improved. When The Hunted is at its best is when it's executing its action setpieces, and the scene on the train is a movie highlight. But on the whole the movie seems bloated, and some trimming could have helped. Plus the movie takes itself so seriously. During the Ninja scenes in the woods, it made us miss Godfrey Ho and the fact that Ho's Ninjas have headbands that say Ninja on them. Well, maybe they don't have to be that silly, but a happy medium would be nice.We appreciate the professionalism and the obvious care that was put into the action/stunt sequences of The Hunted, but the hard fact is that this is not an essential movie. You could probably miss this one and not feel too bad about it. But if you do see it, you'll see a competently-made and pretty slick time-filler. "},{"Title":"The greatest modern-day samurai/ninja flick ever","Date":"16 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie has a lot of factors to recommend it and here they are1) The bullet train battle. One samurai and his wife take on a dozen ninjas aboard a passenger train. This scene must be seen to be believed, trust me. Which brings up another great feature The samurai's wife loyally stands by his side no matter what he does, right or wrong, until the bitter end. She's just as capable and brave as he is, and is always right in the middle of all the action. He's not the stereotypical loner; he has a woman he can always count on. Also, the villain himself has a perverted version of this relationship; he too has a steadfast wife that he relies upon. 2) There's a lot of very adept writing throughout the film. Among some other excellent concepts, it also pays tribute to the Iliad (honest, it does) by using two major plot points from the ancient masterpiece. There's a skillfully done version of Hector killing Patroclus, who's disguised as Achilles; and of course the old Trojan Horse shows up at the end.3) It subverts a lot of Hollywood clichés. The white hero is injured, helpless and physically outmatched for almost the entire film, and he requires a lot of rescuing by some of the Japanese characters. When the white hero fights the villain, it's the villain who's badly wounded and exhausted, not the other way around as it usually is. For a change, the hero is the one who resorts to dirty tricks and improvisation to win. So it actually seems somewhat realistic that the hero could come out on top in this case.4) The sword fights are quick and brutal and gruesome. It's all stabbing and slashing; not that constant parrying with the swords clanging off each other for ten minutes and no one gets hurt until the finish.5) There's a distinct element of Japanese mysticism and superstition, but it's all very subtle and not obvious at all. There's a little bit of reference to curses and legends and so forth, but it isn't laid on too thick. The samurai picks up the wrong sword during the penultimate battle, and it costs him his life. Joan Chen's character supernaturally guides and aids the hero after her death, but it's never blatant. A young Japanese girl who is certainly her in spirit form (Lambert even refers to this girl as his angel) saves him at the Pachinko arcade and later on she shows up as herself in a hallucination, which stays the villain's deadly hand just in the nick of time. Same as she watches over the hero, she also hexes the villain before her death and haunts him until his own end. It's a nice touch.6) There's a faint undertone of attraction between the samurai's wife and the hero. The samurai even seems to give it his blessing as he's dying, when he orders her to survive her own wounds. Of course, she and the hero are the only ones still alive after the big battle sequence and it sure looks like they will hook up quite soon. 7) The acting is uniformly outstanding and exceptional by all the Asian actors and actresses. Christopher Lambert is one of the oddest movie stars ever; his acting is wooden and his accent is distracting, but he does somehow pull it off and makes a fine hero this time around.Anyway, this is a classic action flick and I can't recommend it highly enough. If you're like me and are fascinated by the concept of ninjas and samurai still secretly lurking about in the modern world, and of course doing battle with each other, then you need this one in your collection. "},{"Title":"Lambert's best film since the first Highlander","Date":"24 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Businessman Paul Racine (Christopher Lambert of Highlander fame) meets the lovely enigmatic Kirina (Twin Peak's Joan Chan) and has a one-night stand, however it's not all sunshine and lollipops as later that same night he inadvertently witnesses her execution and the perpetrators that did it send him to the hospital. The thing is that he's the only living person who has seen the ninja assassin's face and has lived, so now he's in mortal danger. He has to go on the run in a vain attempt to survive the inevitable onslaught upon him.I liked the fact that the movie stayed true to its characters and didn't let a businessman go all action hero on numerous highly trained ninjas, that would've rung out as false and a cop out. The film is also well acted and kept my rapt attention throughout, which is a big feat in and of itself.Eye Candy Joan Chan gets topless; an unknown extra gets fully nudeMy Grade BWhere I saw it Encore Action "},{"Title":"Don't be confused by negative reviews","Date":"12 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Thouh not a movie of captivating interest but has some good scenes. Especially train scene is marvelous.Suspense is arose after every important incident. Film has some flaws but these can be easily ignored. The performance of man with long hair and shining sword is impressive. Film can be watched but you must not compare it with classics like T2, Pulp Action. It is entirely different movie. I will give it at least six out of ten. You cannot be bored while watching it. It is the only movie in which I was able to tolerate Christopher. It is a bit more real in theme as compare to some idiot science fictions. I think if you want to see some good movie, it is a must see but I repeat again, do not expect much from the film. If you do not expect a standard of T2, Star Wars, The Lord of the Rings then it will do fairly well. "},{"Title":"All right","Date":"10 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I believe liked this movie The Hunted better ten years ago, when I saw part of it on television. Despite I like watching movies uncut, I was that much younger. This was not a bad movie, I found it be all right. It was about an American businessman Paul Racine witnessing a murder of a local Japanese woman. The Ninja Cult attempted to kill Racine, and after learning of Racine's survival, they were out to finish the job. Today, I told a friend about this movie, and he thought of it as a comedy. If anyone seen this movie and saw the great lengths and amount of people, they will kill in order get to their target, they would not find it to be so funny. I recommend to this movie to anyone who likes intensity. "},{"Title":"Japan is the biggest character in this ninja-filled exploitationer","Date":"27 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Christopher Lambert is a foreigner in Japan who gets caught up in a secret world of ninja cults and samurai warriors.... The Hunted is full of Japanese clichés - but that gives it its charm - the film *likes* Japan and enjoys sticking in such quintessentially Japanese scenery like castles, pachinko parlours, robotic toilets, the bullet train, taiko drummers (the famous drumming group Kodo appear), wooden bridges over rivers, paper screen doors, swordmakers, and of course ninja and samurai.Lambert is charming throughout, his encounter with a mysterious lady in a nightclub is a sexy cliché, but Lambert's character is always likable and decent, and not stereotypically macho - he has to cower in a corner in some of the scenes where ninjas attack (although to be fair he was injured...) When Lambert manages to escape the first wave of (bloody) ninja attacks he goes to an island full of samurai who are dedicated to wiping out the evil ninja cult. In some ways it becomes a bit like The Last Samurai at this point, as Lambert's fish out of water has to learn how to handle a katana and bonds with a swordsmith.It is silly, the dialogue is often weak, but it has some nice imagery of Japan, some brutal swordplay, and successfully keeps the film pacy and ... well.. cool. Ninjas are cool. Having said that, it is low budget, the dialogue is often rubbish (Cop 'There are no ninjas in modern Japan!' gets shot with arrow, dying 'Looks like I was wrong! Lambert 'Looks like?') Ho ho ho. "}{"Title":"A great B flick","Date":"26 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" At first, I refused to watch this film, only because Christophe Lambert; this french gifted actor who literally wasted his skill in garbage grade Z stuff over the Atlantic. So, because of him, I did not see this film in theatre, at its release time, but afterwards, on TV. and I admit that it was a good surprise, as were nearly all the American Japanese movies I have seen in my life. When I watch this one, I of course think of THE CHALLENGE, YAKUZA, BLACK RAIN, BLUE TIGER all features speaking of the these two cultures - Japanese and US - colliding. Yes, a great little flick, with tremendous scenes, but don't compare it to the other ones I talked about just above. It is a little worst, although a pretty good time waster. And one of the best post GREYSTOKE and HIGHLANDER Christophe Lambert's films. But, I insist, certainly not because of him. "},{"Title":"Incredible stupid movie!","Date":"17 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" When viewing The Hunted you wonder who this movie is meant for. It could not be action fans since the action scenes are horrible. Sure there is a lot of blood. But none of the fighters showed any extraordinary skill. Here you have this so called ninja who has to kill this woman (Joan Chen) and in stead of just doing so he takes his time and asks her how she wants to be killed. Not only that he even shows his face to her.(Which of course is always a big no no for an assassin.) You might think that he is a decent ninja. When she answers him to die slowly with a lot of pain he says he is under orders to do it quickly so he can't fulfill her request. And all this portrayed by the same man who played the last Emperor of China. Good god,and this is only in the first ten minutes. Christopher Lambert is a witness to this killing and has seen John Lone's face. These super skilled ninja's failed to kill him off and they chase him. Lambert gets help from a samurai but only to use him as bait. Now the most ridiculous thing is that everything is taken so seriously. But how could you. It is basically one silly scene to another. Lambert fans will be disappointed since he has more of a supporting role and only comes into action a couple of times.Do yourself a favor and forget about this movie! "},{"Title":"Wrong place, at the wrong time.","Date":"28 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Christopher Lambert&#x85; Japan&#x85; ninja cult. Oh yeah! Ninja action with gratuitous sword combat with constant blood spray fills this trashy, but still very decent under the radar b-grade actioner.Paul Racine is an American businessman in Tokyo who one night encounters a mysterious Japanese lady in a bar where they would spend the night together, but accidentally he witnesses her death by some ninja assassins. Surviving the ordeal he finds himself on the run, as he has seen the face on the ninja leader which means he's a target.The (surprisingly) well-rounded story does seem to casually move from one fight after another (leaving some questionable and risible developments), but these moments do lack the flair and energy in the choreography to truly standout. It's more about the blistering grit&#x85; which might not be a bad thing. One passage on a bullet train midway through is a real highlight though, showcasing a brutal and grisly onslaught of pure ferocity and excitement. Director J.F. Lawton polished handling is mechanically terse, by perfectly framing the strikingly lush and poignant Japanese backdrop with its fast pacing linking together a collection of tautly slick set-pieces as the chase is on. A sensually intoxicating eastern score really does match the scenes/vibe in a spiritual sense or complementing the imagery/or action. A husky sounding Lambert at first feels out of place in what starts off as a phoned-in performance, but eventually he grows in the role to leave behind his vulnerable state with a new act of courageousness (with the odd one or two smart arse quip) to face his inescapable fate. John Lone is great as the tenaciously relentless leader of the ninja assassins and Yoshio Harada's dry, but boldly commanding performance is the best of the lot as a samurai that takes in Lambert's character. Yôko Shimada, Masumi Okada and the beautiful Joan Chen are quite sound too.Entertaining slice of no-nonsense ninja fun. "},{"Title":"A great modern day samurai / ninja movie.","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie successfully brings together the modern Japanese society and the old samurai / ninja mystique.  Featuring some of the greatest sword action of any movie and never seeming at all unrealistic, this is one movie that never has a dull moment.  Also of interest are the charming characters such as the jaded police captain tired of Japanese tradition, the wonderfully played sword maker / drinking buddy of Lambert's character and the imbittered samurai / sword master attempting to stay in the past. There are several reasons for giving this movie a try; fantastic swordsmanship, a compelling and realistic story, and wonderful characters. "},{"Title":"A great movie in the honor of classic Samurai Movies","Date":"14 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is one of my all time favorite Hero movies. This is a outstanding samurai movie. In this case it is a final conflict between a Samurai clan and a Ninja clan. Just to make it interesting they throw Christopher Lambert in there as a American business man who is in the wrong place at the wrong time.The acting is very good and well cast. There are 4 good action scenes and 2 of them feature excellent sword play. There is also some great samurai traditions including tribute to sword making.The widescreen version of this is a must. It has brilliant sound starting with the Tiki concert in the beginning and culminating with the rain during the final showdown.It has a little drama and comedy sprinkled here and there. But the sword fighting is absolutely fantastic. If you liked The Last Samurai you will like this movie. "},{"Title":"great Christopher Lambert movie","Date":"21 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie is great and this movie is the best action/Martial Arts movie i have seen in a long time.I have only seen the good actor Christopher Lambert in his other movies like Mortal Kombat,Fortress 2 and Absolon and this movie is by far better then all of them put together.If u liked this movie u should watch these other action/Martial Arts movies like The Last Samurai (2003),Kill Bill Volume 1 and Kill Bill Volume 2.Over all i really like this movie and if its ever on TV u should watch it and this movie is worth renting.And my rating for this movie is 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Christopher Lambert stumbles into ninja movie","Date":"7 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  *SPOILER ALERT* *SPOILER ALERT*Christopher Lambert is in Japan on business. He lucks out with a beautiful woman in red. Too bad she has been targeted to die by the ninja. Lambert survives the attack and is hunted for the rest of the movie while being protected by a grumpy samurai and his loyal wife.The big question is this Why is Christopher Lambert in this movie? There is a perfectly fine ninja movie going on and he fumbles his way into the middle of it. He's wounded through most of the movie, letting the samurai do most of the fighting. He springs to life near the end with a few hours of training allowing him to take on a wounded ninja. I can see the pitch It's Highlander with ninjas!. No, it's not. Highlander was on vacation and we got Lambert with a limp.Even though I'm perplexed by Lambert's presence, I still liked the flick. Plenty of good sword fights and blood to go around. The bullet train scene was great. The ending was a bit hokey but good.  "},{"Title":"A really silly movie!","Date":"5 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Ok so this is not another High Lander movie...ok there is a sword fight, but no one going to live forever in this movie. The acting in this film was palatable..much like eating pickled-plums...if your hungry it's not so bad, but if you would pass it over for a box of Godiva Chocolates.  But then again, this is Christopher's style of acting. The concept of honor is a bit over done in this movie...you don't see too many Japanese men or women walking around town breaking their katana in half when a goofy inspector demands the sword for evidence.  Lambert plays his part of a computer programer who is a witness to a murder, with lackluster appeal.  I'm still amazed that a man who doesn't speak a word of Japanese, can gain enough knowledge from a drunk swordsman to use a weapon effectively in battle against a ninja.  I'm sure that the author of Martin's Concise Japanese Dictionary would love to know how he can communicate with the dunk old man...I guess sake is more potent than one may realize.I recognized some of the locations in the movie..one was in Nagoya when Christopher Lambert was in a pachinko parlor screaming at the top of his lungs.As with most of Lambert's work, don't expect any Emmy award winning talent to be shown.  But that is not what this movie is suppose to be about (at least I think so), it's more about having a good time with your beer-drinking buddies and laughing at another silly movie.  "},{"Title":"Was Christopher Lambert in this?","Date":"9 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Late one night my roommate and I decided to rent a movie.  So looking aimlessly through the video store we found this movie.  Hey, it's got Christopher Lambert star of Fortress and Highlander and it has ninja in it!  Well, that was all that could be said good about this really long uneventful movie.  And then on top of which Christopher Lambert has maybe three minutes of lines the entire movie.  So if you see this movie in the rental store and get it because you like Lambert, avoid it because you can see him act more on a poster. "},{"Title":"Typical action flick that suffers from poor fight scenes","Date":"25 April 2006","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Paul Racine is an American executive on a business trip in Tokyo. One evening he meets a woman in a bar and after a one night stand she is murdered by a legendary ninja cult. Paul sees the ninja leader's face and they try to kill him, but he manages to somehow survive and finds himself a man marked for death. He soon meets a mysterious martial arts teacher and his wife who fill him in on what is really going on... an ancient and bloody feud.The pretty dull story idea could have been forgivable due to the fight scenes, however for such a martial arts/ninja centered action movie they are actually as dull as the story. Choppily edited, often with obvious jump-cuts, the action scenes just end up being slew of ruthless carnage that manages to knock off all non-significant characters in addition to the bad-guys. The two-dimensional acting and character development don't help out either.The only thing that stands out in a good way is the limited comic relief of a drunken sword-maker and the use of Japanese music and not a pounding rock soundtrack - it manages to place the film in its actual setting, but in the end, the film is just a poorly made bloody mess. 3/10Rated R for brutal violence "}{"Title":"Best of Christopher Lambert","Date":"27 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I watched this movie for the ninja theme, and was surprised to see CL acting so well. If you think this movie is about CL acting like a swordmaster and cutting people in half, than you're greatly mistaken. It's just his character being at the wrong place at the wrong time.But if you _are_ interested in sword fights, you get more than you bargained for ... "},{"Title":"A hidden gem for Kendo students or fans","Date":"30 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  While not a wide release or a blockbuster, The Hunted wins by portraying Kendo with the highest degree of accuracy I have ever seen from Hollywood. Takeda-Sensei follows the art down to the last detail, including Chiburi (flipping the blade to remove blood prior to sheathing).  If you've read books on Kendo but haven't seen it in action, watch The Hunted and pay attention to Takeda!  It's cheaper than a year's lessons at the Dojo.  If not for this effort at realism, The Hunted would be a fair movie at best despite an excellent effort by Lambert and Lone. "},{"Title":"I love this movie!","Date":"27 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the best samurai movies I've ever seen.  Christopher Lambert, John Lone and the rest of the cast are brilliant.The sword fights are out of this world.  Plus the plot to the movie is brilliant, this is a well constructed movie.Great under - rated sword slashing fun!9/10 "},{"Title":"A decent but lacking ninja action movie","Date":"15 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Filled with the typical ninja movie material. It is quite original in the beginning, but it descends into the typical good ninja, bad ninja slash-'em-up. It switches between English and Japanese w/subtitles often, which is somewhat annoying. The fighting scenes are terrible, though- you can clearly hear the thud of plastic swords hitting overacting extras, with the evil ninja warriors being the weakest-looking ones yet. Also, with the amount of blood on the characters' clothing, which is really overdone, there is no really violent or gory combat. If you're looking for a great ninja movie, this may not be the best place to look. But if you can't sleep and the only other things on are the home shopping network and the emergency test screen, go with this. "},{"Title":"It's bloody all right - bloody good fun!","Date":"30 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I was pleasantly surprised with the quality of this film. While not as good as the ultra-violent Lone wolf and Cub babycart series (but then, what is?), it has some pretty good sword battles, and Yoshio Harada, who plays the Samurai Takeda, reminds me of the great Wakyama Tomisaburo Stoic demeanor, doesn't talk much, kicks a lot of ass. Christopher Lambert, who I usually find mediocre at best, provides some good moments as both underdog hero and comic relief. If you like samurai flicks at all, then watch this one for a warm up. Then go out and buy the LW&C series (yes, buy, not rent - they're worth it). "},{"Title":"Really violent ninja film","Date":"18 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is about a man who arrives at Japan but later gets involved in a woman's assassination, and is marked for death when he lives to see the ninja leader's face. He later teams up with a rival japanese team who try to protect him because he is the only man to live to see the leader's face. The movie has some scenes of bad acting, but on the overall it was pretty o.k., because of the good fight scenes and the tension you feel. You'll ask yourself questions like will he die, will he live? as the story unfolds. The fight scenes are extremely gory and sadistic, like when a guy gets shot through the neck with an arrow, or when a ninja gets impaled in the head by a sword, and when a train turns into a massive charnel house with blood and intestines splattered all over the floor. If you don't have a strong stomach, don't watch this movie. "},{"Title":"Christopher Lambert runs afoul of the bad guys in NAGATO!!! Spoilers!","Date":"30 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  THE HUNTED is a A grade martial arts movie starring JOHN LONE and CHRISTOPHER LAMBERT. Christopher Lambert is a american businessman on vacation in Japan when he runs afoul of the Japanese martial arts underworld. He witnesses a crime commited by ninja assassins, sees the leaders face, and gets caught up in a centuries old conflict between a clan of ninja and a clan of samurai. This isn't a bad film because the director is able to suspend the disbelief. JOHN LONE is a incredible actor no matter what movie he's in, and he's good in this one. This is yet another Hollywood film that takes the martial arts and ninja's and does a A list production. Most ninja movies are hokey (ie. the Golan/Globus AMERICAN NINJA series) however, a few tend to be good.  "},{"Title":"Computer Chip Executive Takes On Ninja Warrior","Date":"20 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I kid you not! Lambert is the president of a computer chip company who encounters a beautiful mysterious woman while on a business trip to Japan. He buys her a drink and its a life changing experience. She is murdered by a secret ninja cult and he is the only witness. A witness they can not kill no matter how hard they try. It suspends belief when a drunken sword maker teaches him the skill he needs to fight the assassins. But don't think I'm putting it down. It is a thoroughly enjoyable movie and Lambert(as always) is believable as both the computer geek and the swordsman. The movie is crowded with memorable performances large and small-dramatic and comedic. A must see! "},{"Title":"Awesome ninja action movie!","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  As a martial artists practicioner as well as a study of some Japanese culture, it is VERY refreshing to find a movie that doesn't rely on myth and rumors to depict the the typical ninja, but instead one that has obviously done its homework in studying the ways of the ninja as well as the samaurai. For instance the scene where Kinjo stabs one of his fellow ninjas with his sword, the ninja is seen grasping the blade not for intent to stop the blade but to wipe the blade clean afterwards so that there is no blood!! Cool!! Also i found it kinda funny that Kinjo (John Lone) portrayed the Last Emporer, which also had Joan Chen in it - bit of trivia for you.Definitely worth renting - especially for all you that love the Japanese culture as much as I do. "},{"Title":"A wonderful movie full of action and intrigue.","Date":"22 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of my favorite movies on Samurai culture, the other one being The Seven Samurai. This shows what happens when a An American businessman while on a trip to Japan sees something that has been hidden for years. Something that few man have seen before and lived. His name is Kinjo and he is an assassin.Christopher Lambert is the businessman who he plays with a heart. This is one of best roles outside of Highlander (1985). Joan Chen is excellent as the woman with whom Lambert is romantically involved. She is the catalyst that begins the downfall of his world. The acting on the part of the Samurai are great also (the names escape me).The fight scenes in this movie are wonderfully choreographed. The situations are tense and bloody. Just like how you would expect them in real life. It isn't a case of being Rambo with two AK47s shooting everything in sight. It is more of a matter of facing off against the opponent with one surviving because of a stronger will to live.I will not say anything more about this movie other than things are not always as they seem. There are a couple of plot twists. I loved The Hunted. While it didn't get the attention I wanted it to, I still recommend it to anyone who likes to see intense physical dramas with the intrigue of feudal Japan set in the modern day. "}{"Title":"There can be only one, but that's a different story...","Date":"26 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Do not watch this movie expecting a Highlander-style movie with lots of drawn out sword fights. This movie is a bit more realistic than that. People die in this movie the sword fights tend to be over in 10 seconds. Also Lambert's character is a businessman, not a warrior. If you can put aside your highlander-esque presumptions you can enjoy this movie for what it is, if not, you won't enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Great Samurai Movie","Date":"21 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Best Samurai movie I have seen. The sword fights revealed many of the moves and the way of the Sword. Have watched the movie 30 for 40 times and never get tired of the battles. The actors had to have training, they all did a great job. The Sword Smith gave us a short view of the birth of the Sword. Watching the folding of the steel made me want to research how the swords are made. Since watching The Hunted, I sought and found books on understand the code of the Samurai. I went to web-sites in Japan and expanded my knowledge of how the Swords are made by hand. Interest is so high I'm learning to speak and read Japanese. Anyone can see the impact these actors made on me. I now seek other movies these actors are in, in hopes that I can find more hidden secrets. "},{"Title":"jidaigeki insult","Date":"5 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Hello all i'm just a long time Jidaigeki Movie lover and wonder why America makes crap that should'nt be made. i mean the The Hunted what the hell??? i mean lambert who i personal thinks he sucks in any Asian film sucked something awful in this film. I would of loved seeing a movie about the war between the Shinobi and the Samurai Yes for you dings out there Shinobi is the befitting name of the shadow assassins of Fuedal Nippon. People if you want to watch a good samurai movie watch Mibu gishi den  with Kiichi Nakai or Azumi with the super cute Aya Ueto. Makes you wonder why Americans think they look good making movies about a cultures they don't know! Some of you make take this as an insult some of you may say right finally a person out there who sees the problem with this and the rest won't care. But really fans only the Japanese can tell a good story of its traditions and ways not so idiot American co. looking to make a fast buck.  "},{"Title":"Great movie!Christopher Lambert and John Lone are great in the Hunted!","Date":"6 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film is great! Christopher Lambert is good and John Lone was very good. I love the action and music.Its a bit sad at times.The fights are great and bloody but its nothing you haven't seen before.If you like ninja movies this a great one to see! "},{"Title":"Well worth the money...","Date":"25 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  (By that, I mean a friend paid for me to get in...)In all fairness, this movie did have some great lines... from the audience. Get this - 3/4 through the movie, the guy behind me pipes up with, Hey! This isn't a 'Highlander' sequel!This is what you get when you let them out on day passes... "},{"Title":"Painful B-class movie","Date":"2 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" *SPOILERS*SPOILERS*SPOILERS*SPOILRS*SPOILERS*SPOILERS I didn't had big expectations for this one. After all it's a movie with Christopher Lambert . The guy specializes in rather trashy B-class movies (with the exception of Greystoke and Highlander). I didn't expected art or quality , but some decent movie to kill time . I must admit I have a soft spot for ninjas . Ninjas were popular in the 80's , but they don't appear that much in movies now. Judging by the summary I expected a simple revenge flick.Ugh&#x85; Where should I start ? What went wrong ? Christopher Lambert ends as a supporting character in his own movie . If you expected to see him fighting enemies like in Highlander you will be disappointed . For 99 % of the movie he just whines around and he fights in only last 10 minutes of the movie . And the final fight between Lambert and the villain is PATHETIC . I have to say I unintentionally felt sorry for the villain &#x96; the movie makers gave so much advantage for the hero in the final battle , that it just doesn't seem fair. And yet Lambert BARELY won &#x85; You have to see it for yourself &#x96; incredibly poor battle.The movie for most of the time feels like a bad drama . The viewer is caught in the conflict between two clans that is not one bit interesting or emotionally engaging. The flashbacks with Joan Chen are incredibly cheesy. There are many unintentionally laughable scenes (Maybe I was wrong ) that make the movie hard to treat seriously. The fight scenes look rather cheap. The actors , especially the Asian ones give a terrible performances. Lambert is dull as always . The Asian actors (with the exception of Joan Chen) act like they barely know English. Their accents are awful. Last but not least &#x96; the music (which is just drums) is boring.There is some nudity and violence . Some cheap laughs and decent performance from Joan Chen. The old Asian guy is quite funny . Watch out for Toshiro Obata (Teenage mutant ninja turtles) as one of the henchmen.It doesn't change the fact that this is a bad movie , even in the B-class range . Better watch American ninja with Michael Dudikoff or Blind fury with Rutger Hauer. I give  The Hunted 1/10. "},{"Title":"Once again on the hunted and other movies that are better!","Date":"10 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Hello Its me Again the man who has a total dislike for American made Samurai movies or movies made by Americans that talk about other cultures. See i'm a historian and a Kenjitsu practitioner. I have taken great insult to the way American movie Co. have misrepresented the Cultures that live in its own country. the Hunted is still my target because People IT SUCKS!!!!!!!!!!!!! I mean come Samurai movies are better made by the Japanese. heres a list of movies that say darn good Jidaigeki movies. Takeda Shingen 1991 a 4 hour long mini series that talks about the great Shingen of the kai region. damn good fight scenes. Shinsengumi keppuroku 1995 the story of the powerful wolves of Mibu. best battle scenes ever! People the best Samurai movies out there are in Anime and movies. please people watch a Samurai movie that has good actors not dryed up Highlander pukes.PS KILL BILL IS GOOD WATCH IT!!!!!!!!  "},{"Title":"quite good","Date":"21 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  i wasnt expecting this i sat down one night and their was nothing on so i started to watch this on bbc 1 i thought it was a good film with ricky tann from rush hour 2 in it as the bad guy they were some good sword fights i better start getting to watch some japenses films by kurosawa if i liked this film entering 8/10 "},{"Title":"An absolute must for Lambert fans","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It is not the best film ever made.  Heck, it is not even the best Lambert film ever made, but what we have here is an action packed (go out and rent it/grab some popcorn/turn out the lights/drink a cold brew and have good time) movie!A sword wielding Lambert fights a bunch of ninjas.  I think that is enough said! "},{"Title":"When The Movie Finished Me.. !","Date":"1 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Quotes From The Movie As Messages - (You must except your fate with courage)  It's for this movie's viewer ! - (I'll wait you in hell)  To all the makers of the movie ! - (Now he'll rest easier)  About anyone preferred not to watch such a movie ! Innocent QuestionsWhy the evil ninja fighter killed the girl at the start ?! I didn't quite get that ! How could a peaceful American businessman manage to runaway from a trained bunch of assassins ? And twice ?! What their point of view in slaughtering all the train's passengers ? Why the big ninja fighter didn't go to that massacre.. He might've had some real fun ! What about his conscience's sudden waking ? That was totally unexplained ?? How the idiot rookie (Lambert) could kill one of the greatest ninja warriors by himself ??, and what is (Lambert) doing in this movie anyway ? And honestly How I could stand all of that in the first place ?!!!Try To Be Reasonable.. Unlike Them !I think it's all a Japanese story, production and stars but they needed a name to sell the movie internationally good, so they added the character of (Christopher Lambert) yet they never made it in accord with the rest of the elements so you'll sense all the time that he's an alien who's out of the picture, or a character which has never been made correctly ! As he's not the guest star, the sidekick, the smart student.. etc. They involved him, the character so its actor, and in too hasty way also !So What's Good in Here ?!!Despite the impressive performance of the veteran (Yoshio Harada) as (Takeda) the stiff avenger and the mighty hero.. It was utterly poor production, a TV's kind of work and it seemed as one of the poorest TV's work ever ! The direction was a genius but at destroying any good moments especially the fights' scenes which were too dull to continue watching them (and those were the best things you may expect from a movie like this !!). I've only liked 2 seconds  when (Lambert) decides to leave the ring after the Japanese instructor refused to train him, and the image of the whole battlefield when the evil ninja stands alone in the dark among the corpses waiting for the instructor, both of them looked visually strong but still just 2 seconds in 106 minutes !!Some Comments- The Razzie's award is not that impartial ! Otherwise why to forget a powerful candidate like this one ? Maybe they're giving the awards to the same kind of movies but when it had been produced in millions of dollars ! How merciful they are, and How underrated (The Hunted) is ! It could've been great for the (Worst Screen Couple)'s award ! - After I finished the movie (or the movie finished me !) I found myself say  OH How many movies for Marilyn Monroe I've got to watch just to forget the effect of THIS ?!!. Did you notice that I've said to forget the effect not the movie itself as it's assured to be forgettable by itself ! - The beautiful thing about (Christopher Lambert) is that he's not (Steven Seagal) ! Thank God that they didn't bring Mr. Seagal for such a role, the Japanese girl could've butchered herself already just because of meeting him ! "}{"Title":"Classic Good over evil... Chris shows he can play all the emotions!","Date":"22 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Classic Good over evil... Chris shows he can play all the emotions! This is one of his classic best! Chris really displays his talents not only in martial arts, great wit and charm, but humor and love and death before dishonor abounds! Absolutely professional.As you become engrossed in this film you soon realize that Chris Lambert is not the only great actor (actress) here! All the major players are superstars in my opinion.I loved this movie because it contains all we go to movies to see! It's all there, the suspense, the action, the love, the humor and of course the drama story is fantastic. The writer deserves an Oscar right along with the major players! "},{"Title":"A Cult Classic","Date":"16 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Hunted (this one, 1995, not the new, unrelated one coming out 2003) is a cult classic amongst my Klan of peers. Reasons- Swordmanship - Massive carnage, including of innocents - Fight scenes involving rocksAlthough I am not a Barbadian (I'm a Barbadian. There's a big difference!), I enjoy watching violent movies, and swordplay, and anything Asian (yellow fever? not exactly; more of an appreciation of consistent quality and deeper storylines.) If that is you dish, this movie delivers.The only minor thing about this movie is that some of the scenes were a bit dark... but that is just my opinion. They were actually shot at night so, they were supposed to be dark, but personally, I prefer to see what it going on than be convinced that it really is night; other that than and the fact that this is about eight years old as I write this, I would have given this a perfect score.As it is, I can still call it A+, but just barely, and it needs a remake, sequel, or spin-off.  "},{"Title":"Violent ninja mayhem","Date":"19 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Action farce, buoyed to a certain degree by several overly violent action sequences. There are plenty of ninja attacks and firefights, and the whole thing is silly beyond words. Lambert is wooden, but gets to put his Highlander swordsmanship to good use during a swordfight at the end of the movie. Chen is looking particularly fine, even if she does spend most of the time getting her head snicked off. Lone does a good job as the master villain.The film blows its load half way through with a demented fight on a bullet train, and there's not much of interest to watch from that point on apart from a rather limp final battle. A lot of the fight choreography is disappointing, especially considering the attention to detail given to the samurai and ninja methods and weapons. Not a bad flick if you're in the mood for some ninja mayhem, though.  "},{"Title":"Good Movie","Date":"20 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is a good movie. The story is very interesting and suspenseful. The characters are well developed. The acting is  pretty good. There's also some cool action scenes. I did think that the movie was too violent, but other than that I don't have anything negative to say about it. I give it an 8 out of 10. "}]