[{"Title":"Common People Vote Higher","Date":"4 June 2005","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm not one to usually admit I was teared up during a movie but this movie got me at least three times. That alone should give it a 7 rating but I added one more. I guess I really understood Lucy in the movie since those are the type of women I would date. Once you get to know them all, all 4 that is, you can really understand this complex relationship. I will not go into too many details but this is a must watch movie and not a perfect 10 but pretty darn good. I cannot believe that this has under a 6 rating not true at all. So i have to add a few more lines. OK then vote for this movie with your heart not from a spectacularly sensational Hollywood standpoint. "},{"Title":"You have to be in the right mood","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"15 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  You have to be in the right mood for this movie. Fortunately the night I watched it I was in the right mood. I enjoyed this movie.  It wasn't brilliant but it wasn't awful. The plot was believable. Husband dies tragically, wife bottles up feeling, friends help her through tough times, she helps friends through tough times, her feelings finally come out etc etc. Sounds like a bad soap but is actually quite good.The best bit of the movie for me was Elizabeth Perkins. For years I have suspected she could act quite well but previous parts haven't given her the chance to show it. This movie did! Elizabeth Perkins did a superb job of pulling off the part of the wife struggling to come to terms with her husbands death. The scene near the end of the movie where she finally broke down was a piece of brilliance on her behalf. Surrounded by three other popular actresses she shines through!I'm glad I watched it! 7/10. "},{"Title":"Great actresses in a mediocre film","Date":"9 August 2003","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Moonlight and Valentino is the sincere attempt to portray a grieving woman.When I saw the film for the first time I was amazed by the acting abilities of Elizabeth Perkins. The rest of the cast was also great. (Gwyneth Paltrow,Kathleen Turner, Whoopi Goldberg give all great performances)Unfortunately the film is not coherent enough and the ending is also very flat.So it was not a great movie but at least entertaining with great and charming actresses. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Under-rated girl talk film about what makes women special.","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Moonlight... is a slightly massaged and sanitized but insightful and warm look at a woman (Perkins) coping with grief with help from a distaff trio of family/friends. A beautifully crafted piece of work at all levels, this dialogue-intensive film spares us much of the usual mourning melodrama and gets right into the healing process with humor, charm, and sensitivity while exploring the principal's relationships and not lingering too long on the central grief issue. Overall, an entertaining piece which, IMHO, was scored too low by IMDB.com users because of the male side of the jury. Recommended for more mature audiences... and Ebert, wake up and smell the roses. "},{"Title":"Funny yet moving","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie surprised me. I had gotten it ONLY for Jon Bon Jovi as I am a big fan and wanted to see one of his first movies. I thought he was very good as well as irresistable as The Painter. But then I got into the movie and enjoyed the interaction between the women played very well by Elizabeth Perkins, Whoopi Goldberg, Kathleen Turner and Gwyneth Paltrow. Altho a female I am not usually into chick flicks but this was worth seeing.  "},{"Title":"Good but could've been better","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Since the first time I saw Big (one of my favorite movies) with the beautiful red-headed Elizabeth Perkins, I knew that as an actress she had some real potential. She just needed a little push and the right part and she could have the audience in the palm of her hand, crying right along with her. This movie is getting her there. When Rebekah (Perkins) loses her husband in an accident, turns to her abnormal sister Lucy (Gwenyth Paltrow in an annoying role) her best friend Sylvia (Whoopi Goldburg is adorable!) and her ex-step-mother Alberta (Kathleen Turner has aged beautifully). The three try to help the vulnrable woman back on her feet. In a few scenes we see how vulnerable and sad Becky really is...And those scenes were the most touching. In other scenes we see how sisters interact and how one sister tries to hold off on Alberta for fear of losing another loved one. It's complicated but overall, it's good. I didn't quite understand if abortion was a topic here...It seemed like it during the last segment. Does anybody have a clue? That's the only thing I hate; When they don't make it all the way clear in the movie then you know they could've improved. If you want to see some good acting see this movie. Elizabeth Perkins is gorgeous!  "},{"Title":"Mid 90's Catch and Release....","Date":"30 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A Young English professor (Elizabeth Perkins) loses her husband while an anxiety ridden best friend (Whoopi Goldberg), a quirky younger sister (Gwenyth Paltrow), and an attached ex-stepmother (Kathleen Turner) help her come to terms with life and love. First lead role I've seen Perkins take charge, Gwenyth in a new light a role that made me love her even more, Goldberg in the same light as Boys on The Side (1996), and Kathleen Turner pulls off a successful business mother vying for the affection of a daughter that doesn't belong to her, a beautiful thing. Joining the cast are a few of films sexiest men Jeremy Sisto and Jon Bon Jovi. Definitely worth the watch! "},{"Title":"lovely","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought that Moonlight and Valentino was a good film.  The cast was terrific and brought life to the talkiness of the movie. A widowed woman relies on her friends and a hot painter to get her through the rough time.  Jon Bon Jovi is exciting in his first Big Screen role as the painter.  Good climax but it leaves you feeling like it's missing something. "},{"Title":"Emotionally Moved!","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie had me laughing, crying and riding the emotional rollercoaster ride one deals with when faced with the death of a loved one.  A womans movie as I would call it, with the strength to reach out to the inner emotions and bring them to a head.  A movie which could allow me to relate to my own life experiences.  I LOVED IT. Very much on a par with the likes of Steel Magnolia and How To Make An American Quilt.  Just loved it.  "},{"Title":"Embarrassingly shallow","Date":"14 October 2005","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's hard to rate this movie because it had such a terrific cast. The script was dreadful, stupid, silly. You shouldn't actually have to lose a husband to see the absolute falseness of the script. But to cast these great actresses in that story and require that they say those lines was an appalling waste. It is a tribute to their skill that the movie was even possible to watch at all. They did the best they could, but I found it painful to watch, not because I found the story touching but because it was so embarrassingly shallow. You can be sad and funny without being trivial. There are plenty of movies out there to prove it. "}{"Title":"Just great","Date":"14 September 2001","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A recently widowed woman (Elizabeth Perkins) tries to cope with the help of her baby sister (Gwyneth Paltrow), ex-stepmother (Kathleen Turner) and best friend (Whoppi Goldberg).  Talky but fascinating.  All the actresses give great performances with Perkins getting top honors--she's just fantastic in a difficult role.  All the characters come across as believable and interesting.  The script is great too--they talk and act like real people.  Nice soundtrack too.  Some may deride this as a chick flick, but I'm a guy and I loved it!  Two (minor) quibbles--Jon Bon Jovi is pretty bad as a painter.  He's unattractive, not in shape and pretty wooden.  It's no surprise his acting career has gone nowhere.  And the ending at the cemetery seemed a little overdone but it still works.  But, like I said, these are minor complaints.  Well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"loved it","Date":"11 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I am only 21, but i watched this movie a LONG time ago with my mom & never really appreciated it...I thought it was awful, but now that I have lost someone (a boyfriend) and have had to learn to lean on other people I really appreciate it and know that it really is a great movie!!!To me it seemed kind of surreal when i was younger that anyone could be like that... but the speech at the end when she tells Ben bye...now that i have watched it again makes me tear up now just thinking about it. Its hard to look back and have regrets and i get it now. I loved this movie and i'm thinking about buying it...helps you deal a little bit "},{"Title":"Truthful drama about mourning.","Date":"2 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Moonlight and Valentino is a truthful drama about mourning.  Elizabeth Perkin's character is well written and well acted.  You really feel as if she has lost her husband.  She goes through all of the natural emotions of sadness, denial, and guilt.  Whoopi's character is annoyingly written, but she adds a human spark to Sylvia.  Gwyneth's character is the epitome of an insecure college girl.  She is written as if from experience.  Kathleen Turner's character is easy to hate in a pitied sort of way.  All in all the movie is well written and truthfully told.  You are left feeling that even if you do lose the one you love, life will go on.   "},{"Title":"Quite good, but could have been better","Date":"31 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I admit, the main reason that made me wanna watch this movie was Jon Bon Jovi's part in it. Being a huge fan of his, I try to see all of his movies thus I watched Moonlight & Valentino as well. And not just once but four times. The way I see it, the cast did a great job, but the script could have been turned into a better film, had a less flat ending been made, if you know what I mean. I think it's a soft, sweet movie but in a way it's rather dull, or at least ordinary. What I'm trying to say is, with this cast and story, a more effective and more impressive movie could have been made. But maybe that's just me. Other than that, the songs in the movie were real, good. And, on a side note, the part where the ladies think that the painter doesn't speak English but then he surprises them about it is hilarious in my opinion. "},{"Title":"It was alright....a bit boring though...","Date":"19 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just got finished watching this movie last night.  I had always wanted to see it and so when it unexpectedly came on tv last night, I decided to watch it. Well...I have mixed feelings about this movie.****************NOTE!!  SPOILERS!!!!*************************I thought the acting overall was good...I was a bit dissapointed however in Perkin's character, and how emotionless she was after he husband died.  I know that part of this was because she was partly shocked and in denial, but still....I expected a STRONGER outburst of emotion from her.  This is your HUSBAND that has just died for goodness sakes!  Not only that, but I felt like this movie tended to go on and on with not real point.  IT felt very boring at times, and just plotless.  I liked how the movie focuses on each of the women's lives and the problems they are facing in them, however if I were the director, I would have had the movie continue on with a slightly FASTER pace.  The movie felt like 2 hours long when I had only watched an hour of it!Bottom line I didn't even finish this movie because it was just sooo slow and kind of boring. I was already tired to begin with...I didn't need this movie to put me even faster to sleep.  However, if you want a good chick flick about women overcoming thier problems in life, then this movie is for you.  The acting is great (except that little part I mentioned above) and the it's a touching story about enduring hardships, and moving on with your life after a tragic death. "},{"Title":"Uneven","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The movie does not leave you with anything, and it seems as though it wanted to. Gwyneth is annoying as usual; her character is to blame too. Whoopi is vivid and charming. Kathleen's character is interesting and real. It sounds like a list, and the movie also does. As Elizabeth Perkins character, it is too neat and structured. The movie's name Moonlight and Valentino makes you expect Bon Jovi to come and effect something, but all he does -after much too long in the film- is steer Elizabeth to a scene that may have worked in the play the movie is based on, but I'm not so sure. All in all uneven. Most of the time I wanted to see these characters in different situations, perhaps doing something or saying anything. The small storylines are interesting than Elizabeth dealing with the death of her husband Whoopi and her husband (uncredited Peter Coyote), and Gwyneth and Kathleen. Liked hearing REM's Strange Currencies at the background, and Canda's beautiful. "},{"Title":"Very tasteful, very sensitive and incredibly boring","Date":"24 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Rebecca Lott, a thirtysomething. college lecturer, is widowed when her husband Ben is killed by a car while jogging. The rest of the film is taken up with Rebecca endlessly talking over her emotional problems with her younger sister Lucy, her best friend Sylvie and her former stepmother Alberta. There are subplots about Lucy's romance with Stephen, one of Rebecca's students, and Rebecca's brief romance with a handsome young man hired to paint her house. The film ends with the four women performing a bizarre quasi-pagan ritual designed to help Rebecca cope with her grief. And that's it.The film is what used to be called a woman's picture, but with one major difference. The traditional woman's picture had as its primary character a strong female figure, with the male characters as secondary ones, defined in terms of their relationship to her. Here the primary character is the rather passive figure of Rebecca, with Lucy, Sylvie and Alberta as the secondary ones and the male characters, insofar as we see them at all, vague tertiary ones. The film-makers are, essentially, trying to make a film about the romantic and emotional lives of a group of heterosexual women while airbrushing men out of the picture as far as possible. Ben never appears (his death is announced right at the beginning of the film), and Rebecca and Lucy's father Thomas only appears briefly. (Their mother Joanna died from cancer fourteen years earlier). Stephen is a minor character and Sylvie's husband Paul an even more minor one, although we learn that their marriage is an unhappy one. The nearest thing to a major male character is The Painter, and it is noteworthy that we never learn his name and that he is played not by a professional actor but by a rock star with virtually no previous acting experience.The result is that the film ends up devoid of any dramatic conflict or tension. The nearest we get is the suggestion that the two sisters, especially Lucy, resent their stepmother for usurping their mother's role in their lives. Yet we do not sense from the film itself that Alberta, who is supposed to be a hard-bitten career woman, has done anything that might provoke resentment; indeed, she treats the sisters with great kindness, doing far more to console Rebecca, who was only briefly her stepdaughter, in her bereavement than does her father. Stephen Holden of the New York Times, called the film a genteel, buttoned-up soap opera, which strikes me as being unfair to soap operas, much as I dislike that particular genre. Moonlight and Valentino is around four times the length of an episode of most British soaps, and any scriptwriter for Coronation Street or East Enders would soon find themselves out of a job if they wasted four entire episodes with as little drama or action as is included in the 105 minutes of this film.I watched this film when it was recently shown on television largely because the cast included two actresses I had admired in other films, Gwyneth Paltrow in Sylvia and Kathleen Turner in films like The Accidental Tourist and Serial Mom. Unfortunately, it turned out to be a big disappointment to me, which was not really the fault of Paltrow, Turner and the two other leading actresses, all of whom gave the impression that they could do much more with better material. (Although if Whoopi Goldberg wants to be taken seriously as a serious actress as opposed to a comedienne, she might consider getting rid of her childish stage name. Naming herself after a whoopee cushion was not perhaps her greatest career move).Instead the fault lies with the script, based on a play by Ellen Simon, who unfortunately does not seem to have inherited the dramatic talents of her more famous father Neil, and with David Anspaugh's direction. Roger Ebert described it as very sincere, very heartfelt and very bad, a judgement from which I would not dissent, although I would also add very tasteful, very sensitive and incredibly boring. The whole thing is done with the sort of excruciatingly ghastly good taste that makes you long for someone to say or do something tasteless just to relieve the monotony of four people sitting round being nice to one another. 4/10 "},{"Title":"Romantic Fantasy","Date":"20 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw this film shortly before watching In Her Shoes with Toni Collette and Cameron Diaz. There are a lot of similarities between the two films. They both have great casts and good acting. They both have stock characters of sisters who are very different, an offensive stepmother, a woman friend/confidant, an emotionally unavailable father, a dead mother and a surprise lover. Both films have the characters experience life-changing realizations and both films suffer from a kind of 'love conquers all' sentimentality. They both add a little titillation with Cameron Diaz in black underwear and a partial back shot of Gwyneth Paltrow naked.Both films seem contrived, as if the writers of the works the films are based on did market research and said, Ok, there's a market for stories about relationships between women, so I'm going to write about two sisters with an offensive stepmother&#133; In other words, instead of the drama emerging from the truth of the relationship, the relationship is invented to fit the dramatic situation. It seems forced, the characters don't seem real, the relationships are unbelievable.The resolution of the tensions between the characters is simplistic with simple apologies completely whisking away years of acrimony leaving everyone feeling warm and fuzzy ever after. It's just not real. Romantic fantasy.The characters in In Her Shoes are a little more overblown than Moonlight & Valentino, especially the stepmother part. Sydelle Feller, in In Her Shoes is so evil that it is difficult to believe that the father would stay with her, or even marry her in the first place. Kathleen Turner at least shows some emotional vulnerability as the stepmother in Moonlight & Valentino.If you liked Moonlight & Valentino you will probably like In Her Shoes as well. Enjoyable performances in both, in fact, the actors bring depth to their parts that goes way beyond the contrived sentimentality of the scripts. "},{"Title":"You know you're watching a bad Movie when the only critic quoted in the newspaper ads is LARRY KING","Date":"9 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" You know you're watching an awful Movie when After it's over you say to yourself, Wow, and the best part of that was Jon Bon Jovi's performance! Even though i had snuck into the cinema(something me and my mates did a lot in the mid 90's), I still felt like demanding my money back afterwards! i knew i wasn't enjoying the movie when i started to long for the thespian skills of Pauly Shore. I remember going to see this movie like it was yesterday and the bad taste still clings to the back of my throat like the memory of a romance that went sour. "},{"Title":"a very good movie","Date":"29 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The movie is showing that in only one split of a second your whole life can change.I was very suprised by the acting of Jon Bon. I thought he was gonna suck but he is a very good actor at least better then... let sayAnd Paltrows acting is much better then now that she has that golden boy, I think his name is .........Oscar???  "}]