[{"Title":"Wonderful Romance for mature people","Date":"15 February 2001","Score":"26 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I chose this movie for our Valentine's night movie and it was perfect!  It is a romance for and about mature people -- that is, people in the later years of their lives.  If you are in your teens or even 20's, this movie may not appeal to you.  And if you like hot, sweaty sexual scenes, it will definitely disappoint.  It is flirtatious, funny, elegant, tasteful, uplifting and amusing.  The scenery and setting at Lake Como, Italy in 1937 are serene and beautiful. They don't make many movies like this anymore; finding this 1995 jewel was a rare pleasure.  "},{"Title":"A fine film, unnoticed by most","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"21 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have watched this film often, and it improves with time. Ms Redgrave is captivating. Mr Fox, a bit of a fop, elicits my sympathy vis-a-vis his bad treatment from Ms Thurman. It is beautifully filmed and has the quality unique to films not American made. Not necessarily better, just different. Did I not say I was enchanted with Ms Redgrave's character? I liked her for her maturity, her vulnerability and her decency. I wanted them to get together and the last scene delighted me.I recommend this film to those who do not need blockbuster productions in order to be entertained. It's a gem! "},{"Title":"A picture postcard perfect little tale","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"20 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A Month by the Lake has strong parallels with Up at the Villa as both films are about the idle rich who spend time at a villa in the North of Italy in the days prior to WWII. A Month... is a sublime story about a very starched Brit (Fox) and a somewhat capricious lady (Redgrave). Both mature, in late middle age, the principals stumble along on a collision course with love in this sweet, airy, picture postcard perfect little tale. An enjoyable watch for more mature audiences. A must see for Redgrave fans. "},{"Title":"Redgrave and Fox, what a combination!","Date":"1 July 2000","Score":"18 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A Month By The Lake, a wonderful little film. Set at the eve of World War 2 in Italy at Lake Como. A love triangle occurs between Redgrave, Fox and Thurman. The comic aspect is done very well, notible for its Tennis and boating scenes. But this also has a sad aspect as the Major(Fox) thinks that Miss Beaumont(Thurman) is in love with him, but is really only having a little fun teasing him. The lake is so wonderful and so are the photographs that Miss Bentley take.John Irvin gives good direction to the film which again adds effect and beauty. One of my favourite films it captured me. A film of very rare excellence with three top actors of past and present. 5 out of 5, wonderful. "},{"Title":"Picturesque Period Romance with Redgrave in Rare, Breezy Form","Date":"22 April 2006","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Since George Clooney and his rat pack seem to be bringing back a certain cachet to Italy's Lake Como, it's worth revisiting this picture-postcard pretty 1995 romantic comedy directed by John Irvin since it is set there before the onset of WWII. The lightweight plot focuses on a beautiful, elegant villa in the summer of 1937 where Miss Bentley has already spent sixteen summers with her father. Adored by the staff, she spends her first summer there after her father has died, and on her first day, she is immediately drawn to the polite but rather pompous Major Wilshaw. In typical movie-only fashion, they meet repeatedly, awkwardly and fractiously, in particular, over a tennis match where she defeats the major with ease in front of a most enthusiastic group. There is unavoidable but unspoken chemistry between the two, but further complications ensue with the arrival of Miss Beaumont, the young, flirtatious nanny of a wealthy Italian family staying at the villa. Miss Beaumont manages to convince Wilshaw that she loves him, and he becomes instantly enamored. On her side, Miss Bentley attracts the attention of a much younger admirer named Vittorio, a local Vespa-riding lothario intent on seducing her amid his raging hormones.As you can imagine, the complications sort themselves out, but the clever way that Irvin and screenwriter Trevor Bentham handle the story, while patently old-fashioned, is also charming and sometimes quite perceptive about how more mature people approach love. In a rare comedic turn that immediately recalls Kate Hepburn circa 1955's Summertime, Vanessa Redgrave redefines any preconceived image one would have of a spinster, as she brings buoyant energy and a blessed lack of self-consciousness to the independent Miss Bentley. Even though she makes no attempt at assimilating into the period with her most contemporary look, she shows off a deft skill for romantic foreplay for likely the first time since she was a mod swinger in the 1960's with movies like Morgan!. Her athleticism is also impressive whether on the tennis court or in the lake swimming the backstroke, though her rather androgynous look wouldn't seem like it would attract the not altogether unwelcome attentions of horny Italian boys.The other points of the triangle are not as fully drawn. Edward Fox plays the major with a stiff upper lip and glowers appropriately in every scene where he loses his dignity - which is often. Fresh off Pulp Fiction, Uma Thurman plays a man-eating vamp in broad strokes, and her constant delight in humiliating the major gets tiresome. Her beauty, however, is inarguable and Wilshaw's obsession understandable. There is some intriguing casting on the sidelines - as the moony Vittorio, Alessandro Gassman (son of actor Vittorio Gassman) would play the viral maniac in Transporter 2 a decade later; and the proprietress of the villa, Signora Fascioli, is played by Alida Valli 46 years after her seductive turn as Harry Lime's lover Anna in Carol Reed's The Third Man with only her still-sultry eyes recognizable (sadly she passed away today - April 22, 2006). The beauty of Lake Como is captured in all its shimmering light by cinematographer Pasqualino De Santis, and Nicola Piovani's music score provides the right evocative flavor for the period. It's a sweet, entertaining movie, brief at 91 minutes, and definitely for viewers fond of travelogue movies like Mike Newell's Enchanted April and Audrey Wells' Under the Tuscan Sun. The 2003 DVD has no extras. "},{"Title":"Into another world","Date":"16 November 2006","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" And for me, that's what movies are all about, whether it be the Disney Cinderella that was my first movie ever, or this last, A Month by the Lake, that is the place I want to be, in some other realm outside my own experience. And this movie fulfills that desire on many fronts and also kept me guessing from beginning to end.The performances of the cast were extraordinary in the most difficult of materials, an understated script and the repressive natures of the leads. Vanessa Redgrave -playing Miss Bentley, a beyond middle-age spinster of uncertain age - does much with this. In her outwardly almost flirtatious behaviour you catch the loneliness within, but barely. You determine she does have an interest in pursuing the major, she hears his voice in a dining room and then goes in slow pursuit but practically stands him up on the first 'date' and for no earthly reason we can determine.Edward Fox - playing Major Wilsaw a retired colonel from WW1 - has the major down pat, the peacocky walk, the clipped sentences, the fear lurking behind the eyes, all embodying the pre-war world of 1937 in Italy on Lake Como. Uma Thurman, in one of her first 'airings' plays Miss Beaumont, a young woman taking a position as a nanny to a wealthy Italian family staying at the same resort as Miss Bentley and Major Wilshaw who flirts one thinks rather cruelly with the Major leading him on in boredom but does she, we wonder, when the movie takes off in unexpected directions.Vanessa is sexy and wonderful, you sense there is an unstated other life underlying her character as there is with Major Wilshaw. Uma is the ingénue of a kind, an unmanageable young woman, incorrigible as another era would have it, sent to straighten herself out in Europe far away from disgracing her family in America. She is the innocent abroad, or is she. She assumes an avid interest in the photographs Miss Bentley takes of the young man in love with Miss Bentley (a scene contrived by Miss Bentley) and is astounded at Miss Bentley's capacity to captivate. It meanders along from there with beautiful cinematography and an unforgettable tennis game. Too slow moving for many tastes. Wonderful eccentric characters - too odd for some - played to the hilt by a stellar cast. 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Delightful film... Great cast...","Date":"14 September 2001","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Take two outstanding British actors, give them a clever, witty script, set them in a gorgeous part of Italy and a fascinating era of history, and you can't help but produce a great movie. It's a romance but it's also a delicious send up of the vanity of men and the deviousness of women. Lovely work with superb photography and a haunting musical theme.It captures the essence of pre war Europe and the joy of Italian life even under fascism. Vanessa Redgrave and Edward Fox, two of my very favourite people, didn't disappoint me. Enjoyed it immensely "},{"Title":"Uneven, Unpleasant","Date":"13 December 2004","Score":"29 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I don't usually comment but for once I don't agree with anybody else. Quite simply, I think this movie was confused and exaggerated and a waste of acting talent. The premise is a mix of standard conventions, the white expatriates in a romantic foreign land meets laughter in the shadow of war framework. I wouldn't mind the clichés so much, if not for-Edward Fox's bizarre performance as the major, where he seems to waiver between creepy predator and grinning imbecile.-Typically elegant Vanessa Redgrave in a goofy impulsive performance where her seemingly complex inconsistencies really just make her look foolish.-Uma Thurman makes it hard to remember why she doesn't totally suck as an actress. I rarely knew what emotion she was trying to convey but perhaps people could be confused into thinking she was layered and mysterious.-The grinning Italians in the background might as well be Mario and Luigi for all the depth of character we get to see. They bob around happily, cheering and waving and doing pratfalls.-The central element, the love story between Redgrave and Fox, is totally stiff and unbelievable and made me feel weird just watching it.All told, I watch about 5 videos a week and this is one of the very few movies I have shut off before it's done. stay away. "},{"Title":"Not a classic, but still a nice movie to watch","Date":"24 March 2006","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a wonderful movie. Redgrave is wonderful as Ms. Bennet. She is a very good actress and its nice to see her do some light comedy. My only complaint is Uma Thurman. It seemed as if she didn't know how to play her character. her mood changes, her mannerisms, even her attitude. Her scenes are also awkward. She never gives a convincing performance. Redgrave, once again, is wonderful. Displaying the various moods needed and giving off an award winning performance. Fox is also a so-so actor. He is good, but also awkward and one really doesn't see why Redgrave would want him so badly. This film has been coming on t.v. for quite some time now and I watch it every time. I've even bought the DVD! It is a nice romantic comedy that can be enjoyed. Also, it is funny to watch Fox's not so quick hand, as he does his magic tricks. "},{"Title":" Lake Como is beautiful!","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  An enjoyable movie. The scenery is beautiful as well as the photography. The outfits are really nice. Set in Italy by the Lake of Como, which looks like a still painting.  Vanessa Redgrave, (Howards End) Miss Bentley goes on her holiday. She ends up falling in love with  Major Wilshaw, Edward Fox, (Gandhi) after conflicting with a nanny, Miss Beaumont, Uma Thurman (The Truth About Cats & Dogs). Vittorio Balsari,  Alessandro Gassman plays an Italian fellow who is really charming. Favorite scenes Miss Bentley putting her earrings on. Major Wilsaw and Miss Bentley going swimming.  Favorite Quote  It is better to observe than been observed. "}{"Title":"A quiet, understated film, but nevertheless a good one","Date":"15 May 2009","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" H.E. Bates has never really been a popular author in the cinema- there have been far more adaptations of his works on television- but in 1995 there appeared both A Month by the Lake and The Feast of July, the first feature films based on his writings since Dulcima and The Triple Echo in the early seventies. The reason why these two films both came out at that time is doubtless the temporary revival of interest in his works provoked by The Darling Buds of May, the highly popular television adaptation of his Larkin Family series of comic novels.A Month by the Lake, based on a story from Bates' collection The Grapes of Paradise, is set in the Italy of the 1930s; to be precise, by Lake Como in April 1937, the very month in which Edward Fox, one of its stars, was born. Rather unusually in a youth-obsessed cinema, its theme is the growth of love between two middle-aged people, both British guests at an elegant lakeside hotel. Miss Bentley is a spinster who, on the first day of her month's holiday, meets Major Wilshaw, a retired Army officer. This is not, however, a straightforward romance. Even in middle age the path of love does not always run smoothly, and complications arise in the shape of two other characters. Miss Beaumont, an American nanny working for a rich Italian family, flirts shamelessly with the Major. Vittorio, a handsome young Italian, flirts equally shamelessly with both Miss Bentley and Miss Beaumont. (Vittorio, incidentally, is the only major character whose Christian name we discover. The others, in keeping with Anglo-Saxon conventions of this era, address each other by their titles and surnames alone. Perhaps Italians were more relaxed about such matters).This film is considerably better than the film version of The Feast of July, which turns a fine novel into a dull piece of rustic gloom and misery, but it does have its faults. The action tends to drag at times, particularly in the first half. The character of the Major changes rather abruptly; at first he seems like a rude, petulant man, especially after Miss Bentley beats him at tennis, and then suddenly becomes charming towards her. It is something of a convention in comedies such as I Love Trouble and You've Got Mail that all love affairs begin with hatred at first sight, but A Month by the Lake is a drama, a genre which has generally demanded a greater degree of psychological realism than has romantic comedy.Nevertheless, it is also a film which has its virtues. It may fall within the heritage cinema category but, despite the beauties of the scenery, it is not as visually lavish as some examples of the genre. It not only visually but also emotionally subtle. This type of cinema often demands a rather different style of acting technique than does contemporary drama for the reason that earlier generations, particularly but not only in Britain, often valued emotional self-control (the so-called stiff upper lip) as a virtue, far more than most people would today. To display strong emotions, especially in public, was seen as a sign of weakness.To play heritage cinema well, therefore, demands the ability to display emotional states though subtle behavioural or verbal nuances rather than through overt histrionics. Uma Thurman, as Miss Beaumont, seems more at home here than she did in her earlier venture into historical drama, Dangerous Liaisons. Roger Ebert points out that her character's surname means beautiful mountain, but unlike Ebert I do not think that this is a reference to Thurman's physical height. Bates, after all, died in 1974, never knowing that his story would be filmed or that such a tall actress would be chosen to play the character. I think that he chose the name to emphasise that Miss Beaumont, beneath a surface playfulness, is inwardly cold and icy, and this is something which Thurman suggests well.Miss Bentley and Wilshaw, by contrast, hide strong emotions beneath an outward reticence. Like most British film actors of their generation (they were born within a few months of each other in 1937) Edward Fox and Vanessa Redgrave are both practised stars of historical drama- Redgrave, for example, starred in Agatha and Fox in The Shooting Party- , both possess the gift of being able to express emotion and mood subtly, and both make full use of that gift here. The result is a quiet, understated film, but nevertheless a very good one. 7/10 "},{"Title":"A rare and excellent movie, very recommendable.","Date":"22 May 2006","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A touching and innocent romance story. I have watched this movie many times and compare it to Under the Tuscan Sun and My House in Umbria. Lovely Uma Thurman is very enjoyable as Miss Beaumont who is immature, flirty and completely self absorbed. Her youth and beauty catches the eye of the charming and lovable Edward Fox's lonely Major Wilshaw who is clearly feeling his oats and intent on pleasing this young flower. His endearing qualities and gentlemanly manner are clear and very appealing to Vanessa Redgrave as Miss Bentley and she is completely smitten as she sets out to win the Majors attention and affection. Fox and Redgrave are absolutely compelling in this film. Vanessa is delightful and gives her character a wondrous and youthful anticipation of romance. The setting, the lake, the music and background life at the villa enhance this trio. A rare and excellent movie, very recommendable. "},{"Title":"an exceptional film... stunning photography","Date":"13 March 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Wonderful story... great acting.If you love the Lake Como area of northern Italy this is for you. A special relationship develops between a man and a woman driven by something much deeper than the lust that permeates most of today's movie-making.Edward Fox is simply magnificent and Ms. Redgrave is at her best. The tranquility of the time will amaze you. The world outside seems to be quickly falling apart as life goes on for the people in the film. If you want to enjoy a few moments of fun with a clever, delightful film this will be perfect.The place in which they are staying does exist but not as a Hotel. If you want to know why people like George Clooney fell in love with Lake Como, see this film.It captured my wife and I from the very beginning. Hollywood is rediscovering this region of Italy. (the Hotel in this movie is the place where Bond recovers from attack in Casino Royale and also part of a Stars movie) "},{"Title":"Pleasant small romantic comedy set and filmed at Lake Como in Italy.","Date":"7 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" DVDs are very cheap to make, and for a few years we have been seeing disks with 2 to 4 movies on it, all for the price of a cheap DVD, usually $5. Now my public library has bought some sets with 8 movies on two DVDs, and this movie is one of them. We watched it last night.The sound and video quality are not up to current DVD standards and are more in line with older VHS quality. Still it was OK for this type of movie.It is 1937, England and Europe have not completely recovered from the first WW, and now they are hearing signs that Nazi Germany may be readying for a war to try to take over Europe. Vanessa Redgrave is 50-something (57 during filming) Miss Bentley who had visited Lake Como in Italy every summer with her father for about 16 years. This is the first year she is there alone, after her father died. She sort of hangs out and goes with the flow.An interesting British gentleman shows up, Edward Fox (57 also during filming) as Major Wilshaw. He is a queer sort, brash and tactless, but somehow Miss Bentley finds him attractive. But he seems to have an eye for the younger ladies.That brings in 20-something American Uma Thurman (24 during filming) as Miss Beaumont, recently dropped out of school in Europe and, not wanting to go home, at Lake Como with an Italian family to help with the young children. She is a playful sort, bats her eyes at the Major at dinner, and when he leaves Lake Como per his schedule, she teases him with We didn't have enough time to get to know each other.That teaser caused him to stay to try to romance her, while she was figuring out ways to get out of his clutches, all the while Miss Bentley hoping to gain his attention.It is a lightweight romantic comedy with interesting characters. Right at 90 minutes it is good entertainment. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable believable characters good movie","Date":"4 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" In 1937 Miss Bentley (Vanessa Redgrave 58) summers at lake Como at a hotel she has spent the summer at for 16 years. There she meets Major Wilshaw (Edward Fox 58) and the other main character in this triangle Miss Beaumont (Urma Thurman 28).Bentley is a delightful cheerful character single and is interested in the fusty Major Wilshaw. He in turn has eyes for the 28 year old Miss Beaumont who strings him along in a sadistic way.I guess the only thing that occurred to me is why Miss Bentley would be interested in Major Wilshaw a rather unattractive short man (Redgrave is still rather attractive at 58)...if they had cast someone a bit more handsome than Fox... but then it helps delineate the themes of the story better and makes Miss Beaumont's sadistic flirting much more believable.The first time I saw the movie in 1995 I didn't like Redgrave's Bentley character but this time I did the movie was much better the second time. Something about her hyper flighty too good to be true nature seemed contrived the first time but not really the second? I have aged 15 years and am 59 myself now maybe that is part of it.The movie has a little of the requisite anti fascist political pounding going on from time to time but it is restrained thank God--it would have ruined a well done little story.Good movie watch it. "},{"Title":"a solid little romantic comedy (plus it's got Uma in it!!!)","Date":"12 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  this movie isn't great, but for a romantic comedy it does what it's supposed to do well.the basic plot involves an absolutely gorgeous Uma Thurman visiting Vanessa Redgrave and the man that they eventually battle over.it's simple, well photographed and well acted. the location is also stunning. definitely a good choice if you're in the mood for a pleasant and gentle romantic comedy.(also, being an Uma Thurman fanatic i don't think she has done any other movie where she has looked this elegant and beautiful as she does in this one.)rating7  "},{"Title":"breezy slow romance","Date":"11 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" For 16 years Miss Bentley (Vanessa Redgrave) has been spending April at an elegant hillside villa on Lake Como. It's 1937, and her father has recently died. It was going to be an uneventful vacation and then Major Wilshaw (Edward Fox) arrives.Add to the mix is Miss Beaumont (Uma Thurman), a tall, flirtatious, sassy, young American. It's all fun and games to her, but her affects are much more powerful than she realizes.It's a breezy film at first like the countryside setting. It is where the rich set vacation. There's some attempts at slapstick with the tennis game. The Italians are mostly cartoonish. Vanessa is easy going. Uma is flashy.When the specter of jealousy arise, the story finally gets going. Instead of using this emotional drama, the story ends and it's wrapped up with a happy ending. It lacks any tension or power. Vanessa Redgrave makes it watchable. It's just a slow watch. "},{"Title":"Slither of romantic fluff, mishandled in almost every department.","Date":"6 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It seems like a good baby=boomer escapist package Redgrave, Fox, Thurman, but take a director who's unsuited to romantic meringues, a cast with no chemistry, and a script in which so little happens that a month by the lake seems stretch into a decade; and you're in trouble. Edward Fox seems sensible casting as the correct British major, but he's awkward, unconvincing, and made to play most scenes too large or too thin. Ms Redgrave, despite the 1937 setting is wearing clothes she bought in Hampstead last week, and carries on like an over-excited schoolgirl. Perhaps all the fun was contained within the set. She's unconvincing, as is her relationship with Mr Fox, which, unfortunately is the glue of the story. Her rival for his affections is Uma Thurman, who distinguishes herself by giving a misguided reading of every line she has to utter. She can't even wave goodbye convincingly. Every moment she's on screen is excruciatingly wrong. The director takes a cack-handed approach to the tone of almost every scene; the structure is awkward, and even the close-ups of the two leads are unflattering and clumsy - especially those of Mr Fox. Alida Valli, manages to be Irvin-proof; Nicola Piovani provides some sweet, schmaltzy music and Pasqualino de Santis's photography is very pretty. "},{"Title":"Terrible","Date":"25 February 2010","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It is 1937, and a spunky spinster (Vanessa Redgrave) is spending a month at a villa on Lake Como. There she meets and is intrigued by a pompous old major (Edward Fox). He, on the other hand, has eyes only for a lovely but cruel young nanny (Uma Thurmon).How could a movie about beautiful Lake Como and a lovelorn English lady go wrong? Apparently, very easily. This terribly-misguided movie has a juvenile script, hammy actors, and poor direction. Even the wardrobe, makeup, and hairdos are way off, looking like contemporary styles rather than pre-WWII. The attraction between the spinster and the major is never explained and their bantering is off-putting as well as boring. Thurmon over-enunciates every syllable and shouts like she's doing a (bad) high school play. None of the stars is believable in their roles.Despite the picturesque location, there's absolutely nothing romantic about this movie. Disappointing. "},{"Title":"Hammy","Date":"11 July 2002","Score":"8 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film was slow but tedious and the acting often drifted into the land of ham. Redgrave's character was unappealing as the 60 something woman trying to compete with Thurman's 20 something for the love of Fox's character (why is beyond me). The title of the movie should have been Shallow people on the lake. The actors played like they were in a rehearsal. A dreadfully predictable ending to boot. I can't believe this is on this website as a comedy! "}{"Title":"Terrible movie with no redeeming qualities","Date":"29 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I do not understand the people that say this is a good movie. I guess the potential is there... but it flopped big time. The only good thing about this movie is Redgrave. Oh yeah... and the hot young Italian she shuns...Storyline older lady likes older man. Older man likes younger woman. Younger woman leads on older man. Audience falls asleep.Why anyone likes the older man is beyond comprehension. He is unattractive in so many ways. He has one of the most unlikeable personalities ever. And I don't mean that you will come to understand his quirky ways later in the movie... you don't. He is just as unlikeable in the end as he is in the beginning. Ms. Redgraves character is so enamored with him for NO reason at all. I don't understand it. He is not witty, polite, smart, anything... ick.Uma's character is pointless, mean and well... pointless and mean.Maybe the book was better than the movie. The movie stunk. "},{"Title":"Tedium squared","Date":"3 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Honestly, what a disappointment. Every. Single. Sentence. Spoken. Like. This. S-l-o-w-l-y. It made me just about jump out of my skin (and I can watch a four-hour silent movie without losing interest for a minute).I haven't written a review here in ages, but this movie needs a warning label.I've seen all three of the stars give fabulous performances so it must have been the director. Here, Redgrave's performance is so weird I couldn't figure out what she thought she was doing. Fox and Thurman could not have known what they were entrusting to the film stock-- performances in an acting style from the distant past...only slower.And the story is so clichéd - out-of-date clichés, not even current ones! - that it was painful to watch. There *can't* be any spoilers, the only element of surprise being that you can't believe the filmmakers would actually dare do anything so obvious. Watch Enchanted April for what this might have been. "},{"Title":"Has Ms. Redgrave been studying at the Fred J. Muggs School of Acting?","Date":"4 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Warning Spoilers of sorts.Beautiful, lush sets and scenery.Characterizations of oddball characters bounce all over the map.Uneven direction from a director whose right hand doesn't seem to know what his left hand is doing. Or care. Script is nothing to shout about either.Strangely non-affecting. Not especially amusing, not especially romantic, not even a little bit sexy. It's a bit of a mystery why the two main characters are attracted to one another or why they end up together.Odd, off-hand treatment of impending war.A collection of truly bizarre performances. Normally reliable actors run amok. No doubt the director's and screenwriter's faults.A film that tries hard, very hard, too hard and doesn't succeed. Can't really recommend, but on the other hand, it's not a complete waste of time. It apparently has its audience. "}]