[{"Title":"Cyberpunk at its best and worst","Date":"8 March 2006","Score":"101 out of 118 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I must start with a personal statement - I'm amazed at the silliness of those who bombastically declare this to be the worst movie of all times and so on... Really? Is it really that bad, worse than Manos - The Hands of Fate or Cocoon - the Return? I think most of the people who diss this film fall, broadly, in three large categories 1) those who are so attached to the original short story that they can't stand the idea of an eponymous film with a different vision (although, again, its Gibson himself who penned this script!) This is not purism, but acting like brats - just like those who criticized the film Resident Evil for not sticking closer to the original games. 2) then, there are those who have a personal dislike for Keanu Reeves, and they follow him over the 'net, criticizing him for wooden acting. It doesn't matter to them that the Johnny character is exactly what Keanu portrays - an egotistic, self-absorbed bastard, who only cares about his posh clothes, cold Mexican beer and hookers (and there are already so many out there like him, in the real world!). Then 3) there are those who are simply too stupid to actually watch what's going on on the screen, because of personal convictions, education or background (i.e. those who mention Grenpeace and anti-capitalism as if they are capital crimes, or those who think PharmaKom is a Japanese company). I was particularly amused at the user who launched a furious diatribe against the idea of the Lo-Teks being so visible in the ruined bridge, despite the fact that the only time in which they actually identify themselves as the source of anti-establishment activities is the very end, when they also announce they'll be going off the air. The list could go on. But this is supposed to be a review, not an answer to those who dislike the movie so vehemently.I believe this is *the* film which, despite its occasional artistic shortcomings, connects Blade Runner to The Matrix. It was a courageous endeavour, portraying an all-too possible near future, and reminded me of another picture, similarly vilified by simpletons who couldn't see beyond the surface - Starship Troopers. The sad fact is that the movie was mistreated, and what we ended by seeing on DVD in most of the world is not what the director intended. There is an alternative version (briefly mentioned on this site) which makes some significant changes, and it's available only in Japan. First of all, the prologue is different and more poignant. Here it is, in this exact formNew century. Age of terminal capitalism.The armored towers of multinational corporations rise above the ruins of the democracies that gave them birth.Soldiers of the Yakuza defend them.Hackers, data-pirates, LoTek media rebels are the enemy, burrowing like rats in the walls of cyberspace.A new plague convulses the cities Nerve Attenuation Syndrome, incurable, fatal, epidemic, bringing fear and misery as old as the species itself.But the most precious data is sometimes entrusted to elite private agents, wetwired to function as human data banks.Mnemonic couriers.In this day and age, in the post-Enron, post-9/11 world, all the above doesn't seem so far-fetched anymore.The film is more somber in the Japanese version. We see more of Takahashi's inner desolation, and there are some added bits of gore and violence in the Beijing fight. Johnny himself is much more of a corporate puppet - we see it from a longer dialogue with the hooker in the hotel room, or in the scene in which he acquires the memory doubler. We see J-Bone sticking a syringe in the dolphin, sadistically commenting how the creature is a junkie.There is also more realism involved (Spoiler alert!) the hero doesn't somehow miraculously recover his childhood memories after being connected to Jones. And we see how Johnny, exhausted, decides to get it over with, despite a dire warning that the looping procedure through the dolphin will most certainly kill him. That is a moment of pure redemption, sadly lost in the official European and North-American film versions.Last but not least, the extended cut gives more screen time to Lundgren's mad preacher character. We see him sermonizing in his church, in front of a rapt audience, using words and gestures that are scarily familiar to anyone who has watched an Evangelical TV channel. He discovers along the way that Johnny's load is the miraculous cure for NAS, and he covets it for himself - he even shouts he wants to become (like) God. It's easy to see why some circles decided to eliminate all this potentially uncomfortable content... but we ended up with a caricature, instead of a cunning and shrewd film villain.Johnny, we barely knew you. "},{"Title":"Several Gibson concepts thrown together","Date":"24 May 2003","Score":"52 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Johnny Mnemonic could have been a wonderful movie, had William Gibson not strayed so far from his original story when writing the screenplay.  Having painter Robert Longo direct the movie, the first and to this date only full length feature he has directed, was probably not the best idea either.  While Longo may present the occasional intriguing image, his inexperience shows in other areas.  The acting is terrible for the most part, with Henry Rollins taking the cake for worst performance.  Reeves, contrary to popular opinion, is alright and has a few great scenes, most notably his angry breakdown on the pile of garbage under the bridge.Having read Johnny Mnemonic several times the character of Jane is one of the most annoying factors of the movie.  In the story the character is Molly Millions, a confident, tough as nails mercenary who sports several augmentations, most important being retractable blades under her fingernails.  However, they had to change the character since Molly Millions is also a main character in Gibson's book Neuromancer, and another company owed the film production rights for that book, including the character of Molly.  But they could have made Jane more like Molly. Instead, she's as insecure as Johnny, and he spends more time protecting her than she does him, which is supposed to be her job.There are other little inaccuracies in the movie, such as the Magnetic Dog Sisters.  In the story they are the door guards at the club and Johnny claims that they are bad news in a tussle.  In the movie they are Ralfi's bodyguards and portrayed as pathetic and outdated rather than dangerous. The story doesn't have anything about NAS, that's all a fabrication to fill space for the movie.   Gibson seems to try to shoehorn several of his concepts into the Johnny Mnemonic movie.  Instead of living in the rafters high above the streets, as they do in the story, the Lo Teks live on an old bridge.  Gibson has people living on the Golden Gate Bridge in his books Virtual Light and All Tomorrow's Parties.  The bartender Hooky,  at the club where Johnny meets Ralfi, is an approximation of Ratz, a bartender from the book Neuromancer.  Johnny never accesses the matrix (the internet) in the story, but he does in the movie, for no apparent reason other than allowing director Longo to show off some CGI special effects.Longo also chooses to mimic Blade Runner in the opening scenes, and later on one character tells another that it's time to die, a famous line from BR.  I thought this was unnecessary, and cheapens the movie, as blatantly ripping of Blade Runner, whether it's for the purpose of homage or not, is the signature of several B-Movies, which is sadly what Johnny Mnemonic ends up being anyway.I still like the movie.  It does have some good elements to it, and if you're a fan of Gibson, you should see it.  It's better than Abel Ferrera's terrible adaptation of New Rose Hotel, because it at least portrays Gibsons technological world.  I hope that Johnny Mnemonic is remade one day because it is a great story. I'd ask Reeves to play Johnny again, because I like him in the role. Gibson's writing is so descriptive, that a screenplay should follow the story as literally as possible.  Ideally, I think that Johnny Mnemonic would work out as a short film, something no longer than an hour.  It is a short story after all, and adding filler to extend the time certainly didn't work the first time. "},{"Title":"Gibson doesn't translate well to film","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"55 out of 72 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is not a terrible film as claimed, but it had faults poor pacing; weak atmosphere (visuals were there, but insufficient music track to back them up); and its largely unexplained universe.Ideally, you need to have read Gibson's short stories and Neuromancer first, and then all the props - cyberspace, 'black ice', grubby streets, brand-name hardware, Yakuza assassins, muscle grafts, etc - make sense. The Blade Runner style information dump was no substitute. Incidentally, many of these props appear cliched, but remember that Gibson more or less invented them; it's merely that this film appeared long after they had become standard movie fixtures.Gibson's written work has fairly sparse dialogue, and makes heavy use of precise and rather introspective visual description to convey character. Perhaps this just doesn't translate well to film. "},{"Title":"Underrated - Not as bad as everyone in here says.","Date":"8 July 2000","Score":"58 out of 78 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Heavens, why is everybody bragging about this movie? Maybe because they compare it to Matrix? Probably, I wouldn't know another reason.Nobody says that this is a real block-buster, but it is definetely not as bad as everyone here wants to make it.It's a nice movie to enjoy (especially on DVD) and forget afterwards. Not because it was bad but just because it was good and entertaining for a short while. Nothing more, nothing less.And it DID have its benefits that crazy preacher was so hilarious to behold. A nice and funny mirror to the numerous fundamentalistic Christians in the American society. And, of course, some nice fighting scenes, cool hi-tech equipment, and a gorgeous Dina Meyer, all packed in a futuristic ambience. What else could I ask for for an action movie that you can enjoy and forget about afterwards? "},{"Title":"Difficult to knock acting in a script that only called for charisma","Date":"4 December 2001","Score":"46 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Oh man!  Why so many bad reviews... if you wanted acting, WHY WERE YOU WATCHING A KEANU REEVES MOVIE?!  If you wanted a thick plot with many twists and turns, you shouldn't have even went Oh, lets go see a low budget b-film from '95!!!!  The movie didn't call for acting, they just needed a brief plot outline and charismatic actors to play the leads.  When I saw this movie way back in '98 when it was on TV, I heard so many horrid reviews that were too over-analystic.  When watching a film like Dude Where's My Car?, are you going to look for the same quality you saw in a film like The Usual Suspects?  Keanu Reeves did his role only good enough to support the movie... That's fine!!!  The plot was a cliche cyber-thriller and you must have known that even just buy the back of the box or the trailer.  It delivered a plot that was kind of cool, an star that does some one-liners, and action.  If these three things were not what you wanted from this film then you shouldn't have went.  It just delivers an action/adventure movie, nothing short of what promised.  Don't be critical on films that are obviously intended as sheer dumb fun from start to finish... if these scripts even tried to be thinker, they'd be boring... AND YOU KNOW IT! "},{"Title":"I cut this movie a lot of slack because it is based on a W. Gibson short story.","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"24 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Why does everyone hate that movie so much!?! All the reviews I have read called it confusing. How could it be confusing?1. Takes place in a world created in William Gibson's many works of fiction. 2. Man has data in head. 3. Others REALLY want data. 4. Man tries to get data out of head before it kills him -- or the people chasing him do.Along the way there are some colorful characters, cool gadgets and cityscapes from Gibson's 2021, and even a smidgen of romance (but not enough to bother anyone). I mean what's the problem!?! The movie is very faithful to Gibson's vision and even asks the main character to wrestle with an ethical dilemma or two while all the action is going on... "},{"Title":"Interesting & mildly entertaining, but could have been much better","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"38 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What is it with Keanu Reeves and big budget cyberpunk science fiction movies? Oh well.Considering it was based on the short story of the same name by cyberpunk godfather William Gibson, the movie is a minor disappointment. It's not that bad, but it could have been so much better.However, a lot of Gibson's ideas are still there, making it a solid cyberpunk movie. There aren't too many of those around. "},{"Title":"Why do I keep coming back to this movie?","Date":"8 October 2003","Score":"19 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw half of this movie on television once, and since I am a avid sci-fi fan, the story intrigued me. A couple of weeks later I went out to pick up a copy of this movie for myself, and ever since I've been watching it every now and then. Not every month, but at least once every 4 or 5 months. Sometimes more. There's just something about it that I like. Well, lets start from the beginningIt is the year 2021 and the world has been taken over by large coorporations that do pretty much what they want to. Most of them are out to make money, however, and will do anything to achieve that goal. One of these coorporations is PharmaCom, a coorporation that deals in medicine and exists pretty much all over the world. From Beijing to Newark. 'Johnny' is a Mnemonic courier who carries an implant in his brain which allows him to carry a large amount of data there. But when he accepts a job where he is overloaded with data, he is not only experiencing trouble with getting rid of the data, but also finds that several bounty hunters and crime organizations are after his head and the information stored within. Over 24 hours he jumps around in the city of Newark, trying to find a way to get rid of the data and the bounty hunters.A touch in this movie that many might recognize from the film 'The Matrix' is that in this movie they tend to hook themselves up to the internet, which has become a virtual reality like, àlà The Lawnmower man. But in the end of the film, Keanu's character completly hooks himself up to the internet for a short amount of time, walking around in it and controlling his actions as if he was in another world. Pretty much like he did in the Matrix. Wierd, huh?The film presents a very interesting vision of the future. Coorporations, crime syndicates, virtual-reality, futuristic weapons and the like. The sets look authentic and the look and feel of the film is top-notch. The music seems to fit the mood at all times, too, which is a big plus. The characters are likeable and unique in their own way, but with one exception. Keanu Reeves plays 'Johnny' without any life or energy put into it and delivers his lines flat and in the most boring way. His worst acting job ever? Perhaps. You could tell he didn't like this movie very much.Overall, its a very interesting sci-fi flick which has its ups and downs. The upsides is the setting, the music, the vision of the future etc. etc. while the downsides are Keanu Reeve's acting and sometimes lack of interest in what happens next in the movie. I give it a 7/10. "},{"Title":"One of those films that could (and should) have been better.","Date":"24 May 2003","Score":"24 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  All things considered, this film probably does exactly what it sets out to do. Unfortunately the people behind it set their sights too low. There is so much movie-making potential in Gibsons writing, that this film could very easily have been both entertaining AND carried the depth of his literature. I was left with the feeling that Gibson thought -Well, this is going to be my one chance at getting my work on the big screen. So I'd better stick a little bit of everything I've made in it. Too many of the characters taken from his fiction get mistreated by the script Ralfi, Molly Millions, the-guy-with-the-monowire-thumb, Johnny. Whereas the new ones, like Spider and the Street Preacher are much more entertaining. For example One of the central ideas in the short story was that Johnny is a very technical boy - totally reliant on technology - and therefore actually needs Molly's muscle-power to protect him. Aside from one initial rescue, Johnny actually saves his own bodyguard more times than she helps him (with anything!) Maybe Keanu has a Heroism Clause of his own, like Kevin Kostner... ) A pleasant surprise though, was the appearance of Takeshi Kitano (even if it was a small part.)My favourite scene is Johnnys rant on the rubbish heap. I know it is contrary to the intent of the scene, but I sympathise completely with his feelings. He had sacrificed something that most people hold sacred, in order to live a certain lifestyle, and it gets taken away from him completely undeservedly - no wonder he feels cheated.If you really want Gibsonesque cyberpunk, go for _New Rose Hotel (1998) _ instead.  "},{"Title":"A Surprisingly Well Made Piece of Dark Sci-Fi","Date":"18 July 2011","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Usually when you watch a sci-fi film, the first half usually piques your interest only to sink into a confusing and badly written second half (Star Trek V comes to mind.). Johnny Mnemonic has the unique distinction of having a rather bad first half being saved by the second half. There were moments of badly delivered lines and situations, which I fully blame the director for. There were cuts where the demeanor of Keanu Reeves changed confusingly. Again I blame the director and continuity supervisor. There was, IMHO, more gore than necessary. But that's a matter of taste. And, to make matters worse, I wasn't sure of what I was watching.There was a LOT of good things about the movie. It told a sci-fi story about a dark and bleak future....somewhat similar to Blade Runner. And it did it well. There were an amazing amount of sets, extras, and really well done computer effects. There was even one really well filmed shot in a hospital that reminded me of the long scene from Gone With The Wind showing the dead and dying in the Atlanta train yard. Many of the secondary actors (especially Henry Rollins as Spider and Ice-T as J-Bone) were surprisingly good and helped to raise my rating of the film from an initial 4.0 to an overall 7.0 rating.If you aren't into a lot of foul language and/or gore, I'd steer clear of this film. But if you want to see a surprisingly well made piece of dark sci-fi, this is a film worth giving a chance to watch. "}{"Title":"Camp Prelude","Date":"24 July 2010","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Look, there is no arguing that this movie is dated and is rapidly becoming moreso. However, that does not change the fact that this cyberpunk gem stands firmly between Craig Baldwin's underground Spectres of the Spectrum and the Wachowski's mainstream hit The Matrix as a camp rebellion of digital overload in fetish costuming and grungy spectacle. Gibson provides the meat, Longo provides the gusto. From there, it's only a matter of wishing the acting was better and the graphics more advanced. However, digital effects had to develop somewhere between The Crow and Avatar. Hell, there's still an audience for this why do you think cult filmgoers are turning out in droves for Repo the Genetic Opera, arguably the musical version of this? Keanu Reeves plays an unknown prelude to his Neo role via postlude to his Bill and Ted role. To me, this works. For others, I can see what their problem is. But even beyond that, you still have Takeshi Kitano and Henry Rollins to contend with, and they take to their roles without any hesitation, and the result is good. You also have the, in my mind always appealing, assets in radiowave revolutionaries who fight the corporate machine in dirty reverse-engineered hacker lairs while still finding time to put on fantastic make-up and pleather over mesh clothing, Yakuza gangsters with katanas, guns, and lazer-strengthened piano wire, and tripped out mercenaries looking for a client while desperately staving off a tweaked-out race against time. Oh, and hacker dolphins. YEAH YOU HEARD ME. Hacker dolphins.So hate this movie if you want but this is the roots of all cyberpunk entertainment to me.--PolarisDiB "},{"Title":"Sad waste of potential","Date":"28 December 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" The film is based on William Gibson's short story Johnny Mnemonic and also draws heavily on his later novel Virtual Light. In this film, Keanu Reeves plays a man who smuggles data from cyberspace. 4 years later Keanu Reeves starred as a computer hacker who learns about The Matrix.William Gibson is the writer of this movie and tries to shoehorn several of his concepts into the Johnny Mnemonic movie. The differences will probably annoy Gibsons fans. The biggest problem is that the movie feels like a bunch of ideas thrown together with no real connection. This is a movie with Yakuza killers , fanatic priest , a data decoding dolphin; some girl's soul stuck in a corporate computer system and laser whips. Some of them are cool and work , but most of them don't work at all. The story doesn't really tell anything deep or interesting about the future world.The movie is badly directed by Robert Longo who isn't a professional director , but a&#x85; painter (!). Keanu Reeves can't act and the other actors (including raper Ice-T) are on his level of bad acting. There is one surprisingly good performance here &#x96; Dolph Lundgren who plays fanatic priest. He's a colorful , funny and memorable character , even if he feels out of place here.There are some cool CGI special effects sowing what is going inside in the Internet , even if they feel pointless. The action elements are weak .I give it 3/10. Better watch Strange days instead. "},{"Title":"There's 320GB of data in Johnny's brain, but not much else.","Date":"30 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" This silly cluttered cyberpunk landscape is woefully dated and really just a backdrop for a man on the run picture. Like a B noir, Johnny takes a job that finds himself in over his head, where that head of his is carrying 320gb of data(!) that the Yakuza wants to tear off his shoulders. Keanu Reeves and Dina Meyer add to the cheese with their bland presence and occasionally funny/bad acting and we get some weird scenery chewing from Udo Kier and Dolph Lundgren, who is a Jesus freak bounty hunter also out for Johnny's head. Takeshi Kitano is wasted in a role that doesn't do much, except sit around waiting for others to retrieve his data and his casting seems motivated only for foreign sales. Ice-T plays the lead Lo-Tek, an anti-tech group trying to bring down the system and his role is practically the same (minus the kangaroo makeup) in his other 1995 sci-fi film Tank Girl. Even though Johnny Mnemonic is pretty damn stupid, it is entertaining no matter how misguided it may be and it is one misguided movie. There's a data decoding dolphin; some girl's soul stuck in a corporate computer system; a long and pointless opening credit scroll - since there's loads of expository dialogue explaining everything anyway; laser whips - which seems as dangerous for the user as the victim; and a trip inside the internet, complete with awesome mid 90s virtual reality effects - think Lawnmower Man fx, just slightly less embarrassing. Gibson and director Robert Longo damn the studio for re-editing the film before release, but I can't imagine this footage working no matter what was cut out or shifted around, but as it is, this is dumb pulpy fun. "},{"Title":"Johnny NUMB-onic","Date":"10 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I love Keanu Reeves as much as the next guy (sould I even say that out loud?) but for some reason Johnny Mnemonic did not do it for me. If you want a cyber punk type of movie, do us both a favor and see The Matrix, you'll thank me later. Johnny Mnemonic the short story was really good, but how do you take a few page story and turn it into this movie. I don't know, but somebody did. I know its a cult classic and all, and I will admit that it is an entertaining movie in parts, but some of the scenes drag on and are acted so badly that it pains me to watch it. (thank god for chapter skip) Had it been made later and in a different way, we would all be saying how it is very Matrix-esqe and how it was the greatest movie ever made. But it wasn't, and we're not. This is the type of movie you watch on USA at 3am in the morning while working the grave shift during a 12 hour work day when you WANT to go to sleep. So there, sorry Keanu. "},{"Title":"Future Net","Date":"20 February 2010","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Before The Matrix trilogy, Keanu Reeves starred in this cyberpunk film about a data carrier who gets entangled in a half baked tale of techno-espionage. The film was based on a great short story by legendary author William Gibson (who coined the term cyberspace), but the film itself doesn't have the budget or talent necessary to make Gibson's dystopian future come to life.Today the film is notable for several virtual reality sequences in which Keanu Reeves uses cybernetic gloves to navigate a futuristic version of the internet. Sequences like this were found in many similar films at the time. For example, Hackers, Lawnmower Man, Sneakers, Tron, Blade Runner etc, all have scenes in which heroes use interfaces to enter an image or program and find information. This was a big deal back in the days, but today you can find similar interactive sequences in everything from Virtuosity to Minority Report.Interestingly, the best of these scenes is still Blade Runner, with its rather low tech approach. In Ridley Scott's Blade Runner, Harrison Ford uses a computer to slowly navigate his way through a simple celluloid photograph. Compare this to the wild arm movements, jazzy special effects, needless classical music and loud camera work of Tom Cruise's data scrub in Minority Report. But more importantly, watch how the images in Spielberg's data scrub sequences are two dimensional, and watch how the sequences in Blade Runner and Johnny Mneumonic all stress three dimensional space.6/10 &#x96; The virtual reality sequences in this film were outsourced to another production team, which is why they are the only things, for historical purposes, worth watching here. They're pretty cool sequences, Keanu Reeves literally tearing through a futuristic version of the internet with dancing hands and electronic gloves. One scene can be watched on youtube by typing Johnny Mnemonic Future Internet in the search bar. Before modems and personal computers were commonplace, this is how artists perceived our cyber-future.Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"Johnny can't tell a story without excessive violence, its too bad","Date":"21 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Johnny (Keanu Reeves) lives in 2021. In this world, there is such an overload of technology and instant information from the Internet, that no one's secrets are safe online. For this reason, some men, like Johnny, have had part of their brains removed so that these anatomical parts can hold microchip data. Thus, they are modern couriers who deliver important documents to and fro. Also, the disparity between rich and poor is very prominent, with lots of street people and a few big wigs. Johnny is lucky to be sort of in the middle. One day, Johnny's head is loaded with information from a Japanese firm but there is trouble straight away. First, as Johnny goes to the bathroom, the men who gave him the data are assassinated. Our John barely gets away. Needing the help of some street folks like Jane (Dina Meyer), Spider (Henry Rollins) and J-Bone (Ice-T), the courier learns his brain is way overloaded and he will die if he can't find someone to accept the data. Naturally, the information is ultra-important for the world's health. His boss (Udo Kier) is a double-crosser, so he's no help. Also, a demonic street preacher (Dolph Lundgren) is put on his trail and told to eliminate Johnny. Who will be the last man standing? This story is really intriguing and science fiction fans would love to embrace it wholeheartedly. Unfortunately, the violence is over the top and damages the final product. Reeves does a fine job and looks great while the others do nice work, too, so the viewer does want to keep watching for their sakes. Also of tremendous quality are the special effects and art direction. If you like sci-fi, you might want to give this one a whirl but stay away if blood-and-gore is not your cup of tea. "},{"Title":"The Pre-Neo Neo","Date":"25 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" What can be really said about Keanu Reeves throughout his career? I can't find anything for him to be really proud about except The Matrix Trilogy. And while certainly this has many of those pre-Matrix type kernels, it just didn't go over very well.Keanu plays Johnny, a data smuggler. He loads information into his head and smuggles it. Trouble is, he loads too much into his limited capacity and has to unload it before it kills him.So Reeves goes on an adventure where he meets a woman, of course, and together with another character discover what he is smuggling and how important it is for humanity. Sounds like the Matrix? Yeah to some degrees, but this is loaded with bad directing and corny acting. I wish this did have more intense acting when it had it, but I guess that would have messed up Keanu's hair.This had some good special effects, but not much else to be proud about. Bad acting and bad script are just that. It wasn't a bottom of the barrel script, but it needed lots of improvements.Overall, this was poor. D "},{"Title":"Cyberpunkish little ditty.","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was not expecting much of this movie, but I ended up getting a little more than I had bargained for. Everyone has been saying how bad this movie was, so I guess I was entitled for a great amount of suspicion before seeing it.Cyberpunk isn't really my cup of tea, but as an avid role-player I had some basic information about it. Maybe this fact somewhat softened the blow of implants and other familiar words that kept popping up. Keanu Reeves was very Neoish. I guess that anyone who has seen Matrix before seeing this one, was thinking about Neo all the time. Not that it is an bad thing, that was one of the best things in the whole film.The plot was quite bad, nothing to hold your breath over. There are some exciting moments, but also idiotic dialogue and weird twists of the plot. I was surprised how good some of the FX looked, though. Even though the movie is pretty old, some of the special effects were quite nice, not counting those inside computer -ones.Decent action movie to watch, but not a very good one. It's not as bad as they say, Mnemonic has it's own moments and managed to make me laugh a couple of times.  "},{"Title":"Special effects in the brain are highlights of this movie.","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Johnny (Keanu Reeves) is a special agent mnemonic courier in 2021, wet-wired brain implants allow them to upload and smuggle large bases of data for a fee. The affliction in the world is now NAS, or nerve attenuation syndrone. Johnny needs one more big job to afford a full restoration of his brain, with removal of the silicon implants. SPOILER -- The big job is a 320 gigabite upload of evil PharmaKom's cure for NAS. They conceal the cure because it is more profitable to treat those afflicted. Problem for Johnny is, his implant, even with his doubling upgrade in the elevator in Bejing, can safely handle only 160 gigs. But, he needs the money, takes the chance.Over in newark he teams up with Jane (pretty Dina Meyer), who is a bouncer but suffers from NAS. There are lots of bad guys trying to get Johnny's head (literally) for the implant, and some good guy hackers, part of the LoTeks, who are trying to help with a download even though they don't have access to the complete security code. Help comes from an intelligent fish in a tank, looks like a stylized porpoise. Meanwhile Johnny and Jane fall in love.In the end they are successful, the download is broadcast for all to benefit, presumably Jane gets cured, she and Johnny live happily ever after.Not a particularly good movie, but I give it 6 partly because of the great special effects simulating the uploads and downloads inside the brain.  Truly innovative. Dolph Lundgren plays a particularly bad guy (come to Jesus with a knife in his hand). Ice-T plays a good guy. The future world, only 20 years away now, looks dark and dirty, a mix of devastation and high-tech weapons.  Too much of a one-trick movie, avoid the bad guys and save the world. "},{"Title":"I love any and all Sci-Fi anything.","Date":"17 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I like this film. The ending was lame but most are in my opinion. I like Sci-Fi movies from the rubber suited aliens to the control lights flashing madly for no apparent reason except for effect. Let's face it, in any given year there are few Sci-Fi movies made. Look at the long lists of movies made and there might be a Sci-Fi movie amongst them. Horror does far better with at least three or four a year. Sci-Fi has been a subjective genre and will probably remain so. After all, the future-present seems so dull, mundane and exploited when you're living in it (planes, cars, tanks, computers, internet).Specifically about this movie I like the stark opening on the Main Character. He desperately, angrily, wants the money to get his memories back and do it right. The perfect setup for the risk he decides to take. The exposition dialogue on this point could be  better but it got the point across (again and again) what was at stake and why. He was so desperate that he was willing to risk his life to obtain HIS goal.Then we have the usual introduction of characters and the running, fighting and hiding.  Each step of the way he is always closer to getting that thing out of his head and renewing his childhood memories.I agree with the other comments regarding the Main Character's desires whil e standing on a garbage heap and his life looks like garbage -- he will never live to enjoy his childhood again, nor the physical comforts he thinks he wants.The lo-techs vs.  the corporate is an old theme with maybe another angle. It sets the backdrop for the overall story, the good and the bad fighting for control. The corporate side I liked. The lo-tech side was the usual, nothing new.What I liked about the corporate side was the ancient use of the god-like conscience represented by the woman in the computer. The one who nags the corporate head to help the lo-techs for his absolution in the memory of his dead daughter.The god-like conscience character is rarely used in American drama, but heavily honored by Asians. I have always liked this dramatic element even when demonstrated in the classical Greek. How can we define good and evil when it is beyond our control and understanding? Thus is an Asian view, as well as the ancient world, of the meaning of life. The doll white face and the near obliteration of any human features just as in the face masks worn in the ancient Greek dramas or in the ancient art of Kabuki.Like I said, I like all Sci-Fi. It is too rare. As I illustrated above there were plenty of good dramatic elements and shots to make the movie enjoyable. Even the lame stuff has its own entertainment&#133; just as good as rubber suited aliens. "}{"Title":"Okay if rather dated Keanu Reeves Cyberpunk","Date":"11 August 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" In a future where data is power, protagonist Johnny makes a living smuggling the data in his own brain. The upgrades enabling him to do this meant removing some of his own memories and now he is ready to retire and wants them back&#x85; inevitably he must do just one more job first. The job involves carrying stolen data from Beijing to Newark, New Jersey. There are two problems though; firstly there is more data than he is equipped to handle so he will die if it isn't extracted in forty eight hours and secondly the original owners of the data want it back and have sent Yakuza killers after him to retrieve his head! Once in Newark he learns that his employer has double-crossed him; he is forced to go on the run with cybernetically enhanced bodyguard Jane to find somebody else capable of extracting the data and delivering it to those who need it.This film had promise but unfortunately ends up fairly average. The world shown is a cliché dystopia; the corporate elite live the good life and dress in sharp suits while everybody else seems to live in a wasteland in rough clothes and sporting facial tattoos. Keanu Reeves is okay as Johnny, and Udo Kier is amusing as his agent but Takeshi Kitano is wasted as the corporate bad guy. The computer special effects are fairly dated now. If you can ignore these flaws or even enjoy their cheesiness the film isn't too bad. Overall I'd say it is an okay way to kill an hour and a half but if you want a really good cyberpunk film from that era watch 'Ghost in the Shell' or 'The Matrix'. "},{"Title":"That Does Not Compute!....","Date":"8 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Like - WHAT THE HELL HAPPENED HERE??!! This Sci-Fi/Action/Thriller sure could have been about 10 zillion times better.Johnny Mnemonic certainly had oodles, and oodles of potential. I think that it could've easily been considered a kick-ass contender for a prime position right up there alongside The Matrix. But, unfortunately, this flick went nowhere. And it went there, fast.Set in the year 2021 where filth and ugliness prevails - Johnny is a 'Mnemonic Data Carrier' carrying 320 gigabytes of ultimately crucial information contained on a memory chip that has been surgically implanted directly into his brain. At this point, Johnny's information storage capacity is dangerously overloaded.Pursued by ruthless agents and deadly cyborgs, Johnny must deliver this all-important data to Newark within 24 hours, or else he must die.Johnny Mnemonic, most certainly, had a truly fascinating premise that if handled properly could've ranked it right up there with some of the best Sci-Fi films of all time. But, instead, all we are offered was a film that ranked right down there with some of the worst from that genre, ever. I'm not joking.Johnny Mnemonic is an utterly forgettable flick filled to overflowing with totally uninteresting characters mouthing laughable dialogue set against the back-drop of a hideous landscape of urban hell. "},{"Title":"Haha,,,","Date":"9 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Again, how many people saying this is such a bad movie... I haven't read all the messages, of curse, but I read nothing about the art direction. A great work, for a commercial - standard movie, in creating a barroque and decadent future - yes, it was many years after Blade Runner, but still, all the secondary characters, veichles, extras etc. were built with care (in art-direction terms)... a lot of work. Not a very low budget movie, and if it is, well, I would say well done. Computer fantasy are dull, OK. But the premonition of a virtual-reality based computer is OK, in itself. The final virtual battle is just a bubble of visual effects, but... everyone I saw are. As in many science-fiction movies, one knows that in the book, there were much more things. But it happens to most movies The Lord of the Rings in the first place. And Star Wars, despite all, is just a very simple story, remade from a lot more (ah, how I would like an Asimov's Empire movie!). And few say they are bad because of that. Here comes the spoiler Johnny recovers his childhood memories at the end, and someone asked how could it be. It is funny. When I first saw the movie, I assumed that he was the son of the corporation's founder, the woman that was in the computer, that helps him to decode the information providing the missing image. This is a normal filmic way to express things when possible, use visual instead of dialog. So, in the process, she dies but gives Johnny his childhood memories (he is shown to be born in a very, very rich family, with a blonde mother that could very well be this woman). Now, the funny thing is maybe it is NOT the author's idea, but it gives coherence to the entire film. The problem is nobody / nothing confirms this. But it is so common to see how movies don't explain things, that it didn't surprise me. I just enjoyed the right dose of originality, action, and, yes, Reeves' acting. People who criticize him don't take into account the crisis under the bridge, that was at least OK, and, on the contrary, don't mention the movements he makes in order to re asset himself after the overload, in the very beginning... that can be easily seen as ridiculous. As an actor, to perform such ta-chi like movements is a risk, and I respect that (even if them DID seem kind of ridiculous to me!).By the other side, we admired a lot of stone face characters, like Reno in his wonderful the assassin, to mention a single example among thousands, without complaining... So take it easy. Don't expect great philosophy and coherence, and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Unforgettably awful - 28%","Date":"23 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I firmly believe that few things age worse than bad sci-fi. You only need to look at the likes of Demolition Man or Total Recall to realise that a vision of the future is only as contemporary as when it was formed. TV sci-fi ages very badly - nobody I know thinks Buck Rogers In The 25th Century is cutting edge these days. Not knowing William Gibson or being familiar with his work, something tells me that this decidedly old-skool sci-fi tosh will be remembered for all the wrong reasons. Virtually every sci-fi cliché you can think of is present and correct so if you want imaginative and exciting sci-fi action then look elsewhere.In the future, the world is split between vast corporations who control almost everything and the unfortunate civilian population who have no technology and suffer from a mysterious disease called NAS. Amid this dystopian future, a young man named Johnny (Keanu Reeves) has sacrificed his childhood memories in order to be able to transport data in his head. After uploading a massive file into his brain, Johnny finds himself hunted by the Yakuza led by Shinji (Dennis Akayama) and by an insane cyborg priest (a hilarious Dolph Lundgren). Can Johnny find the access codes to get the information out of his head before it kills him or before the audience drift off into an unconcerned sleep?Looking and feeling like a mid-Eighties relic, Johnny Mnemonic displays more imagination in its casting than it does with anything else. This is another post-apocalyptic future that looks like a discarded and forgotten corner of the Blade Runner set and despite the writing pedigree, the whole thing feels dated and ripped off from almost any other sci-fi film you can think of. Even the tragically dated 3D representation of cyberspace looks little better than The Lawnmower Man. As I've said, the casting is eclectic to say the least - Ice-T, Takeshi Kitano (noooo!) and Henry Rollins are unlikely to work together again and to be honest, that is something we can all take comfort in. Reeves is typically bad and you'd expect that but what you don't expect is Dolph Lundgren hamming it up in a bizarre role as a cyborg street preacher acting as an assassin. Taken as a whole, this is a frankly hilariously bad sci-fi film with little new ideas and less acting quality.It is difficult to find praise with Johnny Mnemonic which really doesn't offer anything in the way of entertainment value. It felt, to me, like a bad graphic novel that had somehow been made into a film. At least a graphic novel could evoke more emotion from a reader than Reeves does in this - he comes across as a selfish, arrogant man who really wouldn't be missed if he died or not. By the time the ending came around (which, frankly, came as a relief), I'd lost all trace of enthusiasm for the movie. I didn't care whether it all came good or not. I split my sides every time Lundgren appeared - maybe he's auditioning for the WWE? Reeves has rarely stooped as low as he did here but consider this your warning if you choose to watch this then you will kick yourself for not listening to others. For once, believe the hype - this film is less fun than a migraine. "},{"Title":"Bad, but hey, what can you do?","Date":"27 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  You know, really, the cyberpunk genre is so slim for pickings (at least in film format), that even though I *knew* this movie was going to be bad, I still rented it and watched it.Having read the short story (and just about everything else William Gibson has written), I knew what to expect, but I found it interesting how elements from his other works were incorporated into Johnny Mnemonic, such as the bartender with the artificial arm (Neuromancer), the bridge (Virtual Light and All Tommorrow's Parties), etc, etc.I found the fact that they *totally* dumbed down Molly Millions (Jane's) charachter rather upsetting... she was totally kickass in the books, and she was turned into kind of a ditzy 80's chick for the movie. Didn't even have the handrazors (All in all, it was a total fluff movie. No real merit. Bad acting. Bad special effects (though the matrix bits were okay). Inconsistent plot (compared to the book), and so on..... but, it was entertaining. Maybe I'm just a sucker for bad films, but I'd watch it again. If you're into cyberpunk you'll enjoy the matrix scenes, and its not like you have all that many other movies to choose from.Now, someone needs to go make a decent movie out of Snow Crash or Neuromancer or something. "},{"Title":"Garbage","Date":"21 October 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I agree with all reviewers that think this move is awful. My two cents  from all the things they ruined from the original story, I cannot forgive the two characters that made the William Gibson short story a showcase of the cyberpunk universe  Molly! instead of the ultra-cool and lethal street samurai, with surgically implanted lenses and other gadgets, we get a common hysterical and drooling mess. The other is the Yakuza assassin  instead of the quiet, polite, cloned (and VERY lethal) ninja, we get a common karate thug. I don't understand why they mixed elements from several Gibson books, only to get a confusing mix. The bridge converted to a outcast-city is taken from Virtual Light, the cyberspace run is taken from Neuromancer, it is no mentioned in the original story. Johnny is only a data storage device, he was never a hacker.Avoid at all costs and read Burning Chrome instead (for the original short story). "},{"Title":"A must-see for the sci-fi fan !","Date":"7 May 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The first real cyber-punk movie ever with commercial success. The movie is certainly NOT full of clichés, since it is the first of its kind - a trend-setter for all cyber-punk movies to come. Although the manuscript could benefit from a few extra hours of work, the movie itself and the concept behind it, is the perfect school for Keanu Reeves to learn his role as Neo in The Matrix. Set your mind free, and allow your imagination to take over... just for a little while. This movie is certainly no less realistic than The Matrix, and a `must-see' for any science fiction fan !!! "},{"Title":"If you thought Hackers was a pile of poop, you're in for a real feast here.","Date":"23 June 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is honestly the worst movie I've seen all year. It features all the futuristic crap you'd expect from an Internet movie. If you thought Hackers was a pile of poop with all its cyber-space mumbo jumbo, you're in for a real feast here.First of all, Keanu can't act. He's quite possibly the worst popular actor of our time. We all agree on this. It also has horrible and too long and boring computer animations of what goes on inside the Internet, and an arguably ridiculous plot where the hero must upload twice his capacity into his brain in order to afford to get his childhood memories back. Wow!I might've rated this movie a 0 if it was possible, but a scene including a dead guy near the end made me smile, earning it a single point from me!1/10  "},{"Title":"Visual design does not a movie make","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"13 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one hell of a piece of cinematic achievement if you watch it with the sound turned off.  I'd recommend some Warren Zevon and Nine Inch Nails for aural texture.The film LOOKS great from start to finish; very dark and dystopian, with high-tech present even in the garbarge and stunning wealth cheek-by-jowl with grinding poverty.  Trouble is, that's already been done, and done better, in Ridley Scott's Blade Runner, some thirteen years earlier.Other than an attempted screenplay for the Aliens series of movies, William Gibson hasn't had other fruitful contact with that bitch of a whore called Hollywood (as Sir Laurence Olivier put it).  His stories are rich in visual references, but the minimalist dialogue that drives them doesn't help much in translating the stories to the screen.  Johnny Mnemonic could have been an exception if it had (a) stuck to the original story much more closely and (b) conceded the need to by a shorter movie in accordance with the story's limits rather than introduce subplots. "},{"Title":"The Future Looks Disappointing...","Date":"20 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Johhny Mnemonic's biggest enemy wasn't the Yakuza, PharmCom, NAS, or Dolph Lundgren. It was the dreaded bad sci-fi movie script that seems to plague a large number of otherwise promising films. The plot is more subtle than the instant, intense visuals let on (and this is where a lot of people seem to trip up as they do not see past the cheese) and the movie stands up well to multiple viewings. The performances in the film are pretty descent, with Henry Rollins who is on top of it, as the doctor Spider. Dolph Lundgren is at his psychotic best as the mercenary Street Preacher, and Ice-T is righteous and driven as the rebel leader J-Bone.All in all, this movie tries to do a lot of things and fails. It fails to be the feature-length version of the short story. It fails to be epic. It fails to be soul-searching, but succeeds at being preachy. And it also fails to be entertaining..Overall rating 5 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Helped to set the stage for The Matrix (1999) and beyond","Date":"14 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Johnny Mnemonic, released in 1995, had a lot of things going for it, with just as many things working against it. Terminator 2 Judgment Day (1991) had made a critical and commercial breakthrough in CGI special effects, and the visually dazzling The Lawnmower Man in 1992 helped to continue the trend. The Lawnmower Man was one of the earliest cyber-thrillers of the 1990s, picking up on the increasing relevance of computer technology and the nascent Internet craze (as well as the rising popularity of Japanese Anime'), thus paving the way for CGI special effects-laden cyber-thrillers like Johnny Mnemonic to make another breakthrough.Johnny Mnemonic was a critical and commercial disappointment, but the film has nonetheless gained something of a cult status - again due largely to the underground cyberpunk sub-genre of science fiction, and, of course, the landmark breakthrough success of The Matrix (1999), which brought all this stuff together (amongst other influences from disparate genres) in one epic 136-minute feature and effectively legitimized cyberpunk and science fiction for the new millennium.In that regard, Johnny Mnemonic wasn't so much a failed effort as it was a premature one. Put simply, despite the underground popularity of cyberpunk and the increasing visibility of the computer hacker subculture, critics and audiences simply may not have been ready for this film - and aside from the usual quibbles with hammy dialogue and spotty direction. I was 10 in 1995, and vaguely recall the previews for this movie, and not paying any attention to it - because my mind was focused elsewhere. But I've seen the film off and on over the years, and after seeing The Matrix and reading up a little bit on cyberpunk, it becomes much easier to make the connection to Johnny Mnemonic (as well as the Anime' classic Ghost in the Shell, which came out the same year as this film, and 1982's Blade Runner).Science fiction author William Gibson - who wrote the seminal cyberpunk novel Neuromancer in 1984 - wrote the screenplay for Johnny Mnemonic, which is adapted from one of his short stories. Robert Longo directed the film, and it stars Keanu Reeves, who at that time was hot off the success of Speed from one year before in 1994. Reeves may have been this film's other hindrance, which critics most likely picked up on.I've been saying for years that Reeves is an actor who knows his strengths and his weaknesses, and knows what he can and can't do as a performer - yet not everybody, critics and directors alike, seem aware of that. That doesn't necessarily make him a bad actor, but it shows that he's honest, and that he's more aware of his abilities than most people are willing to admit. But that's just my opinion; I'm sure others feel completely different about it.The film is set in January of 2021 - just five years from now - and is set at first in Beijing and later Newark, New Jersey. Reeves plays the title character, a wet-wired data courier (basically, a human hard drive) who is able to carry digitized data via a computer chip implant in his brain. At the beginning of the film, Japanese businessmen hire him to carry a large, classified data package to New Jersey, but just as the process is completed, assassins working for the Yakuza (Japanese mafia) come in and kill the executives. Johnny manages to barely escape with his life.Johnny then learns that the classified data that was downloaded into his head is too much for his brain to carry (320 gigabytes, which is apparently double the amount he can safely handle), and will kill him in two or three days time if it's not removed in time. Hounded by the Yakuza, who are led by a ruthless assassin named Shinji (Denis Akiyama, who carries a very lethal weapon to do his kills), as well as a crazed Street Preacher (Dolph Lundgren), Johnny has nowhere to turn to - with everyone, wanting his head served on a silver platter, literally, to Japanese pharmaceutical executive Takahashi (Takeshi) - except for a wannabe-bodyguard named Jane (Dina Meyer), an ex-doctor named Spider (Henry Rollins), and rebel leader J-Bone (Ice-T).There are action sequences and there are special effects - most of which would be considered laughable with today's advances in CGI technology, but were pretty state-of-the-art at the time of this film's release just 21 years ago. The film is by no means perfect, but it's really impressive to see Keanu Reeves in a cyber-thriller made just four years before he took the Red Pill in The Matrix and would change everything as we know it. But he's not Neo yet, and he can't defy gravity in bullet time - yet.Johnny Mnemonic works best as a time capsule, and as perhaps a launching pad for future ideas, the same ideas that had been popular in cyberpunk science fiction for years by that point, but would not reach popular, mainstream acceptance for another four years.^ Whoa, at that last statement.P.S. That Anime' film that the Japanese businessmen are watching at the beginning of the movie is Demon City Shinjuku (1988). LOL!7/10 "},{"Title":"one of the best underrated films of the 90's","Date":"3 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Johnny Mnemonic has probably the strangest production history i ever heard of. originally planned as a low-budget art-house film with William Gibson's vision from his short novel and Robert Longo new york artist and painter to direct this feature despite having little to no experience with directing films. everyone rejected that project even independent studios didn't want to fund it. and again somehow they struck a deal with sony pictures under their sister company Tristar for 30 million to make a cyberpunk action film.Gibson was forced to sacrifice his original screenplay to appeal to wider audience and changing major plot points from his novel. which ruined his reputation on screen writing in Hollywood. Johnny (Keanu Reeves) is mnemonic courier data storage device implanted into his brain to carry classified or useful information for his buyers, but everything goes wrong when he makes a deal with a bodyguard agent (Udo Kier) to get an upgrade for more storage for him which later reveals that information that Johnny received links to the Yakuza's operation lead by Takahashi (Takeshi Kitano) who wants Johnny dead before they uncover the truth about a their operations related to a lethal disease that cause many deaths. the cast is surprisingly good, sure Keanu's hockey dialogue and stupid moments are here, but he's hilarious, delivering funny lines of dialogue sometimes. Dina Meyer's major film debut is probably the best actress/character in the film she's likable, bad-ass, strong female lead and helps johnny more times then the other way around which is rare for mainstream blockbusters.Legendary Japanese actor Takeshi Kitano in his only English speaking role in Hollywood feature film which is also very minor, playing the main villain, despite given very little screen-time and dialogue he's performance shows how great he is. rebel-hacker J-Bone (Ice-T) also gave a good performance an improvement in terms of his acting and let's no forget the best character of the film Karl (Dolph Lundgren) the psychotic street preacher, delivering his lines is gold mine of awesomeness. despite the criticism the film received over the years, it's not a bad science fiction film at all, i had a lot going for it. it suffered from poor direction, pacing and a lot of studio interference. the US version (97 min.) does not do the film justice at all, the out of place music, some plot points and characters development scenes have been cut, and some of the violence have trimmed for an R rating. thankfully there is a Japanese Cut (103 min.) a much better version, slightly better pacing, much better music, character development, Takeshi Kitano and Dolph Lundgren's characters scenes are restored (in the US version both are barely in the film, almost all their scenes have been cut completely despite Lundgren getting top-billing in the credits!). "},{"Title":"The BEST - WORST movie may someday be a cult classic","Date":"21 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is so bad it is hysterical! I should preface this by saying on the anniversary of our wedding my wife and I went to see this picture when it was first released and IT WAS AWFUL! NO REALLY at first release this movie is HORRIBLE. When we left the theater we were almost in tears laughing at how we had picked a movie so bad.We recant the story from time to time until 20 years later my daughter wanted to see really how bad it was. We all laughed thru the entire movie .... it is HYSTERICAL! The whole movie is like watching a parody of other really bad movies! It is worse than the Saturday Afternoon Kungfu Theater style movie where the voices do not like up with the actors words! To me this is one of the funniest movies of its kind!This MOVIE IS SO BAD IT IS FUN TO WATCH! My Kids think it's great, The actors are all people they know and can laugh at. If you watch this with the idea it is a straight movie that is suppose to be serious, you will be disappointed....watch it and be ready to laugh and you might find a new movie to share, with other people who have a warped sense of humor! "},{"Title":"Collapse of the American Dream","Date":"19 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" One of the most telling things about this film is its depiction of North America and the Sprawl. I've always thought of the Sprawl as being part of a single country, rather like MegaCity One in Judge Dredd, but since part of it is referred to here as a free city, clearly it has now become city states, leading one to speculate on the fate of the US. This is key to Gibson's vision of a failed American dream.The atmosphere of the film itself hearkens back to Bladerunner and Mad Max in that something has failed and the future is old. It differs markedly from Mad Max, however, in its level of technology. The other, really big thing about it is its iconic depiction of the internet of the 2020s which occurs about half way through. I think all of us who have been influenced by Gibson's work, and since we're here on IMDb that does literally mean _all_ of us, would recognise this depiction. It's exactly as i imagined it in 1982 when i read Burning Chrome when it was first published.Johnny himself is played vacuously by Reeves. Whether this is intentional, it works on the grounds that he has no past, making him shallow, a detail borrowed from Philip K. Dick rather than the original story, but it works.One thing which doesn't work is Jones, but it's hard to see how that could have been done well and, ironically, that probably works better in print than in any other medium.Rather too much action for my cerebral tastes, but a good effort which is quite seminal and, oddly, early cyberpunk in cinema after the end of cyberpunk in written SF. "},{"Title":"A Man With A Load On His Mind","Date":"25 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I always like to think of cyberpunk as film noir with less likable characters, technological knobs on, and the occasional aspiration towards social commentary. However, like most things with strong and frequently recurring character types (read clichés but to be fair, which movie doesn't have those?), these things only succeed well with a mainstream audience if given the right treatment.Sadly this movie never rises above a b-movie sensibility - a fact not necessarily due to the size of the production budget. In fact, the budget-wise this film is more in the ball-park of The Terminator than that of The Matrix (of which the latter seems a lazy but still-too-obvious comparison for some to resist). But of course, rising above financial constraints to create a watershed or at least standout moment in cinema usually requires either a more experienced director or an individual possessed of unique vision and the ability to translate it well to screen - both of which fail to appear under the helmage of Robert Longo (for whatever reasons).I'd also like to hope that William Gibson's status as founding father of cyberpunk hasn't deluded him into thinking he can stop writing characters and instead insert genre clichés in the hopes that no one notices - but his script doesn't give me much hope. A slick way of writing is one thing, and indeed, great for books, but on screen it helps to give your characters more depth than a puddle, and something more audience-relatable rather than just being bipedal.. Outside of Johnny (a half blank individual by necessity-of-plot) and Jane (your typical down-on-her-luck/sympathetic heroine who crosses paths with the main anti-hero), very little is given to the supporting characters to work with. Udo Kier's Ralfi oozes the kind of hairsbreadth recourse to treachery so obvious you don't have to wonder too hard why he could only make a living peddling individuals with half their brains missing; Henry Rollins' Spider is irate about the rampant technology increasingly glutting humanity's veins (in the film's case, literally) and yet is still very much dependent on it, and indeed proud of the 'work' it allows him to produce - to the extent that it seems hypocritical at best, laughable at worst; Ice-T's J-Bone just seems bored with it all as the leader of 'Heaven' a group of 'lo-tech' outsiders who keep themselves vaguely entertained by messing with the larger population's satellite-feed - although you might be inclined to feel bored along with him if his followers are the loyal but half-witted twits the movie makes them appear to be; and Takeshi Kitano's Takahashi just isn't given much outside of being a grieving Yakuza who wouldn't recognize his own emotions if they shook hands and introduced themselves. In fact, most of the characters introduced seem to be outmoded and largely upstaged by their own technological enhancements. Indeed, if this was a theme the movie was shooting for, I'd have to say it does an impressive job representing it. All this said, if you don't mind being irreverent about it, the film's by no means an entire waste of time.Keanu Reeves does represent Johnny's dedication to sensual pleasure and consumer trappings in the absence of actual personality, and memory, though in characteristic fashion, he plays Johnny as an exercise in subtraction, making him seem somewhat more subdued than might be suitable for this kind of movie (poor action pictures tend to demand, if not necessitate a certain degree of scenery chewing). That said, he does, thankfully, increase Johnny's intensity as time goes on post-upload so that you do get the sense of a guy with a headache that can only increase exponentially before killing him entirely - which, by the way, culminates in said character's delightful hissy fit atop of a backwater garbage heap.In fact, J-Bone's amusement at Johnny's brattish incredulity when he finally meets Jones is probably the most emotion that character shows for the entire film.Dina Meyers makes Jane sympathetic enough to somewhat suspend any wonderings as to why or how she got the way she did - by choice, freak accident, or desperation? That said, the tone of the entire film makes you less and less inclined to care but I will say she evinced as much emotion as could feasibly called upon her character to have.So finally, I'll say that while I generally like being dropped into a character's world, and observing what occurs there, without a relatable cast or character to navigate said world any film - but especially this one - would require at least one or two of the following to tide over an audience with no prior genre investment1. Witty dialogue; 2. A consistent aesthetic, i.e. a distinctive and pleasing visual style - as it was the environments required were poorly rendered into a kind of non-descript collage of grand hotel interiors, and scrap-metal urbanism; 3. Sustained tone, i.e. the audience should at least feel something more than bored with the world they're viewing; 4. A sufficiently interesting subplot or - in absence of that - subtext.I honestly can't say Johnny Mnemonic carries any of the above in consistent manner. There are moments of humour to be sure, but one ends up feeling these aren't entirely the moments of amusement intended by those involved.As it is, the film feels like nothing more than an over-elaborate advert for the author's work. "},{"Title":"Seriously, Billy...","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I like William Gibson's writing a lot. Now, I realize that Gibson himself (who wrote the original short story Johnny Mnemonic) wrote the screenplay for this piece of garbage, but what was he doing to his fans? Did he FORGET what happened in the short story? Perhaps the movie was originally similar to the story but was horribly disfigured on the cutting room floor, I don't know. All I DO know is that not only did he write in the most ridiculously laughable bad guy I have EVER seen (Dolph Lundgren's Assassin Monk Cyborg Moron), but he replaced an important recurring character from his other works, Molly Millions, with some chick named Jane who, incidentally, acts a lot like Molly. Even the characters that were supposed to be the Lo Teks were horribly misconstrued. The Lo Teks were supposed to be presented as crude, toting simple guns and sporting savage canine implants. They did not possess a supercomputer to disrupt the system. They were hiding, not rebelling. Hollywood even demolished the innate moral of the short story. The theme of the original story is that of technology defeating itself in the end, despite the odds being stacked against Johnny and Molly. True, the original story isn't long enough to warrant a feature length production, but I think the production staff took the term artistic license a little too literally. Need another example of a terrible Gibson adaptation? See if you can find the unproduced screenplay of Neuromancer online. It's pathetic.  "},{"Title":"The most entertainingly horrible movie ever made.","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a particularly difficult movie to describe.  I have long been of the opinion that Keanu Reeves is one of the worst actors alive in Hollywood today because of his constant over-seriousness and habitually poor delivery, but in this movie, he totally outdoes himself.Even if one were able to ignore Mr. Reeves' painful acting (which is extremely difficult in this movie, trust me), the rest of the cast is almost as bad, adding up to a whole slew of badly delivered lines; although, to be fair, I'm not sure the lines were written in such a way as to be delivered well... I'm afraid I'll have to say that the only believable part in this movie is that of J-Bone, played by Ice-T who portrays the thug-with-a-heart-of-gold quite well.The plot is neither anything special nor anything terrible; it's a fairly typical sci-fi premise with a bit of a neat twist man has portion of his memory removed in order to smuggle data for shady corporations.  What could be a valid idea, though, is, as I've mentioned, put through a rather nasty ringer by trite dialog and extremely poor acting.All this having been said, I have now seen this movie three times, and actually purchased it so I can see it again and again.  There's just something about the serious intensity thrust upon the role of Johnny by Keanu Reeves that never fails to leave me laughing myself to tears.  With unforgettable lines like YOU got parents and stuff? and I WANT ROOMSERVICE! it never fails to bring a smile.So, if you're looking for a techno-sci-fi-thriller... see the Matrix (Mr. Reeves' first good movie since Bill and Ted), but if you're looking for a ridiculous comedy that will leave you in stitches... Johnny's your man. "},{"Title":"Unfaithfully Yours","Date":"8 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This adaptation of William Gibson's short story is about as unfaithful as you can get. This is all the more surprising because Gibson was involved with the project.Reeves is terrible as Johnny, the courier. He apparently used this role as a dress rehearsal for the Matrix movies, because he provides a credible performance in them. If only he were that inspired here! His wooden performance is perfectly matched by his featureless dialog.For me, what was really missing is the Molly Millions character. In Gibson's fiction, she is the perfect bodyguard / warrior / woman. Here we have a pathetic bodyguard that has serious medical problems. Maybe it's just a guy thing, but Angela Basset's character from Strange Days or Thandee Newton's perfromance from MI2 is more of what I have in mind when I envision Molly.If you read the short story in the Burning Chrome anthology, stay away from the movie, you'll be very disappointed with the adaptation. If you never read the story, read it and forget about the movie. You'll be glad you read the story and sad if you see the movie. "},{"Title":"Underrated Sci-Fi Cyberpunk decent Action Flick from the 90's","Date":"30 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" My review of the underrated cyberpunk film, Johnny Mnemonic(1995) starring Keanu Reeves, Dina Meyer, Ice-T, Takeshi Kitano, Denis Akiyama, Dolph Lundgren, Henry Rollins, Barbara Sukowa, and Udo Kier. Johnny Mnemonic is a 1995 American cyberpunk sci-fi action film directed by Robert Longo. It was loosely based on the short story Johnny Mnemonic by William Gibson.Keanu Reeves plays the title character, a man with a cybernetic brain implant designed to store information. The film portrays Gibson's dystopia view of the future with the world dominated by mega corporations and with strong East Asian influences. Seriously this movie kicks ass. Keanu Reeves and Dina Meyer are awesome. I love when An assassin try's to kill Johnny he aim his gun on his back and says Time to die and Johnny says Time and he switch's his watch and the bomb explodes. Dina Meyer as body guard Jane throws a grenade and kills a few assassins. Dina Meyer also co started in her latest movie in the 90's Starship Troopers unfortunately her character in that movie was killed. I really love Dolph Lundgren as Street Preacher It's Jesus time! HALT SINNERS! Dolph shows up after next 45.mins. in the movie I wish he would have showed earlier. He's acting is still pretty good. Ice-T and Udo Kier did a great performance in their roles. This movie is very underrated an solid Action flick I wish there would be more Action flick like are this today. In my opinion The Matrix and Johnny Mnemonic are my top 2 best Action Sci-fi flicks from Keanu Reeves of the 90's. Movies like are this don't exist today anymore. The film was shot on location in Canada, with Toronto and Montreal filling in for the film's Newark, New Jersey and Beijing settings. A number of local monuments, including Toronto's Union Station and Montreal's skyline and Jacques Cartier Bridge, feature prominently.The film premiered in Japan first on April 15, 1995, with a longer version (103 Min's) that is closer to the director's cut and features a previously composed score by Mychael Danna, different editing, and more scenes with Japanese star Takeshi Kitano and Dolph Lundgren notably. Val Kilmer was originally set to star, but left the project after he was offered the role of Batman in Batman Forever.The character Molly Millions, from the original story, was changed to Jane for the film. They are very similar characters except that Molly had retractable razor blades under her fingernails and augmented vision. It is believed that the change was due to the Molly character being attached to the rights for any possible future Neuromancer film adaptation.The script was rumored to have been dumped on the doorstep of Keanu Reeves' house, a tactic that piqued his interest and led to him accepting the role of Johnny.B.J. Rack, one of the producers, is still credited although he left the project due to creative differences with director Robert Longo First of all, the prologue is different and more poignant. Here it is, in this exact formNew century. Age of terminal capitalism.The armored towers of multinational corporations rise above the ruins of the democracies that gave them birth.Soldiers of the Yakuza defend them.Hackers, data-pirates, LoTek media rebels are the enemy, burrowing like rats in the walls of cyberspace.A new plague convulses the cities Nerve Attenuation Syndrome, incurable, fatal, epidemic, bringing fear and misery as old as the species itself.But the most precious data is sometimes entrusted to elite private agents, wet wired to function as human data banks.Mnemonic couriers.10/10 "},{"Title":"Pretty Good Film, but has errors","Date":"1 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Johnny Mnemonic has its moments. It is actually pretty good. It received terrible reviews, mainly for moving too far away from original story, and film critics just hated it. Its funny at times, with comments like calling Johnny Just Johnny (by character spider played by Henry Rollins)after Johnny (Keanu Reeves)says his name is just Johnny. The data-carrying story is near OK, and the action pace is great. The film does have errors though - some pretty big ones. The writing is not very good. The year is supposed to be 2021, yet J-bone (Ice-T) tells his viewers to get all their VCRs ready.. VCRS? Really? In the year 2021? Nope. Also When Johnny is telling the Pharmakon underground that when the Data is transferred into head he tells them you will fax a copy to Newark FAX? There are no Faxes in the year 2021. The writers were using 1990s terminally. Otherwise, the film is okay, especially the action and special effects. The Japanese version is longer with more footage of actor Takeshi Kitano (character of Takahashi)as he is very popular in Japan. The Killer, (character Shinji) of the Yakusa Japanese mafia does a great job with his skills (or lack of english skills).... "}{"Title":"Really disappointing effort!","Date":"9 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Admittedly after having read the short story of the same name along with a number of William Gibson's other books I approached this film with some preconceptions which I'd resolved to shelve and actively ignore if possible. I think I did this reasonably well.The reason I give this film three stars is because it is a bad film even by the rather dubious standards of the action genre in the 90s.The Jane/Molly character is just plain irritating and seems to be suffering from some sort of meth-created paranoid funk most of the time - certainly not somebody who would inspire confidence as a cool-as-ice razor-girl bodyguard. Keanu Reeves, who I generally like despite his limited acting range, is unusually wooden and seems to be going through the motions for a big fat pay cheque both on and off screen. The rest of the cast turn in performances fit for a straight-to-video/TV movie directed by teens. The only exception is Udo Kier as Ralfi who is typically convincing as a sinister Peter Lorre like fence\agent\pimp because of his appearance.I was inspired to watch the DVD on the basis of other reviews which suggested 'tweren't too bad. Maybe if you haven't read the story, it's tolerable as a piece of rainy day, diversionary drivel. Otherwise approach with extreme caution. "},{"Title":"Johnny Mnemonic harbinger of The Matrix...","Date":"16 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Johnny Mnemonic for many people considered as the harbinger of The Matrix, but in any case we must not compare these two films. Johnny Mnemonic is a really different film from The Matrix with a lower budget and a lower improvement from the side of technology.It's a nice movie with a good performance by Keanu Reeves as Johnny Mnemonic and wonderful Dina Meyer as Jane. Ice-T as J-Bone and Takeshi Kitano as Takahashi made a good performances too.The story of this movie regards a man who use his mind as a hard drive and his self as a data courier to deliver packages from one man to another. One package is too big to deliver it but he gets this risk, so he want to deliver it as fast as he can not die from it. "},{"Title":"decent","Date":"9 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I agree with Leonard Maltin's assessment of this movie-it's an intriguing idea that really doesn't get anywhere. The year is 2021, the internet has everyone trapped, and people are suffering from a disease called NAS. Keanu Reeves's character has a chip implanted in his brain that carries the cure, and the bad guys are after both him and it, trying to hunt them down, and a mysterious lady and some other characters are helping him. The movie was OK. Not bad, not great-just OK. My favorite scene was in the junkyard when the helicopter bad guys tried to bomb him, and Reeves gave a speech with some great lines. The special effects were great and were the film's real highlight, but other than that the film didn't have too much to recommend unless you're a scifi and action fan.** out of **** "},{"Title":"Bring Me the Head of Keanu Reeves!","Date":"28 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the year 2021, Keanu Reeves is a space-age courier who's plugged in, turned on, and buffed up to deliver the most important data of the 21st century, wet-wired directly into his brain, according to the DVD sleeve's description. What Mr. Reeves doesn't know is that his latest download may be connected to the cure for the computer era's most deadly disease, a malady called Nerve Attenuation Syndrome (NAS). Everyone in the future seems to be at risk for NAS - something like this will probably happen in real life. Even Reeves' bodyguard, sexy Dina Meyer (as Jane), is afflicted. Needless to say, our hero and Ms. Meyer find themselves in mortal danger.Nasty Takeshi Kitano (as Takahashi) is willing to chop off Reeves' eyebrow-plucked head to get the valuable data loaded in the handsome courier's brain, but he'll have to beat dangerous street preacher Dolph Lundgren (as Karl) to the punch. Rapper Ice-T (as J-Bone) and rocker Henry Rollins (as Spider) join Meyer in trying to keep Reeves' from losing his head. Director Robert Longo brings writer William Gibson's story to the screen with some arresting visuals; but, their Johnny Mnemonic is disappointing. The bigger names in the cast seem unfocused, with only Mr. Lundgren and some of the minor characters providing focused characterizations.***** Johnny Mnemonic (4/15/95) Robert Longo ~ Keanu Reeves, Dina Meyer, Ice-T, Dolph Lundgren "},{"Title":"This is a very good story","Date":"29 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was born in 1976, so I sort of grew up with Wiliam Gibsons cyberpunk stories. This particular movie would maybe have benefited from being Neuromancer instead which, after all, was Gibsons big hit. It is a good story but I think all the violence and fights ruins it a bit. It is clearly inspired by Blade Runner, and it is made before The Matrix. Anyway, Keanu Reeves is very good in the lead role, and there are interesting parts by Udo Kier, Dolph Lundgren, Henry Rollins and Ice-T. It is a good fantasy story which anticipates some of the things that has all ready happened now in 2010, so it is highly recommended if you are a fan of the fantasy genre. "},{"Title":"A laughably bad movie","Date":"26 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film is about a data courier who transports a huge amount of valuable information, with several groups wanting it.Wow. I never expected this film to be so bad. I remember this film was in the cinemas here and people were talking about back then. The plot of Johnny Mnemonic is ridiculously bad. I don't really care about the plot or any of the characters. The sets are very poorly designed, lighting is bad, and there is no post production. Even the so called high tech equipment looks laughably stupid. And that dolphin looks so fake that even college students can make a better one. Johnny Mnemonic is a bad B movie. What was Keanu Reeves thinking when he agreed to make this rubbish? "},{"Title":"Average Reeves Flick, That's Very Uneven And Rather Dull At Times, With Decent Enough Effects But Bland Performances","Date":"9 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is an average Reeves flick, that's very uneven and rather dull at times, with decent enough effects but bland performances. All the characters are simply so so, and the story is very uneven, plus while i am a very big fan of Keanu Reeves, he looks really bored here and sleepwalks through the whole thing. Dina Meyer is probably the best character here, and while i am also a very big fan Of Lundgren he was way way too OTT here for my liking, plus The action is also rather bland. There are some moments, that were fun to watch, and the story was really quite intriguing and had a lot of potential, however, it just does not work. At times it seems like a dated poor man's version of The Matrix, and i really could care less about what happened to the characters here, plus Ice-T looks extremely bored here, and was laughable in his role. The ending was kind of cool, and the set pieces were quite cool as well, plus it takes way too long to get going and even when it does, it's still inconsistent. This is an average Reeves flick, that's very uneven and rather dull at times, with decent enough effects, but bland performances, i suppose it's worth the watch, but you could do a LOT better in my opinion. The Direction is so so. Robert Longodoes a so so job here, with good camera work, great angles, lots of stylish shots, however the pace is extremely inconsistent. The Acting is quite bland. Keanu Reeves is not his usual amazing self here, because he looked very bored, and basically sleepwalked through the whole thing, his chemistry with Meyer was OK though, it's just there was no life in his character, he still did OK though(Reeves Rules!!!!!!). Dina Meyer is very hot, and did excellent with what she had to do, she was my favorite character here, and had OK chemistry with reeves i really liked her. Ice-T is terrible here, he was extremely bland, and looked very bored and i don't blame him. Dolph Lundgren is also not his usual amazing self, he was way too OTT, and was simply laughable, and a result i found his character to be bland as well, he also had some terrible lines. (Dolph Rules!!!!!!). Udo Kier is OK here, but just looked like he was here to pick up a paycheck. Rest of the cast are mediocre. Overall worth a watch i suppose but you could do a LOT better. ** out of 5 "},{"Title":"Explanations here..","Date":"22 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  You ninnyhammers it's not a laserwhip it's a monomolecular coil. That's why it glows because it's so thin it reflects light. They should have explained this i know but only experienced cyberpunk junkies would know this.Keanu was wooden in this performance because he had to be his character is after all very tired and in lots of pain as was Keanu. Longo did reshoot after reshoot to the point where the whole cast was agitated.Cyberpunk is one genre that is hard to do in the movies. Anime has done it fairly successfully with Ghost In The Shell being perhaps the best cyberpunk movie of all time.This movie was given a budget and it shows but it is a valiant effort to bring cyberpunk to the general public.  "},{"Title":"Ease off...","Date":"15 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Okay, listen.  It's got Keaneu Reeves...so what?  I mean...so what if the only role he has ever done well in was in Bill and Ted?  Listen, this movie is given too much grief.  There are very few Cyberpunk movies out there, and sadly enough, this is one of them.  So give it a break, okay?  They tried. "},{"Title":"Precursor for the Matrix with bad acting","Date":"24 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie looked interesting in the TV programme, but I was utterly disappointed by the bad acting and the incoherent plot line, especially the illogical motives of the characters.The environment is a dark and gloomy future, with some cyberspace scenes. They are generally well made. As usual as a techie, I have some objections against what will never be possible, but this is not as bad as some I have seen, perhaps owing to that the original author knows his technology.I gave it a 3/10. "}{"Title":"Okay","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Johnny Mnemonic is another 'cyberpunk' thriller, from a short story by William Gibson. The movie takes place in a future where the world is torn apart by a disease called NAS (Nerve Attinuation Syndrome). Johnny Smith (Reeves) is a courier who smuggles information through his head by an implant that he has in his brain. But during a deal he unwittingly downloads the 'cure' for NAS and this makes him a target for gangsters and all kinds of baddies. The movie has a great cast (Keanu Reeves, Dolph Lundgren, Ice-T, Dina Meyer, Takeshi Kitano, Udo Kier, Henry Rollins) although I didn't like Reeves in his part, becuase I found him wooden and not very believable. Takeshi Kitano's yakuza gangster is also sadly wasted. Director Robert Longo was previously a director of music videos, and it shows. He seems to have overloaded on breathtaking visuals and not left behind much else. The best thing about Johnny Mnemonic are the great CGI effects. The movie has some good character development and stylish direction which make it rise above most cyber thrillers, but even that isn't saying much.Overall I would recommend Johnny Mnemonic as a movie to watch on a Saturday afternoon. It isn't a great movie, but it can be great fun. Just don't watch on to much of a critical level.  "},{"Title":"This movie needs sympathy votes..","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Keanu Reeves stars as a hardwired human for hire.  He takes a case where his clients download too much info to his brain and if he doesn't get it out within 24 hours he'll die.There are so many loose ends that the movie is ridiculous and confusing. For one, the time constraint is mentioned maybe once even though its the major motivator for all the insane running around and Reeves' attitude.The character development is so rushed and lacking of any depth that the characters seem completely unconvincing.  Not to mention if you've read William Gibsons book (Neuromancer) upon which this movie is based I dont recommend seeing this movie.  How he sold the rights even after hearing the idea for the movie, I have no clue.The one saving grace of the movie is the moral message, though I could have done without Keanu Reeves' rant about wanting to live the leisurely life and unnecesary cameos by Ice-T and Henry Rollins. "},{"Title":"God Awful.","Date":"19 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is what The Matrix would have been like if it was written and directed by a complete jackass. I gave it 3/10 only because of the rogueness of the cast - Iced Tea and Henry Rollins? You work it out. I've seen worse but not much. eg The Fast And The Furious.ps. Iced Tea. pps. This film is utter garbage. "},{"Title":"Entertaining, despite what others say","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I remember seeing this movie back in '95 when it first came out in theatres. Hell, I got sneak preview tix and saw it for free.I've enjoyed this movie from day one. I've read the original short story too, (I like Gibson) and while this film is very different, it still sticks to the basic spirit of Gibson's works. It also helps that he wrote the script, so...however, if you have *no* familiarity at all with cyberpunk, don't see this film. You'll miss the point.I remember an old instructor of mine saying about Beyond Rangoon...It's a fabulous film, but just when the lead character's not onscreen. This holds true for JM as well. All the other actors are doing their job, and doing it well. Keanu Reeves knocks this film down about half a dozen notches. Other than the classic speech in the junkyard, any two-bit actor from community theatre could have played this part with equal skill. I think the Matrix is the only film where he did a half-decent job of attempting to act. He's good looking though, so just as long as he doesn't talk, I let him slide. But I love Dolph Lundgren as the psycho preacher, if only because my friends and I used to run around and scream Halt, sinners!! (and other various quotes) at the street preachers on campus.The special effects are eye candy. The computer graphics are a little stale 6 years later, but everything else is pretty much seamless. Even the plates on the cars read Free City of Newark. Nice touch. Actually, the way it was filmed and the way that it looked reminded me very much of a live-action anime, just without the bad dubbing.If you want something that's entertaining, and just entertaining, rent this. If you want sci-fi with a deep hidden message, try Bladerunner, The Day the Earth Stood Still, old Twilight Zones, etc etc. If you want to see a really *bad* movie, try Omega Code, Defcon 5, Brainscan, or anything of that ilk. This movie is worth the 99 cents for 5 nights.Cheers "},{"Title":"godawful","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie makes no sense.  What was a neat little sci-fi crime story became blown up into a ridiculous race against time, Save-the-world, get the girl, reunite with long lost relatives, etcetera action movie.  For those of you wondering where Molly was, somebody else has the movie rights to Neuromancer and all the characters in it & they wouldn't let her appear in this.  Anyways, Johnny is a data courier who can carry data in his brain, safely without fear of it being detected or hacked.  There is a problem with the upload of some Very Important Information & he now has 48 hours to live. He doesn't seem very concerned about this. I heard the previous director's body of work consisted entirely of music videos, and it shows, every line of dialogue comes out awkward and phony.  The future doesn't look particularly futuristic, and a deadly, cybernetically enhanced assassin's implants are shown as silver dots glued to his skin.  Ooooohhh. Johnny's female partner, is extremely unconvincing as a bodyguard.  Her martial arts skills are non-existent.  Watching her hobble awkwardly on one leg while launching a snap kick at roughly 3 miles per hour that launches bad guys across the room is just pathetic.  Most of the actors in this steaming pile can barely speak English, let alone act.  Here's a hint, hire real actors instead of washed-up rappers. Truly awful. "},{"Title":"THE WORST!!!","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  i made the very painful mistake of buying this movie without seeing it first, nothing new, i buy a lot of films without seeing them. Usually the movies i buy tend to be o.k., but boy did i bomb big time with this one!! I feel like taking it back and ramming it down the guy's throat who actually accepted hard earned cash in exchange for this, what can only be described as the cinematic equivalent of having your teeth pulled out without anaesthetic!! I don't need to go into details, because i would only be repeating what all the previous comments have said. Definately won prize placing as the worst film in my collection. "},{"Title":"Gibson debunked cyberpunk junk","Date":"3 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the 1980s, a writer named William Gibson wrote a short story called Johnny Mnemonic about a futuristic courier that uses his brain as an external hard drive. In 1995, following Keanu Reeves's success as an action hero in Speed and right as the start of the dot com bubble, TriStar released a film adaptation of the short story. I read the short story in freshman English class in university several years ago and saw the movie on television several more years ago.Both the film and the short story were instantly forgettable. In fact, I forgot I had even heard of Johnny Mnemonic until I popped in an old VHS copy of Mary Shelley's Frankenstein (the Kenneth Branagh version) that I bought for 99 cents. They had trailers for theatrical releases that were upcoming at the time of the VHS's release. One of them was for Johnny Mnemonic.It was amazing how completely out of date almost every major idea in the film is. The story takes place sometime in the early 21st century. Johnny (Reeves) downloads important, confidential material onto his brain in Japan and is chased down and almost killed by the Yakuza (Japanese mafia) all the way to the United States. He must get to the United States in 24 hours or else his brain will die from all the excess memory stored in it or something. In order to free up space in his brain for computer data, Johnny had to dump some of the memory that was already there his childhood memories. In the trailer, Johnny boasts that he can carry almost 80 gigs in his head. (I just bought an external hard drive the size of my wallet for about $100 that can hold 80 gigs.) There have been some technology movies that now seem a little dated (WarGames is a good example), but I can't think of anything that has been rendered utterly meaningless in such a short amount of time. And unlike Hackers, Johnny Mnemonic doesn't even work as simple drama. "},{"Title":"Not too memorable","Date":"15 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've been a fan of William Gibson for a few years... I've read his Cyberspace trilogy and Virtual Light. This film is easily recognized as a work of his... the body-upgrading implants, the visual representation of cyberspace and the dystopic future world are among the trademarks of his work that is seen here. They might not be terribly well-presented, but at least they're there. His creativity is also all there. In expanding his short story to fit feature length, Gibson puts in too many subplots, too much symbolism and in the end, it just feels to big, especially with all the un- and underdeveloped material. Sad, considering this man coined the term Cyberspace and basically predicted what we're moving terribly close to in terms of everyday life(superficiality reigning, and technology as part of us human beings). I'm impressed with his writings, and I may look for the original story behind this film. I might even try my luck with the one other feature production based on his work. The plot is interesting enough, takes off as it should, and develops fine. It's somewhat predictable, though, in spite of some good surprises, early on. The pacing is fairly good, though it slows down somewhat near the very end, and at one or two other points throughout the film. The action is OK, though quickly forgotten. The cinematography is pretty... Longo may not know much, but he knows how to assemble nice-looking shots. The acting is so-so. The dialog ranges... at times, it's really good, but some lines are downright embarrassing. For the most part, it's at least fair. Gibson's sense of humor and social commentary is clearly present, which is nice. Also, for any other fans of him reading this... there is, in fact, some hacking in the film. It was definitely what I enjoyed most about the film. The effects are fine, if dated today(obviously, since the film is a decade old). The DVD has a few special features, which are fair. All in all, you're probably better off reading the short story. OK for a rental or if you can watch it for free, and you're a big fan of Gibson or someone else who had a lot of creative control on this film. I recommend this only to the biggest fans of William Gibson and possibly others who worked on it. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Nuff said","Date":"1 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is an unusual sci-fi movie in that it was made in the 1990s but looks like it was set in a movie made in the 1980s ... surely cyberpunk movies had moved on by 1995? By and large, it is really bad. I like Keanu Reeves a lot; his limited acting abilities make him paradoxically a great hero (as in Speed and Matrix). One really wants to believe in him, but here he is acting against his clothes somehow the suit does not match the shirt collar, and the collar is too narrow for the tie, and the suit hangs rather than sits. And someone gave him a terrible haircut. I am always amazed that actors survive this sort of nonsense, so well done, Keanu! "},{"Title":"Why this movie shaved 30 years off my life.","Date":"29 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I finally took the liberty of seeing Johnny Mnemonic.Worst 99 cents ever.I of course saw it to hear no more love with a back drop of cool Fx and storyline.BOY was i wrong.Somebody should of told me it was the last #### song in the movie. The LAST one.Besides my disappointment there...The movie sucked. Acting blew.Interrupt if i find myself correcting a movie inside my head during the entirety of a movie, the said movie is a complete #### up.I loved the idea of using your brain to save information. Think about it. A portable flash drive (which are already made portable). A 300 GB Ipod anyone? I also love the idea of a bridge that is a , no offense, tenant building aka project aka public housing.The idea of a disease that is caused by technology. No. A cybernetic dolphin. No. Ice T acting. Hell no.PART TWO OF MY CRITIQUE Ahhh. there were so many instances that were no necessary. for instance...In the Very very beginning, Johnny is with that woman. Not necessary. She wasn't needed. Her leaving him wasn't needed. -4 minutes In the beginning the woman is with her doctor at the party. That entire scene. -10 minutes The woman who starts rocket launching the bridge. She didn't have to have her friend killed and go into a violent rage. This could of happened in two seconds if someone gave her a signal. -5 minutes Stupid jokes. Dead men do tell jokes Johnny 2-minutes When Ice T shows up the first time. He was going to show up latter!!! And when he does he doesn't even make any gesture making it seem as if he met him. NO ONE WOULD KNOW. -5 minutes Man i almost forgot the ending with the Jesus guy. O lets make the audience think he is still alive. -30 seconds.Jesus man. They said he didn't have a natural bone in his body. He didn't have an acting bone in his body. Good idea, wrong movie. He kind of looked like saber tooth from X-Men. -12 minutes The ghost in the machine. -5 minutes All Chinese people in the movie. They could not act at all. Had they stuck with Chinese i might have believed they were with the Japanese mob. -25 minutes JOHNNY gets stabbed in the heart!!! And lives!! -2 minutes Had the movie of been 41 minutes long with an intermission and a cameo by M'night Shamelan, it still would have sucked. "}{"Title":"Terrible","Date":"11 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This could have been a good movie.  The story line is reasonable, but much better use of it could have been made.The 'technology' depicted in the film is laughable.Keanu Reeve's acting is awful.  Thank god he learned to act before starring in The Matrix.  His bad acting isn't offset by the bad acting of his co actors. "},{"Title":"Good premise...","Date":"3 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I guess I don't dislike this movie as much as most people.  It could have been better, but it's not that bad.  The best character in the movie was actually Dolph Lundgren, who should have gotten more time.  Just don't go in expecting The Matrix and you won't be disappointed.  "},{"Title":"This is as bad as the Matrix is good.","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Slick visuals, mostly having to do with cyberspace, highlight this film, which came out 3 years before 'The Matrix'.  This however, was hardly its forerunner.  It looks very good, but is slow, incoherent and unbelievable. Keanu is his cardboard self, but Dolph Lundgren is absolutely awful.  I guess producers wanted some of Lundgren's video fans to pick this up, since nobody else will.  That is unless you want to see a curious 'Matrix'-like film that even has Keanu!   "},{"Title":"Starts bad, gets worse","Date":"3 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I really wanted to like this movie,  after all it is based on a William Gibson story. The acting is bad and the dialog is worse. The sad part is the story is kind of cool in the beginning and could've been well made. Keanu Reeves carries a downloaded file in head and mafia wants it. What should've been a decent sci/fi turns into Tank Girl meets The Lawnmower Man with Keanu (Whoa) Reeves. Avoid! "},{"Title":"The computer graphics stole the show","Date":"14 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I can't say how disappointed I was when I stepped out of the cinema. I had higher hopes for director Robert Longo, especially since I was a fan of his avant garde video efforts for techno music pioneers New Order.Basically the original Will Gibson story was stripped of most of its vital human dimension and given over to actors who didn't understand what cyberpunk was about. Even badass Ice-T who usually drips with attitude was wearing the wrong emotional wardrobe.From the looks of the pitiful sets it seems the producers forked over so much of their capital to the CG houses that they couldn't built any really interesting places that were true to the settings in the novella.Where was the Low-Tec killing arena with the dancing floors? And most of all, where was Molly the ice-cold assassin who's supposed to have saved mister Ultimate Hard Drive's butt? All we got was a whiney, frazzled looking and helpless dame in distress.Commendable ONLY for it's impressive computer graphics work from Sony Imageworks (among others) that still rivals some aspects of The Fifth Element. I guess The Matrix did it better... a lot better. *sigh* "},{"Title":"Pathetic acting, dialogue, and directing make for a poor movie.","Date":"30 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  About the only good thing in Johnny Mnemonic is its interesting premise. Too bad the film does absolutely nothing with the premise.  Keanu Reeves (Speed, The Matrix) stars as Johnny a person in the future who has been given vital information which has been stored in his brain.  He has received too much information however and will die soon if he doesn't get it out. Also, the information is so important that many people want to get it from him, by cutting off his head.  The information is protected by a password so he can't get it out himself.  The film has a good premise, but the script is bad, horrible dialogue and boring and predictable twists.  The film's action scenes are poorly done and you don't care for a second about any of the characters, especially Keanu Reeves.  While I have liked him before (Speed, The Matrix, Bill and Ted's).  He can be a less than good actor (Chain Reaction).  But here he is a lot worse that anything he has done before. Reeves gives a very poor performance.  He gets only one or two scenes right and the rest are poorly done.  He isn't the only bad one, most of the rest of the acting is horrible.  The only two actors who survive are Ice-T (Surviving the Game, Trespass) who is average as a good computer expert and Dolph Lundgren (Universal Soldier, Men of War) who is suprisingly decent (which for him is Oscar worthy) as a person hired to kill Reeves.  Highly unrecommended.   "},{"Title":"A Severe Disappointment","Date":"5 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A terrible movie, and a hack adaptation of a decent story by William Gibson -- the saddest aspect of it all is that this will never be done right.  Keanu Reeves does his typical acting job -- his emotional range goes all the way from wooden to histrionic, with virtually no stops in between.  The fact that Mr. Reeves fails to die, graphically and horribly, is another disappointment.  Should have been titled Johnny Moronic "},{"Title":"A innovative classic ....  A must see (just so you know what you are talking about)","Date":"31 December 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" You are all silly ... all of you!!! This is a great movie, a classic, just like BladeRunner.I don't understand how can anybody miss that!!! I watch this movie like 30 times each year. Easier now when computers easily hold a DVD movie.My favorite movies Johny Mnemonic, The Right Stuff, Contact, Matrix I, Starwars II, Titanic, Alexander, Gladiator, Back Room Window, Memoirs Of A Geisha, Howard The Duck, The Hidden, Alien I, Predator, 2001 Space Odyssey, Saw IV, Gettysburg, X files series, Twin Peaks series ..... and so on But definitely this movie, might not be the greatest, but just as revolutionary as BladeRunner. And just as Bladerunner no later movie has built on the BladeRunner, Johny Mnemonic or Total Recall, or Operation Outland and so on, simply because their stories didn't allow any sequel. But still, they could have been built upon but it has not happened.I don't plan to go through all reviews, but to not give this movie more than a seven .... it just proves how lost some people are and that they don't get that jolt, kick, or whatever that tells them this movie is special. In fact the movie is very special, innovative, and just glimmers there all alone by itself on the movie star sky .....Also, some people don't like Reeves acting. Well, I think it worked well even if he was into this movie or not. Johny had to remove a chunk of long term memory ... a chunk of what? .... my childhood ... your childhood?!? ... what a weird ass thing to do!... I needed the space for the job.... Simply, Johnny is depressed. Removing such a big part of your identity, the foundation of your identity should make your soul hollow, should cause psychological problems. And the mess he ends up in this movie he is simply very frustrated. He is also a very intelligent very focused computer hacker and that is probably why he don't break down completely and sit down crying. The frustration and the anger is whats left that drives him. In any way he is easily irritated.He probably is paid extremely well, but because of the psychological problems, and even social problems (since he don't remember his family,childhood, friends, just a big hole there), make him addicted to drugs which is often the case. And drugs can be of any type, alcohol, narcotics, shopping, distract you with computer games, gambling, hookers, clothes. So he earn a lot but probably burns the money just as fast.So I am sorry for those who didn't get a character to identify with, or someone who is pretty and glowing and vibrant. Instead you got this angry introvert shallow self absorbed depressed character on screen. Reeves acting, intensional or not, and the story, worked well together.It may be low budget, I don't know, but it sure is special. I am a Johny Mnemonic Junkie .... if that has escaped anybody .....Also I don't rate movies after their budget or visual effects, I always look between the lines and fill in the gaps myself ... and that is why books are the best and why you usually get irritated when you watch movies made from books. If the book was great the movie can only fail. But by working on the story and make changes you can make bad books great as movies. movies are for people who are lazy and I am lazy. "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies ever made","Date":"22 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  SPOILER (kind of)I watched Johnny Mnemonic by the recommendation of one of my friends whom I trust. I could not believe how bad it was.The story was good enough. I mean, seriously. Its an action movie. What can you expect? The movie had potential, but whoever wrote the dialogue is the worst writer in history. It actually seems to me like the person who wrote the dialogue didn't speak english, and had someone translate the script for him after he was finished writing it. I can't even describe it. Don't watch this movie if you're looking for quality filmmaking.The action sequences were super-cheesy. The dialogue was awful. And can someone tell me - what did the filmmakers think was so cool about a laser-string that you can cut people up with? It's the gayest weapon ever. The script tried really hard to be emotional, and failed. It tried to make the bad guys out to be bad-a*ses, but they came across as moronic cartoonish villans. There was no character development at all. Johnney and his bodyguard go from arguing a lot and not being friendly at all to making out. It was that sudden. It was like 'Woah. I guess its time for us to make out', and so they did. Oh man. This movie is kind of like Bill and Ted meets The Matrix (but leaning towards Bill and Ted). Oh man. I wish I had that hour and a half of my life back. "},{"Title":"Read the short story then watch the movie>>Matrix is FarFetched and blahhh!!!","Date":"18 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When you go to watch a movie and have no clue what so ever what its about,most of the time your gonna hate it for sure..This film is based on the man who has been writing the best cyberpunk books ever to come out.He's coined the term cyberspace and talks about corporations and what is in store for the future..Well about that movie its basically a told story of a man named johnny who is a courier,but not any ordinary courier he has implanted inside his head a jack that can store lots of data.He is carrying a cure for the disease nas(another deadly disease like aids or etc.A corporation who has the cure is trying to find defectors who have taken all the data of the cure to be exposed to the world..The YAKKUZA is hired to retrieve the defectors and the data,but thats where johnny comes in..Not a great screen play but for its nature,its well thought out,not bad for a movie that was suppose to be black and white and less than a  million dollar budget but turned into hollywood status overnight and began the movie..Brilliant costumes,sets,and actors playing roles ive never seen played before ..Good music and good fx..Matrix lovers should know that read all of william gibson's books and watch the matrix,farfetched plots are good but not as good as the future within our lifetimes..And seeing if the future is really about corporations and governments being in power,as they are right now,globalization i believe its called..Check out NEW ROSE HOTEL with Abel Ferrara directing the flick aobut gibson's short story from the same book as johnny mnemonic... "}{"Title":"Very, very dumb, boring film","Date":"9 April 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have no idea what took place in this movie. It made no sense, was pitifully acted, and the story was totally idiotic. See, this guy had an implant in his head which made him a walking computer of some sort. So then, some bad guys wanted him to do something he didn't want to do, so they tried to mess up his head computer. This crap made me gag big time.  "},{"Title":"A truly AMAZINGLY BAD film, props to everyone involved.","Date":"8 October 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Keanu Reeves acting performance in this film was one of the worst ever in Hollywood HISTORY.This mindblowingly, disastrous film combines horrendous acting, horrible directing, horrible dialogue, horrible EVERYTHING. Johnny Mnemonic is worse than a B-movie. I remember wanting to see this in the theaters when I was a kid, I probably would have liked it back then. Having seen this recently, how was this even released in the theaters?I'm a fan of cheesy movie (and the early 90's was filled with cheese) so I was able to sit through this...I did enjoy it somewhat thanks to it being unintentionally funny. Let's not kid ourselves though--Johnny Mnemonic is one of THE worst movies of the 90's. Batman and Robin has company.btw, Ice-T is truly a no-talent a$$clown. "},{"Title":"worst movie ever","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  okay, maybe it's not the WORST movie ever, but for me it is definitely high up on the list.  what was the point of this movie.  keanu reeves, while popular is not the best actor in the world.  and he certainly could not pull this movie off.  i feel like my life is worse for having seen this movie. there was no redeeming point for this movie, it was just boring and pointless. "},{"Title":"I'm in this movie.","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"13 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One Friday night in early 1994, I was one of the hundreds of extras who was hired to be moving scenery for this film.  Basically, they convincingly turned Toronto's fabled Union Station into some post-apocalyptic hospice, in which we were all supposed to be shuffling around, getting food and suffering from some neurological disease.  It's always amusing to see what filmmakers do to disguise Toronto as something else, to make it look like it takes place anywhere else other than (gasp) Canada.  Still, whenever I go to Union Station, I am impressed with the makeover this location got. I was anxious to see whether I made in the final cut or not, but the film's release kept on getting pushed back and pushed back.  That is a sure sign that the movie is going to be a turkey.  Well, it isn't terrible.  William Gibson expanded his own short story-- so much so that the film is actually a mess.  A beautiful looking one, however.  Longo and DOP Francois Protat do a serviceable job in capturing the plastic noir of the future.  But ultimately the movie suffers from having too many ideas-- some of them ludicrous, many of them poorly developed.  It doesn't help either that the drama of the piece relies on the thespian abilities of Keanu Reeves or Dolph Lundgren.  Yikes!  Even so, Henry Rollins is pretty cool.But for me, the great suspense was seeing whether or not I ended up on the cutting room floor.  So for about two seconds, you get to see my face in a crowd shot.  See? See? Wait! Damn! "},{"Title":"Very good cyberpunk movie","Date":"5 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw it shortly after it was released and I really liked it. At the time I had read several cyberpunk novels including some by William Gibson and to me. the movie seemed to capture the atmosphere of some of the novels very well. I found young Keanu Reeves highly credible as a surgically enhanced human (he'd be credible as a projection of artificial life...).I enjoyed the movie a lot and to this day I think it is a great adaptation of a cyberpunk novel to cinema. I did not give it a 10 because at times it seems too slavishly following the book and some reinterpretations for cinema might have benefited the movie.I have watched it maybe every 5 years since it was released and liked it a lot every time. "},{"Title":"The Brain as a ROM grafted on a RAM","Date":"9 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" A fascinating film that brings together several genres and also several influences. First the technical level of virtual reality and computerized graphics. Interesting though not exceptionally original (see for one example The Lawnmower Man). Second the Japanese, Chinese, Honk Kong, Kung Fu type of action. There it is in a way renewed because it is grafted onto, into or under another type of post-apocalyptic vision that is typically American underground resistance (with one of the archetypes being the Terminator trilogy, or The Running Man) or people who refuse the modern slavery imposed by the corporate trust that governs and controls the world, through dependence on data-processing machines that create a nervous disorder that is both incurable and catching. The models of this underground vision are numerous. Here he sets it in the guts of an old decaying bridge, so over-ground and over-water, in between two banks it does not join any more. Great. The film adds to that a small dose of brain manipulation, mind torturing with elements that have been made famous by The Matrix trilogy for example. The most original element is that the brain is used as a data transporting device that cannot be hacked or pirated since it is not going through a digital network. And the last load of data comes from China (the future of the world?) though it is ridden with riots and rioting crowds (the anti-Chinese-communist element?) and has to be taken to the USA, Newark mind you, to be offered to the world for its own salvation by the underground resistance (the American boy-scout do-good syndrome?). Then the other interesting elements are more isolated elements here and there than structuring elements. The dolphin that this poor Johnny obstinately calls a fish is a nice piece of animal and mammal lore that makes the dolphin the saving intercessor of humanity. The criminal Christian preacher who crucifies his victims in the name of Jesus and God is a wink against the fake Christians who are selfish and interested, even greedy in money and power bigots. And the final liberation with a final scene of natural vegetation and landscape with real natural colors is very similar to the end of the third Matrix. But this time the intercessor, messenger or courier did not have to be sacrificed and he finds a new lease in life with some restored memory. Interesting indeed, but within a full background without which it looks slightly dry and sterile.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris Dauphine, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne & University Versailles Saint Quentin en Yvelines "},{"Title":"quite good.","Date":"30 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Interesting to see Keanu Reeves post-Bill and Ted, but pre-Matrix fame. In this movie, he, like in The Matrix, plays a character who has the fate of the world in his hands...well, kind of. My sister and I thoroughly enjoyed it, partly because we reveled in finding the parallels between Johnny Mnemonic and the Wachowski brothers' ubiquitous creation. This movie does have that mid-nineties hacker movie quality about it, it focuses on a dystopian futuristic world where corporations own everything--no surprise there. What I was surprised about, though, was how underrated (again, recurring word in this thread) this movie is. I found it a decent and original piece, and surprisingly fun. If you're looking for another 'Matrix', you're not going to find it here, but if you're looking for a good science fiction/cyberpunk piece, Mnemonic is definitely worth a shot. "},{"Title":"I've Seen Worse","Date":"26 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" For a while I thought this was along the lines of Ishtar or Gigli, but then after watching it all the way through it's not as bad as advertised. If you want to see a bad sci-fi movie, go watch Battlefield Earth, if you want to see a really good sci-fi movie then watch Stargate, if you want to see a semi-good sci-fi movie then see this or Dune.For me, I had to keep an open mind while the first twenty minutes of the film passed. The parts where I hear were the worst parts (such as the dolphin) didn't make me cringe but more of a Hmm, that's different kind of emotion.Other than what I have mentioned Johnny Mnemonic is far from Blade Runner or The Road Warrior but it is also very distant from Lawnmowerman 2. "},{"Title":"I want ROOM SERVICE!","Date":"13 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" In a nut shell - high tech semi-cyborg Reeves stores info in his head and takes it around kinda like a mercenary, provided that he downloads it before it kills him, but when he has info downloaded into his head that could very well save the world, well, he ends up having pretty much everyone and their grandmother coming after him, with his only allies being that sexy, sexually arousing Dina Meyer as a would be body guard woman and some low tech guerrilla's led by Ice-T.Not perfect but engagingly trashy fun, kind of like a low budget Matrix. Dolph Lundgren is given 2nd billing on the posters and video boxes, but his part is relatively small, looking like Moses/Gandalf the Grey on steroids. I'm guessing he lucked out and got the 2nd billing on video and posters because he was the only other person other than Keanu Reeves at the time who had anything remotely resembling audience recognition thanks to his roles in Rocky 4, Masters of the Universe and Universal Soldier. And his death is most gruesome. Well, if nothing else, rent and watch it for the aforementioned sexy, sexually arousing Dina Meyer. "},{"Title":"Shadowrun, Cyberpunk and all of look alike","Date":"25 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" When this movie first came out to my acknowledged i didn't see it all. At that time, i was heavy involved in cyberpunk movement and i was an avid player of shadowrun (sorry, in my country you couldn't get cyberpunk rpg-just shadowrun). So I loved this movie. I always complained playing shadowrun that why on gods earth the game has magic and demi(semi)humans in the future? Well in the movie they just keep the tribal aspects. I loved this movie even i didn't watch it complete. Soon, a kind of popular movie appear on theaters everywhere. Some film with Keanu called the matrix. But in the cyberpunk movement the matrix is the evolution of internet so i was kind of why the bleep the Hollywood people throw away the good stuff like cyberpunk and make bad movies that don't follow the rules established. So i never when to see the matrix. Years later, I was a grown up adult with a clean head and the capacity of criticize objectively the things. So I saw both films, and let me tell you, i give a nice 6 out of 10 to johnny, just because it makes a beautiful collage of cyberpunk concepts. But, even being a Keanu fan, the acting is poor (i want room service (?))and the story was good when it was released but it lacks validity even in 1995. If you like cyberpunk, and related, take a peek. Otherwise, it's probably not worth the time. "}{"Title":"The Short Story written by William Gibson was much better.","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Johnny Mnemonic was a movie that was ok, however it did not do justice to the short story from whence it came.  William Gibson's short story was much difrent than this movie.  I cannot, in clear conscience, tell you to watch this movie unless you go out and read the works of William Gibson first.  "},{"Title":"Too bad, Too bad, Keanu (possible spoiler)","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  And here was I, naive little me, thinking Keanu Reeves was a fairly good actor. Maybe having 320 gigabytes of information in one's head can do that to a man, but fact is Keanu's acting (and not only his) in this movie was terrible. The specials were okay, the story not even that bad, but please, give me a break from the cliche's, would you? Every single action-sci fi cliche possible is in this movie. Add to that the bad acting and confusing way of telling the story and you have yourself one bad movie. Too bad, Keanu, I've seen you do much, much better. "},{"Title":"Great Concepts need better visual effects","Date":"9 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's the year 2021, and the whole world is suffering from the Nerve Attenuation Syndrome (NAS). Johnny Mnemonic (Keanu Reeves) has an implanted memory chip, and much of his memory erased to create space to store computer data. He's been hired to transport important data while trying to escape from the Yakuza. On his journey, he's helped by bio-engineered muscle Jane (Dina Meyer), and anti-government group led by J-Bone (Ice-T).The similarities to The Matrix is astounding. I'm not saying there's any copying, but I'm sure the Wachowski brothers had a lot of this in mind when they cast Keanu Reeves. He's basically playing the same cool emotionless hero. There are guys in black trench coats. They're dealing a lot of issues with computers. There is a lot of Asian motif. In the end, they are not really the same. I like to call this the trial run for the Matrix. You can see some of the problems. The budget isn't big enough. The real effects are too clunky. The computer FX and graphics would vastly improve in the Matrix. Overall there are all kinds of ideas in this movie that a real world setting just won't do it justice. The story is simple enough. It's a quest and a road story. There are good guys and bad guys. What this movie really need is a better visual effects department. "},{"Title":"Matrix prequel?","Date":"3 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a bad movie. The screenplay and direction are horrible. Note that, according to IMDb, this is the only screenplay work that Gibson has done and the last film (thankfully) that Longo directed. There is barely any character development. The action scenes are miserable; the scenes where Johnny gets angry are highly exaggerated; there are few, if any closeups or alternate camera angles -- it just feels like rank amateurs made this film, and on a shoestring budget too.Why see this movie? There are some neat concepts and a cool computer scene. Readers of Larry Niven's Ringworld get to see a monofilament wire in action (a single-molecule wire that's incredibly strong and slices through anything). The computer scene features 3D goggles and data gloves with a neat graphical user interface. The computer graphics in the rest of the film, however, reminded me of Tron.Another reason to see Mnemonic is that there are some parallels to The Matrix, a film in which Keanu Reaves stars four years later. Both take place in a dark, futuristic world, with the protagonist holding the key to save humanity. The opening scene is almost a direct match with a scene in the Matrix Johnny's computer wakes him up. Johnny has a device in his head which he uses to jack in to a computer system to upload / download data. There's an iconoclast leader of the underworld resistance that helps Johnny fight the powers that be. Finally, the most striking visual parallel may be the character Jones, who lives in a tank and is permanently connected to a computer, just like the people in The Matrix before they eat the red pill.If you like this sort of genre (dark, oppressive futures where people struggle against powerful forces who treat them like chattel), you'll probably like Soylent Green more than this film. "},{"Title":"Boring!","Date":"19 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well this is a movie which inst as good as you thought it would be. it's a ordinary Sci-fi movie.You may ask why do you say that? and well, let me explain 1) The movie shows a future thats gone wrong. As always in Sci-fi movies with in a awful future, we have the hero who is figthing for justice and against the evil companies (or just the villains) that doesn't seem to have any morality or kindness in them. You can compare it to Terminator or to Alien, which both shows a future that has gone wrong.2) Like many other sci-fi movies, as The Matrix, we see high Tec equipment at the villains side, and extremely Low-Tec at the heroes side. Again, this is as every other sci-fi movie (almost) and again, there are NO new ideas to this side! 3) The characters are awful! johnny is a person that doesn't trust anyone (which is VERY understandable (if such a word exists)) but every time he doesn't want to be a part of it, he seconds later is going back TO BE a part of he good team! WHY cant we see a character who tries to be on his own, or is told (by the other good or friendly people) why they can help. The people who is supposed to help him, doesn't seem as they WANT to! Example When Johnyy and the girl (forgot her name) is looking for Jones at the old Bridge, we see Johnny yell and Yell Jones or Hello! a lot. The strange is, the girl (who knew who Jones is) isn't helping him in any way! She just stands there, and do NOTHING to let them inside the facility!!!! Why didn't she help Johnny if she knew the area AND the people? Why did she let him stand there and yell, and let him almost die (when a car was accidentally dropped at them)? a very strange helper i must say! Dolph Lundgreen plays a very strange Christian-contract-killer, and enjoys to let his victims suffer the way Jesus did. But why do the villains hire and old, fanatic, killer and not send a elite force after johnny? In The Matrix we have the Agents as the evil ones, and NOT and old stupid religious fanatic!!! That is again making this movie so bad! And by the way WHY DO THEY HAVE A DOLPHIN??? thats a question i cannot solve! To make the story short The movie sucks with lousy characters, stupid plot, stupid actors and a lot of unsolved questions.If you have seen Matrix, you can clearly see some similarities! "},{"Title":"Predictable, mediocre, clichés","Date":"22 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I recommend you watch this on DVD as you can easily fast forward through most of its tedious predictability. The plot itself is based on the tired, well-worn Hollywood cliché of big, rich corporations bad - poor ghetto dwellers good. The producers then add to this excitement by finding the worst acting cast money can buy. How bad? A mechanical fish that plays a bit part is one of the most engaging characters. Keanu Reeves doesn't give his best performance but, compared to the rest of the cast, you hardly notice. At least he is actually doing some acting.However, if you think Ice T is one of the great Thespians of the Modern Era, then you will be entirely satisfied with the cast.There is one predictable romance of so little passion or consequence you wonder why they bothered. There is a lot of profanity which only manages to elevate the picture from bad to worse. Like the picture, the profanity is without believable passion or artistry.This picture is not without miracles. One gentleman has several high powered bullets pass through is heart, lungs and organs and appears to die. However, a few minutes later he revives long enough to hand our hero an important message, then finally expires. Fortunately, the entire movie expires a few minutes later, putting us out of our misery. "},{"Title":"One word...... dull","Date":"8 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" While i admit this is definitely one of the worst movies i have ever encountered, it isn't so bad to the point where you find yourself falling asleep. (Actually the only reason i was so alert through this whole movie was because i only started watching it half way through and i was trying to figure out what the hell was going on.) This movie has one of the most intriguing plots ever, the only reason this movie is so badly rated is because yes, the movie does have a very bad script, along with some very very bad graphics and tacky props made out of the same two dollar plastic that i used for my grade five art project.I was laughing so hard at the corny lines and the supposed seriousness the actor's were trying to put in this movie, the fact that it was a futuristic low-budget movie made in 1995 doesn't help it either.This movie movie only proved one thing, Keanu would have made an excellent career out of being a hand mimer. "},{"Title":"An uninspired movie that gives us a very dark view on our near future.","Date":"24 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I guess the best way to describe this movie is to call it a mix between Sci-Fi, a comic book and an action movie. Apparently this is also called a cyberpunk movie. I have to admit that I didn't really know that genre yet, but if this is what all the movies in this genre look like, than I'm not a fan of it.It's 2021 and everybody is connected by the Internet. But almost half of the world's population is suffering from the Nerve Attenuation Syndrome (NAS). Johnny Mnemonic is a data courier. To become a data courier, he had to give up some of his long term memory that contained all his childhood memories so a memory chip could be implanted into his brain. He now can store a large amount of data right into his brain, but when the maximum capacity is exceeded, he can't keep it in his head too long, or he will die.He has been ordered to carry 320 gigabytes of crucial information from Beijing to Newark. The information has been stolen from the Pharmacom company and is the cure for NAS. Of course the corporation wants to stop him and with the help of the yakuza they try to capture him alive, because they don't want to loose the information. But then he gets help from the Low-tech group led by J-Bone. This group helps him, because they want to spread the information about the cure for free, but first they will have to try to break the missing code to download the information.Even though I'm not the biggest fan of Sci-Fi, that doesn't mean I can't enjoy it. But than it needs more than only a good story. Good acting is an absolute must as well and that's where it goes wrong. While Dolf Lundgren is very interesting and sure must have had a lot of fun as the lunatic preacher, all the other actors aren't all that great. Keanu Reeves really doesn't give away a good performance and the other actors' performances aren't really mind blowing either.In the end this is a very uninspired and disappointing movie with a very dark view on our near future. I hope it won't be the way they show it, because then I guess it would be better for us to end it all right now. I give this movie a 4/10. "},{"Title":"Another mise en scene of a story that might have been too short","Date":"15 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I haven't read William Gibsons version of the story, but I doubt that it is as bad as the movie. Well - if you think about the way the directors approached the creation of this film it will become quite obvious why the story itself is so inconsequent, overdrawn and stereotype-packed. There were several attempts of making this movie, originally being envisioned as a black and white art-film with a critical portrayal of a new cyberpunk generation. Each times financing changed the project got more and more mainstreamed, until it developed into... well, what came out eventually. The directors were just glad about having finished the movie at all. I mean, Keanu Reeves straight-forward and uninventive acting isn't really fitting into this picture, Dolph Lundgren is just... Dolph Lundgren (not to speak about his role, the killing priest, which I consider a joke, in the movie) and it's just obvious that the separate parts of the plot are just clumsily enhanced elements of Gibsons original draft in order to fit the 90 minutes cinema format. Though there are things that aren't too bad about that movie - namely some parts convincingly conveying the feel of cyberpunk and the performances of Takeshi and Ice-T. Overall the picture isn't all garbage - it's a good concept unfortunately badly realized. "},{"Title":"Expected more from Gibson","Date":"3 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The short story that enthralled me and began my love affair with SciFi turned out to be a disappointing movie. Disappointing because it had so much potential, most of which was left unfulfilled. I expected to see more innovative fx to go with the innovative story. I also expected more stylization much like the one found in another movie of that year, Hackers. More than anything, I think that if this was to be redone with today's special effects, it would be that much better. Oh yes, and I forgot to mention Keanu. Keanu and his WOW!. Keanu provided a glimpse of things to come (for him at least...and for scifi). None the less, I gave it 7/10. "}{"Title":"Not THAT bad.","Date":"13 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Johnny Mnemonic isn't that bad.  Sure, I was 13 when I really liked this film and watched it whenever it was on USA (a cable channel) in the afternoon during my summer vacays--but this movie isn't so bad that it would make people cry our pain.  I've seen worse, and I've seen a lot better than Johnny Mnemonic.  I think that, at the time, Johnny Mnemonic was an interesting film.  It had an anti-corporate message, love conquers all, and anti-hero themes... sure these are always the themes being rehashed now, but I thought it really worked in this movie.  The major thing to change would be Keanu Reeves.  That guy cannot act, and he was all wrong for this movie... 'whoa' just doesn't cut it.Plus, I liked how they would introduce the different subcultures of Johnny's world.  I thought that was tops and gave you information that helped in the understanding of the environment where this story is taking place.  Sure, it was a wee bit unorganized, but if you really just sat down and let it soak in (which I had a lot of time to do during the lazy afternoon in the summers when I was a tween) those little details really add to the world where Johnny and Jane live.I can't believe that ppl recommended Strange Days over Johnny Mnemonic... at least Johnny Mnemonic had a story that relatively held together as the film progresses and an ending that didn't seem forced.  As a 13 year old who was getting to know what Cyberpunk was, Johnny Mnemonic was a great film (of course, at the same time I thought Tank Girl was off the hook too.huy P). I suppose people will either hate it or like it.  I just can't see why people hate it with such a passion that they have to flame on IMDb.  "},{"Title":"Underappreciated fun - Misunderstood art","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Unfortunately, some viewers would like to review this film with statements like This crap made me gag big time. , and make long complaints about how difficult this film is to understand or view.For the remainder of the audience who even knows who William Gibson is, don't miss this film.  This is a wonderful adaptation of his short story, and conveys the atmosphere that exists across his novels.For those of you who don't know who he is, he is the man who coined the term Cyberspace, and is responsible for creating the cyber-punk genre of science fiction novels.  His works are dark and moody, often featuring anti-heroes and megalithic corporations.  His type of writing is an extension of the work of Philip K Dick and followed by Neal Stephenson.To be honest, I don't even understand how someone could not follow this movie.  The plot and premise are clearly spelled out by the actors during the action, the three distinct subplots all terminate together, and the film has a clear denounement.  This isn't some obscure black and white european film that hasn't been properly translated, nor is it some existential film without much dialog, but rather an excellent adaptation of a short story.The only downer is the fact that the CGI is a bit dated - and Ice T is just too over the top.In summary, if you are looking for a true to life original cyberpunk film, this is it.  As much fun as the Matrix is, it is still deriative of works like this. "},{"Title":"What's with all the negative reviews?","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I can't believe the number of negative reviews here. Granted, this isn't the best movie of all time, but it's not bad at all. I just watched this last night at a friend's house, and I really enjoyed it. One of my favorite characters was Dolph Lungren's street preacher, a role almost tailor-made for him to play. Keanu Reeves has more data in his cyberpunk head than he can handle, and he needs to get it out of his system before it fries him for good. Dina Meyer, now playing the paralyzed Batgirl on the WB series 'Birds of Prey' does a good job as the sexy Jane. Johnny Mnemonic is the ultimate cyberpunk/Shadowrun movie. If you're interested in cyberpunk, this is what to watch in order to introduce yourself into that culture.  "},{"Title":"Dark, dim mood to story...","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've seen this movie a few times now, and I have this to say. Neat, interesting story, and believable acting. However, the dark, dead atmosphere really takes away from what this movie could have been. I'm not familiar with the story it is based on, so I really can't criticize continuity or plot. All I'll say is that Keanu definitely provided some basis for ability to portray sci-fi characters effectively. "},{"Title":"*** out of 5","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Confusing comic-book style futuristic thriller in the saem vein as Robocop and Lawnmower man is made worth while by the daziling special effects and an over the top performance by Dolph Lundergrenas a psychotic preacher. The bland Keanu Reeves gives another unemotional performace somewhat similar to that of the Matix as Johnny, a guy who smuggles data through the use of a chip in his head, but once he finds that he has been set up he must get the data out of his head before it kills him or falls unto the wrong hands. Rapper Ice-T also makes for an effective perfomance as the leader of a street gang who are Johnnys last hope at survival, you can also see old school punker Henery Rollins in a small but effective role as well. Not much originality in the script and the fact that Reeves only has about two different emotions through out the whole movie does help the fact that he is reading form a less than average script. Even though you won't care a bit about the plot several nicely filmed action scenes (that are often quite violent) will keep people interested until the credits role and even though you may not have a clue what is going on, it gets an extra half star for adding that action in there to make it enjoyable. So if there is nothing else better on a rainy night this could very well just be what your looking for.    "},{"Title":"JOHNNY MNEMONIC is a mind-numbing mess that goes nowhere fast.","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Bad career choice for the newly bulked-up Keanu Reeves, coming off the phenomenally successful Speed. He plays the 21st-century hero of the title, who has a computer chip installed in his skull, the better to smuggle vast amounts of secret data from country to country. Coming back from Asia, he has been greatly overprogrammed and his head will surely burst if he is not downloaded in a hurry. There are, of course, numerous complications, so we are never quite sure if and when we are going to end up with a lap full of Keanu brains. Our hero, wearing a cheap white shirt with a funny collar, eventually makes it back to the desolate Free City of Newark. He is being pursued by all sorts of bad guys, who want the information in his head. Some just want his head. One of the bad guys has a weapon that could decapitate Johnny in a second. It looks like infrared dental floss, and we've already seen it work in deftly removing the arm of an opponent. Ice T and Udo Kier are in the cast, as is Dolph Lundgren, playing the villainous Street Preacher, who carries a crucifix that doubles as a stiletto. Needless to say, the technology outperforms the humans. The oddest touch is a fake-looking, all-knowing dolphin named Jones that seems to control the world from a fish tank while connected to a number of electronic devices. He's no relation to Flipper, that's obvious. "},{"Title":"An insult to the classic short story","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What is this? A movie? No wait, it's not good enough for that title.  A remake? No, it's not good enough for that either. How about a cliche' ridden, bad acting-littered, this plot is going nowhere fast piece of cinema junk?  Ah, that's what this is. Why must I be so scathing?  Now c'mon, does this movie really deserve some slack?  No, but I do for wasting my money on something like this.  Now let's analyze it.  Almost any movie with the credit 'Keanu Reeves' on the package or poster is a bad news to begin with.  And that fact is painfully displayed with this movie.  His lines are poorly executed, he makes his character as exciting as a box, and what little character he does have makes you think that he had one too many beers. Next in line is the plot.  Ok, sure, at least it's half-good.  But really now, with something that basic how could you expect to create a thrilling adventure?  I could make a better story with two dogs and a leash (draw your own conclusions). What saves this movie?  Nothing really, unless you're interested in Dina Meyer's sultry look. So please, spare yourself the pain of the movie and replace it with the superior short story. "},{"Title":"Really poor attempt at adapting William Gibson..","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Movies like Johnny Mnemonic astonish me for one reason despite the fact that the material it's based on is incredibly short and sweet, thus making it perfect film material, they STILL screw it up.  The original story is a fantastic one, pakced with loads of great action and details.  Expand the story just a tad, and you've got a great movie.  Sadly, the filmmakers here decided they were too good for that, and arrogantly attempted to virtually rewrite 70% of Gibson's story.  None of that was needed, so we get this lukewarm attempt at translating a whole HEAP of Gibsons ideas, instead of just a few.  Bad idea when your budget is so low and the best actor you can get to play a villian is Dolph Lundgren.  The writers and directors obviously tried to make Neuromancer, instead of actually making Johnny Mnemonic.  sadly enough, the CD-ROM video game released the same year (with tons of live-action footage) was much better. "},{"Title":"too stupid for anybody","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Reeves is carrying something in his head that he needs to deliver and there is some stupid plot about dolphins. Ice- T and Dolph Lundgren are along for this hellride and that is saying a lot. This is a grade c sci-fi hybrid that tries to go for the techno angle but winds up acoustic. Johnny Mnemonic is a terrible movie that offers no thrills or anything new that you haven't seen. * "},{"Title":"An Interesting Film","Date":"2 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I liked the film, but I do not think it is for everybody. I was interested in the ideas of the movie, and it has a lot of potential. This movie does not have the best special effects, but it is fun to watch on a Saturday night with nothing better to do. I like it a lot better than The Lawn Mower Man. "}{"Title":"I can't say this movie was udder stool","Date":"14 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  But it titters close to it, I don't quite remember what made the movie mildly entertaining, but it wouldn't matter since mildly entertaining doesn't cut it man!!! Yes, all logic is abandoned for cheap thrills, but I gave it a 3 since the SPOILERS are speaking to me!!! I agree w/ Joe Bob Briggs (everyone's favorite trash-movie host) that the I wanna sleep with a $20,000-a-night hooker line is classic (if somewhat shallow and stupid) along w/the originality (yeah,right) of probably will fry your frontal lobe. But listen to the naysayers from all fronts, they're right about this sad sack of a movie.  "},{"Title":"I want my shirts pressed like they do in the Tokyo Hilton","Date":"3 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Everyone I know refused to see this because they thought Keanu Reeves is a t***.  Well being the Gibson fan I am, I thought that was perfect casting - Johnny is a Tool and his speach about $2000/night hookers and pressed shirts from atop a garbage pile brought to mind Gunther Grass's Rat explaining why humans are extinct.  Dolf Lungren, giving one of his finest performances with more lines than in most of his staring roles, Ice T as a lo-tech is even better than as the fighting kangaroo with Keruac's brain in Tank Girl and Henry Rollins as a doctor are more examples of casting genius.  This movie is for fans of William Gibson's obscure Sci-Fi, it's Cyberpunk and mixes elements of the short story by the same name with elements of his groundbreaking first novel _Neuromancer_ with several new characters and plot twists that deviate enough from both stories to make it interesting while keeping the best elements like HAL in software, the junkie dolphin and Yakuza hitmen. Lots of killer-fu, buckets-a-blood, gory death - no naked breasts. Check it out for guy's night drinking as a warmup to Blade Runner or if you get tired of seeing that or The Matrix.  Apologies to Joe Bob Briggs, but Keanu's line about hookers and pressed shirts deserves and academy award nomination for both acting and writing.  Somebody should use that theme in the annual Bulwer-Lytton Fiction Contest in an attempt to top It was a dark and stormy night. "},{"Title":"William Gibson would be ashamed","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Awful movie, despite the CGI and the story by William Gibson, which are the only two ingredients that make it worth watching. A 5 only because it's a good novel, because if we start talking about the additional scenario and the acting... "},{"Title":"Not as good as the story but some nice action scenes","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The original idea for this story came from the William Gibson short story of the same title. Despite the brilliant work of Gibson in writing the story, the movie is not at all like it. The movie goes somewhat like this, In the future, smugglers carry data through implants in their head. Johnny is one of those couriers. He gets data put in by some defectors of a large corporation. Then, everything goes wrong. The implant is too large and Johnny only has a couple of days to get it out. Unfortunately, the Yakuza (Japanese Mafia) are after the information in his head. Although the plot is somewhat odd and there are many really stupid scenes, it does not hide how expertly they portray a post-apocalyptic world. Don't see it for plot, see it for the action. "},{"Title":"Off with his head...","Date":"22 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" A courier from the future finds himself in major trouble when yakuza thugs, religious fanatics and seemingly everybody seem to be trying to capture what he's got in his head. What's in his head? The cure for NAS(A plague) the rebels aid our courier against the bad guys. The thing that left all of us scratching our heads, was who's idea was it to cast Keanu Reeves as a guy, people want for his mind? Or Dolph Lundgren as a cybernetic religious fanatic? Or Ice-T as a rebel fighter, Henry Rollins as a doctor and so on... It's no big surprise this movie was hailed as a disaster, I mean this thing is just bizarre. Lundgren's campy performance is probably the best thing about this mess. I mean it's hard not to smile hearing Lundgren spout HALT SINNERS! and It's Jesus time! *1/2 out of 4-(Poor) "},{"Title":"The closest to a Shadowrun movie I've seen so far.","Date":"4 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I just saw Johnny Mnemonic for the first time and I have to say I liked it a lot. The story is compelling, the action is good and the effects are still enjoyable.But what makes it even better is that it captures wonderfully the atmosphere of the pen&paper-Rpg Shadowrun. The only thing that's missing are the trolls, orcs, dwarfs etc.Even the energy-whip seems to come straight from Seattle 2060.Somebody who does not like Shadowrun might not get as much out of the film but it's still very good. Keanu Reeves does a good enough job and Udo Kier is excellent as usual, being the only legitimate replacement for Peter Lorre. All in all a lot of fun, 8/10 from me.  "},{"Title":"Why was this film called Johnny Mnemonic?","Date":"7 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  OK, so I've read most of William Gibson's books and short stories. I was quite excited when I heard they were making a film of Johnny Mnemonic.Then I saw the film. What a turkey. Molly isn't in it. How can they make Johnny Mnemonic without Molly? Nope, they stick some random T&A in it called 'Jane', what's that about?They stick a load of stuff that didn't happen in the short story in it, take out a lot of what happened in the short story out, and we have a different film by the same name.Rent 'Strange Days' instead, it's the film that 'Johnny Mnemonic' should have been. It's not the Gibson plot, but then neither is this movie. 'Strange Days' gets the cyber punk atmosphere down properly, where 'Johnny' completely fails, and it descends into farce.I might re-read the short story, and rent the film again, and do a gobble by gobble account of why this film is such a turkey. Oh wait, no, I already wasted enough time on it! "},{"Title":"Pure crap, but hey... Its a Keanu film!","Date":"19 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Sorry kids, this one is pure garbage. Takeshi Kitano is probably the only thing worth mentioning about this film, but if seeing a steroided version of Jesus is your bag go for it. The whole plot revolves around Johnny, a mnemonic data courier who has 24 hours to deliver a cluster of data (over 300 gigs) or die due to lack of space in his skull...but sad as it is since johnny comes across as an empty headed lout you would be led to believe that he could contain it and more. The action effects are crappy, in fact TV shows like Reboot look more realistic. Avoid... "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"16 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Another potentially good movie ruined by mediocre acting. Vaguely reminiscent of The Matrix, but the cinematography and futuristic outlook is set between the eighties and nineties. I would have expected more out of a sci-fi movie from 1996. This is one of those movies that are only worth seeing if someone else is paying for the rental fee. "},{"Title":"THIS MEGABITES","Date":"23 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  *MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS* This critique will be short, attempt to be creative and guaranteed painless, in other words, everything this reprehensible film was NOT. Keanu Reeves, having just hit the ground running from a hit (SPEED), crashes and burns in this turkey involving cyber information carriers in the far off future. Johnny takes on the beat-to-death cliche of a company man doing one last job. He jets off to Beijing where the formula to cure a pandemic disease is downloaded into his brain. Without a doubt, the only active mind in this whole production.International baddies, in the form of (who else?) a colossal Japanese conglomerate want the data at any cost. The cliches are too many to keep up with in this badly edited fiasco. Reeves character goes strictly by the numbers formula. He starts out apathetic and self-serving. Gets a girl, and somehow a conscience. Feels bad and wants to sock it to the bad guys. (yawn). At least the special effects made up a little for the tedious acting. Reeves looks positively bored, and probably could have phoned this one in from the corner callbox.Ice-T, who seems justifiably embarrassed to be in this, is wasted as an intelligent, street smart renegade. In JOHNNY MNEMONIC, he's relegated to playing the supportive, second banana. An interesting twist, and better casting choice, would've been to star Ice-T in this vehicle. Just a thought.This two hour exercise in masochism finally concludes, when a quick thinking, telekinetic porpoise saves the day. Pay up your dues to Greenpeace, and consider yourself warned.    "}{"Title":"Dolph Lundgren is the best thing about the movie","Date":"26 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is kind of a dumb movie. It is like the much over rated Matrix only not quite as good. Dolph Lundgren gives a great performance playing a crazy Jesus-like cyborg bounty hunter preacher. He is probably the only reason to watch this film. The problem is he isn't in the movie long enough to save it. the rest of the film is pretty stupid. "},{"Title":"Easy to forget. . .","Date":"9 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm no great fan of William Gibson, but surely this movie is well below his standards.  Instead of fruitfully exploring the sometimes fascinating techno-dystopia that is Gibson's trademark, Johnny Mnemonic spares no time in boiling down to yet another chase-driven plot.It's tempting to view this film as a conceptual dry run for The Matrix.  In both, the increasingly technological context of life is seen as threatening to humanity.  Johnny Mnemonic, however, poses the conflict in significantly weaker terms.  In it, the people of the future are afflicted by epileptic seizures, which, according to a doctor in a fit of machine slapping, are caused (in some unexplained way) by the inescapable presence of electronics.  But the concept falls flat we're supposed to fear the medical effects of the encroachment of machines on our lives in the future, when the negative psychological and societal effects already seem formidable.  I mean, which idea scares you more catching a disease from your computer or getting your brains blown out by some twitchy Quake addict because you looked at him the wrong way?The film is full of this sort of symbolism-so-plain-it-really-isn't-symbolism stuff.  The protagonist is a human data courier with a hard drive in his head.  We discover that he has jettisoned his childhood memories to make room for extra digital memory.  (I won't even speculate on how plausible a cognitive scientist might find this.)  The message, in case you missed it, is that our hero has been dehumanized by his job.  Whatever his flaws, Gibson's best stories seemed to avoid such simplistic characterization.  A strong dose of Gibson's moral ambivalence would have made Johnny Mnemonic a better film. "},{"Title":"Avoid at all costs - this is p*** poor.","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Johnny Mnemonic was a dreadful film. The idea is that Keanu Reeves plays a kind of Data Courier who carries the information inside his brain, having had it transferred there by a fibre optic link.The idea is not too bad, and could make a reasonable film with a decent scriptwriter and some actors. But neither of those was in evidence. As well as Keanu we get the 'talents' of Ice-T, Henry Rollins, and Dolph Lundgren. My gods! They really went all out on the third rate actors on this one. Dolph plays Jesus, in an unintelligible move. There are also a load of Hong Kong Action people, including Takeshi Kitano, who are passable.As other users have said the computer scenes are awful. You would think Hollywood would have realised that people who are into Sci-Fi also tend to be into Computers, but evidently not.The plot is jumpy, and very difficult to follow. There are various almost totally random bits in there. Visually the film is quite nice, and I seem to remember the trailer being pretty good, but the promise was not fulfilled. It looking nice does not excuse it from its other numerous faults.This is one of only 2 films of the god-knows-how-many I have rated on here that I gave 1/10. It is shockingly bad, and deserves to be consigned to the dustbin as quickly as possible.Avoid at all costs.  "},{"Title":"I have rarely seen a movie that missed the mark so far.","Date":"22 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What happened with this movie?  What a great premise it had. How did it miss the mark so far?  My sister and I see any movie Keanu Reeves makes without much regard for the content or whatcharacter he plays. We have decided the problem was the budget.  All the cast and crew members must have put in their $1.50, andthat was all the money available.   I just don't get it.  Here was agreat mystery and scifi combination that could have beenincredibly engrossing, it could have sucked you in and kept you onthe edge of your seat during the entire running time.  Instead, Ispent the whole time wondering what  it was they had in mind.  Istayed for the entire length of the movie hoping it would becomewhat it promised to be.  Finally, in the last 5 minutes, it lived up toit's potential.  Too little, too late.  I want the time and money Iwasted back!! "},{"Title":"Good Sci-fi with an nice end-of-the-world feel to it...","Date":"9 August 2004","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  People with hi-tech body implants, cyberpunks galore and some awful sickness induced by a technology gone wild, all situated in a world where computers, drugs, rust and dirt are the only winners. The whole of William Gibson's world is there, perfectly pictured in this superb movie.You'll get no nice future prospects for western civilization here. Gibson describes an apocalyptical world which is realistic enough to be scary. Since 1995, computing may have progressed faster than Gibson thought. The point the film makes (about us?) remains valid, though. And the aesthetics are just fine.  "},{"Title":"What a load of crap!","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this movie on television the other day and I didn't know much about it, I had heard about it when it had come out and thought it would be quite good because it had Keanu Reeves in it.....boy was I mistaken.This could be a worthy contender for worst film ever. Everything about this film was terrible. The plot was okish, whereas the acting was just horrifying. I was astonished at the awful acting from Keanu Reeves and from all the other actors as well. The only actor who wasn't awful was Ice-T...which is saying something! The effects were crappy and god awful! This whole movie was just a load of garbage which I could barely even sit through.No matter who you are stay away from this pile of garbage! This is an insult to movies everywhere and shouldn't be seen by anyone ever again. "},{"Title":"* OUT OF FIVE","Date":"16 July 2003","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Keanu Reeves stars as Johnny Smith a courier who gets chased around by corporate thugs who bring in the yakuza led by Takeshi (Takeshi Kitano) who brings in the help of Street Preacher (Dolph Lundgren) a born again assassin in this visually appealing yet empty headed cyberpunk actioner. Johnny Mnemonic doesn't end so much as it runs out of bullets. Action star Dolph Lundgren who plays a hired killer overpowers the rest of the cast and considering Lundgren's resume that sums it all up. "},{"Title":"Classic Cyber-Punk","Date":"23 October 2004","Score":"15 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" You know, I may give this movie a 4, but I really suggest you watch it and I have to admit that I own it. This is a classic example of the cyber-punk genre, and this is one of those movies that is so bad it's good. This movie is like Blade Runner's fat slutty sister. It has everything, bright neon lights, a huge corporate society run with the help of the yakuza, and a group of rejects who neglect technology and help save the day. Some of the other things in the movie are just hilarious. Who do you call on to take out Keanu Reeve's when the going gets tough? They called on some badass agents in The Matrix but in Johnny Mnemonic? A bionic street-preacher/mercenary who hands out sermons while he is busy crucifying his victims. "},{"Title":"It's a Keanu Reeves film - say no more","Date":"3 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Dreary SF clunker with a typically uncharismatic Keanu Reeves as the title character, a courier who delivers data by carrying it around in an implant in his head, an upgrade that necessitated dumping portions of his long-term memory (including his acting classes, apparently). An intriguing premise is duly farted away thanks to a stillborn screenplay, flat direction, poor performances and gloomy music; what might have been an exciting thriller along the lines of 'Total Recall' has crawled onto the screen as a muddled, disappointing misfire. There are a couple of rewards along the way, such as the internet sequences, people getting sliced in half back when the visual was a fresh idea, and Dina Meyer, who I fancied like mad at the time. "},{"Title":"Garuanteed The Only Good Dolph Lundgren Movie","Date":"12 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I Do Not Care If The Rating Is A 4.9 This Is The Pinnacle Of Dolph's Acting(In Fact After Seeing Punisher (1989) & A View To A Kill(1985) This Is The Only Real Acting Role That He Has Ever Done). But Enough With That & Now To The Actual Movie. The Plot Is That In 2021, the whole world is connected by the gigantic Internet, and almost a half of the population is suffering from the Nerve Attenuation Syndrome (NAS).Johnny with an inplanted memory chip in his brain was ordered to transport the over loaded information from Beijing to Newark. While Pharmakom Industries supported by yakuza tries to capture him to get the information back, the Low-tech group led by J-Bone tries to break the missing code to download the cure of NAS which Johnny carries. Okay Keanu Reeves Does A Great Job In This(Regardless Of The Fact He Got Nominated For A Razzie For It) The Rest Of The Acting Was Okay, The Cinematography Was Good & This Is The One Part Of Dolph Lundgren That He Was Superb In.Rating 7/10 "}{"Title":"An odd collection of actors","Date":"16 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Sort of Mad Max/Matrix hybrid. Not a bad film for the genre, but the thing that might catch your eye is Takeshi (the chief bad guy), who is none other than the host for Most Extreme Elimination Challenge (MXC), as well as musicians Ice-T and Henry Rollins! The edited (TV) version misses a few gruesome scenes, and indeed the film is a bit on the graphic side. The premise, about a guy who can smuggle information downloaded into his noggin, is a bit of a stretch, and the references to his storage capacity date the film (given that an iPOD Nano holds more these days). However, Keneau Reeves is a god fit for the mostly mono-syllabic protagonist. "},{"Title":"Live action anime.","Date":"22 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I actually like this one as much as the first Matrix movie.  I know that it is sacrilege to say such things, but that is just how I feel.  There is just something about this movie that appeals to me and it is the fact that it is just like a live anime movie.  Much more so than the Matrix which other than a couple of points is not as much of an anime movie as some have made it out to be.  Here the scenery and the characters and everything is very colorful like most animes are.  We have the plot that goes here and there just like an anime.  We have good looking gals that kick butt just like an anime.  We are not sure who is the main villain just like a lot of animes and then there is the villain that seems really strong and looks like he is important to the plot who ends up being a non-factor (Dolph's character) just like in an anime.  This one has Keanu as a courier who plants information in his head and delivers it.  Only there is a snag of course and he ends up being chased by all sorts of characters.  Lots of action and meetings occur with all of these people.  It even ends like a lot of anime movies...a bit anticlimactic.  Overall though I enjoyed it. "},{"Title":"Embarrassing sci-fi","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Based on the comic books by William Goldman, Johnny Mnemonic takes place in 2021, when the world looks like one big trash can. The title character has a computer chip in his head, which allows him to smuggle important data there, at the expense of his childhood memories. But one time he gets information stored in his head that a big, bad corporation wants badly. So they send some goofs after Johnny to take his head off.Science-fictions always fascinates me, because they don´t certainly need a strong story to entertain. Impressive special effects might just as well do the job. But they are nowhere to be found in Johnny Mnemonic, which beside disappointing effects also offers a messy script which doesn´t get anywhere. The action scenes aren´t many, and they aren´t anything to write home about either. Keanu Reeves has never been an actor who carry films on his shoulders, he needs bombastic productions like The Matrix and Speed to blend in better. Here he runs around and looks very confused, and he utters his lines with no empathy at all.  Dina Meyers is pretty to look at, but she isn´t much of an actor and works much better in smaller roles, and not as the heroine. Supporting actors here are rapper Ice-T and rock star Henry Rollins, and we all know what mostly happens when artists decides to try some acting. Especially when their parts are as badly written as these. The movie´s only treat is probably Swedish muscle-man Dolph Lundgren, as a fanatic priest. Yes, his acting is as wooden as ever, but I at least found some interesting things with his character. And you can´t do anything but smile when you see Dolph trying to kill Johnny, while bawling embarrassing lines like Halt sinners! or Behold your Saviour!. 1/5 "},{"Title":"Gallows or Johnny Mnemoniac? Think carefully!","Date":"18 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Best Keanu Reeves The Worst ALL THE REST. Rating 2/ 10Plot ` A data courier, carrying a data package literally inside his head too large to hold for long, must deliver it before he dies from it.' IF the plot looks simple to you, maybe it's because it really is but after you see this you can realise how much worse it is. --Acting None, (Why Keanu, why? This one ruined your reputation) --Special effects Game Boy's. --Directing Stunningly invisible. --Plot Oh, wait, there is no plot.Just to complete this comment I feel I have to add Leif Barbre Knudsen's final statement  `If you are not an idiot, you must feel like one after having seen this inept use of fundings, crew and actors'!.  "},{"Title":"Stupid Movie -- don't waste your time","Date":"31 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I loved the Matrix and so I rented this movie because Keanu Reeves was in it.   This is one of the worst movies I've ever seen.  Usually I watch a movie to the end but this is one of the few I couldn't stand.  I watched about 80 minutes of it and it kept getting worse.  It was so bad that I fast forwarded through a few sections to see if the ending justified wasting any more time -- it didn't.Probably the dumbest thing was a scene were a Keanu Reeves brain is hooked up to a dolphin to help him unload some data he has in his head.  I guess they were trying to show that dolphins were smarter than anyone else in this film.  And they were probably showing that dolphins are smarter than humans -- probably no dolphin wasted their time watching this really really really stupid movie.   "},{"Title":"Cliche bomb","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This one is so full of cliches that they have to overlap to fit in. There is nothing wrong with the sci-fi intentions and the visual effects are very good indeed, so whats the point of making the dialog so dumb and inner coherence so embarrassing. As in virtually every Hollywood pulp movie computers are handled with such ignorance. Please read the review of Roger Ebert for further details. Sci-fi can create whatever fantasic premises it needs but it has to stick to the logic of the universe that is created.If you are not an idiot you must feel like one after having seen this inept use of access to fundings, crew and actors. "},{"Title":"One crappy movie.","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Before I comment, I have to comment on the users who wrote that you have to check your brain and enjoy watching the movie, or just watch the movie for action and not the story line or actual character developement. And I'm sure they would point out to me that I shouldn't be critical of this film when I wasted 1 hour and 45 minutes hoping it would have alot of sci-fi action, I know whose got the higher IQ. I expected the usual sci fi action in this movie after renting it from Blockbuster, and it did say sci fi action on the vhs tape as well. However during the movie, I noted that the characters are like a bunch of stick figures just waiting for some cue man to tell them what to do next. Everyone acted so freaken stupid in the movie, and most notably Keanu Reeves p**s poor acting, The Matrix made him look really good with the fighting. Peace I gave this movie rating a 1.  "},{"Title":"So stupid it is brilliant!","Date":"31 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Having read many a review of Johnny Mnemonic on websites that concern themselves with films that are so bad they become good in an unintentional comedic sense, I knew I had to see it. And having watched it through the magic of online rental services, I was instantly floored by a howler of a stupid film. And what makes it really ironic is that the revered William Gibson not only wrote the story upon which it is based, he also wrote the screenplay. Allegedly, he also wrote a screenplay for Alien 3 that was rejected in favour of the version that appeared in theatres. Make of that what ye will. Given that no other writers are credited for this mess, it is hard to place the blame anywhere but on his shoulders. Then again, JM was the last thing Robert Longo apparently directed after an illustrious career involving two music videos and an episode of Tales From The Crypt, so I cannot say he is entirely blameless. To put it simply, this entire film smacks of everyone involved making the wrong decision at just the right moment.Kicking things off is the hilarious presentation of the story. The opening crawl is a very tricky thing to pull off, especially as it always entails comparisons with everyone's favourite episode of Star Wars. There are opening crawls that can compare well with Star Wars, but Johnny Mnemonic features one of the most poorly-presented in history. Among its cavalcade of sins is setting a specific date for the events of the story to occur. The events themselves are not entirely implausible, but in an information technology market cornered by a company interested only in repressing the product for the sake of its profit margin that said market would take two decades to recover from if it went out of business tomorrow, setting a date for the ability to carry data within a human brain as early as 2015 destroys what little believability there is. This year is less than a decade away now, and yet we are still using televisions that use a vacuum tube to project an image from one end to the other, if that tells you anything.Not helping things any are some truly hideous performances from a miscast cast. About the only actors who truly fit their roles are Dina Meyer and Dolph Lundgren, for various reasons. Dina is playing a character so generic that any woman capable of faking an epileptic fit would suit (and that is not as easy as it sounds) while Lundgren is playing a mercenary who uses his skills as a fighter, along with an unnerving self-confidence, to track down his quarry. Hardly a stretch for either actor, to be quite frank. Not to mention that anything with a curvy body or a height somewhere in the range of two metres could play these two roles adequately. Keanu Reeves seems to think the film is called Ted Carries Info In His Head, Udo Kier is totally out of his element when the film requires him to be something other than a pimp, and the extras cannot get over how ridiculous the fight sequences seem on paper. Not to mention how they seem on celluloid. And in case you have forgotten it since the last time he demonstrated this fact, Ice-T cannot act.Not helping matters any is the special effects used to realise Johnny's technological world. I realise that elaborate steps have to be taken to realise a world in which information is fought over like land and therefore human mercenaries have to transport the data within themselves, but even George Lucas has recognised at one point in his career that sometimes less is more. The Lawnmower Man had come out three years earlier and proved to the world that while feats in special effects are impressive, storytelling feats are far more so. The exact same problem exists with Johnny Mnemonic. In trying to show us a world that exists entirely within a network of computers, the film overloads the senses with images, leaving us confused when we should be able to follow the action from point A to point B. The fact that the film throws us into the deep end with regards to suspension of disbelief does not help matters. In the first five minutes we are meant to accept a world in seemingly perpetual night where not only can people have a hard disk implanted into their brain, but they can upgrade it at will for ludicrous sums of money.The miscellanea is a lot like the endless array of minor flaws in every version of Windows that adds up to one big problem. Johnny Mnemonic's best possible actor to play the titular role is relegated to playing a doctor who nudges the plot in a new misdirection. The method of resolving the story, well, it involves a dolphin with what looks like a set of headphones, virtual reality (which was pretty much abandoned as a computing concept in 1995 anyway), and a severe misunderstanding of the nature of computer virii. In fact, this last point is pretty funny in context. At several points we hear statements like unleash the virus. Given that a virus in the data sense is self-replicating and designed to exploit holes in the security of systems (which exist no matter how well-designed they are), the last thing any responsible IT manager would want to do is send one into the open. Using one to attack a possible intruder in the system is somewhat like trying to kill a rabbit with a nuclear missile.For all these reasons, Johnny Mnemonic gets a one out of ten from me. If you like your films to be serious, then avoid it like the plague. If you are like me and like it when a film is so stupid its sheer genius, look no further. "},{"Title":"Scarecrow reviews the mess that is Johnny","Date":"15 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Or, perhaps, I'll just try and keep my words minimum regarding this sci-fi film set as the internet age was forming and morphing into the monster it is today. Keanu Reeves has the look of a cool Johnny, but his acting chops stayed at home. He represents the cold, greedy slime that inhibits the business world today. Johnny is a courier, who subjects a portion of his brain(which housed his childhood memories)to holding secretive implanted documents between global and underground organizations. The implants in Johnny's latest assignment came from several frightened geeks in Beijing, which holds the important cure for a disease which has spread all around the world called NAS(some type of nerve disease which gives people the black shakes). He has to get these files out of his brain before these overload and make his head explode(or something to that extent, he has massive migranes and head/memory trauma throughout the rest of the film once he implants this cure in his brain). A key to unlocking the implant's specific codes are three specific pictures taken from television..this comes in handy. Beat Takashi plays an overlord of the Yakuza(who is deeply wounded from the loss of his daughter)who desires to have that code and orders his right hand man Dennis Akayama(who wields a mean laser rope which slices heads and body parts..not to mention steel, clean apart)to get Johnny's head. You'll see Dennis constantly carrying around a cryogenic container for Johnny's head. Johnny almost loses his head to Dennis when, Mnemonic's client Udo Kier betrays him. The film's tension derives from an unlikable hero(they call it anti-hero)who must keep his head. Soon the writer provides Johnny with an appropriate ally in Dina Meyer(who is stunning to the eyes and also suffering from the NAS virus). He also has several run ins with Ice-T(called J-Bone in this film)who is the leader of an underground force(who is fighting against the corporate Pharmakom..the company who are holding the cure hostage, keeping the public from knowing about it so they can continue to profit off the sick)called the Loteks. Also rocker Henry Rollins gets to portray a doctor(!)who works both to heal those sick with NAS and also assist in removing implanted memory from the brains of couriers. Dolph Lundren laughably plays a deranged minister who likes to stick his victims to the wall in the shape of Christ's crucifixion. He is working for Takashi to find Johnny's head also and eliminates anyone who stands in his way. The film looks reminiscent of Blade Runner in how the landscape of Newark appears(not to mention Beijing), soaked in blackened shadows and splashes of neon. The characters also look like they came right out of Ridley Scott's Blade Runner as well. Make-up and less than polished attire clothes many on the streets Johnny has to work to get the blasted info out of his brain. So the film meanders all over as Johnny tries desperately to save his own skin, while falling head over heels with the very attractive Meyer. Many people die thanks to Johnny's implanted cure and the film loves to bask the viewer in heavy loads of violence and unpleasant people of the future. It's a bleak world we see in Longo's Johnny Mnemonic. Still, the film will pull many in because it(and the very good visual effects we see when Johnny goes into the computer's mainframe to explore ways of getting himself out of jams and finding out ways to pull the implanted info from his brain)is incredible to look at with some decent action sequences. But, I felt it's pretty rotten overall with a silly resolution in how Johnny is able to remove that implanted memory, how it seems that every criminal in the film meets Johnny in the same place and still survive, and the character Lundgren plays is so ridiculous you kind of snicker at his vile hijinks. "},{"Title":"If Keanu's brain was a computer, how much information do you think it could hold?","Date":"25 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" What started with a salesman wickedly musing over a manhattan shared with the stranger to his right is here recognised and thoroughly explored. The frivolous or uneducated reply -- one-hundred and sixty Gigabytes -- brings into question why more of that ample brain power hasn't been put to better use in the cine-classics predating this one. Fortunately, this time, Pinocchio is intentionally typecast as someone whose mind is elsewhere.There's only one description big enough for this production and that's purposefully capitalised, Truly Abysmal. Serious writers get turned off the motion picture industry for a fraction of this cruelty. It took Gibson three years in a bottle -- I'm not alleging alcoholism, just that he drifted for a while, aiming his glass bow at rocky coastlines, more than once -- to regain some courage and return to the screen. Admittedly with similar results, but comparatively unnoticed. A tattered but hardened man, he refused to be driven far and resurfaced sometime later on the boob-tube. If only the director had been that fortunate.Enough about consequences though. The basic story for those of you blissfully unaware involves the adventures of a dimwitted scarecrow who trades the majority of his already limited cranial padding for one-hundred and sixty million million eights of ones and zeroes. The idea being that transporting digital information inside your head is more secure than carrying it around on your person. Unfortunately, or maybe by good fortune, everyone seems to know where the information is hidden and they're all taking turns with the walnut crackers.Now you're thinking this sounds good. Sadly, it could have been, but this anomaly swallowed any effort or cash incentive thrown at it. Appearances by Takeshi Kitano, Dolph Lundgren, Henry Rollins, Ice-T and even a cybernetically enhanced talking dolphin all failed to save the day. You WILL cry if you purchase viewing rights to this monster. Even if you protect your coffers from the swindlers and manage to sneak a peek, you WILL cry. "}{"Title":"Try And Imagine The Matrix During A Power Cut","Date":"1 August 2013","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've got a bit of a problem writing this review because immediately after seeing JOHNNY MNEMONIC I can hardly recall a thing about it . If I remember correctly it involves Keanu Reeves playing Keanu Reeves getting something downloaded in to his head and going somewhere to download it in to something and constantly bumping in to foul mouthed non actors every ten minutes . Have I got that right ? The screenplay is written by William Gibson , the purveyor of a science fiction of sub-genre called Cyberpunk which was very popular in the late 1989s and early 1990s but didn't translate at all well in to cinema . Without doubt the most successful Cyberpunk movie was the original version of THE MATRIX and as the sequels even the success of that film was probably down to a case of style over substance . The problem with JM is that too is trying to be style over substance and there's very little style to it It's a film trying to emulate the look of BLADERUNNER but director Robert Longo is no Ridley Scott . He also doesn't do his cause any good by casting Henry Rollins and Ice-T who give the impression they think they were going to be appearing in a cool hip movie only to find they weren't and reacted by giving disinterested performances . The worst aspect is the cinematography were everything is so dimly lit that it's impossible to see what is going on in the background or indeed if there is anything going on the background . Add to this a storyline that is often confusing then you've got a film that fails to hold the interest and is difficult to remember moments after seeing it "}]