[{"Title":"Snipes and Harrelson Redux.","Date":"12 June 2005","Score":"23 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Popcorn is the word that most describes this action-comedy movie from Joseph Reuben, the man who directed other standard fare like SLEEPING WITH THE ENEMY, TRUE BELIEVER, THE STEPFATHER, DREAMSCAPE, and most recently, a notorious bomb called THE FORGOTTEN.So let's see how I can dive into this pool without hitting a hard surface. This is a buddy-movie in which two uber-American guys of very different temperaments and backgrounds share a bond that goes beyond anything they might go through. One of the two is by default a loose cannon and drives the plot with his antics. There may be some tension when a corrupt high official threatens the loose cannon. Add a sexy new co-worker into the mix (which becomes the focus of their intense, male attraction) and basically you have a story that has been of late the norm in the Hollywood popcorn machine.Now, trying to cash in (I believe, I could be wrong) on their previous outing WHITE MEN CAN'T JUMP, Woody Harrelson and Wesley Snipes play not buddies from the 'hood but foster 'brothas' (if we can believe this baby) who are closer than a cuticle is to a finger even though Snipes has to act as older brother to a rebellious and unpredictable Harrelson and on that note, neither is miscast. Snipes does convey steel while Harrelson gives off his just-under-the-surface danger, especially when he grins at smarmy boss Robert Blake in one subway scene.Pitching in for the Latina female is Jennifer Lopez who, without being as angry and nasal and in-your-face as Rosie Perez, actually manages to be engaging though this is early in her career, before she decided to punch out and play her (bland) self once she became the trademark known as J. Lo. She all but steals her own pat scenes, especially in one tense exchange she has with Chris Cooper playing a not-so-nice fellow who pushes people onto subway platforms, a reality among New York strap-hangers.But trying to over-analyze this film in terms of shots and composition and visual technicality would be like trying to compare one grain of popcorn to the next there would be no difference, no relevance in taste, texture, and all that is left to do is munch down. That the action scenes on the subway platforms (for anyone who is actually acquainted with riding the subways in New York City) are as implausible as ever and only convey the type of hyper-masculinized action that makes superheroes of its actors, but who really cares? It's fluff, entertaining, mindless, inane, and that's just what people going to see this type of film expect. "},{"Title":"What's with all the bad reviews?","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"32 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Reading the reviews below this seems to be a love-it-or-hate-it kind of film. Regardless of whether you 'get' the story and the rapport between Harrelson and Snipes, you can't overlook that this is a well made film.I've only seen it twice, once when it first came out on video, and again in the past week. I didn't think it was that remarkable when it first came out, but when I watched it the second time around, I found it highly entertaining and well executed. Granted, it's not the best film ever but I don't think it's deserving of a lot of the bad reviews given here.As a film it succeeds, and if you've never seen it before, it's worth checking out. "},{"Title":"Well, not really very good, but watchable","Date":"18 July 2005","Score":"16 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Not really a very good movie. Much of the plot is unbelievable and implausible.However, I do find that I enjoy watching this from time to time. I seem to enjoy just about anything with Wesley Snipes. I believe he is very underrated. His easygoing, but dedicated cop in this works for me. He works hard, is smart, and seems to be someone you can rely on. He cares deeply for the brother who grew up in his house, but he is frustrated in constantly having to bail him out of trouble.I suppose Woody Harrelson's character is probably the worst thing about this for me. His character is seriously annoying, and it would be hard to believe him surviving as a police officer, with all his personal problems. It's okay to suspend disbelief, but a movie like this should at least have an air of plausibility.Robert Blake's subway manager is quite a bit over-the-top, but provides a real antagonism for the buddy/brother cops, and establishes himself as the real villain for the plot.The plan, and the execution of the robbery, (and Snipes character going along with something like this), REALLY stretches plausibility, but there is an easy camaraderie between the 2 actors, and the action is good.It ain't all that good, but it isn't unwatchable. "},{"Title":"That's what we live with!","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"18 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Personally speaking, I don't quite know what to make of this picture. I saw it again on late night cable the other night and I was laughing hysterically throughout. Wesley and Woody play two brothers (!) who work as transit cops. Woody's a gambling junkie with a huge debt on his back while Wesley plays the straight man who's getting a little tired of constantly having to bail his brother out. Desperate, Woody plans to hijack the Money Train that rides along to each station, collecting the night's collections. Folks, believe me when I tell you that it actually gets more ridiculous. Add to the mix a pyromaniac token booth bandit, a pre-lobotomy Jennifer Lopez, Robert Blake in a performance so hammy that you can almost smell the bacon coming from your tv, action sequences that are unabashedly ridiculous and you have yourself... Money Train. My favorite moment comes when Robert Blake, after having been informed of the possibility of civilian casualties if the hijacked Money Train continues to speed ahead on the local line, responds with the now-classic line, That's what we live with. I was laughing so hard that tears were squirting out of my eyes. This movie is utterly ridiculous yet strangely riveting. Wesley Snipes plays his usual cocky, confident self and it seems to me that he won't accept a role these days unless he gets to kick someone in the face. Woody Harrelson looks like he smoked one too many blunts in this one. I actually prefer his character here over Wesley's and that's not saying much. Jennifer Lopez looks damn good but I can't help but think how stupid she is in real life. I really don't know where else to go with this review other than to recommend watching it. You might like it but not because it's quality stuff but because it'll cheer you up, it's so bad. Actual rating ** out of ***** but on the laugh-o-meter I'll give it a full **** out of *****. "},{"Title":"One Of Wesley Snipes Best Films (In My Opinion), With Great Action Scenes, An Awesome Finale And An Amazing Performance From Wesley Snipes!","Date":"12 October 2005","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is one of Wesley Snipes best (in my opinion), with great action scenes, an awesome finale and an amazing performance from Wesley Snipes!. All the characters are fantastic, and the story is really cool, plus Wesley Snipes is simply amazing in this!, and Woody Harrelson is fantastic!. Wesley and Woody had fantastic chemistry together, and i was really surprised, by how much i enjoyed the film!, plus Jennifer Lopez surprised me, by giving a very good performance!. Robert Blake is excellent as the dick, i hated him, and i thought, it had some great humor as well!, plus the ending is hilarious. You really get to see Snipe's incredible Martial art abilities, and the fight scenes are awesome!, plus one of my favorite scenes is when Snipes and Lopez have a boxing match, it was quite amusing!. Snipes and Lopez had great chemistry together, and it's very well made as well!, plus i thought Snipe's acting was fantastic!. This is one of Wesley Snipes best (in my opinion), with great action scenes, an awesome finale, and amazing performance from Wesley Snipes!, and i say it's a must see!. The Direction is great!. Joseph Ruben does a great job! here, with excellent camera work, awesome angles,and keeping the film at a very fast pace!. The Acting is fantastic!. Wesley Snipes is amazing as always, and is amazing here, he is extremely likable, hilarious had wonderful chemistry with Woody Harrelson, kicked that ass, had loads of charisma, seemed to be enjoying himself, never really took himself seriously, and was just amazing overall! (Snipes Rules!!!!!). Woody Harrelson is fantastic here, he is extremely hilarious had wonderful chemistry with Snipes,like Snipes seemed to be enjoying himself, had a great sense of humor, and once again him and Snipes made a terrific pair! (Woody rules). Jennifer Lopez is stunningly gorgeous!, and does very well with what she had to do, i was quite surprised, she also had great chemistry with Snipes. Robert Blake is great as the prick, i hated his guts, and cheered out loud when he got punched and arrested!. Chris Cooper is extremely creepy in his role, and was quite menacing. Bill Nun is great in his cameo (Nunn Rules!). Rest of the cast do fine. Overall a must see!. **** out of 5 "},{"Title":" We're not going to steal the money we were hired to protect!","Date":"11 June 2002","Score":"13 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is certainly an action movie that deserves alot of credit. Instead, everyone brings it down like it's the worst one ever made. If you're interested in seeing a shallow, meaningless action film, rent Tango & Cash. That trash should've never been made. This is way better than that. Money Train has a marvelous cast, applausable action, and sizzling music. 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Quality cast make the most of a plot that is beneath them","Date":"27 June 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Action is an interesting film genre. You go in expecting little and are pleasantly surprised if you get more. Films like Face/Off, Die Hard, Speed, Under Siege, while formulaic, were all able to offer the viewer more than they expected going in and so have become beloved classics of the genre. The Money Train tries to be more than a lot of the action films that came out and simply disappeared in the early 90s, but falls a little short. While the film certainly isn't bad, it isn't considered a classic of the genre, and, while not a financial failure, relatively few people saw it and even fewer remember it.The film reunites the stars of White Men Can't Jump, Woody Harrelson and Wesley Snipes as a pair of law enforcement officers John (Snipes) and Charlie (Harrelson) who basically decide to steal from their boss (Robert Blake) who is a real piece of work. John has a hot girlfriend Grace (a pre Selena Jennifer Lopez) and Charlie has a gambling problem. Sound familiar? There are some funny moments and the dramatic scenes between Snipes and Harrelson are excellent. But aside from these, there really aren't any memorable moments. While the pairing of Snipes and Harrelson isn't tired, it doesn't have the same impact it had on their previous outing. Blake is menacing and odious but his character is not a believable or effective villain. Chris Cooper, who has a smaller role in this as Torch, would have been a better antagonist.Money Train is OK and a reasonably entertaining way to spend a couple of hours, but it is also a missed opportunity. Snipes, Lopez, Harrelson and Blake try hard, but the finished product is less than the sum of its parts, and that's possibly the most frustrating thing of all. "},{"Title":"A fun and entertaining action film.  Highly recommended!","Date":"27 November 2000","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Money Train is a great popcorn movie and Snipes and Harrison once again show the chemistry that makes a good buddy movie.  The script is fast-paced and clever and Jennifer Lopez is as beautiful and sexy as always.  This film is a true sleeper hit and is well worth the effort to catch-up with if you missed it the first time around.   "},{"Title":"Fun","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The movie doesn't have much of a plot but it's still a pretty entertaining movie. Which features great performances from the cast. It's nice for a Saturday night at the movies.3(***)out of 4(****)stars "},{"Title":"Very Average but still good .","Date":"27 February 2006","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Money Train is one of those films that is NOT A MUST SEE , but it is worth a check out if it is on the TV or if you got nothing better to do on your Friday night then its worth a rent . In my opinion I found it a lot more enjoyable then White Men Can't Jump , its sort of like a down graded high speed version of Oceans 11 . The chemistry between Snipes and Harrelson is spot on and it works well for a third time . There is not much of a plot to the film just an average screw your average ass-hole boss movie which I like at this point and time because it reminds me of the relationship I have with my boss not to mention the slight money problems I'm having . Jennifer Lopez just bobs up now and then but in this case her screen presence is welcoming . I don't want to be fussy and pick out several little pieces and analyse them , this film was a simple time killing pop-corn movie that should viewed when you don't feel like watching something heavy or you'd rather check this out rather than Santa's Slay . MONEY TRAIN - 5.6 OUT 10 - THATS WHAT WE LIVE WITH . "}{"Title":"Pointless plot and badly developed characters","Date":"15 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" After watching this movie I had one question, what was the point? The plot existed but was so thin that they had top fill it up with boring relationship scenes which served no purpose to the movie and a psycho-pyromaniac who gets his thrills from pushing people in the front of trains and burning women in ticket booths.The thin plot is that there are two brothers (whose names I can't remember) and there is the running joke that one is white and one is black, but the joke isn't funny. The white one has incurred a huge gambling debt and needs the money. They work as transit police who seem to have nothing better to do than to set up muggers in subway stations. Personally, I find it quite stupid because I don't think any police force has the resources to pretend to be drunks hoping to catch purse snatchers, and even then there is no point because the penalty is not that high.There is a train which carries all of the revenue from the ticket sales and it is dubbed the money train. This train has priority over all other trains and the controller, Paterson, is quite a mean little rat. The white guy, who owes lots of money, decides that he will steal the money train, and he does so. This is pretty silly because there was only one guard on the train with around three million dollars on it. Honestly, this movie was pretty poor and the struggle of actually building a plot is shown with the existence of a mad man. Personally, don't bother. "},{"Title":"All that $$$ and they still couldn't afford a plot","Date":"6 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" When Money Train was first released to poor reviews and low box office in winter of 1995 it caused quite a controversy as a pointless, tasteless, and tacked-on subplot in which a weirdo lights subway cashiers on fire came true in real life. The authorities denounced the film and demanded it be banned in some form. Columbia refused to bow to their demands and bad word of mouth spread. It finally came out here in the UK in May of 1996 (essentially summer, for a Xmas/New Year- themed movie) and was slapped with an utterly ridiculous and unjustifiable 18-rating.Wesley and Woody play brothers (don't ask) John and Charlie, apparently without last names, who are New York transit cops. Their sole duty, it would seem, is to play drunk and entrap would-be muggers on the subway platforms. Charlie is a loser and a gambler and is in debt to scary Mr. Brown (Scott Sowers, in his second train-themed action movie of that year) for $15k. John loans Charlie the money but he is soon pick- pocketed by an old woman on the train (oh, the irony). Meanwhile (kinda) Chris Cooper (looking like Bill Maher) plays Torch, a pyromaniac terrorizing the subways.Don't expect any of these threads to kick in right away. Money Train spends AGES AND AGES AND AGES building up to...not much. Jennifer Lopez shows up as Grace Santiago a character who does...nothing. I'm not kidding, Jennifer Lopez does nothing in this film and serves absolutely zero purpose other than to have Wesley extremely unerotically hump her in a ridiculous, unnecessary, and anatomically-incorrect sex scene.Then, after what seems like a freaking aeon, Woody finally decides to rob the money train, an apparently heavily guarded single car train filled with millions of dollars in daily subway revenue. He does this with great ease, without even breaking a sweat. None of the above plots connect. Nothing seems like part of a chronology or timeline. It's all just random, haphazard drivel.Jennifer Lopez does nothing in this film.Money Train really should have been a heist movie. It should have been 30 minutes of set-up and 70 minutes of action with a runaway train and ever-escalating chaos. Instead the money train is an afterthought with the majority of the movie circling emptiness and dwelling on nothing. Jennifer Lopez does nothing in this film.It cannot even be enjoyed on a no-brainer level as there is barely any action to speak of. The subplot of Torch goes nowhere and is forgotten about as soon as it abruptly ends. Money Train feels like an entire movie of subplots with nothing at its core. If Jennifer Lopez was eliminated from the movie it would have been tighter.Jennifer Lopez does nothing in this film.Where's the excitement? The only highlight in the movie is Robert Blake as the deliriously over-the-top transit boss Donald Patterson. He's the only person having fun in this drek. Mark Mancina, fresh off his breakout success with Speed, churns out a completely generic and forgettable score that never gets the chance to pick up literal speed since the movie goes nowhere. Director Joseph Ruben, the man who wrought no excitement out of misaligned bath towels in Sleeping with the Enemy or a sweary Macauley Culkin in The Good Son apparently rewrote much of Doug Richardson's script, I believe for the worse. There was a lot of potential here, but as I have said several times already this is a train that goes nowhere.Jennifer Lopez does nothing in this film.Is it worth watching? Sure, but there's very, very little to bring you back unless you're a train movie junkie.Jennifer Lopez does nothing in this film. "},{"Title":"No Money's Worth Here.","Date":"14 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Money Train (1995) Dir Joseph Ruben / Cast Wesley Snipes, Woody Harrelson, Jennifer Lopez, Robert Blake, Chris Cooper Title suggests theft in that the money is the riches and the train is the getaway. Unfortunately viewers missed that train and had to suffer through the entire film. Wesley Snipes and Woody Harrelson who previously starred in White Men Can't Jump are brothers and undercover cops in the subway area. Snipes looks out for adopted brother Harrelson who is constantly in trouble due to debt. Jennifer Lopez joins them thus causing romantic divisions. Trouble arises when Harrelson decides to rob the money train leading to an ending that applauds theft. Basically another buddy flick, with director Joseph Ruben handling the action effectively without a screenwriter anywhere to be evident. Snipes and Harrelson recite tired formulas where nothing is learned. Why this film could not concentrate more on their adopted relationship is beyond me. Instead it is more or less an excuse to pair the actors up again in hopes of repeating previous success. Lopez is a romantic prop with little purpose here other than to unintentionally cause a brief division between the duo cops. Robert Blake is forgettable as the foul mouth ranting supervisor. Message of theft and brotherhood sidelined for pure nonsense. Viewers should let this train wreck pass them by. Score 3 / 10 "},{"Title":"I saw this movie before I saw it . . .","Date":"17 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I have seen every element of this movie so many times, I could follow it in my sleep. I'm not talking about this particular movie but the 3 dozen or so other action movies that follow its formula to the teeth. 'Money Train' is a gruesome exercise in the worn-out cop buddy movie franchise offering nothing new except the cast which adhere to the formula as if changing them would be a sacrilege.The movie stars Wesley Snipes and Woody Harrelson, paired up after their success in the delightful 'White Men Can't Jump' as stepbrothers who are paired as buddies on the NYPD. The movie begins with a chase through the subway tunnel just to reassure impatient action fans that they will get their fill of gunplay and blow'd ups. The crook they are chasing is killed by cops guarding the money train that collects the day's fares from the various stations.A movie like this has to have it's token characters and believe me their all here. There is the sexy female played by Jennifer Lopez (Rosey Perez was the lifeblood of WMCJ but was either unavailable or just wise enough to stay away). There is the chief played by Robert Blake who, if you were to remove all his four letter words, would have reduced him to merely playing an extra. There has to be the usual group of impatient debt collectors and in this case hang Harrelson out a window unless he plays what he owes from gambling.Then somewhere in this story figures a psychotic (Chris Cooper) who provides the movie with unusually gruesome scenes in which he pours gasoline into subway ticket booths and sets the ticket taker on fire. I really did not need that, nor did the movie But my biggest problem with 'Money Train' is the relentless shouting matches between Snipes and Harrelson, they go off on each other about a half a dozen times in this movie and you wonder if they ever have a moment when they are just talking. I get a lot of time to wonder about things during a movie like 'Money Train' because there isn't anything else to do beside count down to the next cliché. "},{"Title":"The Movie's Title Could Be The Movie's Problem !","Date":"16 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I recall a review about this movie where the critic was so furious saying things like Where is the train ?, This is one of the worst train movies! while he was somehow missing the point, I think he wasn't completely wrong.Actually this climactic sequence looks confused move since the train's heist is nothing but sudden third act's plot not the whole movie and not related to what seemed the basic conflict (the subway's burner) which ends strangely earlier. So, with the misleading title you've got to feel disappointed or at least muddled, repining this is not a train movie and it is, but you're the last to know ! And yes, some of the bosses are megalomaniac asses, or psychos anyway, but still making the money train's manager as the story's villain wasn't that right or believable especially with his behaviors near the end.Plus that end which wasn't as simple as what this kind of straight action used to present, being for many people as unethical. Yet I have to defend this as originally it's a story about the love between 2, totally different, brothers where one eventually wins love and the other wins well.. money.. dirty money, just to assure the difference between them both as one good cop and one forever hustler whom their argument has no end.(Joseph Ruben) is the man who can make attractive visual work yet nearly always with not attractive scripts ! He's a very good director but surely not the best when it comes to feeling anything wrong with the writing he deals with. So not many times he got scripts as smart as his direction.. and that's the tragedy ! Though, it's a fair action with great cast. Definitely this is better than (Wesley Snipes & Woody Harrelson)'s last movie (White Men Can't Jump) which's not up to this one's lovely time, let alone being one of the silliest movies ever. (Harrelson) did it so well as a childish loser. (Snipes) was charismatic and performed some of the most memorable fights. And it's enough enjoyment to watch a young brunet (Jennifer Lopez). All the elements (the cinematography, editing, and of course the music) was solid maybe more than the main story.Another side of the movie's misfortune is that it came in the year of 1995 where movies by the names of (Die Hard with a Vengeance), (Bad Boys), (Assassins), (Heat), (Se7en), (Braveheart) were produced. Tough I know. Especially with the more successful results from the box office, the critics, or both. But whatever.. I like (Money Train).I think if you forgot about it as a train movie or heist one you'd discover that it's a fun ride with some well-made action, J-lo too and happy end a la' Hollywood where everybody wins and the evil guy goes to hell. Simply wouldn't you like to destroy your pity work, hit your lunatic boss on the jaw, get free money AND get away with it ? Don't answer this.. Just re-watch the movie ! "},{"Title":"Fun little buddy-cop movie, but definitely not one of the best","Date":"17 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The late 80s, early 90s was THE decade of buddy-cop comedy/action movies, and this is just one of those in a long line of them which graced (well more or less) our movie-screens. Every one has their favourite, from the classic Lethal Weapon series, back in the days when Mel Gibson was still sane, to the much later Bad Boys, the film that truly launched Will Smith's film career. Money Train was written by the same writer who gave the latter of those buddy-cop movies, and it really shows. You find the same kind of street-slang jokes and buddy camaraderie in both movies, but whereas the two cops in Bad Boys were childhood friends, in Money Train they are actually brothers. Well foster-brothers, which explains the fact one is black, one is white, and cue all the imaginable jokes you can think of with this type of sibling affinity. And not only are they foster-brothers, but partners in some New-York cop department which protects the Underground tube system.Unfortunately, the chemistry between Wesley Snipes and Woody Harrelson isn't even close to that between Smith and Lawrence. They each respectively turn-out decent performances, Snipes is as cool as ever and Harrelson does his usual quirky, slightly goofy routine, which is all very entertaining; however they just never quite jell together. Then you add to the equation Jennifer Lopez as the women interest, in what was her first major big-screen roll. This only has two positive effects, first and obviously she does add some female charm to this 99% male cast, and secondly she makes her present acting seem to be of the same caliber as Diane Keaton! As with a number of other mediocre cop movies, one major shortcoming is the lack of a distinct malignant unyielding adversary; someone to truly challenge our heroes while stimulating the audiences' affection for them. Here, the characters' nemesis are an uninspired boss/head-of-department tyrant type who only cares about protecting his money-train(which transports the Whole of the Undergrounds' cash); and a grossly under-used Chriss Cooper. His pyromaniac thief character seems either to have been hugely cut from the original script, or simply appended at the last minute to add some kind of dramatic tension.An entertaining movie with a very decent script, to be watched without any too high expectations. The beginning drags-on for a while but the pace does build-up to an acceptable level after a while. Money Train could have been a lot better if it had been handled by a more competent director. "},{"Title":"Money Train=Runny Brain.","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The funniest film I've ever seen. What? It was supposed to be serious? What about the bloke who was in charge of the money train? His impersonation of Dr Evil was spot on. And what about Woody's hilarious Down with the brothers shtick? I'm glad I live in London, though. Her Majesty's Railway Inspectorate would never sanction trains that turn multiple cartwheels just because you put them in reverse. Purleeze. "},{"Title":"Has anyone put this together?","Date":"4 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This movie is mediocre at best.. My biggest point here is that it seems like they were trying to cash in on the Lethal Weapon format, buddy cop, white guy / black guy, straight shooter, crazy guy.. Plot is paper thin and seems like a total rip off of the success of this format that worked almost 10 years prior. Just a thought.. They also seem to have tried to opt for the same soundtrack feel. It actually took me a minute to realize that it really is Jennifer Lopez in the movie. I recognized her voice immediately but she looks so much different than she does now or in movies that followed this one. AMC has it as part of the new classics but I have to disagree. Think there are plenty of other films that would be much better suited for this category. Overall its not unwatchable but, not really sold on watching it again.. "},{"Title":"That's a good entertaining movie","Date":"17 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Why everyone is so mad about this movie! It's not that bad! I'm sure, the actors and the director Joseph Ruben (He's one of my favorite ones) do a good job, especially Jennifer Lopez (She's so hot!). Well, of course that film had to borrow a lot from Andrei Konchalovsky's masterpiece Runaway Train, but anyway, that's a good action thriller. "},{"Title":"The best j-lo","Date":"27 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The movie itself is kind of good.It has funny scenes and stuff but the movie itself it's no too good, it could be better, it could have more scene actions, it could be a better plot.. anyway some details that could do it better.But it was one of the first movie when we could see that Hispanic beauty named Jennifer Lopez AKA J-Lo.When i saw this movie and i saw her i had the feeling she was going to be something great, and it's because since that moment she looked so damn beautiful and so sexy that i thought she was going to be something big.And in that film she looked even better than never, with that beauty and that sex appeal Ms Lopez have.So this movie is recommended for all Ms Lopez' beauty lovers. "}{"Title":"Good opening, terrible film","Date":"15 January 2000","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The first part of this film is not too bad for an action, we get the normal buddy jokes and some great lines from money train carer Robert Blake. But the film as a whole is fairly poor. It turns fairly serious after about 45 minutes and is generally down hill all the way after that. There really is not much to recommend this film, except for the scenes with Robert Blake, who, in his over the top performance, delivers some comic lines. Jennifer Lopez's character Grace has very little to do, and just really does not seem to fit in or be particularly believable in the role she is meant to play.  More fine tuning of the script may have been a good idea, but then they probably thought who needs a good script or any type of continuity when we have two very bankable stars? Meaning even though the film is bad, people will unfortunately still pay money to see it. A total waste of time & money. "},{"Title":"Fun action flick","Date":"7 October 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Money Train is what happens when someone has a chunk of cash, a nice group of stars but no real story or direction to take their ambition in. Not to say it's a bad movie, on the contrary, it's a huge ton of fun, it's just.. Not much actually happens lol. Stuff happens, but it's more day to day, episodic peeks at the lives of two NYPD cops, and adoptive brothers, played by Wesley Snipes and Woody Harrelson, as opposed to a focused narrative with actual story beats. The titular train doesn't even figure in until the last 20 minutes. But like I said, it's fun. The two leads have snappy, bickering chemistry as any two buddy cops should. Snipes is the responsible, put-together one, and Harrelson the troubled, hangdog gambling addict. The obligatory girl for them to fight over arrives, giving the story some momentum. Here she's played by Jennifer Lopez, who is extremely underrated as an actress and is always welcome as far as I'm concerned. One segment of the movie has them dealing with a sick freak firebug who likes to burn subway ticket clerks alive in their booths, played by Chris Cooper, looking like a scarecrow who shaves with a cheese grater. The main set piece, if it can be called that, involves them evading the monstrous clutches of the NYC transportation system CEO, played by Robert Blake. He gives the best work of the film, a snarling, obnoxious prick, like a psychopathic monopoly man. Seriously I don't know where this guy gets so much energy from, he's an absolute blast to watch. Blake has had a controversial life that cut his film career achingly short (this and Lynch's Lost Highway were his last appearances). Tragic, as he's a true gem on screen. His character oversees the money train, transporting cash from inner city casinos, which Harrelson eventually sets his sights on. It's an odd, meandering movie, which sounds like it might be slow or boring. Never. Although it wanders and looks for a plot, it never fails to entertain us even with the most mundane character interacted or petty scenarios. "},{"Title":"A fun piece of 90's action","Date":"12 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Money Train is nothing spectacular, but it definitely is worth every minute it takes to watch it. The direction does what it is asked to do, and it enables the very capable cast to take the action-comedy just where it wants to go. The film does not reach any higher it has chances to go to, so it ends up nailing all it's set targets.The plot is simple enough to follow without activating too many brain cells, yet it is engaging enough to create much enjoyable tension that leads to the eventual conclusion of the film. And here we have the pleasure of Harrelson and Snipes working the chemistry they already showed in White Men Can't Jump.To be honest, I can not say this film is a gem. There is nothing extremely spectacular or exciting or touching. But like I wrote earlier, it's not trying, either, but what it tries to accomplish, it manages to. And with such good workers involved in this film, the result can only be enjoyable.Much over-shadowed by another action comedy from the same year, Bad Boys, for me Money Train is one of those films that define what this type of films should always set out to do. Nowadays action-comedies either push too much on the action, and the comedy drowns in all the bruises and splatter, or the attempt to squeeze as many laughs as possible leaves out the excitement of action and thus the films fall flat without a good drive.Money Train also benefits from being very much a product of the nineties. It's not campy, takes itself seriously enough, and thus has aged well so far, and I see no reason why it shouldn't stay a solid 110 minutes of entertainment whenever it gets screened. "},{"Title":"A lot of action but not much mind","Date":"18 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" A film with not much depth except of course that of the subway, but the action is interesting in itself, and the number of stunt-men and stunt-women is there to prove it. A bureaucrat is at the head of the New York Transport Police Department (NYTPD for short and cop for even shorter) and for him there is only one thing that counts the money train that gathers the inflowing money of the subway and takes it to the proper safe somewhere well protected. For him all human beings, his employees, those of the subway system and the passengers who probably are nothing but silent users, at least for him, are pawns on some draughts board, a game that some call checkers. In other words he is a pecuniary financial criminal if not assassin but he has his title and pedigree on his side he is a gangster in an official authority job he can have a kid killed if he decides so.The couple of cops that gets extended to a triad shortly after the beginning with a woman are just tense and living on the brink of a nervous breakdown all the time. One is black and cool, but over protective towards the other one he calls his brother and is white. That white man is addicted to cards and he is a great loser and like all losers he is addicted to losing in the name of the absolutely unproved fact that he may win one day. Read my lips and follow my eyes. You can see the social trashcan over there? That's where gamblers always end, except if they cheat and as long as they are not exposed.They have the tendency to always share and yet bitch about everything they share and they love each other so strong that they can break up and yet the black man will run after the white man (who is a psychic boy) within seconds after he knows his white brother is in danger or in jeopardy. And the girl will just do the same at the end and save the day.Out of frustration white boy decides to rob the money train of mister bureaucratic money-obsessed boss and he succeeds of course. But black boy comes running after him to prevent him from stealing the money. They will manage properly; the rest is for you to discover. But there is no surprise, nearly no surprise, well not too many surprises.Enjoy the action even if the film is as light as a leaf in the Fall, as for content. Typical of that easy going President they had in the USA then in 1995. Just forget about your PTSS and enjoy the sunshine on the beach.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU "},{"Title":"Charlie is too frustrating to watch","Date":"20 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" John (Wesley Snipes) and Charlie (Woody Harrelson) are a couple of transit cops and foster brothers. The money train transports the money collected from the system. Chief Donald Patterson (Robert Blake) runs the transit system and he doesn't let anything interferes with the money train. Charlie is a gambler and John has had it with him. Grace Santiago (Jennifer Lopez) is new to their team. Torch (Chris Cooper) is an arsonist. After a fight with other transit cops on the money train, there is $25k missing and Patterson suspects Charlie. The guys are tired of Patterson and Charlie starts a plan to rob the train but John won't have it. John gives Charlie $15k to pay off his debt but an old lady pickpocket steals it. Meanwhile, John and Grace has become a new couple. Grace works undercover and Torch tries to attack her. A wild chase ensues and a drunken Charlie is fired by Patterson. The bad guys still want their money from Charlie and he decides to rob the train.The chemistry for the Snipes Harrelson duo is off. The old chemistry is still there sometimes. However their characters don't even like each other half the time. Granted, the other half of the time they love each other like brothers. Everybody is a little bit annoying and a little bit frustrating. Charlie is especially frustrating. Then Robert Blake has to push so hard over the top douche. When the caper happens, the action goes insane and all reason goes out the window. It turns from a slightly frustrating watch to a loud mess. "},{"Title":"Money Train will Rob Your Money & Time If You Buy This On DVD","Date":"20 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" woody harrelson character was so stupid in this movie he was a white brother of a black guy played by Wesley snipes.all he ever did was wasting life living on brothers money & creates trouble for himself & others.the time Jennifer Lopez made and entrance in the film i was relaxed because the stupid comedy of snipes & woody was pissing me off.the money train is about 2 cops friends/bros they work on a N.Y subway station.Charlie plans to rob the money train which collects millions of revenue from the station.despite the action scenes in train & stunts the film fails to deliver .but this film is a timpass movie & will rob you of your money & times if you by it on DVD.that just happened to me.ill avoid Wesley snipes movie from now on the guy has lost itmy rating is 3/10.worth looking for J.LO "},{"Title":"Ridiculous but amusing.","Date":"6 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The film is straight-forward, light-hearted, and contains some notably crap plot twists. There are some engaging argument-scenes between the two brothers, particularly when they are being mugged (genuinely amusing), a few magnetic fight scenes from Snipes, and good speeding train shots, and explosions for fans of action etc, though the action is not that sophisticated compared with a lot of other mainstream offerings (e.g. Die Hard 4). It's a film equivalent of a trashy airport thriller - watch for relaxation but not for analysis or anything like that. I suppose for purists who value every second of their lives, this might technically be a waste of time. "},{"Title":"Great action...shame about the script","Date":"13 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Picked this up for £3 in a bargain bin yesterday, and I can see why. The box gives the impression of this masterful train robbery. Whereas in the actual film the robbery is a tiny part of the film near the end. Overall the action scenes were superbly done, but anything with dialogue was too long and dragged beyond belief. They were so long they gave me time to go get a coffee and not miss anything important. Obviously they were desperately trying to stretch the film out because they didn't really have a good script. Today a charity bag arrived and I'll be putting this disc in it. Fun if you can spin though the boring bits but not one I shall be watching again. "},{"Title":"Impossible to understand why this movie fails to get good reviews...","Date":"10 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" It is 12 years on since this movie was released, and I would warrant that it is a better movie in almost all respects than many of the movies released in the last few years.Not only do Woody Halesden and Wesley Snipes play characters that are convincing and quite complex, (the scripts afor them are well written), the characters of Chief Patterson and Mr Brown are also well created and just as entertaining.Casting Scott Sowers as Mr Brown was an interesting and ultimately very successful choice as he makes this hard gangster have a soft side, even though it is very subtle.Action touches such as the eventual train wreck were all quite nicely shot, as were some of the non-action scenes such as when Woody starts on his quest to rob the money train. (Ariel rotating shot) The fight scene with Wesley Snipes and Mr Brown also looks very well shot and indeed you could argue that this is a difficult one to pull off as there is no room for error.With Moneytrain being one of Jeniffer Lopez's first films she might well look back at this is one of her better performances too.Even the actors who play the characters such as Kowalski, and Frank the bartender provide noteworthy performances and were very well chosen.So what do we end up with?...A well shot film, with a fantastic array of well though out characters, a main story line that has got merit and is, in the main, believable, sub plots which still make for good viewing, good action sequences and a feelgood ending.One might wish other films of late would offer just some of what Money train did. "},{"Title":"Derivative and clichéd fun","Date":"30 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" There's an old saying in Hollywood that less is more; but enough about Hollywood masterpieces, we're simply talking about a train that carries money - Money Train.The money train, is the revenue collection locomotive operating in the busy New York subway transit system. On these same subway platforms, two cops, John (Wesley Snipes) and Charlie (Woody Harrelson), are brothers, foster brothers, to be specific. With heavy cover from fellow officers, they often pose as drunks in an effort to bait muggers and other common street scum.But trouble arises when they run afoul of transit system chief and local hard a** Donald Patterson (Robert Blake, who gets some of the best lines and hams it up in a thankless villain role), who considers it his life's mission to care for his precious revenue train and make hell for John and Charlie. Peep the following dialogue when Patterson discovers John and Charlie are brothers You, sir, are a Negro. And you, sir, are white. Is somebody trying to jack me off? The foster brothers simply scoff, twice does Charlie.Speaking of baby foster brother Charlie, he's on a string of bad luck, in debt up to his eyeballs to a vicious tough who would proudly drop the poor chap off the 51st floor of a New York high-rise if given the green light from John, who's sick and tired of bailing Charlie out of trouble. Charlie, meanwhile, has already begun plans to knock off the money train, partly to get himself out of debt and also to f**k with Patterson.This is your average buddy-cop flick with an established and effortless portrait of comradeship between veterans Snipes and Harrelson, who are teaming up again following the success of 1992's White Men Can't Jump. It seems Hollywood was fishing for the latest in cop careers, and somehow found success in making these guys working for the New York transit authority. But here, both stars are given the opportunity to pick at each other (much like family) and perhaps their effortless screen relationship may be the only thing keeping the film afloat. But I still have to hand it to Blake, though, since he gets some of the funniest one-liners in the whole film as the despicable (and possible sociopath) transit chief.Director Joseph Ruben guides the two through Doug Richardson's hammy, cliché-ridden script, as he sketches the two's downward spiral into an inevitable confrontation between the brothers. Further tension comes in the form of recent department transfer Grace Santiago, a Latina powerhouse played by Jennifer Lopez, who Charlie falls for but she instead has stronger affections for John; we know this isn't going to end well between John and Charlie. Fleshed-out villains, aside from Patterson, aren't all that apparent either, except for maybe Chris Cooper as subway pyromaniac Torch.The film concludes with a big chase through the New York subway (which I guess was inescapable too, since this is billed as an action movie) but it's just best to let it go; get on, or get out of the way - that's Money Train's motto.Next stop, White Men Can't Jump off of Money Trains, part III - coming soon.6/10 "}{"Title":"If you are me, and you're not, then don't bother watching this.","Date":"1 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The plot for Money Train seems to be what would pass for twosubplots for a much better movie haphazardly stuck together.The first would revolve around 'Torch', played well by the deeplyunder-rated actor Chris Cooper, a man with a burnt hand whotakes joy in robbing and burning minimum wage earning subwaytoken girls. Two buddy, and in this case, brother cops, who takeon a subway roaming psycho? If the entire movie were about this,which the opening scene leads you to believe, I might have liked itmore. Actually, I know I would have. The second plot would be how one of the cops, played byWoody Harrelson, very slowly builds himself up into robbing aparticular train that carries all the subway's money. This isn't aspoiler since he talks about it the entire length of the movie and itis actually written on the box. It's just not cohesive enough to make me care. My primarycomplaint with this movie is that neither Wesley Snipes nor WoodyHarrelson get to be as entertaining or as compelling as they haveshown they can be. I'm not a stickler for the quality of movies, but it's hard for mepersonally comment on or rate this movie, because there's simplynothing there. "},{"Title":"I liked It!","Date":"9 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I think the critic was very hard on this movie. It had entertainment value and it kept me watching. What it really boils down to is your own personal oppinion and I think that's what we got from the review above. I think this was one of Jennifer Lopez's better performances. Wesley Snipes was really good with Woody Harleson teaming up again in this movie. There was action, suspense and drama, so if you ask me this film delivered what you were looking for. I mean you can't go into a movie looking for a Meryl Streep mellow drama and go see a Action movie like money train and then complain. This movie gave it's audience exactly what it was asking for. "},{"Title":"Not the best, but not the worst, movie ever","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This isn't a great movie, but it's not as bad as some think. Its good points include Woody Harrelson and Wesley Snipes, who are very watchable and have good comedy timing, both individually and as a duo;  the device of them being foster-brothers, with Snipes looking after loser Harrelson, is excellent. The semi-comic buddy cops scenario is certainly hackneyed, but it's done well here, especially in the early scenes. The central idea that a daydream about a robbery gradually turns into a serious proposition is also good; and the final runaway train sequence is exciting.The main downside is that the movie doesn't manage its mix of comedy and drama effectively. Much of this is due to Robert Blake's bad-ass boss, who seems to have stepped out of  Batman, when he should simply be a credible hard-nose. (Perhaps Chris Cooper who plays the psychotic arsonist and Blake should have swapped roles.) Similarly, with the heavies to whom Harrelson owes money; they're not believable even before Snipes licks them all by himself. Unfortunately, JLo, for all her sexiness, adds little to the movie, and is awkward in some scenes. Overall, I'd say it's worth seeing for Harrelson and Snipes.       "},{"Title":"Dear god, someone hand me the remote, I can't take anymore","Date":"25 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Woody Harrelson.  Wesley Snipes. When you put these two names on a movie you expect some level of hilarity, some level of chemistry, something other than the lowest level of c**p.  Granted White Men Can't Jump was not the most wonderful piece of cinematic artwork ever captured, but it was entertaining. But Damn!  This movie was just plain bad.  I laughed twice during this film and I can't even remember what parts it was directed at.  The acting a chemistry between snipes and harrelson is just pathetic and the story moves nowhere for the first hour of the film.  After eating an entire tub of popcorn, you know nothing more about the characters than when you read the cover box.  It is an absolutely pathetic film and both men should be ashamed to have signed their names to the contract. "},{"Title":"One Good Scene (guess which) in a total piece of manure","Date":"31 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The hot sex scene where Wesley Snipes BANGS Jennifer Lopez sideways definitely chops some wood. The rest of the film is the biggest piece of drivel I ever sat through in a movie theatre. I remember a major LA paper picked this as their recommended movie of the week! I wanted to strangle the person who wrote that review and wasted my time and money. When I saw Scorsese's Casino the very next day, it was like ascending to movie heaven.  "},{"Title":"This movie should not have been made","Date":"11 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  An unimaginative script, poor acting and a half-humoured tag line does justice for 'Money Train'.Wesley Snipes and Woody Harrelson, come across some action packed, problematic dilemmas, which obviously need some careful consideration........ If only this were true. The idea of 'robbing' the 'money train' has been done before, and was done a lot better!Poor and lame, this movie should be missed. "},{"Title":"A movie about the TRANSIT POLICE?","Date":"3 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I never thought that there would be a film made about the transit cops.Well, as usual, Hollywood surprises us.Boring, cliched and an overall yawn.Hollywood should stick to films about more interesting sectors of law enforcement. "},{"Title":"Just An Average Buddy Film....","Date":"11 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" While this film is several years old now, it is still not too bad to watch when it shows up on network TV. At the time it came out, both Woody Harrison and Wesly Snipes were HUGE box office draws..so they put them both together in a film..expecting magic to happen. It wasn't a amazing memorable film though. Fun..yes...parts were kind of laughable. The idea of them being brothers of sorts was cool too. They aren't perfect people with perfect lives..the flaws were quite clear..but we like them anyway. Adding Robert Blake was great as well. His tightly wound character looked like he could explode at any moment. It makes us wonder about how warped other parts of his life might be. I did think having Jennifer Lopez on board as a female cop/love interest was a little too much. She was just coming onto the scene as a performer..and it shows here...although not much has improved about her acting skills over the years...she needs to stick with music in my opinion.Did we need to be reminded she was a woman AND of ethnic decent too? The part could have been played by anyone...or simply not been added at all. I guess she was more or less eye candy here. I think my favorite part was the ending...when they had rolled the train..and were confronted by Robert Blakes extremely enraged character in the subway. After all they had been through...they still could stay cool enough to handle in with one swift and direct punch...which he dearly deserved. They end up getting away with the crime..which was wrong..yet..right too. Did they deserve all the money? Maybe. The fact they screwed the system and got away with it? Awesome. "},{"Title":"MONEY TRAIN (DIDIER BECU)","Date":"4 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I remember that when this movie came out, lots of people were trying to convince me it is an absolute must but I waited 9 years to see it on telly and really, it wasn't one second too late as this is a typical actionmovie with zero brains, no story (okay a moneytrain will be robbed, dissapointing acting (from Woody Harrelson I expect lots more than this and Jennifer Lopez looks beautiful, but that's it)and a story that goes over the top (even The Dukes Of Hazard were more realistic!). It's a typical movie that is depended on some big budget in where the viewer has to be blown away by special effects but it never gets a grip on you...I suppose if you want to see the ultimate metromovie that you go for The taking of Peckham 1,2,3 "},{"Title":"Good Movie","Date":"21 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie was excellent in my view. I love action and this has very few moments that are without. Actor Wesley Snipes was awesome, he is definately not one to mess with if you wish to see the next sun rise. The actress... well Jennifer Lopez is beautiful as always.And there are definately brothers out there that will still go to hell and back for the other. "}{"Title":"Crap Train","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This film is notable to many for being one of the earliest J.Lo sightings, but as I perceive Ms. Lopez as a no-talent bimbo, I don't consider that notable. Robert Blake chews scenery, acts tough, and shows us all what pretty dead black eyes he has! That's one Lost Highway I don't want to go down. Snipes is awful as always and Harrelson makes you wonder just how much hemp product he smoked to make this stinker look like a good career choice. Money Train? Crap Train is more like it. "},{"Title":"Good for one scene, mediocre action and the direction is horrible","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Like I said in mu one line summary, this movie is not even exciting, just for one moments I had pleasure watching this trash, it's when Jennifer Lopez is having sex, that's all. Even that scene was not very good, I am a huge fan of her and just wanna see her nude in every film that she is in. What a letdown this film is. Here is the story thanks to A CIA operative.Two foster brothers (Woody Harrelson and Wesley Snipes) work as transit cops. While one's life is as good as it gets, the other's is a pit. After losing his job, getting dumped by his brother, and getting the crap kicked out of him by a loan shark for the umpteenth time, He implements his plan to steal the money train, a train carrying the New York Subway's weekly revenue. But when things go awry, will his brother be able to save him in time?rent this one just for Lopez "},{"Title":"Great Holiday Action Flick","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Wesley Snipes, Woody Harrelson, and Jennifer Lopez are enjoyable in this romantic and hilarious action film about NYC cops.  A beautiful but dark setting, a good storyline and good actors sum up this movie for the entire family. "},{"Title":"Don't waste your time with this worthless garbage.","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Because most Hollywood action movies lack any substance,  you're supposed to expect nothing and just the entertainment values, right? Unfortunately, that can't always be the case, especially with movies such as Money Train. If you want a quotation on how much you're going to be entertained by Money Train, it's the equivalence to an ice picker in the groin. I barely made it through this, but from what I saw of it a few years ago, it appeared to be about two foster brothers/ transit cops who decide to rob an armored train because one of them is in a deep gambling debt. Supposedly the sympathy of  these two characters is reflected upon the police chief (Robert Blake) who cares more about the train and the money inside it than anyone else. Unfortunately, the two cops are no better, because one is a total jerk and one can't keep his pants on when it comes to women. There was no action in this movie, incidentally. The movie was really driven by the bickering and stupidity of these two characters with a continuous reggae soundtrack in the background.  You couldn't care about what they said, what they wanted, what happened to them, or what would become of them on the end of the movie. It all just boiled down to a disconnected, grating mess which left me with the feeling of never wanting to see another movie with Wesley Snipes or Woody Harrelson ever again.Don't waste your time with this worthless garbage. "},{"Title":"Great entertainment","Date":"6 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  You can say that this film has got a bad plot and everything. But it is just entertainment! nothing more nothing less. Besides there are very cool actors, and Jennifer Lopez has always been the girl in my dreams! "},{"Title":"Its not about robbing trains; but something else","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is not a movie about robbing money trains, in my opinion. Rather, it is an effort to look at the causes that drive the guy (Woody's character) to do it. I think Woody's acting is laudable, and that's what makes this movie good. Plus of course the wonderful chemistry b/w Snipes and him. "},{"Title":"  I don't care if people die,  Nothing stops the Money Train ! ","Date":"11 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" If you are seeking an exciting, dramatic movie, with everything, including the kitchen sink thrown in, you've found it. This story revolves around a special transit vehicle called the  Money Train.  The armored subway car itself belong to the New York Transit authority and is overseen by Police Chief Donald Paterson (Robert Blake). Although there are many policemen assigned to the Train units, or subway, only two are causing Paterson to become annoyed with their behavior. Officer John and his partner Charlie (Wesley Snipes and Woody Harrelson) are two disgruntled police officers who have discovered their chief cares more about his train and its on-time schedule, than for the public safety. With their careers all but finished, the two cops plan to rob the train. Both have reasons, but is further complicated when the two half-brothers began squabbling over their beautiful new partner Officer Grace Santiago (Jennifer Lopez). While the two brothers bicker and complain, serious problems like, muggings, pick-pockets and a pyromaniac called 'The Torch (Chris Cooper) is causing major concerns. The movie is dosed liberally with fists fights, speed chases and explosions of the third kind, enough to called this movie dramatically exciting. Woody Harrelson gives a special tour De force but is equally confronted by Robert Blake's movie presence. This film is guaranteed to produce excitement and an adrenaline rush as audiences are subjected to the glorious trills of a run-away-train. Excellent viewing. **** "},{"Title":"Laughs a minute","Date":"23 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I am a HUGE Wesley Snipes fan and I have to say that i thought this film was excellent. There are some really good laugh out loud moments that make it worth your while. Although it is rather slow in getting to the action its worth persevering for just for the action at the end. The camaraderie between Wesley and Woody is excellent-i can only imagine the 'tricks' they got up to onset-the pair of them together are a great comedy duo!J Lo was a bit irritating but her personally I don't think her acting is up to much but at the end of the day the film is worth watching even if she irritates the life out of you! "},{"Title":"Good Fun,  but Just So-so flick.","Date":"20 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Hadn't seen this one before. Somehow it got past my radar. This is the third time Snipes and Harrelson have teamed up. The first was in Wildcats with Goldie Hawn back in the 80's. Later it was White Men Can't Jump. In Money Train, the combination of the three leads plus the sleazy performance of future prison resident, Robert Blake made this at least halfway enjoyable.John and Charlie are brothers. Step-brothers to be exact which throws most people for a loop since one's black and the other's white. They're also subway transit cops in NYC working the decoy squad. John (Snipes) is the smooth responsible one. Charlie (Harrelson) is the screw-up with a gambling problem. Most of the movie centers around Charlie's $$$ problems. Enter Officer Grace Santiago (J-Lo). Now the close brothers drift apart over a woman. Add Blake as a sadistic transit authority manager who threatens the brothers' careers.I'm a big fan of action/comedies like this and others like True Lies, Lethal Weapon I-III and Demolition Man. This movie is amusing and has some decent action but the plot for the most part is just so-so. The most interesting plot lines seem to just fade out in favor over weaker ones. They should have fed off the comedy elements more. They could have worked the Snipes/Lopez angle, a little more as well. I think Hollywood is still a little skittish about showing real love relationships between minorities. Still, it's worth a look.Snipes is his usual self, flexing muscles and fighting skills. Woody is less than Woody. Funny but nothing that equals his performances in Natural Born Killers or People vs Larry Flynt. J-Lo in her film debut, is sexy as ever and handles herself well. But Robert Blake is intense. A good return to the big screen in which he goes a bit overboard but remains believable. Too bad it may be a while before we see him in a good role again. Maybe in 15-20. "},{"Title":"Awesome!","Date":"8 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This simply a magnificent film. Woody is once again flawless in the role of a charming, easygoing, dimwitted regular guy. He is brilliant and utterly convincing in the role. His performance ranks up there with his other unforgettable roles in Palmetto, Doc Hollywood, Cowboy Way, and The Hi-Lo Country, and shows why he must be considered one of the great actors of our time.The script is a marvel, with a brilliant, unpredictable and action-packed plot and witty dialogue, and characters that stand out in their originality. Jennifer Lopez shows that she is just as good an actress as she is a singer, and Wesley Snipes is excellent once again as Woody's foster brother/transit cop partner. Robert Blake is marvelous as Patterson, the power-mad transit officer. Easliy his best role since Barretta.An action/buddy flick with a brain, Money Train brings home the bacon. Fans of Kurosawa's work, or such films as The Third Man or Midnight Cowboy, will no doubt love Money Train.This is truly a film that everyone will love! "}{"Title":"One of Snipes', one of Lopez' and also one of Harrelson' s best","Date":"29 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This really is a pretty good movie, for it is funny, high paced, filled with enough action and there (as always) is a pretty woman on board, who in this movie is Jennifer Lopez. This movie is only topped by Snipes' Demolition Man and The Fan and by Harrelson' s The People vs. Larry Flint. He equals this one though with The Cowboy Way. Lopez sure as hell tops this one with Out of Sight, Antz and Jack.This movie was even enjoyable for me the second time and that says something, for that does not occur often if I do not think a film is excellent the first time I see it.BIG 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Cool film!","Date":"25 July 2009","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I don't know what's the film critics' problem with that movie. It is cool job. Film stars Wesley Snipes and Woody Harrelson which also starred in 1993 hit film White Men Can't Jump, but that one is not just comedy. It is an action/comedy film which also stars Jennifer Lopez. It is true that plot is non-linear and film have not a point but it's cool Christmas movie. Wesley Snipes has some well done fight scenes, Woody Harrelson is the main reason of the film's humor. I guess one critic said right about that movie, it has everything we asked from an action movie, not a great plot or great dialogs but it has some great action/martial arts scenes and some hilarious moment, it's not kind of a Jackie Chan movie but it's still good. If we return to Jennifer Lopez, her acting was awful but she was just hot and let us forget her awful acting job in a scene where Wesley Snipes banged her, but the boxing scene between them was also good. I loved their chemistry.So, watch these movie! It is a typical action film with some funny moments, great actors (Wesley and Woody), cool action scenes and hot Jennifer Lopez but don't wait any point or even a plot. "},{"Title":"This Film Had Everything","Date":"22 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Enjoyed this film because of its location in NYC and the fact that transit cops were depicted. If you have to travel on the Transit System in NYC you will enjoyed this film even more, because it mentions all kinds of Subway Stops, and there is plenty of action down below. Wesley Snipes,(John),7 Seconds,'05, plays a real cool cop who has become very close friends with his co-worker, Woody Harrelson,(Charlie),North Country,'05 and manages to steal Charlie's girl friend, Jennifer Lopez,(Grace Santiago),Monster-in-Law,'05. Grace and John burn up the bed sheets with hot torrid love scenes. Robert Blake,(Donald Patterson),Lost Highway,'97, plays a great jerk who is in charge of a train, called the Money Train. Great acting, lots of comedy and more than plenty of action. Enjoy "},{"Title":"Simple entertainment","Date":"18 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Don't think, just watch. Woody Harrelson and Wesley Snipes once again are, after 'White Men Can't Jump', a pretty funny team. Don't care for the plot, just see these two actors having a lot of fun with their characters and the situations they find themselves in.Here they play two brothers, sort of. They are both cops, operating in and around a metro station. A criminal nick-named Torch (Chris Cooper), you can imagine what his crime is, is the villain they are trying to catch. There are also problems with Donald Patterson (Robert Blake), the man who controls the tracks. He puts his money train above everything, so when Charlie (Harrelson) and John (Snipes) delay that train with their police work, he gets mad. Another thing about money Charlie is a bad gambler and owns a man named Mr. Brown (Scott Sowers) a lot of it. Jennifer Lopez, she plays Officer Grace Santiago, is the love interest for one of the two leads, of course leading to friction between them.The film is called 'Money Train' so you understand the main story has to do with that train. I liked that story. The other stories seem to be there for Harrelson or Snipes and the fun they can have with them. The Lopez-character is necessary to explain certain actions that follow, the Cooper-character provides the film with some extra action-sequences. I didn't mind those things. They make sure the film delivers what it promises us. Action and comedy. Every scene between Snipes and Harrelson makes you smile. As a team they come close to Owen Wilson with anybody (Ben Stiller, Jackie Chan). If you don't expect too much there is a very good chance you will enjoy 'Money Train'. "},{"Title":"White Men Can't Jump Two The Great Train Robbery the greatest movie of all time?","Date":"9 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" In this widely anticipated sequel to the original, our favorite multicolored crime fighting duo returns, in White Men Can't Jump Two The Great Train Robbery. In this adventure, our heroes must use their basketball and police skills to defeat an evil New York City train conductor with mob ties. Billy decides to dump Gloria for a chance with her much more attractive cousin, Jennifer Lopez, but Sidney is after her too. The two end up settling the dispute with a game of one on one, and Sidney wins (surprise!). As the winner, Sidney gets to have sex with Jennifer Lopez, while Billy is beaten senseless by mobsters. Billy feels betrayed by his brother from another mother, leading him on a drinking binge that leaves him incapable of performing his police duties during a subway arsonist attack. Unfortunately, Jennifer Lopez is consumed in the fiery blaze. Sidney blames Billy for the tragedy, and fisticuffs ensue. Sidney's legs are badly injured in the brawl, rendering him incapable of dunking. Our heroes forgive each other and reunite to play an epic game of two on two (NBA JAM style) against the arsonist and the train conductor. The contest is intense and physical. The arsonist catches fire from the perimeter, raining down fiery threes. With Sidney's weakened legs and Billy's whiteness, our heroes must rely on their shooting skills to stay competitive. The bad guys are ruthless with their dirty play, and Sidney and the arsonist end up fighting to the death. The arsonist soaks Sidney with gasoline and is about to throw his lighter at him, but Sidney lights him on fire with a magic fire stick then hits him with a train. Sidney then roundhouse kicks him through a plate glass window for good measure. The arsonist dies, but Sidney is issued a flagrant II for excessive contact to the head/neck with a train, and ejected from the game. In the end, its Billy vs the mob conductor, one on one. Billy dunks over the conductor to seal the victory, proving once and for all again, that white men really can jump. Then the mob conductor is brought to justice, and our heroes make away with millions in mob cash. "},{"Title":"Junk!","Date":"16 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The film starts out like all those other clichéd movies and then twenty minutes later it gets worse. The script is poorly written, the music is tedious (this whole film is), and Joseph Ruben is a sh*tty director. The only good film he made is The Forgotten and all those others are good movies to make you sleep if you are insomniac. To waste ten bucks on this film at the cinemas is like insulting your mother then taking it back and slapping yourself for being stupid. And who can forget the horrible acting from nearly everyone, including Woody Harrelson, Wesley Snipes, Jennifer Lopez, Robert Blake, and they suck because it seemed like they were auditioning rather than giving a good performance. This film should definitely not be on your list because I can guarantee you that it's a waste of time and money. Jennifer Lopez is the baddest actor to have ever been born because she acts like a rookie who is acting in her first movie and her gross laugh in one of the scenes embarrassed me. The story is weak and clichéd, no thanks to you Doug Richardson, but most of all it's predictable and you know what the outcome is going to be. I lost respect for Woody Harrelson, who was perfect in Natural Born Killers, because he acts Cr@p and why did he sign up for this movie in the first place? Guess, he must have been poor or something? Robert Blake overreacts lots of times and that is a downside to his acting career. If you have nothing better to do and are counting on watching Money Train then build a sandcastle instead.Two foster brothers, one white and one black, work as transit cops at a local subway station. One has a good life, but the other one has to owe money to some loan shark. He has to pay fifteen grand or his brother is going to die. He has to hijack a money train in order to get the money and secure his brothers life. Working with a hot woman cop, his brother, he has to succeed and nor get caught by a subway owner, Donald Patterson.The action is not all bad but does get boring after a while. To stop yourself from switching off the TV make sure you have some popcorn and friends to share this boring experience with them. I strongly agree with anyone that's is against this film. The film is short, thank God for that, but it seems like it is longer than a millennium. I can go on forever about how bad this film is but I like short and interesting reviews, so I hope this review is both of those. 5/10 - Yuck! "},{"Title":"Not too bad but not brilliant.","Date":"7 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Money Train is set in New York where Christmas is fast approaching, subway decoy squad cop Charlie (Woody Harrelson) owes $15,000 of gambling debts to Mr. Brown (Scott Sowers) a very unpleasant mobster. Brown wants his money or he'll hurt him, Carlie's foster brother & fellow New York subway decoy squad cop John (Wesley Snipes) gives him the $15,000 but Charlie loses it. If that wasn't bad enough after a cock-up at work both Charlie & John are sacked by their heartless boss Chief Donald Patterson (Robert Blake), out of options Charlie decides to rob the money train that travels from station to station collecting the revenue...Directed by Joseph Ruben this big budget comedy thriller has a pretty bad reputation but I have to say I quite liked it for what it was. The script by Doug Richardson & David Loughery initially sounds like a straight heist film in the vein of The Italian Job (1969) or The First Great Train Robbery (1979) but the majority of the film feels much more like a buddy buddy mismatched partner thriller, the signs are there for all to see. The mismatched partners with one black & one white which leads to all sorts of amusing racial gags, the fact they are both on the edge & have personal issues but are basically good guy's, there's a pointless romantic subplot & there's several bad guy's that they bring down. There are lots of dialogue scenes all of which seem to cram as many 'F' swear words in as possible, the subplots with Jennifer Lopez & the Torch villain are not needed, Charlie's gambling debts are all but forgotten about by the end & there are scene that are very hard to believe. A cop turning up drunk for work for instance is instant dismissal, starting a fight with your fellow police officers would also get you the sack & there's just not much factual accuracy here. Having said that I quite liked it, I did think certain parts of it were amusing, some of the one-liners & dialogue worked, there's are some impressive fights & a cool train crash at the end although the actually robbery isn't that clever or well thought out. The character's are a mixed bag, Charlie & John are likable but it's them who decided to rob the train in the first place, it's them who initially put other passengers lives at risk not Patterson, then when they get away with it we are supposed to happy for them because even though what happened was their doing, they have stolen money & caused a huge crash & immense damage.Director Ruben does alright, I must admit I think the opening titles are very nice to look at as there are alternating aerial shots of a neon lit New York & some moody scenes of a festive New York going about it's business. There's not much action until the end, a few motorbike stunts & a few fights is about it but they are good nicely violent fights though. The out of control train scenes at the end look good although the final crash is obviously a model. The pace is uneven, until the last forty odd minutes it's a fairly slow film but it did keep my interest with some funny dialogue & a fairly engaging story.With a supposed budget of about $68,000,000 Money Train was an absolute disaster at the box-office for Columbia Pictures, the film opened at number 4 at the end of 1995 to a first weekend gross of just over $10 million as it went up against Toy Story (1995), Goldeneye (1995) & Ace Ventura When Nature Calls (1995) all of which opened at or around the same time as Money Train which tanked & ended it's theatrical run with a paltry $35 million. Ouch. The acting is alright with Snipes & Harrelson putting in likable performances while Jennifer Lopez is as awful as ever & luckily she has no more than a cameo role & as such doesn't ruin things that much.Money Train was a disaster at the box-office, it's generally disliked by both critics & the public but I have to say I quite liked it, it isn't any sort of masterpiece but it just about kept my interest & came away from it feeling entertained & feeling I had fun. Worth a watch if you can watch it on telly for free. "},{"Title":"We don't need these kinds of movies.","Date":"11 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Another movie in which some guys have to improbably save the day, in this case some NYC cops and the subway. Not only could I easily predict everything that was going to happen, they of course pad the whole movie with hokey one-liners. Neither Wesley Snipes nor Woody Harrelson has much excuse for appearing in this litany of stupidity (except needing money). The movie might have actually come out interesting without the whole end scene, but they just had to insert it.So, there are far better movies out there, including action movies. Still, I can't help but wonder what Robert Blake would have thought back in his Little Rascal days had he known that he would one day star in this (or about that whole thing with his wife a few years back).Also starring Jennifer Lopez and Chris Cooper. "},{"Title":"Good only because of the cast","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  MONEY TRAIN is a bad movie that is made good thanks to its cast of stars such as Wesley Snipes, Woody Harrelson, Jennifer Lopez, Robert Blake, Chris Cooper, and Joe Grifasi. The script isn't the problem, it's the directing of Joseph Ruben that brings the movie down. Joseph Ruben did a good job directing the 1993 thriller THE GOOD SON starring Macaulay Culkin and Elijah Wood, yet here it seems Joseph Ruben forgot how to direct good action scenes. ** "},{"Title":" good action-suspense vehicle","Date":"8 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  wesley snipes was great in this. woody harrelson was okay. jennifer lopez is fabulous as the object of affection grace. robert blake was average. the action is fast-paced and will keep you on the edge of your seat. i think they should have robbed the money train becuase charlie couldn't pay the people he owed for gambling. i would give money train 8 out of 10. "}{"Title":"This movie should have not been made!","Date":"19 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is the worst movie I have ever seen in my life.  Simple plot, simple story, bad acting/directing. "}]