[{"Title":"One of the Best-Unknown Ghost Stories Ever","Date":"12 January 2005","Score":"59 out of 71 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" In 1905, in Sussex, England, the young boy David loses his twin sister while playing with her nearby a lake. The girl falls and drowns in the lake, and David feels guilty for her death. The grieving family returns to USA, and twenty-three years later, David Ash (Aidan Quinn) comes back to England, to be the professor of psychology in the University of Camberley. The skeptical David is specialized in psychic phenomena and exposition of false mediums and frauds, and wrote a successful book about this subject. After a countless number of calls from an elder lady called Miss Webb (Anna Massey) claiming to be haunted by ghosts, David is informed that the lady lives in Edbrook, and he decides to accept her invitation to visit her. When he arrives in Edbrook's train station, the beautiful young woman Christina Mariell (Kate Beckinsale) is waiting for him. She drives him to her remote mansion, where she lives with her two brothers and their former nanny, Miss Webb. After being introduced to the family, David finds the behavior of Miss Webb very weird and disturbed, but decides to investigate the existence of any psychic phenomena in the place. Meanwhile, Christina and him fall in love for each other. Their romance and his investigation come to surprising revelations. I do not understand why Haunted has not become a successful movie. This awesome story slightly recalls The Innocents, and is better than The Others, The Sixth Sense or El Espinazo del Diablo, having romance, sexual situation, drama and horror in right doses. The soundtrack is one of the most beautiful of the cinema, and may be compared to Somewhere in Time. Kate Beckinsale, with twenty-two years old, is astonishing and the scenes with her naked body would be enough to make this movie worthwhile. But the chemistry between Aidan Quinn and her is marvelous; the mysterious story is magnificently well tight, and in the end nothing is like it seems to be. Yesterday I saw this movie for the third time on VHS, since the DVD has not been released in Brazil, and I found it again one of the best ghost stories I have ever seen. My vote is ten.Title (Brazil) Ilusões Perigosas (Dangerous Ilusions)Obs On 12 Oct 2007, I saw this awesome movie again, now on DVD. "},{"Title":"Why there aren´t any more ghost movies like this ?...","Date":"8 September 1999","Score":"38 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  I first saw this a couple of years ago, when it was released on video, and since then i must have watched about two or three times more. Surprisingly for a mistery movie, this doesn´t loose it´s appeal even when we are watching it for the second time. Even when we already know how it´s going to end.The first time we see it, it´s great and we spend the whole movie trying to guess what is going to happen next, even if the ending might be a bit easy to guess from a certain point in the movie, if we pay atention to some details.Anyway, this is an excelent movie, the atmosphere is perfect. Very intriguing and misterious, but at the same time set in very normal locations. Normaly ghost movies are associated to lots of scenes in the dark, but this movie is a very bright movie with most of its story set in very iluminated places, contrary to the classic ghost storytelling. But at the same time even during normal scenes whe can feel that there is something wrong in the air, and this is what makes this movie so atmospheric. It realy feels like the whole movie is haunted. We can watch it again, and again and keep finding new small details, that we missed the first time.But what ghost story would be without scares and chills. Well there are a couple of scary moments in here also and some very good chilling sequences. Most of them is actualy in our minds, because ther aren´t many special effects in, but that´s the way a good ghost story should be presented. The atmosphere in this is so good, that if the few flashy special effects that are present were removed, it wouldn´t make a diference. But fear not, this is not a Spielberg effects film, the atmosphere is what counts here. And it has loads of it.Overall this is at least a very diferent ghost story, and originaly presented. Don´t skip this movie if you like ghost stories.Excelent.  "},{"Title":"Professor Ash, a paranormal investigator looks for the truth in a reportedly haunted house.","Date":"4 May 2006","Score":"27 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Young David Ash and his sister are playing beside the lake on their family estate. When his sister falls, hitting her head on a stone and drowns in the lake, David is unable to save her. Blaming himself for her death, David becomes a Phd in Paranormal studies. Years later, after a successful career of exposing fraudulent mediums, David is recalled to his former home by an old woman who writes to say the home she works in is haunted.David is met at the station by Christina (Beckinsale), a bewitchingly beautiful woman, who drives extremely dangerously and thinks nothing of stripping her clothes off and swimming in the nude in front of Dr. Ash, though she has just met him. When one of her brothers also swims nude, David is still more surprised.The older brother is barely tolerant of David and wants him to do his job as rapidly as possible and not get involved with his sister. David talks to the elderly woman, referred to as Nanny, learning of the tragic death of Christina's parents. During his attempts to understand what is going on David has several very frightening moments. The Special effects are outstanding by the way.While making his investigation, David comes across a shocking family secret and sees the ghost of what may be his own sister, near the lake. He then has several more strange experiences which cause him to doubt his sanity. The only person who seems to understand his confusion is the elderly doctor who is the family physician. David visits the old man at his home in the village which helps him realize he is not insane, but still leaves him with unanswered questions.The shocking conclusion will completely twist everything you think you know about ghosts and reality. This film may be the seminal influence in a new era of ghost stories on film, which was lately added to by the talented director, Alejandro Amenabar, who gave us THE OTHERS, starring Nicole Kidman. If you like ghost stories HAUNTED is a must see. "},{"Title":"Despite some strong merits and a wonderfully radiant Beckinsale, the film never fully succeeds as romance or as horror.","Date":"2 August 2005","Score":"24 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Rating ** out of **** Haunted is probably a slightly better movie than I'm giving it credit for, but after having seen so many similarly themed supernatural dramas the past few years, this one just didn't have the impact on me it could have had if I'd seen it back in '95. So take that into account for both my rating and my review.Set mostly in the English countryside in the early 1900s, Aidan Quinn stars as David Ash, a professor who spends his time debunking the supernatural. His latest investigation takes him to a country manor occupied by three siblings (two brothers and a sister played by the gorgeous Kate Beckinsale) and their housekeeper, who claims the estate is haunted.Initially, the strangest oddities Ash notices is the pseudo-incestuous way the siblings act around each other; the older brother paints the sister, Christina, in the nude, and she and the younger brother often go skinny-dipping in the lake together. Still, Ash finds himself falling for the lovely Christina, even as he ponders the history of the manor, its occupants, and the secret behind this haunting.By most standards, Haunted is not a bad movie. In fact, it's got plenty of merit. The cinematography and locations are beautiful, the pacing is rather brisk despite the fact very little actually happens on-screen, and Kate Beckinsale is so breathtakingly gorgeous it's hard to believe a person could be so naturally luminous. I would wager anyone new to the genre would probably enjoy the movie quite a bit.But as someone expecting something innovative or original, the film just didn't do it for me. From the beginning, the climactic twist is blatantly obvious, and unlike the later films this twist inspired, it's not structured in such a manner that you'd gain a new appreciation of the film by re-observing the hints.While I gather that the film is partly a romantic drama, the tone and atmosphere are a little too light, such that when the film does attempt its scares they never fully work (this is the kind of horror movie that'd work well for those who generally don't like horror). It surely doesn't help that few of the characters even seem concerned the manor might be haunted.But as a romantic drama, the film is a moderate success. Aidan Quinn makes a likable enough protagonist and Kate Beckinsale is not only a physically wondrous presence (I would have been inclined to bump the rating up if her nude scenes had been genuine), she's immensely charming and appealing as well. There's enough solid chemistry between the two to sustain a large portion of the film. But even this story stumbles pretty badly once it intersects with the haunted manor plot, both leading to an unsatisfying ending. Come to think of it, even if I had seen the film in its initial release, the twist might have worked as a genuine surprise, but it really harms the film more than it helps, so perhaps it makes little difference the twist is so obvious.I have little regret of the time and money I spent to watch the film; it's still going to be required viewing for Beckinsale fans (like myself) who'll watch her in just about anything. But with so many superior entries in the genre, the film otherwise wouldn't be worth mentioning without her. "},{"Title":"An overlooked spooky story","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  This movie must not have gotten much attention when it was released because I had never even heard of it when I happened to catch it on a cable movie channel. As somebody who likes spooky (but not conventional horror/ gross-out) films, I found it to be a real sleeper.The story is about a psychologist who specializes in debunking the supernatural and his becoming a house-guest in an old mansion that one resident claims is haunted.   For a while, the plot remains pretty conventional, with a lot of strange and unexplained events that may or may not be practical jokes, dreams, psychological delusions, or a real ghost. But before it is over, there are several twists that I did not expect and had not seen before.  Give yourself a treat.  This one has been largely overlooked.  "},{"Title":"One of those disturbing Ghost Stories that you should not miss.","Date":"31 May 2007","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Aiden Quinn stars in this haunting film by director Lewis Gilbert, of a very curious and disturbing string of events. This is not your typical haunted house story. Professor David Ash lost his twin sister when he was a child due to a terrible accident. Years later he has returned to England as an author and professor of Psychology who spends his time trying to prove that there are ghosts, while as a skeptic, uncovering the fraudulent claims of those who deal with the spirit world. But then, in a response to repeated letters from an old woman he is invited to sort out a ghostly problem in an old house in the southeast of England. Kate Beckinsale and Anthony Andrews co-star, with brief appearances by the immortal Sir John Gielgud. Also there is a short scene with a gypsy woman, played by Liz Smith who has made a career out of playing quirky and particularly Dickinsonian characters. A modest little film that deserves a look see, especially if you like things that go bump in the night. "},{"Title":"A good combination of a mystery and a ghost story","Date":"17 November 2000","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  I think the summary about says it all. It has twists and turns and has you guessing all the way through it. And in the end, you find out you were possibly fooled all the time.  It was scary at times and I would rate it as an excellent film of this genre. I must admit, that I am a real fan of this type of film. "},{"Title":"We're all mad, you know","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"11 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  About once a year, a film impresses me so much that i have to call or write to all my friends immediately, demanding that they watch it too. Haunted is one of the finest movies i've seen in many years, and it's really a shame that not many people have seen it.The cast is superb, with each character standing out, even those with just a couple lines (the fortune teller who reads David and Christina's palms is a good example). The stars, Aidan Quinn and Kate Beckinsale, are in excellent form, but Anthony Andrews steals the show in this one. He plays the character of Robert, the jealous and controlling big brother. There is a brilliant shot of his pale, depressed face surrounded by mocking darkness that perfectly defines the tortured-soul of the character. Anthony Andrews has such a strong, masculine English voice that makes him wonderful for all sorts of different roles. Just as entertaining is the younger brother, Simon (played by Alex Lowe), who is an obnoxious prankster with a playful soul. The late, great John Gielgud is also memorable in this movie for his portrayal of a kind, but mysterious doctor. Lewis Gilbert's direction is absolutely flawless, and i definately look forward to seeing his other films. Haunted is such an attractive movie everything looks so heavenly and enticing. In the daytime, Edbrook is such a charming place; a wonderful place to spend your childhood, but when night creeps up, it shows a perfect gothic presence. Haunted is probably the best ghost story i've ever experienced. It's unpredictable, charming, touching, frightening, and constantly entertaining. Perhaps my favorite scene is when David tries to trap a possible ghost outside of the Mariell mansion, and from out of nowhere, a cloud of dust spins in fascination. Soon after, a distorted ghost that sobs uncontrollably is conjured that floats away, beckoning David to follow it to the angry lake. This is one of the many truly magical moments found in this one-of-kind film. The sound effects are just as impressive as the visuals (the sounds of the howling wind and crashing rain are terrific). Also, the score is heartbreakingly lovely.Even if you don't like horror movies, you need to give this one a shot because it has so much to offer. There is no gore, so squeamish-stomach people should have a pleasant time with this one.  Rent or buy Lewis Gilbert's Haunted now!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!* * * * * (out of 5)You had your chance to leave, David  "},{"Title":"Marvelous- It Blurs your sense of reality","Date":"5 April 2008","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I wonder somehow how this 1999 flick could get less than a seven, by anyone of imagination, education and intelligence. Yet, I see the children have rated it poorly. Kids this first class flick wasn't for you. Go watch a monster buster.I loved this film so much and saw it just a few minutes ago on a wide screen HD TV.I genuinely fell in love with the 1920's costumes, cars and trains. The acting was splendid and the romantic parts as good as they were become ever so clear in the neatly twisted and spiritual conclusion.Even though this is an older flick, if you like quality films, it is a must see. It left me blurring reality verses unreality. It really was for me that deep a film experience. "},{"Title":"haunted","Date":"20 August 2005","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I saw this movie a few years ago and I found it great. For those who enjoy a classical ghost story will just love it. It is a shame it's not well known and not many people have heard of it. Aidan Quinn is the young psychologist who lost his beloved sister in his childhood and has never gotten rid of his sense of guilt. One day he is called to visit a house inhabited by a troubled old lady who reports she's being harassed by three young people she used to take care of as children. The story takes place in the 1920s and is full of atmosphere. The house has a life of its own and plays an important role throughout the movie. It is one of those movies you can watch over and over again because it has an excellent plot, great acting and a beautiful soundtrack. It's a gripping movie with an enthralling story to tell and the director does it successfully.It turns out it's not only about ghosts and haunted houses it's about the power of love and its determination and struggle to cross the boundaries of life and death in search of eternity. "}{"Title":"Wonderfully Spooky and Scary","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I first picked this up in Blockbuster and saw it shortly after it first came out on video and enjoyed it very much. Anyone who reads my reviews of ghosts and haunted house movies knows I always strip them down as according to actual paranormal behavior, but I can't do that here. This movie was very intelligently made as it really tells the story of Aidan Quinn's character as he looks for absolution from his dead sister's spirit. I love how he breaks up a phony séance, but I could have done it better with some ignorant jest Mother,are you there ? Oh yes,my son. Where's your Irish brogue ? Oh... um... it doesn't exist here on the other side. Is Aunt Tilly there with you? Oh yes,we talk about you all the time. Mother, Aunt Tilly was my Rottweiler! This movie is also graced by the lovely visage of Kate Beckinsdale who seems to shed her clothes with wanton abandon at times, but these scenes were actually done by a double and seamlessly added later. Aidan is on hand to investigate the ghostly claims of her elderly aunt who claims to be able to see ghosts, but the absolution of the movie and the twist at the end leaves me empty. I can watch this movie again and again and see all the clues that support the ending the same way I can spot the clues watching Psycho over again. "},{"Title":"Not a patch on the book but...","Date":"16 July 1999","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  A couple of years old this now but still worth a mention.  Originally A very spooky James Herbert book the film doesn't quite hit the mark in the same way but it's still worth a look especially if you haven't read the book. Dashing surrogate Yank Psychologist Quinn returns to native England in the thirties with two aims to pursue an academic career and the expose all who make others believe in a spirit world. He investigates the case of a mad old woman, whose house is supposedly haunted by her daughter and husband. Her three adult grandchildren are also in tow, including the alluring Christina (Kate Beckinsdale) - alluring enough to tempt at least one of her brothers and the new visitor. However, the ghosts of his own past - either real or imagined - start him doubting his own ability to rationally explore what is going on. Personally Kate Beckinsdale saves the film for me as it's very difficult to judge it in it's own right if you have already read the book and constantly find yourself noticing huge differences. To bring it down to a more basic level, for me Kate Beckinsdale puts her more famous English namesake far into the shade as a top example of what English actresses have to offer. "},{"Title":"There is something nasty in the Lake.","Date":"19 February 2005","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" A modestly effective supernatural thriller based on the James Herbert novel, and directed by veteran Lewis Gilbert. Weakness is the over lighting of many scenes that would have been much better in low key, but there are moments of shock that work well, especially in the early sequences. Quinn is somewhat wooden, and its left to Kate Beckinsale to add zest and glamor, which she does effectively, with several nude scenes and some moments of steamy sex. Lewis Gilbert directs without enthusiasm, though at times can we see traces of his earlier and better screen work. Finally the plot which has a major twist at the ending, is full of red herrings and pot holes, which makes it less than believable. A precursor to The Others which handles a similar situation with more classic flair, better cast and direction. "},{"Title":"Well worth seeing!!","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  This is a wonderful little movie.  Well worth a rental at your local video store.  I'd never heard of it until it made it's way to cable.  Some have criticized it for not living up to the book, but then again few movies can truly compare to their literary counterpart.  I for one haven't read the book (although I may give it a try), and so everything was original for me. A clever plot that left me guessing until the end.  See this beautiful, quiet, and intriguing movie.  You'll be glad you did. "},{"Title":"I feel like I've seen this story before hand","Date":"15 July 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" This movie wasn't bad. But I did predict the ending 1/4 of the way through the movie. So when the ending was upon me I already knew what was going on. I don't like that. I like to be kept in suspense. Maybe it's because I saw the movie The Others before seeing this one and they have very similar story lines.The only thing that was confusing to me was how Aidan Quinn's character could have such close contact with the ghosts. They appeared to him as though they were really alive. With the appearance of his dead sister leading him to the truth. It was a little too far fetched for me. Not that ghost movies should be truthful, but they should at least be slightly plausible. At least that's how I feel. "},{"Title":"Not the book I read","Date":"2 May 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I Loved the book and found it very scary and atmospheric. The description of the gradual dilapidation of the house and the increasingly disturbing events was paced very well as was the the shocking ending. However in the film many crucial bits are missing or have been totally altered. The vital precursor to the main plot, regarding Ash's sister was changed completely, as she was portrayed in the film as kind and benevolent whereas in the book she was viciously cruel to Ash whilst alive and dead. The whole point being that his dead sister and the ghostly family gang up on Ash to a prove him wrong and drive him mad. This aspect is mainly omitted. I can't see why the the film was reset to the twenties. Again in the book Ash is a flawed character - seedy, alcoholic and guilt ridden not a dashing professional. As eluded to elsewhere the incest angle between brother and sister was quite an invention of the film and may have been included as an excuse to portray much female nudity both real and canvas born. Many of the details of the book that show Ash's increasing horror that the family are phantoms, such as a one sided conversation on a tape recorder and the bed he shared with Christina obviously having been slept in by only him are brushed over. A whole episode in the book where Ash does debunk some hoaxers in a supposedly haunted church is missed out too.Admittedly as a stand alone ghost movie it is not bad but it cannot be called a close adaption of the book. "},{"Title":"Starts well, ends badly","Date":"23 November 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" A so-so horror movie. Started fairly well, built well with a fair amount of intrigue, then unraveled to an extent at the end. After all the intrigue, the revelation and punchline just seemed lame and contrived, and created a few plot holes.Was reasonably entertaining, however.Movie will mostly be remembered (by men, especially) for Kate Beckinsale. This was one of her first big screen appearances and she is stunningly beautiful, and delivers a solid performance. Decent performance too from Aidan Quinn. Cast also includes Sir John Gielgud in a supporting role. He is there to give the movie some credibility and star-power. "},{"Title":"Forever Haunted","Date":"13 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** A bit confusing in the end Haunted still is as good a haunted movie that's to come out of Hollywood since the all-time haunted house horror classic film The Haunting back in 1963.In Haunted we have Chicago Uiversity psychology professor, and famed debunker of the paranormal, Dr. David Ash,Aidan Quinn, travel England back in 1928 to investigate the Mariell Mansion that's reported to be haunted by an evil spirit by one of its occupants Nanny Webb, Anna Massey. David soon falls in love with the lady of the house Christian Mariell, Kate Beckinsale, who meets him at the train station and drives him to the mansion.At the spacious mansion David is introduced to Christina's two brothers the overly serious Robert, Anthony Andrews, and joker and in house comedian Simon, Alex Lowe, who together with Christina spend almost all their time doing nothing but partying around and skinny-dipping in the in the outdoor lake. Even though the astute David sees nothing supernatural in Nanny Webb's observations he does see that the Mariell children are somehow totally indifferent to her as if she doesn't even exist at all. As for Nanny Webb she's terrified of them even more then the ghost of Mrs. Mariell that she claims to be haunting the Mansion!***SPOILER ALERT*** David himself becomes convinced in Nanny Webb's statements of supernatural occurrences at the Mariell Mansion not by seeing the late Mrs. Mariell but in seeing his own long deceased twin sister Juliet, Victoria Shalet. Juliet is trying to get David to leave the premises before something very awful and terrible happens to him. Something that's been planned in advance to happen to David by the Mariell children who are not what they at first seem to be!Nanny Webb has carried this terrible secret about what really happened to the late Mrs. Mariell since back on that cold February day in 1923. It was the circumstances of Mrs. Mariell's tragic death and what she did after that that has driven Nanny Webb to the brink of madness. A madness that was soon to engulf David Ash in a web of incest murder and arson that will change his opinions about haunted houses ghosts and the supernatural forever! "},{"Title":"David Ash lost his twin sister in a drowning accident when they were 11 and he has never forgiven himself.","Date":"25 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I agree about the whole incest subplot...I think they should have stuck to the original plot from the novel. Otherwise, awesome movie! I love a little horror, a little mystery, a little romance and a little spookiness all mixed together...without any gore. Oh yeah...nudity and sex are always a good thing if done well. It's not often done very well, but I really liked this movie. The Others with Nicole Kidman is another one I would highly recommend if you liked this movie. I liked the twists that the movie took as it went along, although I must admit I told my husband about 10 minutes after David entered Edbrook Manor and met the kids that they were ghosts...but he wouldn't believe me. I started to wonder if David wasn't a ghost himself but realized he couldn't be. "},{"Title":"very stylish, low-key film, in the style of the old classic films","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  I saw this on video. I got a copy at the local video store.  I was trying to get something that both my fiance and I would like. He declined the first time, but watched with me later in the week.By now everyone should know the basic outline of the film. But just in case Aidan Quinn is a psychologist haunted and plauged with guilt over the accidental death of his sister. He is called to an old house in the country to observe and diagnose the housekeeper of the family who currently live there, an attractive young woman and her two older brothers. Nanny Tess thinks she is being held prisoner there by ghosts. But David Ash (Quinn) doesn't believe in ghosts or in any aspect of the supernatural and if I might be allowed a little armchair psychological analysis, I think the character denies its existence because he would then have to confront his guilt over getting his sister killed. It was really honestly an accident.In any case, this is a neat little film, sensitive, atmospheric, very laid-back and stylishly done with good performances. There are also some interesting scares. The movie keeps one guessing in spite of the mention in earlier reviews of spoilers. Kate Beckinsale is particularly good as the mysterious Cristina who eventually wraps David Ash around her little finger. Anthony Edwards always seems to play the rich, British aristocrat to the hilt. (See him sometime in Shelley Duvall's horror anthology which originally aired on Showtime. He played Dr. Jeckyll and Mr. Hyde. Amazing). He is very urbane and charming here. I found the end very eerie and much more satisfying than previousreviewers. Not much was said about the special effects either, even so, what there was of them was excellent. They certainly do not overwhelm the story, but only serve to enhance it. If you are usually viewers of the slasher type film then don't see it. Unless you are intrigued now; then see it by all means. You might be pleasantly surprised. There is only one little splotch of gore in the entire film. If you are squeamish of films with sex or sexual innuendo it does have a lot of that although I would not call it gratuitous. Rather I would call it necessary to the storyline.I would challenge anyone, in closing, to watch the ending without getting at least a little spooked. No pun intended exactly.  "}{"Title":"Good Old Fashioned Ghost Story!","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  I waited 2 years to see this film when and it reached America I was not disappointed! Its a return to the good old fashioned suspense story,and with an expert cast.Best of show honors must go to the the talented and beautiful Kate Beckinsale in a charming and mysterious performance that is truley the core of the film.Also, Sir John Gielgud give a fun and ominous performance as the town doctor. Aidan Quin  as the film's protaganist is well cast and has great chemistry with Beckinsale,while the underated Anthony Andrews is brilliant as Beckinsale'scooly aloof brother.  If I did not mention the plot its because any description would reveal a can of spoilers...but its a finely tuned film with loads of suspense and atmosphere.  "},{"Title":"Very well done...worth a look!","Date":"19 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  This was on cable recently and I was glad I watched it. The art direction and cinematography was excellent and the entire film was very well done. The only thing lacking was perhaps the dialog could have been retouched a bit. Very nice plot twists and good surprises throughout. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie of the 1920's England, just like a H.P. Lovecraft story...","Date":"19 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Everyone has seen one or more ghost movies, and some of them are good, some of them are bad... But this is far the most superb I've ever seen! First of all, the atmosphere was correctly hit by the director. There are few films that can depict an era in the right way. I think no-one could represent the 1920's Sussex better, although I'm not English and can not say this without being there, in that place. About the music, just in some words I would give for it an OSCAR! Well, I can also just praise the writer for the plot. It is really mysterious, and till the last 10 minutes, I still didn't know surely that the Mariels were... But it's useless to tell more about it IT'S EXCELLENT IN ANY WAYS, I SUGGEST YOU TO WATCH IT!!! "},{"Title":"One of the best ghost stories I've seen in a LONG time.","Date":"27 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  I must say, that I am a fan of almost anything involving the supernatural. So, when I came across this movie at my neighborhood video store, I decided to rent it. I'd never heard anything about this flick, and came home and popped it into my VCR, well, let me tell you, I was pleasantly surprised. The storyline was well written and well acted by the highly skilled cast, and the entire movie seemed very elegant.  Not a hack and slash or high gore thriller, this movie packs an intelligent punch and I absolutely adored it.  "},{"Title":"Could have been a whole lot better","Date":"23 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Good acting in a tired and predictable story. Great performance from Aiden Quinn, invited to a Gothic manor to investigate supposed ghosts lurking within. A hokey attempt to sex-up the story with an incestuous triangle between Kate Beckinsale and her two brothers. The story, set in the 1920's, has all the appearance of the wholesome, lackluster British family movies made in the 1950's. You almost expect Heidi to come tripping over the lush green hills. Recommended as one of the spookier movies around, the performances are all good, by actors who know their craft, but the movie is directed like a Hallmark Hall of Fame love story, devoid of any tension and wholly derivative in its execution. A complete lack of pacing that leads to a conclusion you can see coming a mile away. Tired and predictable are the words that apply. A shame as the actors could have done so much more with a more innovative director. A waste of good talent looking for direction. "},{"Title":"Very scary Gothic ghost-movie!","Date":"3 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" This is a very good, scary, old-fashioned ghost-movie. In fact it was so creepy that I got goosebumps all over my body (for REAL, not as a figure of speech!). Also, I several time had a feeling that someone was behind me, so that I had to glance over my shoulder! The story is excellent with an astonishing twist at the end, the exteriors and interiors are exquisite, and the actors are excellent!As I have ticked the spoiler box, I can discuss the twist here, can't I..? My only reservation, is that the type of ghost in movies with this twist in the end - the the person I have been associating with was really a ghost all the time - goes against the normal Western European notion of ghosts. We do not think of spirits as solid bodies that can eat, drink, move around objects in the real world, and even have sex with humans. We think of them as ethereal, transparent... and emitting a cold, which would make it very unpleasant to sleep with them! -) So, every time you watch a movie with this kind of plot, you have to buy into the foreign solid, human ghosts notion - that are more like zombies really. "},{"Title":"The Edbrook Haunting.","Date":"29 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Haunted is directed by Lewis Gilbert, who co-adapts the screenplay with Bob Kellett and Timothy Prager from the novel written by James Herbert. It stars Aidan Quinn, Kate Beckinsale, Anthony Andrews, Alex Lowe, John Gielgud and Anna Massey. Music is by Debbie Wiseman and cinematography by Tony Pierce-Roberts.Following the accidental death of his twin sister when they were just kids, David Ash (Quinn) has grown up to be a parapsychologist determined to debunk the existence of ghosts. Receiving an invitation from the Mariell family to investigate supernatural activity at their family home, Edbrook House, David accepts and quickly finds his life flipped upside down&#x85;It's from the old fashioned school of horror, a period piece of some worth, but not one for anyone looking to be scared out of their wits. Actually the novel by the late great James Herbert was becalmed when judged by his superb standards, so it really will help any potential first time viewer to go into this expecting a more ethereal chiller than anything else.There's an air of romanticism constantly hanging in the air, and with Gilbert nodding towards the likes of The Haunting for his scares and Don't Look Now for the meditation on grief angle, it's a film of mixed blessings. Also nice to see very good period design for the 1920s setting, while Roberts' photography skilfully brings beauty to the English countryside and murkier tones for the inner workings of Edbrook House.Cast are fine, with Quinn and a perky Beckinsale creating good sensual chemistry, and Andrews and Lowe are suitably odd as the clearly off- kilter Mariell brothers. Massey, however, is not challenged by her role and Gilegud is only really filing in for an easy money cameo. It gets away from itself a little in the final stretch, where it's not helped by some shoddy effects work, but there's good value to be had in the picture. With grief, guilt, redemption and incest bubbling away thematically, and the spectral visage of David's dead sister haunting the edges of the frame, film never lacks for literate effort or a sense of unease. The book is much better, mind. 7/10 "},{"Title":"a wonderful ghost story nobody's ever heard of","Date":"8 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Haunted provides many of the same joys as reading a Miss Marple mystery--a Miss Marple mystery where most of the dramatis personae get naked, that is.Mostly set in the 1920s, it features an outsized English manor house, a professor from Camberley College, dressing for dinner, tea at 5pm, a possible ghost, bumps in the night, and lots of family secrets--some of them a little too shocking for Agatha Christie.The performances are top-notch. I've always loved Kate Beckinsale, and it's nice to think that people who only know her from those awful Underworld movies may see this and discover she's an actress. Aidan Quinn is also a favorite; even though he tends to be somewhat wooden, I forgive him because he's such an appealing presence. Anthony Andrews is amazing one of those actors that inhabit a role, as they say. And can John Gielgud give a bad performance? I don't think so.The story is great, if a little thin here and here. I won't spoil the plot twists, but at the end you're likely to be left with nagging questions about why certain characters did certain things in light of certain facts that are now known.But don't let that stop you from watching it. In fact, it'll probably encourage you to watch it again. It does me this is one of those movies I'll watch any time it's on cable.btw, of all the movies people have compared this to, nobody's mentioned the similarities to Angels and Insects. A&I is not a ghost story, but it shares with this movie the setting, the atmosphere, and some of the more interesting plot elements. "},{"Title":"Hauntingly beautiful","Date":"4 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  For a while one of my older friends was always raving on about this movie and being a sceptic I frequently ignored his requests. Staying in student accomadation with my friend and this movie happened to come on late night television he demanded that we watch it, he had bought the beer so I said yes.At first glance this movie starts a bit slow with Aidan Quinn's character, David, reminising bout the death of his sister 20 years before, which he blames himself for. David returns from the first World War, and gets a job lecturing in Cambridge plus he also acts on debunking fake paranormal activity.Its on the strength of this that he is contacted by a Nanny of a manor house in English countryside, asking for him to come to the house to prove that she is not crazy.  David heads to the manor home and when he gets their he is entrahlled by the beauty of Christine(Kate Beckinsale), daughter of the manor house, and her two rather eccentric brothers.  David then starts to ask questions....A number of things in this movie deserve the two thumbs up from me. Firstly the locations.  The 1920's setting is perfect for this movie, lending the proceedings a certain reminisanct quality and a magical sense of things gone by.  The locations are beautiful, ranging from the manor house to the surrounding countryside, every thing the camera touches leaves you speechless(I live in Scotland were we are surrounded by beautiful countryside and his movie at this effect on me).  Secondly the acting. Aidan Quinn and Kate Beckinsale both are brilliant in their roles as protagonist and love interest and its easy to see why Ms Beckinsale to close to cracking Hollywood.  The brothers lend a slightly sinister air to what would just be a standard love story.  Thirdly the tight direction.  Lewis Gilbert keep things taut and tends to use quick cuts to emphasise the action and long shots which, in my opinion, highlights the inner struggle of David. Also John Geilgiud appears in a strong supporting role as the village doctor, putting in a  typical good performance.I only have a few quibbles concerning this fantastic movie.  Firstly the movie seems a bit slow to start with, but then builds up about half an hour into it. Also I felt that nudity wasn't really required in this movie, there was no need for breast shots, who cares? Similary one of the sub-plots seems to fall by the wayside towards the end, with David showing disgust one moment but forgetting about the incident shortly later.Overall i really enjoyed this movie and would recommend it to all movie fans, who then can look towards Bruce Willis and Nicole Kidman movies of similar ilk and still say 'original'. "},{"Title":"Great Ghost Story","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Really enjoyed this film. Someone else i know saw it and didn't like it, but i still found it to be a great movie.  Aidan Quinn is the professorwho doesn't believe in the supernatural.  He lost his sister when he was young and blames himself for her death.  Receives an invitation to a big house in England.  An older woman claims her residence is haunted and he decides to prove otherwise.  He meets the three members of the family who reside there (the lovely Kate Beckinsale and two dedicated fellows) and is drawn to Christina.  This movie builds up slowly but when it gets to the suspense, it doesn't let up.  The scene where David (Quinn) is in the basement and the whole place is on fire is really cool.  Many strange things occur and the ending is a shocker.  This movie may have inspired films like The Sixth Sense with its surprise ending.  The atmosphere is gorgeous here. The house has that gothic feel to it and the outdoors are lovely.  You never know what is real or imagined in this film when you get near the end of it.  Good job by Aidan in this one and Kate shines throughout.  The scene where David is blown by the gusty winds into the water was creepy but fun. Some connection with the Ninth Gate can be seen here with David's sister leading him to clues through the film like the girl did for Johnny Depp. Watch this one... a real ghost story that is an ideal psychological thriller.  "}{"Title":"Surprise! It's great!","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  I am no fan of ghost stories and I watched this movie almost by accident. What a great surprise! Not only the acting was good but the story was moving very smoothly, too, and it turned out to be a pretty good one (truth be said it was a tad bumpy near the end, though). If you are a male, you will probably appreciate the charming Kate Beckinsale, at least I loved her in this movie. ) I will buy this movie as soon as it comes out on DVD for sure. That's quite a statement from a guy who ranks ghost movies pretty low, wouldn't you say? "},{"Title":"Strong performances and atmosphere - overall good twist on trad. ghost story.","Date":"5 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  I hadn't planned to watch this film, but spotted it on terrestrial TV in the late-night schedules.  Its cinematic release passed me by completely.  I am no fan of the horror genre in general, but flipped channels because of the quality cast and to see if the Sussex setting was authentic.It is hokum, of-course, but engaging enough to convey the tension and confusion felt by the main character, David (Quinn).  John Gielgud, Anna Massey and Anthony Andrews almost slip into parody, which makes poor David's unease all the more understandable, but Kate Beckinsale's performance, in wonderful twenties togs, as Christina is well-judged and Aidan Quinn is, surprisingly, a convincing academic of the twenties.I grew up in Sussex, and knew plenty of houses similar to Edbrook, though not, as far as I know, in quite the same way, and I think the gorgeous sleepiness of the countryside is captured very well.I didn't think that the few SFxs were worth the effort, frankly, as they didn't add anything that the imagination couldn't provide, but the idea that what you can't see is far more powerful than what you can is generally adhered to and with good effect.The idea is not wholly an original one, but it does avoid piling cliche upon cliche and gives the traditional story a fresh perspective, so definitely worth a look if you're wanting to immerse yourself in a creepy, historical ghosty story with very good production values.  Ignore the usual seduction stuff - this is worth putting up with for the lack of obvious anachronism in the dialogue. "},{"Title":"Indeed an excellent film","Date":"28 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Definitely worth seeing - I was always second guessing myself and was proved wrong on all counts.Full of surprises, the film is not only well written, but the portrayal by the actors is supreme.  I won't be erasing this video in a hurry! "},{"Title":"Great Movie!","Date":"13 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  I found this film at a video store not knowing what to expect.  I still can't believe I have discovered this gem!  It's a great, romantic ghost story that deserves a look.  It is acted wonderfully and has a terrific, original story line.  Definitely a must have for any video collector! "},{"Title":"Far from believable","Date":"7 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Acting superb however the story stretches the likliehood of credibility. I like a good 'punch line' as much as the next, but to go through the almost entire length of a movie to find out it was all an illusion is a big let down. There should have been some clues, realistic giveaways in the plot, to suggest that what was happening was an illusion. The old lady did have her moment of questioning the events, but it should have been played up more, I think, casting more doubts on the current events. I find the movie somewhat entertaining but hard to reconcile the surprise ending with the extensive detail of the illusion the viewer was presented. Sad too that Ms. Beckinsale had a body double for the nude scenes, but they were well done nonetheless. The director begins with an innocent skinny dip, then a drop of a robe top in a natural moment, to a slightly perverted moment of nudity and finally a sex scene with nudity. A wide range of nudity woven into a plot. "},{"Title":"Please rent this movie. You'll be glad you did.","Date":"15 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Professor David Ash is invited to an English mansion to investigate the spirits that are allegedly tormenting an elderly woman. There he meets and falls in love with a beautiful young woman, much to her older brother's dismay. David later finds himself seeing the same things as the elderly woman, and is forced to question his beliefs regarding the existence of ghosts.This would be a great film to watch with your significant other, as it's an interesting love story with enough twists to keep you both guessing. It's also one of the most gorgeous-looking horror films out there. It has that kind of quiet Gothic elegance that makes you want to press pause just so you can examine the entire screen, slowly taking in every precious detail. Practically every shot is full of beauty, grace, and mystery, and would each look wonderful as a painting hanging in your house. Perhaps the most mesmerizing visual comes when a small cloud of dust spins rapidly in front of David, then rises and morphs into a ghostlike blur, floating further and further away until it dissolves into the lake.Somehow the soundtrack is just as strong. Haunted, set in the 1920's, has the kind of simple but effective sound effects reminiscent of the black & white haunted house thrillers. The wind whistles against windows, the doors always slowly creak open, the rain creates a calm, serene atmosphere instead of merely implying fear, and Debbie's Wiseman's music is tender and melancholy. Therefore, this film cries out for a big screen and surround sound, but if you have neither, don't let that stop you.Not only does Haunted look and sound great, but it has charming and eccentric characters, smart dialogue, and an exhilarating climax. Aidan Quinn and Kate Beckinsale are very engaging leads, but the best performance belongs to Anthony Andrews as the creepy and glum older brother. The late John Gielgud is also memorable as the town doctor, who may be keeping secrets about the Mariell family. "},{"Title":"A good, solid ghost story","Date":"12 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  This movie is like travelling down a familiar road, a road you've gone down several times before, and finding something different...something terribly wrong.Aidan Quinn plays David Ash, a professor who moonlights as a psychic dubunker.  After the death of his twin sister, he looked for answers, and found only hoaxes and charletons.He gets a letter from a Tess Webb saying she has a problem with ghosts in the house, and Quinn decides to check it out.Once there, he is forced to re-evaluate his skeptical views.Like travelling down that familiar road, you know where it's going to take you, but the ride is well worth it!It sounds silly, but Haunted is haunting! "},{"Title":"Eerie haunted manor film.","Date":"20 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Chilling adaptation of James Herbert's novel concerning a troubled gentleman who visits a spooky English manor to help an elderly lady rid herself of ghostly sightings, which he is convinced are all in her mind.  But soon after arrival, he begins seeing ghostly apparitions of his own, and falls for the mysterious Christina, who resides with her two odd brothers at the old house.Eerie hair-raiser in the tradition of THE HAUNTING is devoid of violence and leaves nearly everything to the imagination.  THE OTHERS continued this tradition six years later.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"Good, Spooky Movie","Date":"3 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  I liked this ghost story. it has a real story to tell. I don't like many ghost stories but this didn't contain excessive gore. My only complaint is the nudity. It was not necessary. The two leads, Aidan Quinn and Kate Beckinsale used body doubles. The movie would have been just as effective to just not use body doubles at all. The actors were effective enough on their own to display the passion they had for each other and to show the daring nature of the Christina Marielle character. Quinn and Beckinsale have great onscreen chemistry despite their real life 14 year age difference. Anthony Andrews is effectively creepy. I was happy to come upon this gem. "},{"Title":"Suspenseful at first","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  At first this movie succeeds at being suspenseful and indeed surprising but quickly it turns into a parody of the genre. A few times in the beginning you are certain that there are indeed ghosts in the house and that our clever hero is wrong only to find that the events could very well be explained otherwise. This is real suspense and nicely executed. Later the visual effects come dancing in and the movie is heavily degraded not to mention when suddenly the plot becomes apparent and we are now bordering the embarrasing. Many of the actors could have carried much more than this. Mainly Aidan Quinn, Anthony Andrews and John Gielgud. They really shouldn't be here. "}{"Title":"Body Double?","Date":"27 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Professor David Ash is invited to Edbrook to calm the fears of the elderly nanny of the Mariell family. Nanny Tess is seeing things, and Ash's book debunking such phenomenon makes him a good choice to set her mind at ease and convince her she is just tired and stressed.Lewis Gilbert had directed films since the 1940s, including some entries in the James Bond series, and this was towards the end of his career. The movie is not his best work, and received mixed reviews. It does deserve credit for the casting, as Kate Beckinsale had not really taken off yet. The film has added appeal in retrospect because of this.I think the mixed reviews are warranted, as the movie never seems fully... something. I don't even know the word. It comes across as a middling made-for-TV film in many respects, rather than a full-blown theatrical attraction. "},{"Title":"Sadly flawed, but terrific in spots. Beckinsale is excellent.","Date":"24 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Haunted is an atmospheric, valiant yet frustratingly uneven ghost story effort, in the tradition of stuff like The Awakening and The Haunting. If the plot seems close to last year's Crimson Peak, it's because it is, and I'd bet that Del Toro had this forgotten entry in mind when he embarked on that journey. I say frustrating because there's a certain few absolutely terrific moments of Gothic horror that truly shiver your timbers, but they're hopelessly mired in a mucky moor of a plot that unfortunately is not as effective as those key scenes. You David Ash is rough housing around wit his sister in the English countryside when she hits her head on a rock, and drowns in the pond below. He grows up soaked in guilt, dedicated to disproving the existence of paranormal phenomena. As an adult he's played by Aiden Quinn, who is an average dude with slightly wild looking eyes who is always effective in the sense that he seeks out challenging, odd projects which test his everyday aura nicely. In the early 1900's he is summoned back to rural Britain by an elderly woman (Anna Massey) who is convinced that she is surrounded by ghosts. He is greeted there by the luminous, attractive Christina (Kate Beckinsale), a friendly young thing with a distinct untrustworthy vibe and a penchant for getting creepy close with her two strange brothers (Anthony Andrews and Alex Lowe). She lives out there in isolation with them as well as their disturbed mother, and one gets the sense right off the bat that something is wonky. I suppose that's the point though isn't it? Beckinsale has carved a path of playing either somber, distraught women or tough, silent warrior chicks. This is the most animated work I've ever seen from her, and the most radiant she's ever looked as well. It's also to date the only nude scenes she's ever put forth, and I don't use the term lightly... she really bares it all here. The middle portion of the film meanders around with these characters, not revealing enough to push the plot forward enough, until the curtain is whisked away jarringly in the third act, cementing it's pacing issues for good. It's a picturesque enough journey, I just wish we had something to latch onto besides that, some substance and a consistency in the creepiness factor to keep us invested. Alas. It's got a spookily wonderful beginning, and an electric, full blooded ending, the only two instances where it shows true feeling and commitment. The rest is, well... stale. It's worth a peek for a few reasons though, including Beckinsale's solid performance and that one uber-scary scene in the opener. "},{"Title":"Haunted (1995) Thriller, Love Story and Mystery (underrated)","Date":"30 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Hey, I just want to say I have watched this movie 10 times and never get tired of it. Kate Beckinsdale back in her early prime was and so beautiful. The acting is great! It took me many years to find a DVD but finally own this movie) I remember seeing this for the very first time on some cable channel back in 1995...I couldn't tell you which one? Very well written movie and very well produced. I wish they would make more like these.This movie is about a Professor at a British university who is requested by an older maid/servant to come to a mansion out in the suburbs of Great Britain. The Professor has written a book trying to convince everybody there are no ghosts or paranormal true events on this planet. He is in for the surprise and shock of his life. Professor Ash decides to take a visit to this historic mansion at the request of the aging maid/housekeeper and encounters events he would have never envisioned.My roommate, God bless her soul, saw this with me 9 years ago just before she died. She said this was one of the most scariest but adorable movies she had ever seen. Myself? One of the most underrated Mysteries/Thrillers/Paranormal/Love Story movies I had ever seen and loved it. A must see and one of those movies that will keep your attention throughout. A lot to like about this one. I don't care what the current rating say about this movie...I adored it. I gave it a 10 out of 10. Very picky about movies and consider this a winner in my book) "},{"Title":"Worth a Gander","Date":"14 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Haunted is a film well worth watching, in spite of its flawed ending. Aidan Quinn -- never particularly impressive as an actor -- is convincing in his role as a skeptical doctor who investigates mediums and supposed hauntings. All the other actors do an outstanding job; they are really a joy to watch. And Beckinsale is at her alluring best.In its atmosphere (so important for a suspense movie) Haunted achieves a very good balance of whimsy and dread. The sets are excellent, the pacing good, the story very compelling. Where the movie fails is in its abrupt, unsatisfying conclusion. And it must also be said that, while the title Haunted, does work on a couple of different levels, it is still a lame title for a ghost movie. "},{"Title":"The Perfect Ghost Story For The Non-Thrill-Seekers","Date":"29 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" As a long-time ghost story fanatic, this is the kind of story which gives the other gently terrifying stories of the same genre, such as The Others, a real run for their money. Thrill-seekers who want a good ghost story are after A-bump-a-minute scenarios which, thankfully, this film does not have, instead garnering a slow but natural and steady pace which involves wonderful hints and twists throughout and a wonderful, touching and ultimately, creepy conclusion.I have never been a great fan of Aidan Quinn or Kate Beckinsale, though their chemistry here makes the film very watchable, and Quinn is acceptable as a hapless if not quite lovable hero. Beckinsale is also on generally good, charming form and, to be fair to both actors, there are several points in the script where the dialogue is so shallow and blunt, that Laurence Olivier and Gielgud himself (who appears and is wonderful as the local doctor) would have struggled to bring any more life to them without making the words seem silly and unrealistic.The show-stealer, as per usual in almost everything he is in, is undoubtedly Anthony Andrews, as the understatedly creepy yet charmingly alluring elder brother. Andrews is a very-much underrated actor as it is, but his performance and changes in attitude towards Quinn as the guest in their sprawling home, very much makes the film and most of the tension therein.Anna Massey too is wonderful as the housekeeper/nanny and creates a very sorry character with whom one instantly feels sympathy, playing out her pivotal role right until the very end with her usual grace and unabashed talent.To one who knows the ins and outs of modern twists and turns in movies and stories such as these, the ending is not altogether unpredictable, but the well-disguised yet compelling hints throughout make it all much more exciting, and the scenes of ghostly appearance are, for a change, nicely inserted without too much musical decoration or unnecessary special effects, making the whole thing very watchable. The sets and locations are stunning and elegant at all times, bringing up both the believability and charm of the story. This film, overall, falls into the category of a sadly overlooked, but wonderful fireside story, which deserves more publicity than it gets. "},{"Title":"Classy traditional ghost story","Date":"13 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" A professor in the business of disproving the existence of ghosts receives an invitation to investigate the alleged haunting at Edbrook House and embarks on chilling journey of discovery.Based on James Herbert's 1988 novel Haunted and the character of David Ash who appears in several of Herberts books this is a old fashion ghost story directed by veteran director Lewis Gilbert. Without drawing comparisons/differences to the book Timothy Prager, Bob Kellett and Lewis Gilbert's adaptation is creepy enough and at the time of its release the twist was still pretty fresh. Nevertheless, it shares many elements with The Woman in Black novel/film and The Others (2001) based on The Turn of the Screw (1898) to name a few.The few effects are sufficient but it works better when practical and old fashion camera tricks are used. Due to the period setting it is reminiscent of an Agatha Christie Poirot/ Miss Marple outing but this adds to the charm of Gilberts vision. The film is wonderfully shot, exteriors, internal sets of Edbrook House, cottages, train stations and outhouse are nicely recreated/utilised. There is a crisp bygone British ambiance which add to the 1928 backdrop and makes the ghostly goings-on more palatable.Given the small main cast ensemble it's an achievement it retains the viewers attention throughout. The film presents David Ash with a clean-cut image that Aidan Quinn executes with ease. The interaction with his sister is heart-warming and his decent into the supernatural or madness is subtlety convincing. Christina Mariell played by Kate Beckinsale handles the range of immaturity, sensuality and manipulation fittingly. Beckinsale is on put on show here, naked portraits, love making and skinny dipping - surprisingly it avoids gratuitousness thanks to the filming, performance and the tales framework. Both brothers are adequately portrayed with Anthony Andrews having an edge over his co-star Alex Lowe who delivers the jump scares . Notable are actors John Gielgud's Dr. Doyle and Anna Massey who in retrospect both emote some perfect reactions given the context of the ominous story.Haunted delivers some chilling moments but not enough investigation and too many false scares. That said, it's an entertaining traditional ghost yarn with a touch of class. "},{"Title":"Ghost story well told","Date":"31 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" You want a Ghost story, well have I got one for you. The one investigating it is none other than a professional skeptic who doesn't fall for any of the regular haunting behavior one typically runs across. In fact, the lead player has wrote a book on the subject matter. The reasons why he wrote a book and the continuing investigations lead him to a very satisfying experience on the subject matter all done nicely while we watch. Did I add that it is intriguing, terrifying, mysterious and haunting? Things will come up in this movie that cause you take notice, but not understand. However, the points are made until all the scary ducks start to line up and quack pure fright. Well it is pure fright courtesy of a good story well acted out. True horror and adventure will be found with the help of engaging the viewer's interest. This movie has the ability to do that. It offers up chills while delivering a story that after you view the movie, you will want to discuss with a friend. Lot's of good questions will pop up and great discussion will follow. Be careful what you ask for is at play here because you just might get it...Eating sunflower seeds or popcorn so that your hands have something to do is recommended "},{"Title":"One helluva ghost story!!","Date":"2 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I remember seeing this film when I was only little, around 6 years old and I always remembered it to be a crappy horror film. Years later when I got it on DVD to re-watch it, I found myself completely wrong. The film is about a supernatural skeptic called David Ash who tries to debunk fake paranormal events. He is summoned to a house called Edbrook where an old lady named Nanny Tess is convinced that her house is haunted by spirits.The film itself is a return to the slightly cliché but still effective ghost themes, with creaking doors, bumps in the night, etc. The film's story and narrative from Frank Herbert's novel is absolutely brilliant and there are enough twists to keep anybody entertained. Aidan Quinn is brilliant in his role, and Kate Beckinsale shines in one of her earliest roles.I feel though that this film has been marginally overlooked and ignored by many and it does deserve a watch for anyone interested in psychological horrors. The film itself is out of distribution but copies are still available as Dutch imports (with English audio). All in all, a fantastic film! "},{"Title":"Kate Beckinsale steals the show in this stylish horror","Date":"19 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Haunted is a beautiful movie based on James Herbert's novel but it is very much underrated and hardly remembered when we talk about horror or supernatural movies.Aidan Quinn on request of an old lady came to the town to help them get rid of ghosts.The atmosphere is creepy & suspenseful.Nothing is what it seems until the hero discovers the shocking truth.The strongest link of the movie is Kate Beckinsale who made the movie looks beautiful with her flawless acting & skin show.I never understood why this movie did not work inspire of great story line,good acting and subtle direction. "},{"Title":"good but what about.....","Date":"25 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I've had this movie since it was released and i adore it! My only question is what was really going on between all the siblings? They only mentioned it all in passing which highly disappointed me because i wanted to know more. And what in the world did Dr. Doyle have to do with it all? That one i've still never been able to put my finger on. I felt the actors were all well placed and did an excellent job all around. They don't make movies like this anymore. I believe the scariest part is when he walks in the room and all you see is the girls feet at the piano.....FREAKED ME OUT! I've never been able to look at a piano the same again. Please watch if you haven't preferably on a cool rainy day all by your lonesome is the best way i think and watch it alone. Trust me, there will be goosebumps. "}{"Title":"the movie works...","Date":"2 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  This movie is not intended to be original, nor shocking, nor humbling, nor anything earth-shattering.  What it does take is a classic ghost tale and it does a superb job with it.  Namely, the acting is on par, the music is simple but inviting, and the cinematography is perfect.  Of course some people will disagree with me.  However, if you enjoyed The Shining, Halloween, Ghost Story (1981), and enjoy the works of Poe and Lovecraft, then you and I have some similar tastes, and you may very well enjoy this film (but no guarantees ) bottom line slightly artsy, not-shocking, fun and entertaining 10/10 "},{"Title":"Something else","Date":"27 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  This very good ghost story has one heck of a punchline, so make sure you stay with it through its ups and downs. I am a big Aidan Quinn fan, and he is exceptionally good in this as a man sent to investigate a haunting. The supporting cast is uniformly excellent. There is some pretty strong sexual content, so the faint of heart should beware. Ardent film fans will see the ending coming a mile away; everyone else will be nicely shocked. "},{"Title":"Never get tired of this film","Date":"19 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  I've seen this film now, about 5-8 times in my 24 years of life on this earth, and I still think it is one of the best ghost stories I've seen. I only wish it had been made 3 years later or so, cause then the effects wouldn't have been an issue. It really bugs me, cause it really is perfect in so many ways when it comes to almost every other aspect of the movie. The setting, the eerie atmosphere, suspense build up and acting...all just great. If they ever remake this movie..the location must be the same...and pace of the film must also be the same. That is what I fear with a hollywood production of this movie if it ever happens...too young actors, too hip music...would totally destroy the film. WHY ARE EVERYBODY USING TOO YOUNG ACTORS IN TODAYS FILMS?! It ruins a LOT of films!! The lines would probably be more rewritten for todays audience too..errr. Please don't do it if you're going to remake this...please don't fall into this trap. The attention span of people is not just 3 seconds either btw.I'm pretty sure someone will remake this one day. The best would be just edit the film and update the effects..yup. But ok, whining a lot about the effects, but really...the effects isn't even THAT bad and the movie is still good enough without 100% belivable effects. The movie works very good. It's just that it would have been PERFECT with that touch.Really love the atmosphere in this movie. They've really done such a great job here. It's really just the effects that makes it not perfect. Love this film.  "},{"Title":"Thinking Man's Spookfest","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  I was somewhat surprised at some of the tepid reviews I've seen for 'Haunted'?  I suspect those bashing this underrated gem are of the 'beat me over the head with spooks' ilk. No, 'Haunted' does not spend $10 million on special effects, there are no cute teen hearthrobs getting axed, stabbed, or decapitated. There are only old-fashioned, slowly-developed shivers in the classic tradition of ghost stories.  From the opening scene with Aidan Quinn witnessing his sister's tragic death, to the spooky interactions with the elderly woman calling him to the remote country setting to assist her with her haunted house problem, to the revelation that Quinn has been in a ramshackle abandoned house for most of the story making love to a corpse, this tale delivers. If you like a good old-fashioned ghost story with outstanding performances all around (Kate...will you marry me??), 'Haunted' will not disappoint. Highly underrated, this film absolutely deserves an 8 on the spook scale, get with it fellow reviewers (by the way, if you don't like horror to begin with, stick to reviewing the next 'Men in Black' sequel!). "},{"Title":"wonderful","Date":"3 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  well just had a wonderful atmosphere when I saw the movie everybody was laughing but they were as scared as I'm and that was great music is really great too....and well I think and the plot and the acting is good....just the ending is deceiving but anyway it worth to be seen.... go if you can (wish I could have the video at home in english subtitled in french if someone know where I can find it) "},{"Title":"Good spooky mystery","Date":"30 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  I am not usually scared by spook films and this one was no exception. However, I considered it to be a good mystery with a chilling twist. A college professor of psychology is called to a home to prove or disprove the presence of ghosts which appear to be haunting the mistress of the house. Lots of creepy things happen while the professor is there, and they all seem to center around three siblings who live in the house with their aunt. The professor, who does not believe in ghosts, comes to question those beliefs as his stay in the house progresses. Worth seeing.  "},{"Title":"Dull","Date":"19 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" This is a ho-hum and rather predictable thriller with a premise that was better presented in The Others. Aidan Quinn stars as a man still guilt-ridden over the death of his young sister many years ago. Aidan has devoted his life to debunking false mediums, spiritualists and reports of ghosts. When he arrives at an old house rumored to be haunted, he meets tepid Kate Beckinsale and her two creepy brothers.This all sounds great, but the film is about as lifeless as the ghosts that Aidan debunks. The story plods along, the actors all seem slightly stoned and the Big Revelation at films end was easy to spot half an hour into the film and provides no shock or surprise. Kate Beckinsale has since improved and there's an early appearance here by Harry Potter's mother (Geraldine Somerville) but there's not much more to recommend this film. "},{"Title":"This Review is Rife With Spoilers Internally Inconsistent","Date":"27 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" The story a university professor who debunks fake manifestations of supernatural events is called to a mansion in England. An old nanny there, he's told, is convinced that the mansion is haunted, or peopled by demonic beings. He travels there, and discovers two brothers and a sister along with the nanny, and the three siblings behave rather strangely, considering.The nanny is easily frightened, but as the professor, David Ash, stays at the mansion, strange and inexplicable things start happening. Things become weird, then weirder, with fires breaking out, strange noises, and things keeping him from opening the door of his guest room. He sees an image of a young girl, looking remarkably like his late twin sister, but when he tries to follow her, he can never catch her, despite that she's walking and he's running.Ash is attracted to the sister, whom he eventually has sex with, but she also seems to be attracted, incestuously, to her younger brother. With all this going on, he slowly uncovers secrets, including the death of the sibling's mother, a suicide.Major spoiler ahead.Eventually, he discovers that the siblings and the nanny are all dead, and have been so for years. The mother (and we never see her ghost) killed herself because of her children's actions. The siblings try to induce Ash to join them, but the ghost of his twin sister saves Ash from that fate ... at least to the end of the film.But a film should be internally consistent, and this one isn't. If the nanny and siblings were dead years before Ash visited the mansion, who kept calling his office, pestering him to come? How did the sister pick him up from the railroad station in a car, if neither she nor the car were real? How did Ash eat, sleep, and telephone to his office if the mansion had been empty and in partial ruins for years? Most unsatisfactory! If you see this one, you'll have to suspend not only disbelief, but reason, and logic. "},{"Title":"Perhaps its the Horror Channel","Date":"5 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" After his young sister dies in an accident around the turn of the 19th to 20th century, David blames himself and, on growing up, becomes a debunker of hauntings. He is engaged to investigate a haunting, and it turns out that the people who live there are an odd bunch and, just maybe, the haunting is genuine.This film has an impeccable pedigree - a hugely respectable cast, and a story by established horror author James Herbert. And, as far as performance and story are concerned, I don't have much by way of criticism.But maybe paying for a high profile cast meant that there wasn't much left in the budget for little thinks like special effect and decent film stock. Because the broadcast I watched was very grainy, and the effects were distinctly dodgy.A shame. "},{"Title":"Old fashioned style, good plot but the pace is a tad too slow at times","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Professional sceptic David Ash is summoned to the Edbrook household by the supposedly crazy maid Miss Webb.  Ash is sure that Miss Webb's stories of ghosts are all in her mind and sets out to prove it.  Meanwhile he is attracted to the daughter of the house Christina while confused by the rude behaviour of her brothers Simon and Robert.  However as Ash begins to see things that no one else does he begins to suspect that his sanity may be slipping away with Miss Webb's.This film didn't set the box office on fire simply because it is old fashioned in style and pacing.  In terms of plot it is nicely worked and has some mild but enjoyable twists in it.  The only problem is that it is painfully slow at times but if you're watching this then you may be into this style.The direction and production are pretty good.  The feeling of place and time is great and the slow pace helps the tension.  The effects are OK but really they don't match up to the feeling of anticipation that the tension has generated.  Unlike the effects the film never sets the screen on fire but rather plods when it should begin to run.  It's not a major problem because the film is that style rather than a modern teen slasher &#150; it is quite refreshing but that doesn't mean it isn't slow!Quinn is good here and should be applauded for doing a role that isn't a sure-fire blockbuster.  His believable descent into uncertainty and the beginnings of madness keeps the film watchable and interesting.  Beckinsdale is good as the child like innocent but also manipulative temptress.  Lowe and Andrews are both OK as the brothers and Gielgud is an interesting face to have.  Outside of Quinn Massey is probably the best role and she sells herself totally.Overall if you can take the old fashioned feel and the slow pace then this is an enjoyable film with a sturdy plot.  Quinn and Massey's good performances keep it watchable even where the pace begins to drag. "}{"Title":"Nice little pot boiler","Date":"27 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  I watched this last night and I really enjoyed it. Good characterisation, even for the minor players and the plot has a few twists that surprised me. The acting was good, excellent in places. Aidan Quinn gives a great performance apart from spending most of the movie with his mouth slightly ajar. I found that strangely irritating.  "},{"Title":"Twisted!","Date":"11 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  An interesting 'ghost' story that is a bit different. The plot twists are interesting (although guessable) and the story just creepy enough to hold your interest. The film was rather let down by its ending from when Nanny Tess explains it all (just in case you haven't quite got it) and then the Mariells do this bizarre performance. Whatever. Anyway, this was still an interesting tale, well delivered, with enough bizarre behaviour and scary undertones to keep ghost-movie watchers interested. But this ain't no Wes Craven horror flick, it's much more subtle. 7/10 "},{"Title":"One of the most beautiful sex scenes of cinema","Date":"14 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" One of the most sensual sex scenes ever pictured by a movie, driven by an involving music that grows in intensity towards its climax, making it pretty elegant, invoking us pleasant and even decent feelings; and thus reminding the great sex scene from Boxing Helena in its perfect lights and shadows balance, emotions transmitted by the characters and the wonderful background music Woman in chains, which perfectly fits the movie in a dimension higher then the own movie. Also perfect clothing, clean speeches and an involving script that runs initially veiled and progressively gets unclosed towards strange facts during the evolution of the tale, making it a novel pattern of thriller that may have inspired many others from the horror genre. In addition to all this, due to the well connected actions that take place in this movie, there seems to be no need for sex or grotesque appeals for this movie to get our attention. And yet, a wonderful collection of images from landscapes, buildings, outdoor walks, mysterious fog; and also a combination of tragedy, old regrets, self redemption and an unexpected end, all very well tied to each other make this a single movie... And with help of a charming script, excellent photography, well designed costumes, appropriate soundtrack, the actors were worked very well all over the movie someway their parts are closely binded to the story, somehow comments on their acting would imply spoiling. I strongly recommend anyone to see the movie in a quiet place, for its music to be felt; and it would also be good to have it after an stressing day, for it to bring us slowly to a peaceful state of spirit. This movie is worth to be seen and its sex scene should be taken as an example of a wonderful one. "},{"Title":"Original ghost thriller with plot twists","Date":"22 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" This is a great horror movie with many plot twists. Its not the typical ghost movie where the movie basically tells all the viewers who all the villains are so we can laugh at how stupid the protagonists are for trusting who we know are the evil doers. The movie begins with a young David Ash and his sister Juliet teasing each other. In a freak accident David gets a little too rough and unintentionally knocks Juliet to the ground. Unconscious, she falls into a river and despite David jumping in the water to find her he doesn't do so in time and she drowns. For the rest of his life he blames himself for her death. When he grows up as an adult(Aiden Quinn), his obsession with death leads him to become a professor of the supernatural. One day he gets a call to help a woman named Tess Webb. She's an old nanny who has stayed behind to look after the Mariell estate. There he meets the breathtaking Christina Mariell(Kate Beckingsale),her loser brother Simon and her other brother Robert who is way too overprotective of her. At the Mariell estate we learn that their parents died years ago and that Tess sees their spirits still roaming the grounds. From here on out the movie takes on unexpected plot twists which changes who we know to be the villains and even who we think is really alive. Let's just say the movie changes what we think will be the ending as it flows along the way until the very end. If you liked this movie a more recent and well know movie you'll also like is The Others. "},{"Title":"**** out of 5","Date":"17 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Life only lasts until it is swept away by the burden of death, but life, now that is a bond that could last to the very brink of eternity. In every human life there comes a period of inner change and self-discovery. For some it is in the form of a coming of age experience. For others it delves deep into the wild recesses of the mortal mind unto returning with something you can never have. For David this event comes in a plural. WE open the film with the accidental drowning of a young David's twin sister that, whether his fault or not, he blames himself for. This eats at his conscience and bears burden in his dreams until it forms into a nightmare. That occurrence happened in England in the year 1909. Now we take another trip to America during the `roaring' twenties.' David has become a famous psychologist who devotes his life to exposing supernatural `frauds.' He is then given a rude awakening when he is called back to his English stomping grounds by an elderly lady who claims that she is haunted by spirits within the walls of her estate. Along with the lady, resides her three grandchildren. Everything inside the manner is draped in white cloths like it had been abandoned for years and David soon finds out belief is a scarce commodity is this residence but the truth is only a kiss away. A love story then blossoms when David finds himself being drawn to the hunting beauty of Christina. Christina's brothers don't take kindly to this as the ring of mystery unfolds before our infallible eyes. Not since the death of Hitchcock has a film been so beautiful in its terror and so mysterious in its atmosphere. Director Lewis Gilbert has created an eye catching period piece that is so twisted in nature it morphs itself into a state of normalcy. But this is not a ghost story at heart nor is it some one off love story. This is a look into the mind of a man who desires to find redemption in his suffering and to break free of the guilt that walls him in and limits him in expression. Because he feels guilty for the death of his sister, David's scope on reality is limited. That is until he meets Christina. He instantly falls in love with her, hiding his feeling of guilt because he feels no need to let them collide with the burning desire he has for her. And only through her can he understand the meaning of true love in the end of the film, the end of life and the end of time. The film ends with a climatic plot twist that has become rather standard in method with films of this nature. The thing about this one though is that given close enough inspection the mystery of the twist is put into serious jeopardy within the first fifteen minutes. Yet it is this twist in shape, form and spiritual mentality that leads up to all the opinions that are presented in the film, making this a very hard work to talk about without giving too much away. Even through surprise endings the climax here is weak. It becomes too much of a horror film cliche and forgets its roots as a sensual tale of supernatural feelings. The thing that saved the end from total meltdown was the very touching wrap-up, which in fact, had the most to say about the entire film as compared to the other scenes presented beforehand. If you were reading carefully you would have noted that I said that the roots of this film involve `supernatural feelings.' Supernatural means the unexplainable. It is something that is caused bye the power above the forces of nature. This film is not strictly about ghosts or haunting, only through those things can it speak to use about how the feelings in life that we need to cleanse our souls of regret are above anything that we classify as natural, vision quests are a good example of this. Even better from a film point of view are David Lynch Films. But this is not dark and disturbing like Lynch films nor is it weird in any sense of the word, rather it is warm and inviting. Everyone is greeted with a smile as the sun beats down on the beautiful green grass. Gilbert provides you with a welcoming environment. A place you could call home, where everyone is happy and free of burden. This is the perfect place for our characters to plant their seeds and let their emotions blossom into something beyond nature. Because of this we are allowed to feel for these characters. There is no bloodshed in this film and there are no real scares either, all attempts at horror are either false alarms or unexplained bumps in the night. That means that this is strictly character driven fare that relies that relies just as much on atmosphere to advance the emotion as the actors themselves. Aidan Quinn plays David and does a great job in brining out the tortured soul in himself and the non-believer who just possibly wishes that he could believe. The other main asset in the acting department is Kate Beckinsale as Christina. She plays her character with a certain free willed flair that a young teenage on the path of self discovery would have, but also possesses a look in her eyes of a child who knows that has something inside that needs to be told but doesn't wish to tell. The chemistry between the two main leads have such a strong bond that they are sensual enough to be erotic yet passionate enough too not become gratuitous. Also the direction is beautiful in such a manner that it is subtle in its touching moment and rapid in its chills. This is not to say that the film doesn't travel its road to success without fault. The worst offence it commits is that it doesn't really take off until a half an hour in, and if you are anything like me you will have it figured out by then. Another small glitch that I found was that Quinn eludes an English accent that his child character had at the start of the film (I guess he must have grown out of it). Once you get past those small set backs you will more than likely take it upon yourself to enjoy this film. IT isn't something that can be forced upon you; it just works its way mysteriously into your system and arouses those deep dark secrets in you that have been burning at the back of your neck for ages like a ghost's howl in the wind.                   "},{"Title":"Doesn't even come close to doing James Herbert's book justice.","Date":"2 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Some of the best films of all time have been literary adaptations; but this adaptation of James Herbert's novel, 'Haunted', isn't one of them. James Herbert is one of my favourite writers, and although (and I'm sure my fellow Herbert fans will agree with me) Haunted isn't the man's best work - it surely deserves much better handling than this. This adaptation isn't even faithful to the original novel! The characters have the same names, and most plot points are intact - but a lot of things, including important elements such as the persona of the lead character, and the ending have been changed entirely - meaning this isn't really an adaptation of Herbert's novel, it's merely a film that uses the same character names as the book, and a similar setting. The plot follows cynical parapsychologist David Ash when he is asked to investigate at a spooky old mansion. The inhabitants include the (probably) insane Nanny Tess, and the three siblings; Simon, Robert and Christina. It isn't long before David realises that there's something strange about this family...Something I really can't understand about this film is simply WHY they deviated from the book? There's nothing in the book that isn't film-able, and although most of what has been changed isn't all that important, many things; such as the fact that in the book, the old house doesn't have a phone, meaning David had to walk to the local phone box just increases the isolation and makes the whole piece more frightening. The way that the ending has been changed is truly unforgivable, as the climax to the novel is the thing that really makes the story what it is. Up until the climax, Haunted is pretty much just another ghost story (albeit a good one); but the ending is where Herbert gets to show his imagination - yet this film has gone and changed it, leaving the ending as little more than another climax to another ghost film. There isn't big black dog in this film either! The cast, however, is fairly decent; with Aidan Quinn not convincing me much at first, but he gets better as it progresses. Kate Beckinsale stands out the most, as the beautiful Christina Mariell. Overall, all that's happened here is that director Lewis Gilbert has changed a good horror novel into a very superfluous movie. My advice is simple - read the book, forget the movie. "},{"Title":"The movie Stephen King would deny ever writing the book for.","Date":"9 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" James Herbert is a genius. For me, he is, apart from Clive Barker, the very best British writer today. He is like how Stephen King should be. He does not make compromises; he tells a story, and it's not oh-so-bad-forces from oh-so-far-away, but his heroes are anti-heroes, his world is black and rotten. His books have inspired many a writer and director so far. Also, he takes a theme and varies it in different books; the denying sceptic from Haunted can also be found in Moon. What I want to say, read his books; they are no mainstream, but books like The Fog, The Spear and '48 will be different and stimulating reading.That said, let's review Haunted. Haunted, the first in the series of anti-hero David Ash (second being The Ghosts of Sleath), one of his best (and best-selling) novels, is set in modern-day Britain. The title has more than one meaning; apart from Edbrook Manor being haunted, David Ash himself is by the ghost of his evil older sister, Juliette, who drowned when she fled from the sudden anger of David after torturing him again; since then, she tortures him in his dreams - and found ideal companions in the Muriell family.David, himself, has a drinking problem, and is one of the best investigators of the Psychic Institute with a reputation to expose frauds. He denies the existence of ghosts, but not of para-psychic phenomena. As he enters stage, his driving license is lost. Again.Enter the Mariell family - prankster Simon, upright Robert, and schizophrenic Christine, stewarded after the deadly car accident of their parents by crazed Tess Webb. Having made an arrangement with evil Juliet, they order an investigation of the Psychic Institute in order to torture David. Dead all of them, Christine and her dog incinerated after Simon locked them in the cellar, Robert died trying to save them, Simon hanged himself within the week of their deaths.That is the reason for Davids experience in the book, revealed at the very end of a suspenseful Fantasy/Horror tale. The torture starts subtle, and becomes more and more blatant, at the end leaving David questioning his sanity and being saved by nanny Tess alone.If you watch the movie to view a mediocre ghost story, the lacking of all of the above may not disturb you. If you watch it to view what you read in the book - given all the deficiencies dramatisations have -, you think wine and get stale water.Lewis took the story to 1928, and Prof. Dr. David Ash is not the borderline-alcoholic borderline-failure haunted man we know and love from the books, but a stable, successful teacher. Instead, we get incest in the Mariell family - if Herbert wanted incest, he would have put it into the book. Apart from that, we get cardboard characters where Herberts book stressed on the discovery of the characters and character development, and shallowness where Herbert delved into the deep. The delicate effects of Herbert that left Ash wondering whether he hallucinated, or whether all was simply a normal circumstance, are totally left out (and where they are, they are totally unmotivated - Ash being not the subject of their torture, and we ask ourselves why nanny Tess keeps her secrecy - plot holes where Herbert put delicacy). The fire in the wine cellar where Christina, Robert and the dog died, for example - in the book, David extinguishes it, and stops seeing it - but still /hears/ it and /feels/ its heat, one of the finest effects in the book - is totally low-budget SFX in the movie. Kate Beckinsales nude and sex scenes are enjoyable and lead to the (male) viewer's strong identification with David - the character development of Christina is totally left out (which I am sure Beckinsale as an actor would have been capable of). When David discovers that Edbrook is a totally different world than the outside, and is not what it seems, this is done step by step adding suspense the movie lacks.All in all, this movie adds to the B-grades Kate Beckinsale made between Much ado about nothing and Underworld - why? She's intelligent, educated, a much better actor than Catherine Zeta-Jones and many others, why is she selling herself so cheaply and does movies like Van Helsing? You would think she could chose between much better scripts.The movie itself has good actors, and the story of Herbert is excellent, but the script is catastrophic. You could only guess whether it aimed at a mainstream marked that would find Herbert too complicated, or it wanted to soften the hardest things about Herberts black-in-black world here - the movie did neither become a popular mainstream success, nor did the script use the potential even Haunted, light version did offer.A little more money on the effects - and a few well-placed additional effects - would not have harmed. So, I hate to say that, this is a great disappointment. "},{"Title":"The Haunted","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Decent tale about a man (Aidan Quinn) who stays at an old mansion with Kate Beckinsale, only to find out that everything is not what it seems. Predictable from a mile away, but fun to watch. My only problem is that I think Aidan Quinn is a very boring actor.3/5 stars -John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Dreadful mess of a ghost story","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Not worth a look at all, in my opinion.  Avoid this insulting mess of a movie.  It fails as a ghost movie and is appalling as a love story. The director is obviously fascinated by the creepy incestuous aspects of the film and also spends too much time on what should be a subplot -- the love story between Aidan Quinn and Kate Beckinsale.  The two of them seem to be having lots of fun -- they never stop smiling or laughing in their scenes together -- and I can only imagine they had to laugh at the absurdity of the story they were making.  An abundance of female nudity (a body double, not Beckinsale who at least at the sense to keep her own breasts covered and let some other poor woman be tastelessly displayed) begins to irritate the way a teenage boy's talk about body parts often irritates.  The ghost story is completely lost in this jumbled mess of a film.  And the ghosts are not really even that interesting.  Anyone familiar with The Others will probably figure out the secret about half way through.  Anna Massey is wasted in a pathetic role that requires her to look exhausted and oppressed in every scene.  I found it ridiculously unbelievable that Quinn's character is never once appalled at the obvious incestuous goings on between brothers and sister.  And his supposed dogged determination to disprove ghosts easily fizzles when he completely loses sight of his true goal in visiting Edbrook House and falls under the spell of the beguiling Christina (Beckinsale). Either make a sick incest movie or make a ghost movie -- that's what I say. But focus the storyline in any case. "},{"Title":"No frights in this frightful movie.","Date":"16 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  This had the potential to be a great film as it was based on a great story, but it didn't come out that way.The film did not contain any of the suspense or chills of the book and in fact was not scary at all.Shame really, because Aiden Quinn and Miss Beckinsale could do better and Lewis Gilbert certainly has done better. "}{"Title":"Might Need to Watch this Again","Date":"3 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I just watched this movie for the first time tonight. First of all, I love ghost stories, anything about the supernatural and I am interested. I also love period pieces, so this movie seemed like it would be great to watch. Well, I was definitely disappointed. During the first half hour or so, it was very promising and had a lot of potential to be really entertaining, mysterious and suspenseful. Unfortunately this never happened. It was incredibly slow moving for one thing. I was sitting there just waiting for something scary to happen to make David think there were ghosts. I had an idea about halfway through that Christina and her brothers were ghosts, although they tried really hard to make that not seem possible. And that was another thing that I didn't like, it was just way too far fetched. There was nothing that really made you think they were ghosts, they could've been a bit more clever about that. And then Christina dying in the car fire, what was that all about? I don't know, it was very strange. It had real potential to be a fantastic movie, but it just didn't do it for me. Maybe I have to watch it again. I am really surprised about the reviews for this movie, I think I've read one bad review and I really thought there would be many bad reviews. This is by far my favorite genre and I am pretty upset that I didn't like this movie. "},{"Title":"* *1/2 out of 4.","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Professor Aiden Quinn is called out to the estate of an elderly woman to try and convince her that the property is not haunted, but the longer he stays there the more he starts to believe in ghosts as he witnesses things he can not explain and then there is also the strange (possibly incestuous) behavior of her children.Slow moving, terrifying, and haunting ghost story with fine performances and solid direction builds up to, but features a lousy ending that ruins an otherwise well crafted and intelligent film.Rated R; Violence, Sexual Situations, Nudity, Profanity. "},{"Title":"pleasing adaptation of james herbert`s spooky novel.","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  lewis gilbert captures the essence of henry james and robert aickmen in this spooky adaptation of james herbert`s best novel.it has a beautiful period feel and keeps you guessing untill the final denoument.the acting although nothing spectacular is acceptable and steady throughout the whole movie. "},{"Title":"This could be a hilarious low budget comedy, starring Leslie Nielsen, but it's a handsomely mounted, plodding museum piece.","Date":"7 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Aidan Quinn, a professor of Para-Psychology in a tweed suit, investigates a series of hauntings at an olde English house, inhabited by a fruitcake family and their nutty nanny. Anthony Andrews (Brideshead Revisted) is the slimy, grinning elder brother who likes painting his gorgeous sister (Kate Beckinsale), in the nude. Plus there are secret passages, a piano that plays itself, and every spooky movie cliché you've ever seen. This could be a hilarious low budget comedy, starring Leslie Nielsen, but it's a handsomely mounted, plodding museum piece. The real mystery is that it's directed by Lewis Gilbert (Educating Rita, the original Alfie ), executive produced by Francis Ford Coppola and boasts and excellent cast, including John Gielgud. "},{"Title":"The book was better","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Aidan Quinn was a good choice for a sceptical scientist. He has the brooding good looks that make the fact that a girl 15 years younger than him could fall for him even though she was dead seem more realistic.Overall though the book was better and a lot of detail was left out of the movie. If you read the book first I believe that you would be quite disappointed.It would have been a lot better if the fact that the brother painted his sister nude had been left out. "},{"Title":"Lacks the Deus ex Machina","Date":"26 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I was only awarded an occasional frisson of ghosts and supernatural thrills in this pretty but boring supernatural thriller. The plot was written to mostly mislead the viewer through 90% of the picture, then hit you bluntly with the weak deus ex machina so typical in todays movies. It follows the old formula of older horror flicks that tease you throughout the picture and then make you wait till nearly the end to see the monster. I compare this to the Sixth Sense, but in 6th, the writers successfully keep you bought-in till the end. In Haunted, somewhere near the last half of the movie, you will get what the writer is trying to do to you, then the director unleashes his FX budget and the picture moves from very real to hokey Hollywood magic. The best attribute in this movie is Kate Beckensale. She is so pretty to look at, and the erotic scenes are worth the time spent watching. Even if the actual nude actress is a double or stand-in, there is one scene where she is portraying Christine so sexually satisfied, I can't help but think this might be how Ms. Beckensale really looks when she is in her after glow. I was beguiled and bewitched by her. Have you seen her in Cold Comfort Farm? Excellent actor. "},{"Title":"Yet _another_ worst film in the world ...","Date":"27 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Aidan Quinn plays a debunker of psychic phenomena in this  'period chiller', visiting an English country house, with a cast  of eccentrics and gaping plot holes. Kate Beckinsale exists simply to remove her clothes 4 times and have sex once. The  final 'twist' just makes a mockery of everything that has gone  before, and considering the credits include Francis Ford  Coppola, Lewis Gilbert and James Herbert, this dreadful piece of  hokum should never have got onto the screen. I'm sure everyone  concerned really put their heart into making it, but the  ham-fisted special effects and 'special guest' John (could do this in his sleep and probably did) Gielgud just made me laugh  all the more! "}]