[{"Title":"Guilty As Charged.","Date":"30 October 2002","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Typical Pauly Shore fare that has him stalling the verdict on a murder trial so he can stay in a plush hotel longer. Naturally he has cut a deal to be in the President's suite of a different inn than the other jurors. Anyway as time progresses, it appears that Shore might be on to something when he tries to convince the others that the case is not as cut-and-dried as it appears. Some outstanding performers (most notably Shelley Winters, Charles Napier, Tia Carrere and Stanley Tucci) somehow found their way on this downer. 2 stars out of 5.  "},{"Title":"This movie was stupid but it was very funny","Date":"10 March 2004","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I think that Jury Duty was stupid but very funny. Pauly Shore is funny because he exists. There's room for anyone in comedy and he proves this point. I'm not sure if this movie damages brain cells, but I watched this movie alone and laughed my ass off. A little tasteless at times. I wonder if Pauly Shore wrote any of it. Andrew Dice Clay made an appearence, I think he's a good actor, very funny. Tia Carrere is a good actress also. It's a true comedy if you think about it, stupid, funny, there's only one part of the film that I didn't find funny. I'm pretty sure I read somewhere that Pauly Shore's mother runs the comedy circuit, so that's pretty funny in itself. Did he get on the big screen just by talent. You be the judge)  "},{"Title":"This whole courtroom's out of order.","Date":"4 April 2004","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I can't understand why there are so many poor reviews of this movie. And some to say that this is the worst movie Pauley Shore has ever done. I've seen it about a million times, and I think it is just as hilariois nearly every time I see it. And, sure Pauley Shore's most classic movie may forever be Son in Law, but com'mon, I do not think this is the worse thing he's ever done.Jury Duty is largely a parody of Twelve Angry Men, and ...And Justice for All. Tommy Collin's (Shore) mom and her soon-to-be husband take their trailor and head off to Vegas for a quickie marriage. So, unemployed Tommy, in need of a place to stay, finds an opportunity for an extended stay at a luxury suite while serving jury duty on a high profile murder trial. The suspect is Drive Thru Killer, Carl Wayne Bishop (Whalen), and now his fate is to be determined by eleven jurors who just want to vote him guilty and go home, and one juror (Tommy) who wants to prolong the jury sequestering as long as he can. Eventually, it turns into a parody of Twelve Angry Men when Tommy, trying to prove Carl Wayne Bishop's innocence, must find a way to prove to the other jurors that reasonable doubt exists.If you know Pauley Shore, you know that going to be no easy task, but it is also going to be a hilarious endeavor. And the supporting cast of jurors are just as funny as they become ever more irritable as it seems like a verdict is never going to be reached, especially Richard Edson and Sean Whalen.So why all the negative reviews? It is such a stupid story, so stupid that it is funny. And it is Pauley Shore, doing what Pauley Shore does best, acting like a total nut and having a blast doing it. For a load of laughs and a waste of some time, Jury Duty is not a bad choice. "},{"Title":"Pauly Being Pauly.","Date":"17 October 2003","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  JURY DUTY is exactly what you would expect from Pauly Shore obnoxious, silly and ridiculous.  Here, Shore plays a jobless boy who decides he can get himself a free hotel room by posing as a juror for a murder trial. Usually, I give movies what they deserve, but since Shore never made a good movie, I have to give him credit.  I mean, here is another guy whose movies were successful at the box office, but had little or nothing to show for it. If you are a fan of Pauly, I doubt you will be disappointed.  Others beware, for JURY DUTY will be a real trial to sit through.1 out of 5 "},{"Title":"This movie is a good laugh for some...","Date":"29 October 1999","Score":"12 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  In the future people will not be able to understand the OJ Simpson references that are made in this movie. It is a timely comedy, set to a backdrop of a gruesome killing.  The hero, a stupid man named Tommy Collins (Pauly Shore) exposes the jury system for what it is.  Instead of making us laugh, it made me think, that courts actually decide the fates of men's lives by using juries.  Who is to say who would make a good juror.  Anyhow, if your in the mood for something light, pick this film up at your local video/DVD store and give it a chance.  It's not too bad, and watching Pauly Shore in a g-string and a bottle of milk poured on him is likely to get even the most Anti-Shore laughing.Also look for guest appearance by Andrew Dice Clay as Pauly's uncle.  "},{"Title":"Bad movie","Date":"18 October 1998","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of the worst movies I think I've ever seen in my life.  Who on earth spent money on this piece of junk.  Whoever they are I am sure they are regretting it.  I am not a Pauly Shore basher, I really liked Son In Law, but this movie is worthless.  Do not see it, I'd say burn it and put it out of its misery. "},{"Title":"Pauly Shore is the Antichrist!!!!!","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I first saw this movie when I was in grade school, so naturally I wasn't too critical.  It's a silly comedy and I got a few laughs at the time.  I also didn't see what people hated about Pauly Shore.  When you're 11 years old, you don't find a dude like that obnoxious.  Now...he pretty much annoys the crap out of me.I'm not jumping onto the bandwagon of Pauly Shore-haters.  As a matter of fact, I recall very few comic actors who hardly retain an ounce of merit. The thing that's jarring about Shore is he tries hard to hammer a laugh out of his audience, but he does it in such a dull, low-key manner.  If you're gonna be obnoxious, flaunt your obnoxiousness.  Obnoxious can be funny. Just look at Vince Vaughn's portrayal of Trent in Swingers.  Shore is like that class clown who tries hard to annoy everyone in sight, yet at the same time tries hard to be liked.  If Shore had charm, that might be possible. A guard dog has more charm than him.The cast is pretty much second-rate.  Tia Carrerre would grab any script that's hurled in her direction, and so would Abe Vigoda.  Sure, Vigoda was popular in his hayday, but that's the whole point.  He was popular IN HIS HAYDAY.  Andrew Dice Clay has an amusing cameo, though.  And what in the world was Stanley Tucci doing in this film??!!!  Yes, THE Stanley Tucci. The Stanley Tucci from Sidewalks of New York and Big Night.  And here he is, playing a fanatical environmentalist.  I can betcha 100 bucks this film is now crossed off his resume.Unless you're a die-hard Pauly Shore fan, this film is as boring as sitting in a jury for 4 straight hours--and the movie's only 90 minutes long! The only hints of wit are occasional references to 12 Angry Men.My score  3 (out of 10)      "},{"Title":"Ain't nothing' sweeter than a catfish doing a backstroke at the shallow end of the kiddie pool.","Date":"7 October 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" There is a scene early on in Jury Duty when Pauly Shore stands on a bus and imitates a town tour guide. It is obvious that this scene was written to showcase Pauly Shore's comedic talents, however, he makes noises and is loud and generally obnoxious and unfunny. Jury Duty is the point where Pauly Shore officially abused his stay in movies. After this movie, he would forever be sanctioned to the lunch table in the corner with the smelly kid, Carrot Top and the Noid from the Dominoes commercials. But not until he showed the world his versatility in Bio-Dome.Jury Duty is bad. Not bad like In the Army Now, but close. There is little originality to the script, no amusing characters and about four funny lines. I did enjoy the scene where the witnesses from restaurants give testimonies in their respective fast food uniforms. There isn't much else here. It just isn't funny.Shore also lacks the wit his idiotic leading men contemporaries like Adam Sandler and Chris Farley showed in the 90s. These were all, more or less, bad versions of Steve Martin's wonderful Jerk character. All Shore shows in this movie is that he has the talent to bug you. Of course, not all the blame can be put on his shoulders. He has no script to work with. Nothing. I don't know why Stanley Tucci thought this movie would be good for him and or how the studio blackmailed him into being in it.I remembered both Encino Man and Son in Law were kind of funny in a stupid way. Jury Duty  on the other hand is stupid in a very unfunny way. "},{"Title":"Pretty good comedy","Date":"7 September 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Well if you're not a Pauly Shore fan, skip this one, but if in facts, you appear to like him, this one might please you. I'm not very picky when it comes to movies, but I'd say this one was not bad at all. Lots funny parts and stuff, maybe you would like to rent it first though, but well worth the money!.Pauly Shore is of course a like it or not, the way he tries to sound annoying might offend you, but like I said earlier, I don't really care about it, as long as its funny!Too bad he stopped making movies!I give it an 8!  "},{"Title":"The Movie is an OJ Simpson Parody that is funny and has its Moments","Date":"16 February 1999","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  See this film if you're not in the mood for something too heavy.  Pauly Shore is his usual comical self, not doing anything that requires major mental work.  Tia Carrere is hot and juicy... and Stanley Tucci does his thing once again to critical acclaim.  The film came out when the OJ Simpson saga was transpiring on all of our television sets, so it is worth seeing to just remind you of that time in our recent history. "}{"Title":"And Now The Verdict...","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Pauly Shore is just not funny. How can one man continually create such irritatingly grating roles one after another and still be allowed to make more movies ? Answer if Adam Sandler, Jim Carrey, Chris Elliott, and Tom Green can do it, why not ? The one thing that does carry this film is by filling it with actors who do know what they are doing so that he can ride on their coat tails and stay in the minds of a tiny legion of fans blind to the truth. Tia Carrera shines in this movie as she struggles to remain aloft, but Shore just drags her down to his level at the end. Richard Riehle starts out like everyone else wondering how he got into this mess and how to get out, but then gets brainwashed to down to Shore's level. Some of the film is funny, much of it is not. Shore's dog, a long-haired chihuahua, does a better job at being funny as well as carrying the movie. Another thing which makes the movie is spotting the celebrity cameos through out the plot. If only they got rid of Shore, maybe it would have worked! "},{"Title":"Pauly Shore tries to master Fonda","Date":"6 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" OK, starting off we all knew that this wasn't going to be a masterpiece. In general I do sympathise / laugh with Pauley Shore, however this  try-to -be-funny-remake-of-12-angry-men just left me disturbed. Not only do they totally disregard the entire judicial system on how they choose jury, as if Pauley can choose the trial he wishes to be on... yeah whatever... but during the process we are to believe that the entire governmental state is deceived by a guy bribing a hotel to get a better room. In any case, it's possible I took this more to heart due to the fact that my Dad was a lawyer.... but I added an extra star due to the dog. "},{"Title":"A 'Guilty' pleasure.....","Date":"22 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" When jobless Tommy Collins discovers that sequestered jurors earn free room and board as well as $5-a-day, he gets himself assigned to a jury in a murder trial. Once there, he does everything he can to prolong the trial and deliberations and make the sequestration more comfortable for himself......Depending on how you feel about Shore will make or break this film for you. As the box office shows, his popularity and schtick was wearing thin after the likes of Son-In-Law, and In The Army Now, but here, he appears to be that little bit more humble, and thanks to a wealth of support, it doesn't outstay its welcome.It starts off with a random joke about Tuna Salad, and its so leftfield that it is laugh out loud funny, and that's the last time I laughed throughout the film.Don't get me wrong, I smiled during the film, and appreciated a few of the jokes, but I watched this for one reason, I'm so curious about Shores career, he made a massive impact with Encino Man, and the studio gave a rare picture deal, its a kind of sadistic thing to do, but I want to see if the movies were really that bad, because they crashed and burned, but they are nothing out of the ordinary.The film starts like any other of his, a brief introduction, the realisation that he's a little eccentric, the concept, the love interest, he wins over who he wants to, they find out that he's done something selfish, he wins them over again.....end of.It's hardly a spoiler, this tropes happen in the majority of comedies released in the nineties, and they are all harmless enough, much like this. "},{"Title":"Stupid not in a funny way","Date":"12 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Tommy Collins (Pauly Shore) drives off all the ladies and loses the stripper job at his uncle Sal's. He is hopelessly unemployed and living with his mom (Shelley Winters). The police captures the Drive-Thru Killer and Tommy gets jury duty. His mom takes off for Vegas and he's aiming to get sequestered for a long free hotel stay. And it pays $5 a day. Monica (Tia Carrere), Frank (Stanley Tucci) and Tommy's old Principal Beasely (Richard Riehle) are some of the jurors.Pauly Shore is playing the moron and a slacker jerk. He's doing it solo. It's boring and unfunny. The script is stupid and not in a funny way. It's like a really weak '12 Angry Men'. The best I could say about this movie is that Pauly Shore could have been more annoying. That's little comfort. "},{"Title":"The average, lukewarm comedy is now in session","Date":"1 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Jury Duty not only stalls the fictional trial it's based around, but it too seems like it stalls the flow and speed of the film. It's like we have to wait so the movie can catch up. If you've seen detective, mystery, criminal, or investigations shows this shouldn't be very difficult to piece together. I was able to point out the suspicious one, and come to a consensus on the trial in about forty minutes. Not a very complex film.Once more, we have Pauly Shore, who's fine in this film. I didn't adore him in this film, and it does not come close to the humor brought to us in Bio-Dome. I think In the Army Now is better than this as well. Jury Duty doesn't exceed the average/below average qualities it should to be unique or special. It does exactly what it's expected to do. Like a little kid on his way to the market because his parents said so. He walks straight to the market, and straight back. Doesn't stop and chat, doesn't smell the daisies, and doesn't lollygag. Nothing out of his expectations.Pauly Shore is lovable loser Tommy Collins who is in desperate need of money and a job. He is stuck at his parent's house with his dog Peanut, and his dignity deteriorating day by day. Tommy is called on jury duty, and like everything else in his life, he's hesitate on following through with it. Until he learns that the duty pays $5 a day, and there's a hotel in it for him as well. A few hours of sitting and listening to go back to a hotel, all for $5 a day? Why not? As you would imagine, Tommy doesn't want to give this up. He meets a sexy juror (Tia Carrere) who he is friendly too, but she wants nothing to do with him. Tommy gets the idea that if he continues to stall the trial, by voting not guilty every time, he can pretty much get $5 a day for doing nothing but expressing his false opinion. Ingenious! The film has taking a good beating by Gene Siskel, Roger Ebert, and Leonard Maltin. I enjoy Pauly Shore, but didn't find this film too funny. Some parts I smiled or laughed, but as a comedy, it greatly fails at it's job - to make the audience laugh. If a comedy doesn't make the audience laugh, it's practically as lifeless as a soap opera drama. Just characters with no purpose.To date, this is the worst Pauly Shore film I've seen. Too bad. This could've been a very enjoyable film, but the film just doesn't feel like trying to be original. It just thinks that it can get by by being the simplest it can possibly be without failing. If only the film would experience a little, and realize it's a comedy film where possibilities are endless, it's critical and audience reception wouldn't be so sour.Starring Pauly Shore, Tia Carrere, Stanley Tucci, Brian Doyle-Murray, Shelley Winters, Abe Vigoda, and Billie Bird. Directed by John Fortenberry. "},{"Title":"Gets better toward end","Date":"8 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Tommy still lives with his parents in a trailer park. He's trying to improve himself, but his parents aren't really pushing him. Though Tommy's father has a dream collect styrofoam, no matter how dirty, from all the dumpsters and landfills he and Tommy can find, clean it, and recycle it. Oh, yeah, that's the way to live.One possible job for Tommy a stripper at the club where his Uncle Sal works. Sal gives him a chance because he's family, but he just hasn't got the talent. Or the body.Then comes the terrible news Tommy's parents are finally going to get married. In Las Vegas. But where will he live until they return? The couple who will take care of him are even worse than being homeless.But wait! That notice Tommy got in the mail about being called for jury duty. He can make a little money doing that, if it's a long trial. And he has to make sure to get a case where he gets sequestered. And, oh yeah, in nearly all situations like this ... do I really have to say what's going to happen?And the defendant is an accused serial killer who one can't possibly like, with an incompetent lawyer.One more detail Although he ends up in a suite with the principal who expelled him from high school and still hates him--and keeps him up all night listening to motivational tapes--Tommy manages to con the hotel into giving him the best accommodations he can ask for!How have I never seen this? I love Pauly Shore movies. Actually, Shore didn't have quite the edge that I'm used to in this one. He had some great moments when he was trying to make sure he didn't get on the wrong kind of jury, and toward the end he really does a good job, considering he's Pauly Shore.I was concerned at one point, but the last 20 minutes or so make this movie really worth seeing. Sure, the writers have no concept of what would be legally permissible, and the number of offenses by jurors and other participants that could have resulted in a mistrial or contempt charges would fill a filing cabinet. But it's all entertaining. Eventually.Tia Carrere is really pretty and she has some good scenes. But it's hard to believe from his performance here that Abe Vigoda was ever part of such a respected show as Barney Miller.You pretty much have to like Adam Sandler and Pauly Shore to like a movie of this type. "},{"Title":"Hey Pauly Shore! You owe me $7.00!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"4 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" UGH! What a waste of time this was. Pauly Shore hit a professional low with this regurgitated from hells cinema's anus stink bomb. I could belabor you with all of what is wrong with this film but I decided that maybe I could focus on the few good aspects of Jury Duty. Yeah, thats the way to go. So, without further ado, um....I....um....Na, sorry I tried but even manure with sprinkles is still manure.Pauly Shore movies were always exercises in irritation. You sit their asking yourself from the first reel, Why am I watching this? Why did I waste my money on this? Personally, I think its like a train wreck. You know its gonna be ugly and hard to look at but you just have to see how bad it can possibly be. Jury Duty has Shore as a loser-bum that refuses to get a real job and wants to get on a jury for as long as possible so he can have free room and board for as long as a trial can last. So of course he does anything to drag the case out. Wacky premise, huh, I was so disgusted at this movies lame attempts at humor that I bailed out 30 minutes in. From what I heard it didn't get any better as the movie progressed.In conclusion Avoid like the freaking plague. "},{"Title":"A Mistrial","Date":"1 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I'm not a hater of Pauly Shore by any means, he can be a very funny guy and I rather liked Biodome which came after this film. But this one really stretched Shore's smart aleck personality way too far.Jury Duty is now something I try to avoid figuring that back in the day I served on three of them at one time or another. And the next time I'm eligible I would be over 70 years old and would get an automatic exemption should I choose. But if you have nothing else to do, your life isn't going anywhere, why not take that magnificent sum of $5.00 a day for service.That's what Shore figures when his mother Shelley Winters and her long time boyfriend Charles Napier get married and he's at loose ends. And wouldn't you know it, he gets on the jury of an accused serial killer, Sean Whalen. Shore however finds a way to make Jury Duty not only profitable, but quite comfortable.Whalen is accused of butchering and dismembering several fast food managers when he's found sleeping at the place their bodies were stashed. If he didn't do it his hopes for justice rest on the shoulders of Pauly Shore a fate I'd not wish on anyone.Pauly gets way too over the top in Jury Duty and you'd better like him if you have any hopes of liking this film. Also I just can't believe that fellow juror Tia Carrere would ever fall for someone like Shore. But that's movie magic for you.Among other places Pauly takes his cues from is that flawed classic 12 Angry Men. When I reviewed that I said that Henry Fonda's actions, one in particular would have been grounds for a mistrial. Ironically because of what Shore does, Judge Abe Vigoda does declare a mistrial.Justice does get served in a highly unusual manner. If that pleases you by all means see Jury Duty. Otherwise people who are not Pauly Shore's fans will have a hard time with this film. "},{"Title":"Pauly Shore's last stand","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Pauly Shore entertains us in the follies  of being sequestered, and for some  strange reason, I loved almost every  moment of it. Sure, the concept was stupid  and the eventual resolution was ridiculous,  but who cares. Shore was on his last legs  in this film, but they still had some good  laughs. I won't call this film his best, its  not even close, but it still has a little  entertainment value left. 5/10 "},{"Title":"could have been good... if they wouldn't take Pauly Shore","Date":"11 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" In my opinion the Jury Duty isn't as bad as people say/write - I actually liked the idea for the script, but the main problem is... the main actor. I just can't stand Pauly Shore's overacting in any of his movies, which is sad that he spoiled this promising idea with his lack of skills.I mean what bad can be said about Tia Carrere, Stanley Tucci, Brian Doyle-Murray or Abe Vigoda? They all are great, but why oh why they had to hire Pauly Shore? They could hire anyone (well, almost anyone, I don't think Rob Schneider or Adam Baldwin would make much good) in his place and the project would turn out well. "}{"Title":"For Pauly fans only!","Date":"16 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Maybe there is something wrong with me, but I have always found Pauly Shore to be a mildly funny guy. Apparently I'm one of the few people in the world who thinks so since he no longer has a film career. There was, however, a time in 1990s where Pauly Shore did have a film career and a moderately successful one that. A year before the awful BIO-DOME ended his film career, there was JURY DUTY, possibly the only comedy from the 1990s that is hated as much as BIO-DOME. Currently, JURY DUTY holds a 3.5 user rating here on IMDb, which is undeserved in my opinion. I'm willing to bet half the people that voted a 1 for this movie have never even seen it. They simply voted it a 1 because they are one of the millions of Pauly Shore haters in the world. As I said before, I find him to be somewhat funny, which is probably why I enjoy the film to a certain extent. It's pretty funny for what it is. I enjoy the premise and the energy of the film. It's not a great comedy by any means, but it has some good laughs and Pauly Shore is likable in the lead role. Besides, any movie with Tia Carrere is okay in my book. It's not Pauly Shore's best work, though its passable fun entertainment. Highlights included the opening scene at the strip club and the penis, penis, penis scene. My rating 5/10 "},{"Title":"Waste of time","Date":"12 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It is a bad movie that gives wrong idea out to the public. There is no way that wasting taxpayer's money can be made to look funny. The guy is healthy educated guy and living on his parents money. And then he decides to live off tax payers' money like a parasite. That certainly does not count as funny. Being a jury is a serious business. Making a comedy is a serious business. Unfortunately, the movie maker seems to care for neither. I would not recommend this movie to anyone. It is a waste of time.The actors did a fairly fine job in the given scope. Story and direction failed the movie. "},{"Title":"Terrible","Date":"17 May 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  In my opinion, a film starring Pauly Shore is going to be bad, however, while some of his films are good/bad (Encino Man), this is not one of them.  This is Shore at his most gratingly annoying, throw in a tired storyline & terrible jokes & you have jury duty.  Nothing can save this film, it's bad from start to finish.  I expected better from some of the cast - they must have really needed the money.  The strange thing is the premise of the story could really work - if it had different actors, an appealing lead & a much better script.  Unless you are a die hard Pauly Shore fan I suggest you stay away from this one.  There are thousands of better films to watch. "},{"Title":"Judge-ito have a bite of my burrito !","Date":"20 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is a movie starring Pauly Shore while his finest hour (or accurately his 15 min of fame!). And it's not complicated to review.Good things  1_Pauly Shore, doing his thing. And it wasn't a bad thing at all. 2_The script. It's kind of brilliant, being a nice far spoof of 12 Angry Men, giving us small world, nice plot, and hot climax. 3_Tia Carrere; back when she was smoking HOT. Despite how they didn't go and show well all of her capacities (Shore's fantasies are so lame !). 4_The last 10 minutes. They were close to perfect. 5_The innocent feel of it. I mean look at the gags, there is No bad tasting, toilet humor,..etc. It's all plain fun. 6_Moments like messing with the accused in the court, the way how the lead approved his point about guiltlessness, playing the original S.W.A.T music while running to Carrere, or Shore's Chihuahua watching TV. 7_The minor parts were played by lovely actors. 8_The song by the end of the movie. 9_I was about putting this in the bad things section  Portraying the ones who love and care about environment as lunatic serial killers. The reason I didn't is that I'm one of these people, though I laughed my heart out with Stanley Tucci going bananas over Asbestos! 10_The fact that TV is airing it a lot. I watched 3 times till now.Bad things  1_Pauly Shore dressed as a whore. Just Yuck !! 2_ Shore's striptease. Just NOOOO! 3_Shore spoofing coldly Al Pacino in (And Justice for All). Wasn't a good move-ito pal-ito. 4_The weakness of the lead's main goal. I couldn't wholly buy how all what he wanted was the petty paycheck and living in a good room ! 5_I don't think that the hotel we watched needed desperately this publicity from the lead. There must have been more powerful reason for giving this deluxe room for him.So 5 bad vs. 10 good. Namely for every bad thing there are 2 good things to keep the sweetness up. Accordingly this is a good movie. Rather an average low budget comedy (to be sadistically objective !). Nothing wrong with light time, and this one provides that for harmless 88 minutes. Though the thing that I hated, wanting to put it in the very bad things section, is the way Pauly Shore and his movies were BANNED! I do not know at all how he wasn't forgiven for being himself in 5 movies he made, that's his all cinematic career to date by the way, while for instance Jim Carrey was for horrible disgusting trash he did one after another at his start, at the mid-90s too, such as (Dumb & Dumber), (Ace Ventura When Nature Calls), (The Cable Guy) and (How the Grinch Stole Christmas) ??? Simply the major studios gave (Carrey) millions, while not giving Shore even a second chance.In the same time Adam Sandler acted as nothing but the same idiot fool for his first 10 movies and he got a career out of it. While Chris Tucker is known as unbearable, he had the opportunity to make Rush Hour 1,2, and 3 ?!! Steve Martin became not funny anymore, nevertheless they made him the new Pink Panther in not one but 2 movies ?!! In fact the list is long, yet with no (Shore) in it ?! If you think unfair already then you haven't heard Gene Siskel saying, in 1995, that (Shore) is annoying but not strategically annoying like Jim Carrey (HUH ??!!), or Roger Ebert saying that watching Jury Duty is like hearing long fingernails scratching a piece of glass for long time. Well, Roger, that's exactly what I feel while watching 2001 Space Odyssey, not Jury Duty !The deduction  Not everyone loves Pauly Shore. However, he didn't have much time to develop, be different, or assure that he has good things, as the time some other actors apparently had to do the same. In any case still (Jury Duty) is  A Pauly Shore Classic. Cute unpretentious fun. Bad or so Bad are only what I call many of its reviews. Plus it's somehow a rare chance to watch a work of a comedian who his career by now has gone with the wind, and what a strange wind that was! By the way it's  Judge-ito have a bite of my burrito, Ato have some of my tomato, Mr. Cockthrow have some of my...OK I won't say that one.. "},{"Title":"Laughter is overruled","Date":"26 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I don't understand why people think Pauly Shore is funny.He's more irritating than anything. I like sophomoric  humor as much as the next person but this movie is lame.Not as lame as Bio-Dome and In The Army Now, but still  unfunny just the same. Jury dismissed!!  "},{"Title":"Justice for Pauly","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Pauly Shore isn't the greatest of actors, but he scored on this film.A hilarious portrayal of a juror by Shore makes Jury Duty a must see. Though most view it as another Pauly Shore movie, which it is, it's a funny one that will have you rolling in your living room. "},{"Title":"Why are Carrere and Tucci is this Pauly Shore s**t","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When Tommy's Mum decides to go on holiday with her boyfriend she takes their caravan with her.  When Tommy is called onto Jury Duty to find that he gets free stay at a hotel while the trial is on, he decides to get on a trail that will last forever then he decides he must make the trail last as long as it takes.  However with the other jurors outnumbering him how long can he hold out?I didn't know Pauly Shore before I watched this &#150; he's not really made an impact in the UK and from this film I can see why&#133;..  The story here is just plain silly never mind flimsy.  Only in the last 5 minutes does it try to have a plot but even then the `twist' is just plain daft.  The comedy is weak.  I laughed slightly about 3 times &#150; it never got better than a half laugh.Shore is irritating and isn't a good comedian at all.  Even with a solid cast of recognisable faces in support this sinks without trace.  I felt sorry for Tia Carrere &#150; she is beautiful and is an OK actress &#150; but yet she always seem to end in crap like this.  Tucci is also shocking! Why? Why did he agree to do this?  The rest of the jury are made up of recognisable faces but they have nothing to work with.Overall this was my first contact with Pauly Shore &#150; one other review said that this one of the better Pauly Shore films.  If this is one of this better ones then the others must really stink. "},{"Title":"Overstatement can be fun","Date":"28 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If the character in a film is stupid the film doesn't have to be stupid or bad. This film lacks all that snobbish intellectuality so typical to American comedies nowadays but is enjoyable and funny so strictly showing how systems often works in The USA (as seen from the foreigner's point of view who looks CNN). The main actor irritates so many because he wants to irritate. (So did Andy Kaufmann, too.) The future cult film! "},{"Title":"Another success for Shore","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was another in a long line of hilarious comedy successes for Pauly Shore.  One can't help but laugh at the antics of this 12 Angry Men spinoff.  The comedy of the movie was added to by the satirical look at the American Justice system which is itself one big joke to be laughed at. I recommend this movie highly to anyone with a sense of humor. "},{"Title":"Hey, Bu-uddy!  Why is everyone so down on Pauly Shore?","Date":"7 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I think this was possibly Pauly Shore's best performance (to date)!  I have never understood why people don't like him.  My theory has always been him humor is over a lot of people's heads.  To the casual observer his humor may appear very low brow, but if you pay any real attention and are smart enough to understand where the Weasel's coming from then you'll find a lot of enjoyment in his work!  I solidly recommend Jury Duty to anyone bright enough to be looking for a wild subversive romp through America's legal system with a true comedy genius!  I am anxiously awaiting Pauly's next movie! "}{"Title":"One trick ponies tend to fade out after a time...","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" ...and Pauly Shore was exactly that a one trick pony. A comedy based around one guy's complete immaturity and inability to survive without leeching off others is all well and good, but when you start making an entire career out of them, it wears thin pretty quickly. It's just like Bob Goldthwait's or Jim Carrey's career based on pulling stupid faces and screaming incoherently, or Jerry Bruckheimer's career based on absolute disrespect for simple facts. Eventually, people are going to get tired of you doing the same thing over and over, then you're going to be all washed up.Having said all of that, Pauly Shore's last vaguely credible comedy, Jury Duty, is not too bad for the once-over. Having never seen Twelve Angry Men, I can't comment on its relative dramatic merits, but as a comedy it is passable. After all, who can't laugh at an imbecile who has spent his entire life cheating the system or other people suddenly deciding that getting on a jury and being sequestered is a pretty sweet deal. At first, he is deadlocking the jury because he just wants more free food, but he soon finds himself in a pickle when he finds a real reason to believe in the defendant's innocence. Not only does he have to convince the other jurors, but he also has to convince them that he is not doing it just for more free coffee.Everyone in the film gives the sort of performance you'd expect when Pauly Shore is the main talent. Rather than attempt to act and look silly as a result, they simply recite their lines and hope that the audience won't notice too much that they're just waiting for their paycheck. Considering that Tia Carrere or whatever her name is had just appeared in such films as True Lies, I guess she must have owed someone on this film one heck of a favour. Anyway, to make a long story short, I give this film a three out of ten. It's worth watching once, but once only. "},{"Title":"Truly awful - a disgusting parody of 12 Angry Men","Date":"3 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I've heard about how awful Pauly Shore's humour is. This film easily and quickly confirmed that.This film is a horrible parody of a great film, 12 Angry Men. It disgusted me to see such a great film treated so.You are better off steering clear of this film. If you are interested in a quality drama, just watch 12 Angry Men; if you want a good laugh, make sure Pauly Shore is not in it. "},{"Title":"If a small taco is a taquito, then a small judge... must be a Judge Ito!","Date":"19 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I am sure that there is someone out there in movie audiences that like Pauly Shore. I mean, he has to have made something worth watching, right? Well, it certainly wasn't this movie. Except for Tia Carrere, there really isn't anything to see here.The concept is innovative, I have to admit. Made homeless, he gets on jury duty in a murder case to get sequestered, and he keeps the jury going (Spoof of 12 Angry Men?)to keep a roof over his head. But even the murderer (Sean Whalen) gets irritated. I got irritated long before that.Well, let's just wait for the next Pauly Shore venture with American Idol, Ruben Studdard. I am sure it will be as good as this one. "},{"Title":"the movie is a rip off from a Hindi film","Date":"12 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" i saw this movie on a DVD last night and the movie reminded me of a Bollywood film named EK RUKA HUA FAISLA which means A PENDING VERDICT. jury duty is a total rip off from this movie. but the Hindi flick was far better scripted and it was brilliantly acted by some of the most talented actors Indian film industry has. if you ppl don't believe wat has been written then check out this link.. http//www.imdb.com/title/tt0157571/.the Hindi movie was released in 1986 whereas jury duty in 1995. so at last we have a Hollywood film ripping ideas from a bollywood(i prefer to call it the Hindi film industry). and it was done way back in the eighties!!!! so guys please for one time spare the poor bollywood film makers guilty of lifting off ideas from Hollywood . "},{"Title":"Don't expect an Oscar-winner...","Date":"19 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Come on.  If you're watching this movie, you can't expect too much.  Two words POLLY SHORE. Watching this movie now, you can see how ridiculously dated it is.  It was released in 1995 to capitalize on the world's fascination with the OJ Simpson trial.  10 years from now, is anyone going to know what the one-liner Say hi to Judge Ito! means?? It's not the absolute worse thing I've ever seen, and there are some mildly funny bits here and there. 3/10 "},{"Title":"funny","Date":"22 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Another movie with classic Pauly Shore, I miss these days. Jury Duty I found funny and entertaining, I guess this is were Pauly Shore started his dropoff. The other actors in this movie did a good job, especially Tia Carrerre. I guess Pauly Shore isn't for everyone, but I found his films funny. "},{"Title":"Tiresome! Painful! Avoid!","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"   When this was released for video (the same year it was released in theaters, a shockingly low 3 month gap in between) I was expecting it to be just a silly, lightweight farce involving no imagination. Nothing much can really be expected from Shore's movies but despite his whiny personas, they can be fun on a mindless, youthful level. Since everyone else in this movie is a caricature, all it has going for it is Pauly Shore's whiny personas and nothing but. At first it's harmless but as soon as Shore's character cheats the judicial system it becomes both excruciatingly brainless and dull. The film's main point was to spoof the almost coinciding Simpson case, but all the humor in that (and Shore's attempt at humor) was completely idiotic. If it weren't for the scene with the dog on the game show, I'd have to honestly say that this is *THE* worst movie ever. "},{"Title":"Disappointing!","Date":"15 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" First of I want to point out that I like Pauley Shore and have enjoyed watching other comedy movies that he starred in and but I just didn't like Jury Duty and didn't find the humor to be that funny and it was kind of boring and a let down compared to Bio-Dome and other Pauley Shore movies! I had bought this movie on video before I watched it because since I had liked his other movies I assumed I would also like this but I didn't like it and I learned a lesson that I should watch a movie first before I buy it! This movie just didn't appeal to me at all! I would recommend people rent this before buying or try to watch it on TV first! "}]