[{"Title":"Sibling rivalry and family affairs.","Date":"22 August 1999","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  I suppose 'Georgia' makes a more mellifluous title than 'Sadie,' because that's the Flood sister that gets the lion's share of attention in this movie. Sister Georgia has built herself a career as a successful country music singer and has a stable marriage and family life. Sadie sings too, sort of; she's not that good and performs with semi-pro bands in mostly empty nightclubs. The two women have a complex and fragile relationship. Sadie seems to love her sister and admire her talent, but just below the surface lurk envy and resentment. Georgia for her part is always polite but somewhat on edge when Sadie is around, as if she's afraid her sister might lose control of herself and do something stupid or embarrassing. That fear is not unfounded, for Sadie is, as one critic described her, an emotional black hole, the kind of person who sucks in all the concern and attention in a family. She's also a substance abuser who is always walking on the edge of personal destruction.The movie was written by Barbara Turner, mother of Jennifer Jason Leigh who plays Sadie, and directed by Ulu Grosbard. They tend to underplay rather than overplay Sadie's drug use and erratic behavior. She often threatens to do something out-of-control or embarrassing but most often stops just a bit short. Only once in the film is she shown really suffering the ill effects of being a junkie, but it's a harrowing scene. Also, Sadie and Georgia are often right on the verge of an emotional bust-up scene, but they only really have it out one time as well. This keeps the film from degenerating into caricature but it may stop it from being a great film rather than just a good one.Director Grosbard took one very large chance on a scene where Sadie is Georgia's guest onstage at a benefit show. Sadie sings a Van Morrison song, Take Me Back, stretching it out with her own improvised lyrics before an uncomfortably silent audience, forcing Georgia to come to both Sadie's and the crowd's rescue. To make this scene work, Grosbard had to let the song run on a long time, some eight minutes. This runs the risk of alienating some viewers and providing an easy target for critics, but you have to admire the daring it took to include it.'Georgia' is a good, solid, if not spectacular film about sibling rivalry and family relations. Leigh is good in her role, as is Mare Winningham as the more subdued title character. Of the supporting cast I especially liked Max Perlich as a hero-worshiping fan that Sadie uses by turning him into her husband.  "},{"Title":"Powerful","Date":"26 December 1999","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie really touched me. It made me feel so much, and it moved me in so many ways, I can't even put a name on all the emotions it awoke within me. It contains some great music from Lou Reed, Van Morrison and Elvis Costello just to name a few.But the movie belongs to Jennifer Jason Leigh, whose performance as singer Sadie Flood, the sister of a another - but famous - singer, Georgia (Mare Winningham), was the best in 1995. She should've got the Academy Award (OK, Susan, Sharon, Elizabeth, Meryl and Emma were all good, but really... the characters they played were not nearly as complex as Jennifer's, except maybe for Elizabeth's). Jennifer Jason Leigh always give great performances, and I'm pretty sure she'll get an Oscar eventually too. She deserves it.Anyway, this movie is a definite 10-pointer. Go rent it. It's money well-placed, I assure you!  "},{"Title":"Looking for a plot, you're missing the point!","Date":"12 November 2003","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  This film presents a fairly accurate portrayal of the chaotic, symbiotic environment of the bar band music scene.  If you are looking for a coherent, one-two-three plot and are expecting realism at the same time, forget it. You would be missing the point.  Having been there and done that, I can affirm that this movie does a pretty good job at portraying interesting and realistic snapshot views of people in this particular music genre.  In addition, this film even goes so far as to attempt realistic discriminations between different types of musicians (e.g., between ones who want to just succeed, ones who just want to play, ones who can't get their lives together enough to make it, starving artists, etc.).This film initially may seem innocuous and even simplistic to some casual viewers.  I must admit that I didn't get much the first time I casually viewed it.  Georgia is very layered and textural -- the more you stand back and look, the more you can almost reach out and touch it -- but, as with most true art -- one must stand back and really take a look at it to appreciate the many layers. The layers of this particular artwork is done via multiple, sometimes concurrent, relationships, which intermittently share the foreground and the background with some really great music and various elements of the music scene. There is the relationship between Georgia and Sadie -- of course, the most obvious relationship that maintains precedence, but if you spend too much time on this one, you will miss so much.  There is the Sadie-Axel layer; the Sadie-Georgia's husband layer; the Sadie-Herman layer; the Sadie-and the music layer; the Sadie-Sadie layer; the Sadie-drugs layer; the Sadie-father layer; on and on.  All these relationships involving Jennifer J.L's character puts a lot of pressure on J.J.L, and I think she brings it about beautifully.  I don't find her overacting in any scene -- the only overacting that is done is done by Sadie, not by J.J.L.J.J.L. has rarely disappointed me in her character portrayals.  I have always found her an interesting sort of actress  she does not have that obvious physical stand out star quality about her, but more of a quiet, well-played character actress, genuine star quality about her.  I think she, along with the other actors in this movie, did a terrific job with very difficult material (about a very unusual and difficult, but interesting, lifestyle), and this movie calls out to me to watch it every time it plays on my satellite service.This movie should not be judged along with standards.  It is a rare piece of filmwork, and should be judged entirely on its own standalone merits. "},{"Title":"Go-Getter","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Georgia is a stunning movie of emotional intimacy and complexity.  As many times as I watch it I'm still concerned and interested and wondering.  Jennifer Jason Leigh plays Sadie (a boozing talent-less signer) and Mare Winningham plays Georgia (a respected folk signer), who's also Sadie's sister.  The movie is about the trials of finding a career and the relationship between the two sisters.  One of the greatest scenes is where, in a small bar, the two sisters attempt a duet.  It becomes clear what these two's relationship has been, and will be.  Georgia signs serene and soft while Sadie belts out the song and steals as much thunder from her sister as possible.  A remarkable movie. "},{"Title":"Georgia on my mind","Date":"14 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" 'Georgia' is a strong, sometimes harrowing drama about the relationship between two singing siblings the eponymous elder sister, an established country-folk star, and the less talented Sadie, who is actually the central character of this film. Jennifer Jason Leigh is in her element as the self-destructive, self-loathing Sadie, and delivers perhaps her finest performance; but Mare Willingham is also good in the subtler role of Georgia, a woman whose capacity to feel compassion has been tested to the limit, and which only survives when focused through a prism of superiority. Georgia is instinctively careful with words but Sadie compulsively goads her into betraying these instincts; the telling dialogues between them are constructed with a deadly precision, the high points of a generally excellent screenplay. What's also surprising is that the music is also good. In any film about art, a central problem for the director is creating a belief in the merits of the fictional work; in 'La Bellie Noiseuse', for example, Jean-Jacques Rivette created an explicit plot justification for not having to show the painting that is the film's centrepiece to his viewers, rather than letting us judge it. By contrast, in this film, Georgia sounds genuinely good, while Sadie veers between downright awful and almost interesting; this allows the film to actually use the music as a means of conveying the narrative of the story. This slows the pace of the film, and if you don't like the types of music played, might be excruciating; but it's interesting to see the (fictional) truth conveyed through the medium of performance.One of the film's strengths is that it grants us no indulgent fantasies; because of this, the narrative arc is limited (especially as the film is quite long). In some senses, the film resembles other great films about the self-destructive, like 'Five Easy Pieces' or 'Naked'. It's not quite in that class, but it's double-headed structure makes it more reflective, less visceral, but by no means uninteresting. Overall, it's an unjustly neglected work. "},{"Title":"Sibling rivalry taken to new depths","Date":"9 August 1998","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"   Jennifer Jason Leigh is an incredible actress, climbing into a character and  making you feel what the character feels.  She accomplishes that to an  intense degree as Sadie Flood in Georgia.  The problem is that I didn't  really want to feel what Sadie felt.  She scared and disgusted me.  Mare  Winningham (who knew she had such a clear, sweet singing voice?!?) matches  Leigh's believable portrayal, but had a more sympathetic character with  which to work.  The stand-out, though, is Max Perlich as Sadie's worshipful  husband/doormat.  My heart broke for him.  While the acting was strong, I  found this film exhausting and kept checking to see how much time was left  - it felt more like an assignment than entertainment.   "},{"Title":"sibling rivalry, desperation and rock&roll","Date":"12 December 2004","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Georgia is a stark and harrowing exposition into the relationship of two sisters, Sadie played by Jennifer Jason Leigh and the eponymous Georgia played by Mare Winningham (best supporting actress nominee 1996). The film follows Sadie, a young woman trapped within her envy and aspirations to achieve the success, and more importantly recognition, of her older sister Georgia, a revered folk and country singer in the pacific north west of America. In her pursuit of these desires however, she tears at her tenuous relationship with her sister and all those around her. It seems only her contagious beauty and vulnerability keep the people she hurts close to her, as we follow her through smoky clubs and bars, cheap motels and onwards into oblivion.Georgia is often a trying film on the viewer, as its director, the Belgium born Ulu Grosbard pushes mainstream codes of cinematic language, and at the same time, deals with a central character who is often caustic, abrasive and unredeeming. That said, Jennifer Jason Leigh's visceral portrayal of Sadie Flood is utterly compelling and inspired. Indeed, her performance truly brings alive a disaffected character wrought by insecurity, isolation, depression and self-loathing; all culminating in an itinerant and bohemian lifestyle of club singing, alcoholism, heroin addiction and disillusionment.Worthy of note also are the stellar performances of the support cast, notably Georgia's loving husband played by Ted Levine, Sadie's doting and tortured partner played by Max Perlich and Herman the drug-addled band-mate of Sadie's, performed by the ubiquitous character actor John C Reilly. Another great feature of this film is the soundtrack, and in many ways this film could be considered a musical. Contributions come from Van Morrison, Lou Reed, Elvis Costello, Eric Clapton, Tom Waits and Otis Redding, many of whom were active in the music to the film. John Doe and the late Jimmy Witherspoon for example, both acclaimed recording artists in their own right, act and sing in the film. Indicative of the soundtrack's integral contribution to the overall film, please note the cover of 'this magical place is more than it seems' from the Wizard of Oz score, as Sadie more so than anything wants to click her heels together and get back to the old house, back home.In summation, this film will appeal to people who drink too much, people who tell me that it's a sin to know and feel too much within, which according to Bob Dylan many claim to live by and i concur; those with a penchant for '90s Seattle, rock and roll and dark character studies into alcoholism, thwarted ambition and pervasive despair. "},{"Title":"I want you to be wet by Sadie's flood","Date":"19 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Hello, Brazilians! Georgia is such a touching film. I saw it once in one of the BAND's dawns, and then it didn't leave my mind anymore. After a long time, I saw it again, VHS, then I could remind it... still touching. A beautiful view of a beautiful life. Sadie is quite full of life. This life, sometimes, flees from her, but she's always trying to take it back. And there's no doubt about her ability... She swallow people - Georgia said. Yes, she's strong... she is Sadie Flood. And I really love this movie. I wish I could leave the Contracampo's (a Brazilian movie magazine)commentary here, but only English posts are accepted... what a pity! "},{"Title":"Movie-making excellence","Date":"8 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Grosbard is my favorite director. Between Georgia and True Confessions I simply cannot imagine better motion pictures.Georgia has everything right - the right cast, the right details, the right decision to show the entire spectrum of the live music-making process. Grosbard is so correct in showing us the two sisters performing entire songs instead of using more cinematic fades to elapse time. This is about MUSICIANS and you have to show what it is they do, and Grosbard has the audacity to show it in real time.The last shot of Jennifer Jason-Leigh saluting the guy who bought her the shot of whiskey as she was performing brought tears to my eyes - not so much in empathy for her but in the realization that I had just seen a perfect work of art. "},{"Title":"Cool offbeat dark country film","Date":"3 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Its probably not like the greatest film ever made but for those who 'get' the country vibe, not the cornball stuff but the real rootsy kind of textures and colors of a good Hank Williams record, this film is a keeper. There are some amazingly cool covers of some Velvet Underground stuff by the main character's band that I was rather shocked to hear, as I am a huge fan. They really had the whole Cowboy Junkies vibe down pat....Leigh is an amazing actress who has portrayed many dark and troubled characters throughout her career (almost exclusively). Here the tradition continues....Good soundtrack does not a great film make, but to me the characters were compelling enough to hold my interest (and I'm a tough customer). It kind of reminds me a bit of the LA-indie extravaganza Sugartown, an ensemble piece about many intertwining music & entertainment biz loonies, which is a bit more comic but certainly as dark. "}{"Title":"I'll Be Your Mirror","Date":"5 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" There are such extreme differences of opinion about this film that it has to go into the Love It or Hate It category. I loved it and think it is one of the BEST films around, but... definitely not for everyone. There is one song in the movie, the Velvet Underground hit I'll Be Your Mirror, that could describe the film itself, or even be meant for all of us watching. The movie doesn't tell us what to to think, it reflects who we are by making us feel. The interesting array of opinions about the relationships between the characters proves this. I, for one, quite liked Sadie's singing. Georgia's voice was lovely, but commercial and lacking in feeling. I far prefer the energy and painful expressiveness of Sadie's voice, but then I have always preferred passion to technical perfection. "},{"Title":"a good weekend watch.","Date":"23 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  I saw this the other weekend after a few years, and did enjoy seeing it again. A not-so-complex story of a character that would rather live the rock & roll life then try to match the type of life her sister has.But JJL (who I will admit I think is amazing but I did not give an overly amount of patronage to with an 8) does a good job at showing how a person like this acts.  "},{"Title":"Falls a little short ... but it has Jennifer Jason Leigh","Date":"16 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie seems to have been ruined by a plot or that never really got off the ground.  The scripting was very weak and  cliche at times.  But the saving grace for this movie was Jennifer Jason Leigh.  Jennifer Jason Leigh was this movie.  Without her it would never have never left the can.  There was some very good music in this movie that is very much part of the mid-90's Seattle grundge scene. The plot of this movie is really not worth commenting on.  Well I think the cinema photography was quite good also.  If you love Jennifer Jason Leigh and don't mind seeing her playing a down and out role then you will enjoy this movie.  Don't expect much of anything else though.  I read a few comments here by those that either really like Jennifer and those that don't.  But I think she is a unique and original and highly crafted actress in a field of look alikes and clones.  And like I said that is the only reason to watch this movie.  "},{"Title":"Some was great, some made my ears bleed...","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Well, I love Jennifer Jason Leigh, I've been Hooked since Single White Female and the Hudsucker Proxy. Ah, this role didint even seem to challenge her, she kicks butt. Though she sings like a toilet, i profess to do no better. Her backup band was quite amazing though, the guy who played Bobby alone could have kept on carrying the band. He has a lovely voice, as does Mare Winningham, who knew? "},{"Title":"Sad and honest","Date":"6 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Everyone knows someone like Sadie, the character played by Jennifer Jason Leigh in Georgia.  She is completely unable to fulfill herself; and blames her own self-loathing on the people who love her most.  Leigh's acting out of Sadie's behavior is so convincing it's painful to watch.Sadie is a singer talented enough to get jobs with bands in nightclubs, while her sister, Georgia (played by Mare Winningham), seems to have a perfect career as a gifted folk singer.  Sadie sees her life in shadow of her sister's, and with that dooming premise overlooks anything of value or potential in her own.  Her mistakes become increasingly wrenching as she progresses in various substance addictions, blows jobs and puts herself in harm's way.  Sadie's awareness at her own lack of control is both irritating and pitiful -- we see the people that love her try to help, including her sweet husband played with a deft touch by Max Perlich, but how can you help someone who can't help herself?  The film is masterful in showing the conflicts that Georgia has, too, while she tries to resolve how she should deal with Sadie's shortcomings and her own anger and resentment.The film drags in places and sometimes Leigh overdoes Sadie's unlikeability a bit, so it is hard to understand why she is given the chances that she has professionally, and personally.  But, where Leigh is brash the other actors take up the slack with subtle, well turned out performances.  The music communicates a lot of context, too.  All in all, an interesting film. "},{"Title":"Most real film I've ever seen","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Although I am not a drug addict, I could totally identify with Sadie Flood. The relationship between Sadie and her sister Georgia is so well drawn out it's scary. I doubt I could ever watch this film with my sister, it's that well done. Jennifer Jason Leigh deserved an Oscar for this film. If I ever see her, I'll ask her to say, 'Rob. Sweet Rob. Rob needs to get a life.'  "},{"Title":"A True Tear-Jerker!","Date":"31 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" While I love Mare Winningham and Jennifer Jason Leigh, I felt terrible for the lead character of Sadie Flood who longs for the same success as her older married, conventional sister Georgia. The film earned nominations for Winningham who plays the role with understanding and grace like most of her performances. I just find it so sad for Sadie who is genuinely a tragic figure of a character who loves and is at loss about her relationship with Axel, a quiet pizza guy, who falls in love with her. I remember them hitch-hiking rather than ride in a car with Georgia and her husband. It is a sad, thoughtful movie about sibling rivalry and relationships. "},{"Title":"Quite confusing as a whole.","Date":"28 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" I'm not going to say that this movie is horrible, because I have seen worse, but it's not even halfway decent. The plot is very confusing. I couldn't really figure out what was happening and where things were going. When the movie was over, I was left scratching my head. I watched through to the end of the credits to see if they had something after them that may clear things up, but once the credits were over, that was it. I felt like I was jarred from one weak plot point to another throughout the whole movie, with little or no transition between the two. Character development is very shallow. I couldn't figure out when somebody was angry or had a grudge against someone. I couldn't tell if half of the characters were just supposed to be drunk, stoned, mentally challenged or they just had a bad actor to portray them. This film seems to be based around stereotypes (to it's credit, they are hard to avoid using when you are making a film about a singer in a rock band), which SHOULD make character development easier, since so many other films have already illustrated the suffering of an abused child, or the trials of a heroin addict trying to come clean. Stereotypes are easy to depict, which would explain why so many bad films tend to overuse stereotypical characters. This film, on the other hand, uses stereotypical characters left and right, but then tries to keep them as incomprehensible as possible.Another problem with the characters is that they seemed to be dismissed with no explanation. I guess that's OK because so little time was spent developing the characters that I really didn't get a chance to know any of them, so I never really missed any of them.And last but not least was Sadie's singing. It's awful. The music backing her up is not prize winner, but it is usually drowned out by the screeches that are released from Sadie's vocal cords. I swear that there's one point in the movie where she sings a song for at least 10 minutes. I seriously thought I was going to have to turn it off during this howl-a-thon.As a whole, this movie is confusing. Characters are ill-developed, Georgia's acting is wooden and stiff, Sadie's character is yanked from one bad situation to another, with no back story or explanation. The music was unbearable, and I can think of no good reasons to see this film unless you have a thirst for cinematic pain. "},{"Title":"Good cripes amighty!!!!!  This is an awful film!","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  I read with effervescent amusement and disbelief the comments below.  Jennifer Jason Leigh the best actress of the color film era?  Goodness, where on EARTH are such judgments formed?  From Fast Times at Ridgmont High ???  She is that rare actress who is unable to communicate either via verbal or nonverbal means - whatever drugs some of you folks might be on, send me some!This is an unholy MESS of a movie - it has the worst of everything - a horribly written script, a plot with no point, a non-credible storyline and some of the most poorly drawn, stereotypical characters I've seen in a movie.  Add to that hamfisted acting, labored directing and you have one royally screwed up-movie!I think a few of the people below who have thrown laurels this movie's way would love to buy a suit of the emperor's new clothes - rare is the movie that comes along which is as pointless, vapid and obnoxious as this one. "},{"Title":"Should have been better!","Date":"10 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Usually I like films that are good character studies, but Georgia fell flat as a character study. At almost two and a half hours long, the film grew dull and too long very quickly. I have the highest regard for Jennifer Jason Leigh's work as an actress/writer/producer, but I can only hope that her real singing is much better in real life than in this movie! It's just that Leigh's Sadie is an unlikeable, unsympathetic character, and her and Georgia's sibling rivalry is not gone into nearly enough detail to MAKE Sadie a sympathetic character. Mare Winningham does a very good job, and the woman has some beautiful pipes! Who knew? An OK film, but with the talented Leigh at the helm, it should have been MUCH better. "}{"Title":"Best performance by best actress","Date":"21 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Leigh is the best actress of the modern (color) era, and this is her best performance (exceeding the little seen gem Last Exit From Brooklyn) Aside from taking such a wide range of diverse and incredibly difficult parts (some parts could be played easily, but only if the goal wasn't for the performance to be worth mentioning), what really separates her is that she has no on screen ego. She does not care what depth she has to sink to or how unflattering she'll come across, after all it's never her, always the character she's portraying. She'll always research that character until she can become them on the screen, which is why her performances are so painstaking realistic and believable. She never wins any major awards because `making people happy' always takes precedent over what should be important, which is the believability, accuracy, realness, the generally the way they come to life.This is not a movie where `a lot of things happen.' In fact, it's tempting to say that `not much happens,' but either would be totally missing the point because it's a character and relationship study about a main character that is incapable of getting things together, succeeding, and healing the wounds she's caused on those around her. It's also about a sister that tries her hardest to deal with this character. She can only take so much, but she can't bring herself to force her sister out of her life.As she always does when she's in the lead role, Leigh takes the movie on her back and gives a totally engrossing, multidimensional performance. A performance that should make you feel different things about her character at different times even though it's always obvious that Sadie is a no-hoper.Calling Sadie unlikable is misses the point to some extent because the characters and relationships in this movie are all so complex. Leigh's mother Barbara Turner wrote this story in a way that none of the relationships would be black and white. Sadie is the center of virtually every scene and wears her emotions on her shoulder, but with everyone else there's the spoken and the unspoken. Director Ulu Grosbard has left enough room for the viewer to interpret how everyone really feels toward Leigh.Sadie is frustrating in the sense that no matter how much people go out of their way to help her, it's useless. Sadie is the person that will always make herself the center of attention, and will suck everyone around her dry. This character is an incredibly flawed person, but the thing is she holds that certain power over people where she's so real, so emotional, and so interesting in addition to being so f***ed up that one way or another people are drawn to her. This is where Leigh's talent really comes to the forefront because she makes the character so interesting that you can see why, as hopeless as she is, the people around Sadie can't help but accept her with her flaws and try to help her. Sure, at some point most of them reach their limit, but even when they do you can see it's tearing them up inside. Aside from her sister Georgia (Winningham), no one really has the guts to confront her on why they have to get away from her, or even how awful her singing is and how out of hand her substance abuse is.Winningham's performance as the polar opposite sister is so impressive and worthy of supporting awards. She has the restraint and ability to be able to convey the emotions while staying in the background. That's the only way her character could credibly function because as the opposite of Leigh, she's the quiet, unassuming one that has her life totally together (aside from Leigh turning up when she's desperate and pulling her down). Even though she isn't passionate about her profession and doesn't care about fame and fortune, she is the highly successful singer because she's talented and doesn't do anything (aside from perhaps putting Leigh on stage) that would harm her career. Since she's got the dough, she's giving but look for the subtle falseness in the generosity.The most telling portion of the movie is when she puts Leigh on stage for one song at an AIDS benefit concert, and Leigh does the longest, most emotional rendition of Van Morrison's `Take Me Back.' The problem is the same as always, she's plastered, no one responds to her bizarre pre-song comments, and she sings as bad as anyone can possibly sing without sounding like they are just trying to sound awful. This song seems to go on forever, so Winningham finally reaches the point of embarrassment (and perhaps disgust) where she comes back on stage and makes it a duet so she can `save' her sister and end this debacle. Due to the actresses, a horrible song has never been so amazing to sit through. Of course, Sadie thinks that passion and living the music is what makes for an exceptional performance, so her voice (if she even notices it sucks) isn't important because her show (and her whole life for that matter) is essentially a display of pain open to the public. In the car after Georgia's show is over, Sadie has to ask her husband Axel (Max Perlich), Georgia's husband Jake (Ted Levine), and Georgia `was I great or was I great?' Perlich & Levine, who don't get a tremendous amount of screen time but still offer strong support, agree she was great (well, Levine says she was something so again it's open for interpretation, but to Leigh it's an agreement), but Winningham doesn't want to say anything. After being prodded, she finally can't hold back her real feelings anymore, although she still says it in the `is this what you want to here' way. The true irony of the scene is that throughout the movie, and especially when Sadie got Georgia to come up and sing a duet with her at one of her performances before a few drunks by putting Georgia on the spot, Sadie had always tried to outdo Georgia and steal her thunder. That's the point of the title, although Sadie is the character that gets all the attention and thus screen time, everything she does always comes back to her sister Georgia.*Spoiler alert*This is a movie that doesn't have a definitive beginning and ending point. By that I mean, it's obvious that the events were going on long before we started seeing them and they'll continue long after we've left them. That's why the ending of this movie is so perfect. There's none of that it has to be happy and uplifting crap to take away so much of the power of what came before it. There's what we already knew followed by one line from Sadie that shows a small positive change in her character, but at the same time does not lead you to believe that she's poised for either a slow or sudden spiral in either direction. These sisters are who they are.This may not be a movie that you'll think is one of the greatest of all-time, but Leigh's performance and the basis of the movie itself should stick with you for a long time. 9/10. "},{"Title":"Punishing and agonizing","Date":"7 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  This film is a tough one for the viewer. Jennifer Jason Leigh once again grips her character with a choke hold and delivers an amazing performance. The dynamics between these two sisters was heartbreaking, and the love/hate relationship was difficult to watch unfold. I was shocked to see how much JJL with her short haircut at the end looked like her dad, Vic Morrow, when he was young -the spittin' image as they say. JJL has some quirky mannerisms that I find irritating sometimes, but she pulled off a top rate performance with Gloria. I thought about why the film was called Gloria, and decided it was just one more insult to Sadie. The name of the film should have been Sadie!!! "},{"Title":"Intense character study","Date":"21 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" If you enjoy or are in the mood for a character driven movie with terrific performances and can endure scenes where a character so embarrasses him- or herself that you cringe, then you'll find Georgia rewarding viewing. Jennifer Jason Leigh is terrific as always&#x97;but so is Mare Winningham.If you don't enjoy such movies, or are not in the mood for one, you will be bored or annoyed or upset by Georgia. There is not much in the way of a plot, and the movie stops rather than ends.As you can tell by my rating, I (often, but not always) enjoy character driven movies, and I think Georgia is one of the most memorable I've seen. That said, I have found myself in moods where I'd rather gargle glass than watch this (or a John Cassavetes movie, who I think is the master of the type).The plot&#x97;or perhaps situation is a better word&#x97;is simple. Jennifer Jason Leigh stars as Sadie Flood, a singer whose chops are mediocre at best but can convey raw, honest emotion, and whose life is lived in the shadow of her successful sister, Georgia, a country/folk singer with a mellifluous voice that conveys no emotion whatsoever and who enjoys a bit more than modest success in the Pacific Northwest. As played by Leigh, Sadie is an open wound of a human being for every chance given her, she will mess it up; every trust extended she will betray. Why? Because she has neither the talent nor the love of her sister, who is as tightly wound a control monster as you will ever meet in life or fiction. About the only emotion she allows herself to express is a poisonous hatred for Sadie. Early on the movie you can see it leaking from Georgia in spite of herself, and there is a scene where Georgia extends a chance to perform for a large audience, and Sadie's performance is so awful (purposefully on Leigh's part, of course) that it might cause a viewer to feel such disdain is justified, but Georgia must surely know her sister, and to give her a such chance is to invite disaster.As I wrote above, the film does not end as much as stop, inter cutting between two performances by Sadie and Georgia. I don't know if Georgia even knows she hates Sadie, but Sadie knows she will always be in her sister's shadow; hence her never ending abuse of drink and drugs to blot out that knowledge and the pain of rejection. "},{"Title":"Been waiting to see Georgia again","Date":"3 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" When I first saw this movie, Georgia, I was blown away by JJL's performance. Have always enjoyed Mare Winningham, she was excellent, as usual, as Georgia. I don't think there are many actors who could have played the role of Sadie, as layered as JJL did. When I first saw this movie I did a little bit in Internet research. I found out that the movie was written by JJL's mom, and I assume her daughter contributed.All of your previous comments are dead on; JJL should have received a Best Actress Oscar for her work, the contrasting musical styles and, the ever present sibling rivalry, not only in the style each character sings, or screams, as Sadie does, repeating the same word or sentiment over and over but how they live their lives. "},{"Title":"A Jennifer Jason Leigh moment","Date":"14 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Sadie Flood wants to be a famous singer like her big sister Georgia.But she has her own demons, and she seeks comfort from drugs and alcohol.Georgia (1995) is a music drama directed by Ulu Grosbard.Jennifer Jason Leigh gives a strong performance in the lead playing the troubled singer Sadie Flood.She is the heart and soul of this film, as her on-screen sister Mare Winningham said, but yet only Mare received an Academy Award nomination.Leigh's mother Barbara Turner wrote the film.Ted Levine plays the part of Jake.Max Perlich plays Axel Goldman.John Doe portrays Bobby.John C. Reilly is Herman, the drummer.The late singer Jimmy Witherspoon plays Trucker.The most memorable moment in this movie must be when Sadie sings Van Morrison's Take Me Back with that Janis Joplin voice.If you have some time, don't miss this independent film. "},{"Title":"One Helluva Film","Date":"20 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Jennifer Jason Leigh here pulls off another of her 'impossible' performances. Is there any film actress as versatile as she is? Is there anything she can't do or any role she cannot play? When she acts, she throws herself into the role with the force of an express train. Here she transforms into a hopeless, cheery, ever-smiling flop of a girl, who has failed at everything but just goes on in good humour, taking it on the chin from Life time after time. Her pathetic, sprawling, inept character is endlessly endearing, like a delightful child, even though she drives everyone she knows crazy because she is so hopeless. She can't stay off the drugs, or the booze, or out of bed with anyone for a quickie. She doesn't know when to start, she doesn't know when to stop. She is behaviour-dyslexic. Her thoroughly controlled and successful older sister gets her revenge on little sister by extending icy and permanent tolerance, disguising condescension as devotion. The two sisters are both singers, and the older one, Georgia of the title (though the star is really Sadie, the Leigh character), is a magnificent folk singer with a marvellously controlled and captivating voice (must get Winningham's CDs!). She is played brilliantly by Mare Willingham, who was justly nominated for an Oscar for it. As for Leigh, she won best actress awards from the New York Film Critics Circle Awards (highly prestigious in the USA), and the Montreal Film Festival. Leigh can sing better than she does in the film because it is part of the role that she must not be very good. However, she throws herself totally into every song she sings, and unbearably heart-rending emotion is her specialty. What a contrast to the cold control shown by her sister, who stands erect and formal, while Leigh throws herself all over the stage and repeatedly swallows and vomits up the microphone, and everything hangs out like long johns on the washing line which the neighbours don't want to see. The film is incredibly sensitive and profound, a triumph by Ulu Grosbard, who made too few films in his career, and is now well into his 80s. This is REAL film-making, and one of the endless parade of spectacular achievements by the incomparably brilliant Jennifer Jason Leigh, and surely one of her best. "},{"Title":"Sisters, Sisters, There Were Never Such Devoted Sisters.....","Date":"12 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" A grungy, indie-vibe movie about a wild child (Jennifer Jason Leigh) who has to fall back on her reliable sister (Mare Winningham) after she screws up her own life. Leigh's character loves her older sister precisely because she's always there for her, even as she dislikes how safe and boring her sister's life is. The film does a good job of tapping into the dynamic that exists between two people who both love and hate the very things that make them most different.Mare Winnigham received a Best Supporting Actress Academy Award nomination for her performance, and she's good, but it's Jennifer Jason Leigh once again who proves that she was one of the most overlooked actresses of her generation.Grade B "},{"Title":"In the dark we're all scared. We're all scared, and there are more of us all the time.","Date":"27 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" What a beautiful family drama this film was! Not only did director Ulu Grosbard give us this story about two sisters and the struggles between them, but also he gave it to us (with the help of writer Barbara Turner) with a surprising twist that you do not see in everyday cinema. Here is a story that is brutally honest and exceptionally real to anyone involved. On the top layer you have a sister trying to compete with the popularity of the other, on another layer you have a troubled spirit controlled by substance abuse, and yet on another layer (and they keep going), you have this sister which isn't a good singer more passionate about the craft than the one that has an ever growing fan base. Wow. With this much structure and substance, you may think that it could get wrapped around itself relatively easy and eventually loose the potential that it has. Well, if you were thinking that &#133; you would be wrong. Georgia is able to keep us guessing and wanting more from each passing frame. From the tight character work by Jennifer Jason Leigh and Mare Winningham to the powerfully emotional story of sisterhood, this movie will keep you enthralled until the final scene, which will literally knock you off your seat.I must applaud Jennifer Jason Leigh because I have never been as impressed with her performance as I was as her turn as Sadie Flood. From her passionate portrayal of Sadie to the ability to capture every word with crisp emotion and distinction, Leigh takes every scene and makes it her last. She is brilliant and honest at the same time. She gives so much to the camera and to the role that you move away from that feeling of watching a movie and handed that sensation of being allowed into someone's private life. This feeling could be because the events that happened on screen were real to those involved due to the semi-biographical story penned by Barbara Turner. This was also filmed during a time when Miramax was actually making thought-provoking films that featured nobodies giving us performances of a lifetime. While Leigh had worked before, the other breakout of this film was the title character, Georgia. While screen-time with her was considerably shorter than Leigh, it was her strong bond with Sadie that allowed Mare Winningham to even be nominated for an Oscar in 1996. While I to believe that she did deserve it, apparently the Oscar ballots felt that Mira Sorvino was better. Can you hear me shudder? I can honestly say that the reason that this film was such a powerful film about music and family was due greatly to these two anchor actresses giving us more than 100% and pulling at the strings of our hearts. We all know what it is like to have a family member succeed faster than another, and it is difficult. It is also perfectly portrayed by Leigh and Winningham.Outside of the acting, if you can really keep your eyes on anything else, to fully submerge yourself in this film, you have to listen to the music. While others will argue that it is nothing more than just a secondary ploy to demonstrate the unequal balance between the sisters. I really thought that the songs were what connected these two. There was some equality between them. As I watched this film, and listened to the music, I couldn't help but think that perhaps these two women were one in the same. Think about it. Here you have one, Leigh, who cannot sing, but leads the clichéd singer lifestyle. She is very nomadic, very experimental, and extremely passionate about the craft. While she may not be able to sing exceptionally well, she does harbor this passion that seems to be lacking from the other sister, Winningham. While, on Winningham's side, she has this voice that will pack auditoriums, though she lives a very quaint life with a family and a house. It always felt that Winningham's gift was a burden to her, and she would have rather had the simple life and handed it all over to Leigh &#133; but she doesn't. That passion to perform is relevant in both sisters, which made me feel we were watching the same person just cut in half.The only negative aspect that I felt hurt this film from reaching perfection was the timing. The script was great, phenomenal actually, but there were just moments when I felt that either the direction or the timing was off. The entire plane scene (which was my second favorite of the film) was brilliant, yet a bit far fetched for my belief. It was great to see Leigh completely break down in order to get to her sister, but the zaniness of it all was a bit overwhelming. Also, I needed some pre-information if possible. We had one scene of the sisters when they were young that could have been expanded just a bit. It would have been interesting to see when the two broke off and what really forced the two to choose the lifestyle that surrounded them. The concept of Sadie riding on Georgia's coattails was relevant throughout the entire film, but more could have been expanded on it. It wasn't until closer to the end when I completely realized what was happening in the beginning of the film. Just some small housekeeping would have propelled this film into favorite land.Overall, I was shocked and delighted with this film. The final scene of this film, which shows the repetitive nature of life, continues to roll around in my mind. Leigh's performance was exceptionally raw and showcased her true talent. The secondary characters in this film could have been a bit tighter (Axel was very flimsy because I wanted to know him better), but it didn't seem to destroy this picture at all.Grade **** out of ***** "},{"Title":"A bit about Bobby","Date":"22 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Her backup band was quite amazing though, the guy who played Bobby alone could have kept on carrying the band. He has a lovely voice.That would be John Doe, of the infamous alternatrash band X.  he is indeed a most talented man and the only reason to spend any time at all on this execrable waste of celluloid. "},{"Title":"Drug addiction in the music biz? No way!!!","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Eh, I was hoping that Jennifer Jason Leigh could go more than one film in a row without a gratuitous nude scene. No such luck. The film is talky, predictable, and dull and offers little insight into the character of either sister. The only interesting characters, played by Ted Levine and Max Perlich are given minimal screen time when they should have been major players. "}{"Title":"An art-house bummer broadly drawn, unbelievable, and nearly unbearable...","Date":"11 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Jennifer Jason Leigh and Mare Winningham are a good match portraying vastly different siblings, but only Winningham is able to bring something convincing or substantial to her role. Leigh, playing bar-band singer and alcoholic Sadie Flood, constantly leans on older sis Georgia, an acclaimed folk singer in the Joni Mitchell mold. Perhaps due to her double duties as co-producer on the film, Leigh seems to have boxed herself into a corner she isn't credible as a singer and, even if this is intentional, gives herself far too much screen-time at the microphone. Probably hoping for a tour-de-force, Leigh is wire-drawn and nervous and jagged; however, we simply do not see any talent within this character (Leigh is obviously a solid actress, but she makes decisions here that wall us off from her). If Sadie had even the slightest bit of charisma or appeal, we might be able to buy into the concept that she gets the (small) breaks that she does. As it is, the likelihood of her ever getting up on stage is slim. Director Ulu Grosbard crafts a few intense dramatic sequences, and the editing at the finale juxtaposes Sadie's bar performance with Georgia's sold-out arena show--both singing the same song--and it's a sadly nuanced moment...but really, what's the point? *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"most realistic","Date":"22 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  I don't know the city. I don't know the music. I don't identify with the scene. But, man, do I know Georgia and Sadie. I'm Sadie; my sister's Georgia, only our ages are reversed. This was the most realistic portrayal of sisters and sibling rivalry I've ever seen. We love and hate and resent and would die for each other too. She's the one I'll miss when I leave this plane. Congratulations to all involved.  "},{"Title":"Perhaps Too Character Driven For Its Own Good","Date":"14 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" This is an independent drama featuring two sisters Georgia a successful C&W singer and her younger sister Sadie who is a grunge rock chick and that's the story . When I say  story  I don't mean  plot  because unfortunately GEORGIA doesn't have a plot which is a shame since this movie falls short because of its low concept story . It's very well acted by all the cast and Marie Winningham was Oscar nominated as the title character while Jennifer Jason Leigh ( One of America's most underrated actresses of the last two decades ) is superb . Yeah you want to grab hold of Sadie and strangle some sense into her but having an abundance of reckless stupidity is how the character is written and Leigh plays her to perfection . it's just a shame that the film suffers from a lack of incidents in a tale featuring sibling rivalry with the most nail biting moment being when Sadie being refused on a plane because she has no shoes ! Will she get some footwear before the plane leaves ? That's the nearest we get to excitement "}]