[{"Title":"Beautiful, simply beautiful","Date":"6 September 2004","Score":"44 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just watched this and fell in love! Everything about it was entrancing! Superb acting, fantastic scenery, and you have got to love that soundtrack! I absolutely love Kevin Kline, and he nailed it again in French Kiss. Can I help it if I like him as a French man? Meg Ryan was astoundingly funny. Comedic performances were perfect and the romantic side was so sweet it will break your heart! If you get the chance to see this, whether it be on TV or whatever, watch it. It will make you laugh out incredibly loud (ahem, like me) and cry at its ending (again, like me). I give this a 10 out of 10. But, then again, that is just me. You'll have to check this out to be the judge of that yourself.  "},{"Title":"How can anybody NOT like this movie??","Date":"22 June 2004","Score":"42 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A truly funny piece. It's the one we get out of our collection when we just want to sit down  and watch something familiar, funny and just NICE. Meg Ryan reveals herself as a true comedienne and Kevin Kline is the funniest Frenchman  you ever loved to hate. So what if we know exactly what's going to happen? That's the way  with romantic comedies, as it is with most 'genre' movies. Even after having seen it at least a  dozen times, we still laugh when Ryan sneaks up on her absconded fiancee and his new  girlfriend and in the process causes major havoc in a posh French cafe; or when Kevin Kline  tells her how the uptight nature of the Americans makes his 'ass twitch'.  "},{"Title":"Hey, I loved it!","Date":"10 April 2001","Score":"31 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What's wrong with Kevin Kline's accent?  My mother's family are from France and they talk like that...sort of.  Well, who cares?  This is a fun, fun film and I enjoyed it from title to credits.  Meg Ryan in her low key but hyper way (now, if that seems like an oxymoron, watch her performance) is wonderful.  BTW, I've set next to her character on an International flight... The story is great.  Kline's character is lots of fun and Meg Ryan just melts you.  Jean Reno is wonderful as the cop who helps Kline redeem his soul.  Also, good work by Timothy Hutton and others.  This is a fun film and I'm at a loss as to why the critics slammed Kevin Kline's accent...  I found it believable because there are many French accents, depending on the region of origin and Kline is a good-- non, très, très bon acteur. "},{"Title":"One of my Favorites!","Date":"4 August 2005","Score":"21 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I would basically just like to say that every woman that loves a good romantic comedy should see this movie. I have seen this movie probably over a hundred times and it never gets old. I have it on DVD and yet every time I happen to catch it on TV, I just have to watch it. I know most of the words by heart. Kevin Klein plays the perfect guy you almost love to hate because he makes you so angry for the dumb things he does then turns around and makes you swoon. And then of course Meg Ryan is always the perfect pick for these kinds of films. What can I say other than opposites really do attract in this fun-loving completely romantic movie. This is definitely a classic movie in my mind and a must buy, not rent. "},{"Title":"Cute film","Date":"19 July 2003","Score":"23 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A Francophile will probably like this film. I did. Meg Ryan plays a woman who's on the verge of marrying a Canadian, so she's denounced her American citizenship. She's also afraid of flying so she stays home while her fiance goes to Paris on business. Things take a turn for the worse when he calls, saying he's met the woman of his dreams and he's staying in France.Frantic to get back her man, she boards a plane. Next to her sits a French thief, beautifully played by Kevin Kline, who has problems of his own, most notably how to smuggle a diamond necklace out of the country.It's a character-driven plot that Cary Grant would have loved - two people who are seemingly so repelled by each other but all they need are the right elements to fall in love. I'm generally not a fan of the romantic-comedy, but the French setting sucked me in as did a supporting role played by the always excellent Jean Reno. As for the authenticity of Kline's accent, I had a good friend from France who claimed it was formidable. So there.Very entertaining and worth a watch.Want more French choices? Try Frantic with Harrison Ford, it's Hitchcockian; Green Card, who can resist Depardieu?; and my all-time favorite Meg Ryan film Addicted to Love. It's a great black comedy and it has the sizzlingly sexy Tcheky Karyo.  C'est magnifique! "},{"Title":"Fantastic Movie","Date":"10 October 2004","Score":"27 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I absolutely LOVED and adored this movie! Seriously, its a funny romantic comedy, plus there are so many fun lines that you can quote--All men are bastards! My friends and I have made a habit of watching it every year! Its about a woman, Kate, who has her whole life planned out. Then, her fiancée goes on a trip to France, meets another woman, and calls home to break up with Kate. She decides to go win him back and gets on a plane. On the plane, she meets Luc, a french thief. She ends up going after her fiancée and everything seems to go wrong. Anyways, I would recommend it for just a funny, light hearted, fun with the girls type of movie.  "},{"Title":"Book me a flight!!","Date":"14 September 2003","Score":"27 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If there is a Kevin Kline in France, that is. This film is one of the better romantic comedies, maybe just because Kevin and Meg are perfect together. Both with excellent comic timing, and a chemistry that was quite wonderful.Jean Reno and Timothy Hutton round out a wonderful cast.The soundtrack is fantastique-I own and listen to it often.Hey-if my husband the NASCAR addict will sit,watch,laugh, and enjoy then I say guys can enjoy this too.The ending scene is inspired, WHAT a kiss!Definitely one to add to your DVD collection. I can't understand the low voting scores since I see so many positive comments here.... "},{"Title":"Delightful romantic comedy, this Frenchman's a charmer","Date":"8 April 2006","Score":"18 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a really cute little romantic comedy. The story revolves around a young history teacher, Kate, who's afraid of flying but forces herself to hop on a plane for Paris to try and win back her fiancé, Charlie, who has dumped her for a gorgeous French woman. However, her seat mate on the plane happens to be a charming French crook named Luc, who uses the unsuspecting Kate to smuggle his stolen diamond necklace for him. Then, casting himself as an expert in affairs of the heart, he resolves to help Kate win back her man, later complicated by the fact that he falls for her himself.Their adventures across France, from Paris to Cannes, in pursuit of the fiancé and his new girlfriend, make for some pretty amusing scenes. The plot is livened up by the repercussions of Luc's larcenous tricks, little sub-plots with a fellow con artist and a cop who owes him a favour. My sole complaint with this movie is a couple of unnecessary f-words and a fair bit of profanity, especially on Kate's part (taking the Lord's name in vain), reflective of the screenwriters' laziness in avoiding clever dialogue in these scenes.Meg Ryan is her usual cute, bubbly, rather ditsy self in the role of Kate and Timothy Hutton is suitably obnoxious and despicable as Charlie, the fiancé who dumped her. However, the real star of this film is Kevin Kline, who puts genuine charm into the role of this rakishly endearing thief, Luc, and demonstrates an extremely credible French accent, in my opinion. His entire persona here makes it difficult to believe that Kline isn't really French. He must have had a fantastic language coach! Also, there is great on screen chemistry between Meg Ryan and Kevin Kline.It's a delightful, light hearted film, a good date movie, and not necessarily just a chick flick as my husband enjoyed it too. "},{"Title":"Charming and often funny, very romantic tale","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was one of the best comedies of the 1990s - with While You Were Sleeping, There's Something about Mary, Four Weddings and a Funeral, Flirting with Disaster, perhaps When Harry Met Sally or Sleepless in Seattle. It's a charming movie. I'm not particularly a Meg Ryan fan - (funny that I just named two of her movies in a top comedy list!). She's at  her best here. The movie is funny but has more heart than most comedies - the scenes with Luc's family are lovely and memorable - not at all overdone, just right. The movie's at its best when the principals are all together at Cannes - it becomes less humorous but very warmly romantic. The characters are so well written - there is even sympathy for Timothy Hutton's character. The chemistry between Ryan and Kline (which I wouldn't have believed before I saw it) is very much there. By the time Kevin Kline is singing La Mer over the last of the closing credits (after Louis Armstrong has sung La Vie en Rose), you'll want to see it again. Kevin Kline is just magnificent - a quite real,interesting, amusing person is created. The Meg Ryan character's primness is irritating - but then one must see why Timothy Hutton found her so (comically, the movie's idea of primness is that she was deflowered at 18 not 13!). You'll like it. "},{"Title":"Don't Ever Say","Date":"29 November 2004","Score":"29 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Don't ever say all writers are hacks. The writer of French Kiss, sitting next to Kline on the plane, has done a job from a perspective most people will not catch, and you have to give him credit for doing it. I am fairly sure both Ryan, Kline, Reno and the rest were aware of what was going on, but I am equally sure this flew totally over the heads of 99% of the US audiences. For this movie, amongst other things, is a sometimes not so subtle and other times very subtle cut-up on US tourists in Europe.There are so many scenes which have this double entendre - if you get them it's hilarious and heart-warming, if you don't get them, then explaining them will help nothing and serve only to enervate the narrator.And the puns - I've witnessed people seeing this movie over and over and over and not getting them. After half a dozen viewings they suddenly go 'ah' and get it. This is good screen writing.Kline's Parisian sounds spot on. Suspicion is he was coached - and excellently - in the unique 'gutter' accent found in the city of light.This film has everything. It's not your classical 'meets cute' but - where does one begin? Can one ever end?This mini-review has gone on for several hundred words already and the iteration has not started.Get it! "}{"Title":"A fantasy fulfilled....","Date":"10 April 2006","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have to believe that any woman who is honest with herself would get happily swept into the fantasy of French Kiss. What female in her right mind wouldn't want to end up like Meg Ryan's character, standing on a hillside in France with a fascinating, funny, smart, gorgeous hunk of a man kissing her like no other woman exists on the planet? I also have to believe that any guy who can appreciate the feminine mystique and the happiness of a love found would not also enjoy this fast and highly entertaining story.To me, this is one of the best 2 romantic comedies ever made because it never gets sappy, sugary, or full of gimmicks. I deplore love stories in which one or both of the two leads 1)see the other in a situation that leads them to misinterpret something to the detriment of their relationship; and 2)there is some awful or stupid or tragic circumstance that they must overcome to be together. These kinds of plot lines always disrupt the flow of endorphins that should be free-flowing when watching a romcom. French Kiss has such a pureness of two personalities fitting together at the right time in the right place that it makes your heart soar.Kevin Kline is simply killer as a French rogue, full of street smarts and macho but with the soul of a poet in his ambitions. Meg Ryan literally sparkles in her role with her shining smile, shining hair, and - thanks to a good script - her shining wit. The contrasting cultures of the French man and the all-American woman is what sets this story apart from others in this genre. And it is why I can't decide which movie I prefer between this and When Harry Met Sally. They are both triumphs. And both can be viewed repeatedly without loss of interest.The soundtrack matches the perfection of the film, and the only shortcoming is that Van Morrison's zenith of love songs Someone Like You is left for last, coming near the end of the credits which means many people might miss it. It would have pleased me more if it was used during the last scene.Do not hesitate to buy this movie if you like romantic comedies. It will prove to be a true gem in your film library and likely will become even more of a treasure as time goes on and we fully realize Hollywood very rarely produces this kind of undiluted joy. "},{"Title":"An indulgence a la francais!","Date":"6 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is sheer unabashed indulgence...indulgence in romantic comedies, in Meg Ryan, in France and a whole lot of other things and people!! I've seen this movie in parts lots of times, never really got to sit and see the whole film at one go. The dialogues are witty enough and the acting credible enough to make anyone want to sit and watch it again! Kevin Kline is superb in the role. For him it was more than just a matter of knowing French and then putting on a French accent. He seems to have undergone a transformation of sorts to really look credible as a French wine-maker cum a very convincing con man! Meg Ryan seemed one the whole more made-up than any other movie I've seen her in. But her expressions were as usual capital, really hilarious! Her reaction after eating too much cheese on the train left me in splits! There she is praising the French for having 452 types of cheese and the next instant she can't even bear the mention of cows! Some of her angst-ridden outbursts against men were totally understandable!Timothy Hutton is one of those underrated actors who seriously deserves more challenging roles. The only other films I've seen him in are 'Ordinary People'(in which he was really brilliant. Thoroughly deserved his Oscar) and 'Mr. and Mrs. Loving'(in which her did a good turn as a Southerner in the 1950s-60s who gets married to a black woman against the law in South). He's a treat to watch in 'French Kiss' as the basically confused, prone-to-chauvinism Charlie! It would be an understatement to say that I liked the locales. France is one THE most beautiful countries and I'm glad they didn't restrict the location to Paris. I enjoyed more the part in Luc's village, complete with Ryan's witty sarcasm Fester, Fester, Rot, Rot. Poor you, you live over here! This movie is not for the wine buffs('A Walk in the Clouds' with its mixture of wine and romance is recommended). It's for those who like romantic comedies and France! C'est irresistible!Oh, and the song 'Dream A Little Dream' in French is one more sure selling point!  "},{"Title":"Charming screwball comedy","Date":"15 November 2001","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm not a Meg Ryan fan because I just haven't seen much of her work, just Innerspace and this one.  So unlike some other people who are saying that Meg's doing her same old ditzy schtick, I think that her character in this movie is funny and charming because I haven't seen it in other movies.  So needless to say, I enjoyed this movie.  It reminded me of all the screwball comedies from the 1930s I adore about 2 people who hate each other and are perpetually frustrated with each other, but by the end are madly in love.  Bringing Up Baby, Nothing Sacred, and Twentieth Century come to mind.Kevin Kline is one of my favorite performers and I love his French accent and rakish charm, kind of like a subdued Pirate King!  That he can be in so many different types of roles and do them all equally well, speaks volumes about his talent.  The scenes between him and Ryan are hilarious as he tries to draw her out of her shell and she indignantly stick to her American puritanism.  In the end, the French joie de vivre of course wins out.Jean Reno has a good supporting role as the amoral cop who lets friendship take precedence over the law.  Too bad we didn't see more of him!Exquisite locations and a fine cast make this a viewing delight! "},{"Title":"Funny, romantic, clever. One of the best of it's kind.","Date":"15 November 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A fantastic romantic comedy that will truly satisfy fans of this sub-genre. I really liked the movie because I expected a light comedy with a solid, clever plot and charismatic performance. To date this may be my favorite romantic comedy.I've seen it many times and all I can say is that I can recommend it for those who enjoy funny, witty, and entertaining romantic comedies.Also, if you are a fan of Meg Ryan you might enjoy this movie a lot. Jean Renó steals the show with his excellent performance.A movie that shouldn't be missed for those who watch occasionally a romantic comedy.Among the best romantic comedies of the 90's; if not the best. "},{"Title":"Lovely jokes in the cinematography","Date":"30 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I love this film. The scene in which Meg Ryan and Kevin Kline first hop in the stolen car in Paris tickles me every time. While she is berating him for involving her in his (mis)adventures, she turns to look at him and misses what would be a wonderful tour of Paris as all the major landmarks of Paris go by on the passenger side of the car. Love the director's sense of humor. As for Kline's French accent, I have studied in France and have a good ear (if I do say so myself), and was very impressed with Kline's regional accent (way, for example, rather than we for 'oui'). As for it being a pat romantic comedy, well, of course - suppose it had been Cary Grant and Audrey Hepburn, would anybody have complained? "},{"Title":"Can Kate overcome her fear of flying to hop the pond and bring her errant boyfriend back to Canada? Only with Luc's help!","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Meg Ryan as Kate, an American schoolteacher living in Canada with her Dr boyfriend Charlie had their future all planned, but fate steps in and says HA!.  Kate's fear of flying keeps her from going with Charlie to Paris for a Doctors convention, and thats how Charlie finds himself in the arms of a Goddess! Now Kate has to overcome her fear of flying to try to get him back.  Luckily, Kevin Kline as Luc, a Franco rascal, is more than willing to help Kate win Charlie back; however his motives are not as altruistic as he claims.  This film contains one of the funniest film take-off scenes in film history.  The plot is written for mega laughs and Meg and Kevin's comic timing is superb!!!  The Eiffle Tower even has more than a cameo.  And this movie soundtrack is one you will want to own.  Add this to your personal film library for laugh therapy! "},{"Title":"An Offbeat Story with Outstanding Performance by Kevin Kline","Date":"2 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Certainly the most underrated movie of the 90's and perhaps of all time. This is the only movie (excluding 30's comedies and few other pic such as The Wild Bunch and Lawrence of Arabia) that I have seen more than 3 times. The story line is spot-on. The arc of the film manages a difficult feat two plots, one involving Meg Ryan and the other focussing on Kevin Kline, maintain their integrity and also merge together. This is the kind of romantic comedy that makes sense and nonsense at the same time. Kevin Kline performs perfectly. Meg Ryan is very good--much better than in Sleepless in Seattle. This film has a high believability quotient. Kline's charisma matches that of Peter Falk in the Columbo series. Which is quite a compliment. See this film "},{"Title":"What a magnificent movie!!!","Date":"15 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I've never seen Meg Ryan or Kevin Kline play better - they had a fantastic chemistry and it was a roller coaster ride of fun the whole way through - I just wish the film were longer! I was really impressed, every scene produced stomach-aching laughter! It is definitively one of the best movies America has ever produced! Meg Ryan and Kevin Kline make such a cute couple - very mignon!!! I was astonished when, after further researching on the then enigmatic Kevin Kline, I discovered he is not actually french!!!! I have gained such an incredible respect for him now! I loved everyone in the movie, except for Charlie (what a moron!!) Juliette's portrayal was extremely well done - she is so beautiful!!! This is undoubtedly a MUST-SEE movie for all the dreamers out there!!!! "},{"Title":"The best movie you will ever watch","Date":"14 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" You could not ask for a better movie about love. And how it can surprise you. And where you find it. Meg Ryan is a wonderful actress. Kevin Kline could not be better. If you want a love story this is it. You will want to watch this over and over again. I know I have. And so has my mother. And my husband. Please watch this. And let Meg Ryan know what a great actress she is. And how great her and Kevin Kline are together. Meg needs to do a lot more movies like this and Kate & Leopold. They are romantic. They let you dream. Things aren't like this in real life. But in the movies she makes it seem as if it could really happen to you. She is the greatest actress. There can be no better. "},{"Title":"French Kiss?  Yes Please!","Date":"28 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" French Kiss is the ultimate must-see date movie. Meg Ryan clearly owns the role of Kate as a naive and quirky history teacher who has been wronged by her ridiculous fiancé, Charlie. Kevin Kline is delightful as Luc, a scoundrel of a Frenchman, who befriends Kate in her quest to steal Charlie back from the lovely Juliette. The usual romantic comedy adventure ensues as Kate and Luc pursue Charlie throughout France.What sets this film apart from the usual date flick is the interaction between Kline and Ryan. It is easy to be swept away by the innocent tenderness that builds between these two characters. And just as easy to be swept away by Kline himself. I found it almost impossible to believe that he is not French! I have seen this film dozens of times; it is my first choice go-to movie. I would definitely recommend this movie to anyone looking for a nice, feel-good film. "}{"Title":"Funny, charming, educational","Date":"19 November 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" To begin with, Meg Ryan's fear of flying and the procedures she goes through to deal with it are cute. And the relationship with Meg and Timothy Hutton is entirely believable.Once she is on the plane, going to Paris, Kevin Kline appears and introduces himself and distracts her from the takeoff. Kevin Kline really proves himself in this movie, or at least shows how good he is at accents. I was a French major in college and have been to Paris and seen much of France. His mannerisms are right on.The things that happen once they are in Paris are 1) funny and 2) move the story along. The train trip that they have to take is another enjoyable section. And Meg learns that she really likes the cheese!Once she sees the vineyard and begins to learn more about Kevin Kline's character, the story gets under way nicely. All in all, it's a very enjoyable time. "},{"Title":"Wonderfully fun film...a must see!!!","Date":"28 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The story revolves around Kate (Meg Ryan), who is a school teacher living in Canada and engaged to marry Charlie (Timothy Hutton). Suddenly, Charlie travels to Paris on business and announces to Kate that he has decided to stay in Paris because he has fallen in love. Although Kate is extremely fearful of flying, she hops on a plane to Paris to get her Charlie back. On this flight, her seat-mate is Luc (Kevin Kline) who uses her to smuggle in a stolen diamond necklace. Upon arriving in Paris, Luc follows Kate because he has hidden the jewels in her backpack.The adventure continues when Luc proclaims that he can help her win her Charlie back. The duo travel from Paris to Cannes as Luc provides specific advice on how Kate should handle this situation and confront the Charlie and his new girlfriend. The dialogue is witty and fun as the film continues with a stop to visit Luc's family in the scenically appropriate French wine countryside.The banter between Luc and Kate throughout the film is clever and cute. Kate fills the movie with witty lines that become memorable because of her frustration with Luc. One of my favorite lines is when Kate tells Luc, You'll become one of those hunchbacked, lonely old men, sitting in the corner of a crowded café, mumbling to yourself, 'My ass is twitching. You people make my ass twitch'.During their escapades, Luc becomes quite fond of Kate, even with her constant sarcastic remarks. This is a perfect romantic comedy about boy meets girl while trying to win another boy back. The scenes used in the film are vibrantly beautiful with locations which include Paris, Cannes and Provence regions.I'm not a big fan of Meg Ryan but this film compares to the warm, funny, romantic appeal that Sleepless in Seattle offered. Kevin Kline is this adorably macho French thief whose mission is to use the money from this stolen necklace to buy land to start a vineyard. Kate's goal conveyed since the beginning of the film is for her to put down some roots and watch them grow. Coincidentally, it appears they have similar goals but do they ever discover this connection? We should also mention how wonderful the music is. After seeing this film, I immediately obtained a copy of the soundtrack. Although there are two renditions of I Love Paris, they are both equally enjoyable. Kevin Kline sings a beautifully loungy song called La Mer in the film. It makes me sway and imagine that I'm in Paris hearing this at a café sipping some wine. "},{"Title":"Excellent.. no questions asked","Date":"17 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is my favorite movie of all times!!! I love the scenery, photographs, clever dialogs, the performance is superb.... 10 out of 10. An ordinary topic with a twist... I can only congratulate the producer and director for making this movie something to remember for the rest of my days. It is quite funny and romantic, makes a person believe anything can happen. Locations encouraged me to fly to France and the 452 types of cheese will be stuck on my mind forever. Definitely number one on my list. You can watch it with friends or with a date to pass a good time! Also, soundtrack is awesome... ever since I watched this movie, Dream a little dream of me is my favorite romantic song. I wish someone would sing it to me someday. I sincerely don't understand why the low score... "},{"Title":"A good movie to watch...","Date":"21 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" 'French Kiss' is really a good movie to watch. The most funniest thing is that there is a movie named 'Pyaar To Hona Hi Tha' (http//www.imdb.com/title/tt0173081/) which is the carbon copy of 'French Kiss'. 'Pyaar To Hona Hi Tha' is an Indian movie , Directed by Anees Bazmee . if you understand Indian language then you will find that Anees Bazmee has copied 'French Kiss' line by line .In 'French Kiss' Meg Ryan (Kate) was looking very beautiful and her expression is just excellent in this movie. And other character like Jean Reno ( Inspector Jean-Paul Cardon ) acted very good. If you want to spent your holidays by watching good movies then this movie should be included in your list "},{"Title":"French Kiss","Date":"11 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" this is one of my favorite movies, it is sexy, romantic and funny! if you haven't seen it you should! even if you think it is a little slow believe me it is worth it! this movie is about a relationship that is interrupter by a trip to France where the male, Charlie, falls in love with a french woman. Kate does not like this and tries to win him back but there are some problems like she hates to fly. She meets this Frenchmen named Luc and he helps her to win him back but there is a twist of romance and a little hint of trouble in the way. i would rate this movie a 10 anytime and it is the perfect movie to snuggle up with someone and watch ) hope that you enjoy it as much as my family and i have! "},{"Title":"More Clever Than I Excepted","Date":"4 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" FRENCH KISS **** An absolute delight, 'French Kiss' was released at a time where its typical premise - a heart-struck woman eventually falling for the man truly compatible for her - didn't seem to be over-used in movies. This film seems to establish something more than a by-the-numbers tale of how the woman in question (Meg Ryan) finds her true love (Kevin Kline), making it unique and entertaining among so many others of its kind that miss the mark. When her fiancée falls in love in Paris and cancels her wedding plans, jilted Ryan flies from Canada to France to win him back. On the way, she meets a French jewel thief (Kline) who, for reasons unknown to her, can't quite remain at ease. The screenplay from Adam Brooks is actually more clever than many may anticipate, and Ryan's comedy skills work very well here. "},{"Title":"Sweet, charming, and funny romantic comedy","Date":"8 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" FRENCH KISS, in my opinion, is a sweet, charming, and funny romantic comedy. If you ask me, the way that Kate (Meg Ryan) and Luc (Kevin Kline) met was romantic. The score is very good, too. If you're wondering who it's by, it's by Toots Thieleman. In case you didn't know, he was the one who played the harmonica on Billy Joel's song entitled Leave A Tender Moment Alone. The Paris scenery was especially lovely. I'd like to take a trip there one day. Lawrence Kasdan's direction was excellent. He always knows how to make a good film, if you ask me. If you're looking for a good date movie, this is definitely one to see. I guarantee you that you and your date will enjoy it. "},{"Title":"I gave my opinion of the movie, and what i thought of Ryan and Kline's preformances.","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I loved this movie! Kevin Kline played an amazing frenchman, and personally stole my heart! Meg Ryan played a magnificient role as a woman trying to win back the heart of her lover, while falling in love with a thief she sat by on the plane. A funny movie for couples. The guys will like it for it's humor, the girls will like it for the romance. All in all a wonderful tale that gos to show that anything is possible, and never give up. "},{"Title":"Quirky Question that needs and answer","Date":"28 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have a question that is nagging me and I have tried so many places for the answer. Any help will be GREATLY appreciated. Who is the maker of the backpack that Kate carried throughout the movie? If anyone on this site/message board does know - does anyone know where I can look for this information? But about this charming movie...I absolutely love it. It is one of my favorites, and as I type this, it is playing in my DVD player (the scene right now is when Luc is searching Kate's bag at his family's home - just in case you were wondering). The priceless moments in the movie are the looks and glances and you can see the love that is developing for Kate the more that Luc gets to know her and you can see the question in his mind that maybe you really can have love the kind that last forever. I also love the fact of the premise of the movie that the things you plan for in life don't always happen but what does actually happen is so much better than what you had planned for yourself - it give hope and inspiration for the dark times that something wonderful and fulfilling could just around the corner.About my question, ANY help would be profoundly appreciated! ) "},{"Title":"Shame Kline isn't French","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a pretty decent romcom featuring a typically off-kilter performance from everymouse Meg Ryan, and another lovable rogue from Kline, with some nice little set-ups and lots of fun gags. The only quibble I would have with the piece is that with the great wealth of wonderful French talent available, Hollywood would only accept one of its own putting on a fairly decent but occasionally ropey comedy French accent in the lead. Not that the target audience would worry though, as this is easy-watching no-brain romcom fun done well. "}{"Title":"French Kiss review","Date":"20 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Starring former American's darling Meg Ryan(Sleepless in Seattle,Anastasia,Kate & Leopold)and Kevin Kline(The Hunchback of Notre Dame and Wild Wild West)star together in this romantic comedy about a young woman named Kate(didn't Meg already played a Kate in a film before,Kate & Leopold anyone)who is engaged to a man named Charlie who flies off to Paris leaving her behind as she has a fear of flights and since she is a Canadian she has to get a Visa/dual citizenship.But when she finds out that her fiancé has cheated on her with a beautiful French woman she conquers her fears and flies off to France,Paris where she teams up with a boorish Frenchman named Luc(Kevin Kline)who turns out to be a smuggler and puts the stolen necklace in Kate's bag that ends up getting stolen. But when she sees her former fiancé who is now engaged to the super hot French woman he met,Kate is devastated and does all in her power to win him back. But when Kate spends some time with Luc will romance blossom between her and Luc or will she win back her former lover Charlie?Bottom line this isn't the best Meg Ryan film I have seen. You see I am a fan of Meg Ryan,I really am I think she is very good in romantic comedies giving her the status title of Queen Of The Chick Flick but she plays the same damsel in distress in every flick she is in. Spunky,Stubborn,a hopeless romantic,falls for a man whom she doesn't get along with at first,always cries and moans and acts impulsive. But you know what that is who she is,she loves romantic comedies. But back to the film Kevin Kline impressed me with his French accent. He actually sounded perfect as a Frenchman. The story has been done in A lot of romantic comedies with road trips etc. But still its an OK movie. Not the best Ryan film I have seen like I said. But I could smell the ending a mile away.OK4/10 "},{"Title":"hate fake french accent, sometimes funny","Date":"19 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Kate (Meg Ryan) is a careful history teacher in Toronto and deadly fearful of flying. Her fiancé Charlie (Timothy Hutton) is going to Paris and she won't go with him. She's waiting for her Canadian citizenship. Kate has created lots of plans like buying a house and Charlie is uncertain. Then he drunkenly calls about falling in love with French goddess Juliette. She nervously flies and then bombastic French thief Luc Teyssier (Kevin Kline) sits next to her. He takes her mind off of flying. He hides a stolen necklace and smuggled grape vine in her bag to go through customs. His friend Inspector Jean-Paul Cardon (Jean Reno) insists on giving him a ride. She goes to ambush Charlie at his hotel. Her bag is stolen when she faints after seeing Charlie kissing Juliette.A flustered Meg Ryan is fun. A fake French Kevin Kline is not. The fake French accent gets annoying. She has a short haircut and her character at the start doesn't fit. Their chemistry is not quite right but it is still Meg Ryan with Kevin Kline. They are apart too much but they have some fun moments together. Meg Ryan maintains her adorable quotient with a bit too much wackiness. The humor is a bit too broad. I don't know how to feel about Ryan saying she will triumph while in front of the Arch de Triumph. It is certainly not subtle but it's not actually smart. The slapstick is broad and sometimes funny. "},{"Title":"Delightful comedy!","Date":"6 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This was really a delightful comedy, a surprise of comedy delight. It was a love story, a travelogue, a mystery who dun it, a character study, a study in scarlet, a story of love and redemption. The comedy touches were simply exquisite--Meg Ryan sneaking out of the hotel restaurant and missing Kevin Kline in the process--priceless comedy shtick that is always funny even if it dates from Aristophanes. I don't know who could have been better players for the roles. The talent of Meg Ryan and Kevin Kline were more than suitable to the task. Despite Meg Ryan being as cute as button, she still had the comedic range to pull off the comedy as a serious love story as well; her talent is in the range of a Katheryn Hepburn or an Audrey Hepburn. It was a delightful comedy. "},{"Title":"Not nearly as good as the reviewers here implied","Date":"21 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It gets off to a slow start and it really has way too many implausible moments. I simply could not overlook how many times I said to myself that would never really happen. I know you are supposed to suspend belief to watch certain movies but I don't consider this one of those kinds of movies. It was totally unrealistic that Charlie fell in love with a total stranger that quickly. And then there is Kate losing all of her money in Paris. Sorry, just a bit too much for me to swallow. If it's free on TV and I had nothing better to do I might watch it, but I wouldn't go out of my way to obtain it otherwise (which I did). I really wanted to like this movie but I just didn't ( I have seen far too many much better movies than to recommend anyone waste their time on a very average movie, at best! "},{"Title":"Romantic Comedy","Date":"31 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" French Kiss is such a great movie! While its an older movie,and about 19 years old,it is still such a fun and great film. I just love it, even more every time i watch it! Its such a great example of true love, and not the expectation of love, that everybody has nowadays,with looking for that great looking,young body,or perfect person everyday...It really is a fun romantic comedy, that should have life imitate its own art... ) I have seen it quite a few times, and just love thinking that happiness can triumph over all else in life,as it should...To many times technology separates us, further and further apart, with nobody really knowing anybody; but, at the same time, knowing everything about that same person without any friendship. This film brings out the true stages of finding love.Meg Ryan and her supporting actor,do an amazing job of showing how love can transcend through everything in life and in happiness, even with that already perfect boyfriend...It really is a great Romantic comedy to enjoy. Its so filled with laughs and romance,it really doesn't disappoint you... Hope you enjoy it as well. It really is a great and fun film... "},{"Title":"Slightly off-kilter film, but enjoyably so","Date":"2 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The first thing I'd like to tackle is a comment made in the forum -- that Meg Ryan always plays the same character -- Meg Ryan. Dean Martin was once asked about that, and his response was, Who do you want me to play? Laurence Olivier? And that simple response hits the nail on the head. Most popular American actors almost always played themselves. We go to a Cary Grant movie because we like Cary Grant. We know what to expect when we go to a Spencer Tracy film. Sean Connery plays Sean Connery. Now, yes, occasionally actors take on another persona for a film; but frankly, most don't most of the time. So Meg Ryan plays Meg Ryan. Welcome to the club.Ironically, in this film, Kevin Kline does not play Kevin Kline...which he usually does. And, in fact, this whole film is a little different. You have this feeling of a film being off-kilter...not in a bad sense...but just different. The general story line is not so different -- boy and girl are in love; boy strays (albeit in France); girl wants boy backs; but then realizes she loves someone else (who just happens to be a slightly shady character with a good heart). It works.The locales are pleasantly beautiful. Nicely directed. Not much to complain about.The leads are Meg Ryan, who is very appealing here. And, Kevin Kline, who does well, although frankly I wish he would have shaved at least once! Timothy Hutton is good as a secondary character...in this case the initial fiancé. The French actor Jean Reno, here as a police inspector, is a welcome addition to most any film.Recommended, although it probably won't end up on your DVD shelf. "},{"Title":"Lactose intolerance......","Date":"21 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Kate and Charlie have a perfect life planned out before them. Buy a house, marriage, kids, the whole works. Kate's fear of flying keeps her in Canada while Charlie goes to Paris for a medical convention. While there Charlie falls for Juliette. He calls off the wedding with Kate and she nervously boards a plane to get him back. She ends up sitting next to French thief Luc. He hides a stolen necklace and smuggled grape vine in her bag to get it through customs. Her bag is stolen, the necklace apparently lost, and Kate and Luc head to Cannes, Luc to find the necklace and Kate get Charlie back. Along the way, Kate and Luc begin having feelings for each other, because this is what happened in every Meg Ryan Movie in the nineties......If it wasn't for Kline or Reno, this would have gotten a two all the way, and if it were made today, I'm sure it'd star Katherine Heigl and just be as bland.Which is another way of saying that the film is as bland and as generic as romantic comedies can be, but with the added element of xenophobia.Ryan has never been more annoying, from her shouting for no reason at all, to her silly John Lennon style sunglasses, every scene in which see is in is annihilated, and there are plenty to choose from because she produced the blasted thing.It looks beautiful though, and as I've already said, I'll watch Kline read the phone book, but this really is the pits. "},{"Title":"Meg Ryan Plays Meg Ryan","Date":"24 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I tried to find this film amusing. I know that Meg Ryan is not known for appearing in heavyweight philosophical flicks; productions with her name above the title are usually filed under mildly pleasant pastimes that require little to no viewer engagement. Unbelievable plot? Check. Stupid misunderstandings that a seven-year-old would clear up with one question and one answer, but that drag on through the whole picture? Check. And yet again Ryan tries to trade in on her perky girl-next- door fresh wholesome cuteness. But in this light-as-air comedy, her performance descends into caricature, not character. All the well-known Ryan tics are there the waving of the arms, the hand to the forehead signaling Oh I don't believe this, poor me, the little sniffs and puffs that were part of the cute little Missy repertoire of the 80s have become an exaggerated near-parody in this film. We won't even discuss her over the top yelps about mucus and lactose intolerance (which is no laughing matter for those who actually suffer from it). I hate to tell the scriptwriter, but romantic emoting, even good sex, will not cure food allergies. We also won't discuss the anti-French culture memes in this script. How they convinced Jean Reno to work in this movie we will never know. I can watch just about any comedy on a Saturday afternoon, but this is one of those films that made me want those 90+ min of my life back. I sat through it hoping it would go somewhere, and the ending was so bad my companion and I just sat there staring at each other. That's it? That's all? The-the, the-the, the-that's all folks. I'd give it minus 5 out of 10 if I could. "},{"Title":"Beauitful South I loved, the music","Date":"1 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I loved the music; the Beautiful South sang the tunes and that stuck with me as much as the movie; maybe even more. Dream a little Dream is a knock out, you will be singing all the next day. The film meshed so nicely with the story. For me it was a perfect blend of the two. A picture that Cary Grant would have been perfect with someone like Kerr or Hepburn. Saw it one Saturday on TV and perhaps not the ideal setting, but it is is a favorite boy meets girl love story. The plot is summarized as well as I've seen, herehttp//en.wikipedia.org/wiki/French_Kiss_%28film%29This is why if you've not seen it, you'll want to give it a chance. "},{"Title":"Charming romantic comedy","Date":"17 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" French Kiss is directed by Lawrence Kasdan and stars Meg Ryan, Kevin Kline, Jean Reno and Timothy Hutton.Kate(Meg Ryan)is afraid of flying but is forcing herself to fly to France to see her fiancé Charlie(Timothy Hutton)because he has fell in love with another woman while he is on a business trip to Paris.On the plane to Paris she meets Luc(Kevin Kline),a charming Frenchman who tries and help her overcome her fear of flying. It turns out that he is a well known jewel thief in France and a detective called Jean Paul (Jean Reno)is after him.Following a series of incidents together Luc agrees to help her try and win back Charlie. Luc soon finds himself falling in love with Kate and that really is the heart of the film, it is funny,very romantic and charming. Featuring some great music and beautiful locations, French Kiss is a film to brighten your day.Kline is charming and likable. Ryan once again proves herself to have a gift for comedy and the two have good chemistry. "}{"Title":"Subtle romance with a delightfully amoral lead, that could do with a bit more pep.","Date":"15 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A pleasant romantic comedy, that could do with a more eventful second half.The first half of the plot focuses on the phobic Kate, having travelled to Paris to get back her fiancé after he ran off with the French Juliet, losing everything, and French thief Luc desperate to get at the necklace he has smuggled in her bag. Luc is a delightfully amoral hero and he enlivens every scene, while Kate is a sympathetic lead, lost, trapped and alone. Although, since Kate never manages to get a new passport, how is she on a plane at the end of the film? The middle section of the film is sadly rather dull. Luc and Kate go to Luc's childhood home, the stereotypical cliché of quaint, simple vineyard folk in picturesque landscape and the pace disappears. Also Luc's desire to own a vineyard doesn't really fit with his personality of thieving, gambling and loose women and both leads act out of sorts during this lethargic portion of film.The second half focuses on Luc helping Kate to win back her Charlie. This is all very romantic, but there are a lot less laughs than the first half and raises the question, what does sultry beauty Juliet see in Charlie? Between Kate wanting Charlie, and Luc wanting the stolen necklace to buy his vineyard, the film charts the development of Luc and Kate's feelings for each other, and the understated nature of this romance is extremely well handled and enjoyable to watch.French Kiss would be improved if the vineyard section was cut, and if a bit more actually happened, but it is an excellent example of a sweet and pleasurable romance with likable characters. "},{"Title":"Lacks humour but still enjoyable","Date":"7 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Lawrence Kasdan's French Kiss lacks enough humour to really be an effective romantic - comedy. Script needed an extra injection of hilarity to lift it above the merely 'enjoyable'. Begins with plenty of good fun, but both Meg Ryan and Kevin Kline are unable to carry the movie through to the end given its lack of comedy. Director Kasdan fails to hide the film's obvious conclusion, but still manages to entertain us throughout.Ryan is typecast, but still does well as the lovelorn Kate, who has been ditched for a French knockout by her fiancé. Meg looks incredibly cute as always, and no one does paranoid and vulnerable like her. Kline is not quite at his usual outstanding best, however his character Luc Tessier may not have allowed him the amount of scope he needed. He is still a positive as the seedy Frenchman who offers to help Kate win back her man.Timothy Hutton, whom we see so little of these days, fits the bill as the uncertain, totally infatuated guy who has dumped poor Kate for the stunning Juliet. And as said French bombshell, Susan Anbeh is nothing short of a goddess. Jean Reno, an actor I would like to see a lot more of, is a pleasure as the cop who appears to have Luc's best interests at heart. Cinematography is unimpressive until we are taken to the vineyards in the south of France, where lensing can do little but excel.Please don't get your hopes up about seeing a great romantic - comedy. Kasdan has done as well as can be expected with what he's been asked to work with, and coupled with the two infinitely likable leads, an enjoyable film is forthcoming.Saturday, February 3, 1996 - Astor Theatre "},{"Title":"Not really a masterpiece, but good fun","Date":"6 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Usually, romantic comedies are not really taken seriously as they tend to be seen as simple fluff meant only to provide light hearted entertainment. Like in action films and horror films, the overuse of the enormous amount of clichés and typical plot devices, has turned the sub-genre into a stereotype, where stories become predictable as the basic structure has been done countless times before. While this predictability is most definitely a problem, occasionally a movie appears that despite following the typical pattern of the genre, manages to stand out among the rest; and even when at its core it still is a typical romantic comedy, it shines with a light of its own due to the way the film is executed. French Kiss is one of those movies, a film that despite being no masterpiece of cinema, achieves its original purpose without problem to provide good light hearted entertainment by telling a charming story about two equally charming characters.French Kiss is the story of Kate (Meg Ryan), a young woman who after moving to Canada, where his boyfriend Charlie (Timothy Hutton) lives, begins to make preparations for a future with him. However, all her plans crumble when on a business trip to France, Charlie meets another woman (Susan Anbeh), and falls deeply in love with her, deciding to remain in France and cancel his wedding plans with Kate. Deeply hurt by Charlie's decision, Kate decides to overcome her fear of flying and travels to France decided to recover her boyfriend. On the trip she meets Luc Teyssier (Kevin Kline), a charming Frenchman who strangely decides to help her. Kate doesn't know that the odd Bon Vivant she has met, has hidden a stolen piece of jewelry in her purse and now wants it back. Problems begin when Kate's purse is stolen, making both to work together to recover the stolen purse, and its contents.Written by Adam Brooks, French Kiss certainly follows the basic blueprint of romantic comedies it chronicles the misadventures of a couple that dislikes each other but that after working together discover a certain attraction between them. At first sight it would seem that it's just another typical romantic comedy (with the addition of a French setting); however, and despite the far fetched plot, Brooks makes the story somewhat believable and it surprisingly works in the end. While the romance is the focus of the film, Brooks makes some cleverly written scenes, playing with the French and American stereotypes of each other in small, yet very funny scenes with his assortment of quirky supporting characters. French Kiss is not exactly the definition of realistic, but in the end is this romanticizing of the story what becomes the film's main strength. Kasdan takes a straight forward approach to the script, making an excellent use of his cast to bring the story to life. It is really his work with the actors what makes the movie a bit more believable than what the script makes it to be, as while Kasdan still can't avoid some silly and unrealistic dialogs, the performances of his cast make them work to an extent. The real star of the film is Owen Roizman's cinematography, who under Kasdan's direction portrays France's both urban and countryside landscapes with great talent, making the amazing beauty of the country to show off in many scenes. Kasdan follows Brook's theme of making jokes about American tourists, and constructs visual gags (a simple, yet very creative pun about watching the Eiffel Tower is cleverly used through the film) that spice up the love story between Kate and Luc, adding some diversity to break up the monotony.The cast is what really makes French Kiss to stand out among similar movies. At the peak of her romantic comedy phase, Meg Ryan was delightfully charming as the main character, Kate. With her natural charm and talent, this character was definitely piece of cake for her, and she makes what otherwise could be a two dimensional character a bit more enjoyable. Kevin Kline is the highlight of the film, making a very convincing Frenchman in his portrait of Luc. It's a shame that the producers decided to hire a non-Frenchman for the role, but fortunately Kline delivers an excellent and very believable performance as the witty crook more interested in what's inside of Kate's purse than in her person. Timothy Hutton is definitely the weakest link in the cast, as not only his character was badly written, his performance is not really good and looks really out of place in the film. French actors Jean Reno and François Cluzet have small supporting roles, and they truly make the best of them. Cluzet is very funny and Reno completely steals every scene he is in.As written above, the script is plagued with many flaws, that while were somewhat corrected by Lawrence Kasdan and his cast, at times manage to come out and hurt the film. The real problem is not in the far fetched situation that makes the couple meet, but in the development of the event that start all Hutton's character is simply poorly developed and not believable in his actions. Ryan's characters is better done, but it takes Meg Ryan's performance to make her likable, as Kate is not exactly a sympathetic character to begin with. Don't get me wrong, Brooks' story is fun and charming, but it the events before Kate's trip to France really drag and make the film look uninteresting.French Kiss is a very 90s romantic comedy but with touches of those classic screwball comedies of old, where realism was sent to the backseat and romance used to drive the story. It's not really a masterpiece of the genre, like say Annie Hall or When Harry met Sally, but French Kiss gets the job done thanks to the charming performances of the cast, and the magic of the French landscapes. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Pretty good romantic comedy.","Date":"20 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" French Kiss tells the story of a woman (Meg Ryan) that travels to France to win back her fiancé who left her for another woman. She ends up crossing paths with a french criminal who ends up helping her and she ends up falling for. This movie delivers a few good laughs, mostly attributed to Kevin Kline's portrayal of the criminal.The acting in this movie is pretty good. I'm not a big Meg Ryan fan, but in this movie she does okay. Kevin Kline is absolutely hilarious. Every time he's on screen he makes you smile. He pulls off the french accent perfectly and his sarcastic attitude coupled with the accent makes for great comedy. Jean Reno is in this playing a french cop, and he's as good as usual.The first half of the movie is funny, but when it gets into the second half they start focusing on the romantic aspect of the film and it starts to dwindle. Toward the end it starts to drag and get boring, and then it ends, just like that.Overall, it's not my kind of movie but it's pretty good.6.5/10 "},{"Title":"That was Nice","Date":"22 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's been a long time since I saw this movie, so my recollection of the details are fuzzy - but my overarching impression remains very strong. This is a nice film.As we sat in the cinema, we all agreed, (me, my friends and all other audience members we spoke to) that this was a very nice movie.That may sound trite as nice isn't a term usually meant as high praise - but in this case it is.Kevin Kline is his usual believable self, and even when the movie is unbelievable, you will yourself into suspending your disbelief.You get a warm feeling from this film, and for a non challenging, happy ending rom com, this is hard to beat. If only the script-writers could take control of my life! "},{"Title":"Great Chick Flick","Date":"16 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie was a lot of fun. I really think Keven Kline is an outstanding comedian and exceptional character actor. His role as a Frenchman is superb--all the way from the accent to the 'hygene-challenged' attire.This movie was released in 1995, when Meg Ryan was still unafraid to be different.And, I love Mr. Cool Jean Reno in this movie. If only cops could be more like him.The movie leads us through some really beautiful French scenery as we follow Meg's character chasing after her fiancé who has fallen for a French God Dess and Kevin's character chasing after Meg who is unknowingly carrying his stolen necklace. Along the way, unsuspecting love occurs.Follow the movie to the end when Kevin Kline sings La Mer in French. He is SO awesome. "},{"Title":"Great love story","Date":"7 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" If you like a great love story then you'll love French Kiss. Also there are many clever and funny lines in the movie.Kevin Kline is great and does the French accent so well you'll forget he's from St. Louis.Meg Ryan, what can you say about her? She is great as usual and a perfect part for her.I watch a lot of comedies and romantic comedies and this one rates at the top of my favorites. It has what I call re-watch-ability. I only purchase movies with this quality. You'll want to watch it again and again. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"loved it","Date":"11 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The chemistry between Kevin Kline as Luc and Meg Ryan as Kate was thoroughly enjoyable. As the story progresses they are brought together and are pulled apart repeatedly as their separate purposes demand. For most of the movie they have absolutely no personal interest in each other, but rather try to use each other to achieve their goals Luc to regain an expensive, illegal item; Kate to regain her lost fiancé (stolen from her by a very sexy French woman with an effective pout). The French cities are exciting, and the views of the countryside are lovely.Especially endearing is the peek into French family life when Luc returns to the region where he grew up and visits with his family for a sort time. It's here that Kate and Luc first start to see each other as more than a means to achieve their separate goals. I adore this film, own it, and watch it whenever I need that warm fuzzy feeling of new, unexpected love.  "},{"Title":"Kline and Ryan are adorable!!!","Date":"8 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie has got to be one of my favorite Kevin Kline AND Meg Ryan movies. They are wonderful together!  This is one of my favorite movies.  One that could watch over and over again.I can't believe critics slammed Kline's accent.  He was so believable to me. Half the time I forget its even Kevin Kline.  I highly recommend this movie if you're looking for a comedy, a love story, or just for a good way to pass an hour and a half!!! "},{"Title":"Nice","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'll agree with Doc except that I can't criticize Kline's accent. A little known delight, it jerks some tears out of me. Not to be missed is the near final scene when the detective (Ringo Starr lookalike Jean Reno) walks up the harbor with Kline and says, Now I will tell you a true love story. "}{"Title":"THE Stone Cottage","Date":"9 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was so wonderful. I'm a big fan of the genre, but I felt like you didn't have to be to seriously enjoy this film. I'm a fan of Ryan but I though this movie was so much more believable than say Sleepless in Seattle Or You've got Mail which were both excellent. Kevin Kline as always hit the nail on the head, but what did you expect people?! It's Kevin Kline. It goes as so, Kate thinks she's happy in Canada, (her first mistake..JUST KIDDING PEOPLE!) with her fiance, Charlie. Charlie goes to France on business and gets engaged to someone else. Kate goes to France to win Charlie back. While doing so she encounters Luc who agrees to help her win back Charlie. But along the way the roll into numerous discrepencies, including a hilarious scene dealing with French Cheeses and lactose intolerance. Great ending. great movie. Need I say more? The best. "},{"Title":"C_R_A_Z_Y!!","Date":"18 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  this is the #1 romantic comedy i have seen in years!  i saw it first in 2000 and i love Meg Ryan and Kevin Kline! What a pair! and the country of france is so beautiful (no matter what we Americans may think) ALL I CAN SAY IS MERCI to the cast and crew for a great film "},{"Title":"I really liked this movie","Date":"16 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought French Kiss was a sweet and charming movie. It was funny and had a great plot. Kevin Kline and Meg Ryan made a great couple. Kevin's accent was great and I loved the scenery. I just didn't understand why Kate (Meg Ryan) kept chasing after her fiancee after learning that he was in love with another woman and seeing him with her. But she loved him and was willing to do anything to get him back. But I don't think he was worth it. I'm glad she and Luc (Kline) hooked up in the end though. They made a cute couple. I had never seen this movie until tonight and I'm glad I ended up watching it. I didn't know what I was missing! This was a great romantic comedy. Not too mushy and not too romantic if you know what I mean. It had a lot of great funny scenes and I thoroughly enjoyed it. Well, thanks for reading my review and if you like sweet romantic comedies then you should see this one. You don't know what you're missing!  "},{"Title":"Cheese, but good cheese","Date":"12 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm not one to go for sappy romantic comedies but this has to be entered into my top 5 desert island films. Meg Ryan is truly hilarious! I don't care how annoying other people may think she is, the 'lactose intolerance' moment is inspired, along with. The scenery is stunning, I mean who wouldn't steal, smuggle and sell a diamond necklace to pay for a plot of land in such a heavenly looking place. Kevin Kline has to be the best thing in the film. He drips with sex appeal and pulls of the accent with such precision one could easily mistake him for being of French origin. I love this movie. As I said it may be cheese, but it's bloody good cheese. "},{"Title":"Worth Buying","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Masterfully directed and delightfully acted, this almost timeless light romantic comedy should not be dismissed as an equal to Ryan's other `chick flicks.'  If you hated Sleepless in Seattle and You've Got Mail, as well as some of Kline's earlier wacky pith, I recommend that you take your open mind down to the rental shop and pick this up.  Kline is brilliant, Ryan likeable, and the rest of the cast very credible.  Where dialogue in most films of this genre is agonizingly slow and simple enough to cause an intelligent viewer to squirm, this one has no word wasted or misplaced. The superb pacing coasts from scene to scene, and the hysterical situations withstand multiple viewings.  The energetic score and lovely French landscape are just gravy. "},{"Title":"My favorite movie - more Kline & Reno please!","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've read the many comments from others and I do agree - this movie is great! I really enjoy it & own the DVD so I can watch it whenever I want. I just love Ryan and the rest of the cast. Rather than go on & on about the movie I just want to say I want more Kline & Reno! These two guys had such great chemistry - I would LOVE to see them in another movie together! I've loved Reno & Kline in other movies so I'm sure the chemistry they have in this film was not an accident. Kudos to the writer, director, producers & editors (not to mention the cast) for a fantastic movie! Thank you for French Kiss! "},{"Title":"One of the best romantic comedy's ever made","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is the kind of movie that makes you wanna instantly jump on a plane and get to France. Meg Ryan's performance is magnificent as Kate a woman who has it all at least in her own opinion. Until Her fiance travels on a business trip to france and meets a Goddess. She is unable to travel along because she's affraid of flying. Well you can all guess what happen next. She takes the bull by the horns jumps on a plain to reclaim what's hers. On the plain she meets Luc an arrogant, selfconfident and nicotine smelling frenchman played by Kevin Kline. His best performance ever(should have won him an oscar). If you didn't know you would undoubtedly think he is french for real. The shots in france are totally awsome. The senary is more than breathtaking. As for the directing and editing i can't say a single negative word about it. Although the movie is very predictable it doesn't spoil anything. All romantic comedies tend to be that anyway. I think you will either love it or hate. But if your a fan of romantic comedy's in general and Meg Ryan you will definitely love this one.  "},{"Title":"More than a romantic comedy","Date":"14 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"   For years French Kiss has been one of my favorite movies just because it's so enjoyable to watch.Everytime you see this motion picture you falls in love with Meg Ryan playing Kate.This character is so funny just because Ryan adds sweatness and a crazy style to her .It's incredible how this actris has the gift to do romantic comedy and be so marvelous in all characters that she ever made .Like Sleapless in Seatle,You've Got mail and many others.  In French kiss we have to talk too about Kevin Kline in his best role ever like the smart french trump that steals Kate heart.The chemestry between the two characters it's so fantastic .Watch this movie and falls in love!I'd give 8 out of 10 to this movie. "},{"Title":"Is it me?  Or is this movie adorable?","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I shudder to think what the answer might be--maybe I love it because I was in love with a French man when it came out....and Kevin Kline is absolutely spot on as the typical self-centered, lovable rogue that roams freely over there...woe be unto me, lol.  Is it too cute?  Even smarmy?  Is Meg Ryan adorable or reeeeeally irritating?  You know, my judgement is kind of clouded...I give up.  I like it.   "},{"Title":"Enjoyable romantic comedy; Meg Ryan doing her thing","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  While everyone knows where this film is headed, it's still a lot of fun to sit back and watch it get there. Meg Ryan, as usual, has the cute-o-meter pegged. Kevin Kline did an admirable job of faking a French accent. It didn't necessarily sound real, but it served the role well. A Frenchman might disagree, but, well, who cares what the French think? Also, in a small role, Jean Reno was excellent. A thoroughly enjoyable light comedy. Grade B+  "}{"Title":"Inexplicably Alluring","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Permit me to preface this comment with a bold proclamation I am powerless before the angelic Meg Ryan. Her exquisite beauty is in itself sufficient justification to rent this film. As far as I am concerned, she is a paragon, a peerless beauty, the absolute height of humanity. To speak rather candidly, I cannot by any conceivable stretch imagine that I represent this film's demographic target. I say this not to slight or disparage, but rather to qualify the confession now unfolding from me. Initially, I was drawn to this film (which to my good fortune is owned by my younger sister) only by Meg Ryan. She represented a force before which I yielded happily and humbly. However, as I began to revisit it numberless times, I became quickly captivated by the film's personality, charm and character. Lable this last as you will, banal sentimentality or stock platitude, but I cannot help but be engaged by this film. It is in virtually all respects intoxicating and enchanting. Kevin Kline's comedic delivery is superb and Meg Ryan has forged an indelible image in this movie goer's perception of archetypal beauty - may the Venus de Milo crack and crumble. Evidently, this film is not a profound or thematically laden venture, nor does it for a moment masquerade as one. The contrived moments and other attendant weaknesses may by myriad and manifold, but a certain aura is exuded, a reverential holy glow that never fails to overwhelm me. I watch this film ceaselessly (and Meg Ryan breathlessly).  "},{"Title":"An excellent movie!","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I admit it, I was a little unenthusiastic the first time I saw this movie, but I saw it again and loved it.  I've now seen it about a hundred times, and it just gets better each time!  There's just such fast and clever dialogue throughout the movie that makes the characters so colorful, but you don't really appreciate it until you've seen the whole thing once.  And you miss a lot of the under-the-breath muttered comments the first time that are just hysterical.  If you didn't like this movie very much, see it again. If you still don't like it, you must be TRYING to not like it. "},{"Title":"Any fun in 'Bob'?","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  You know that english can be spoken in many different ways? Right, do you remember those laughs that you had while explaining yourself?You know that people behave differently in different parts of the world? Right, do you remember the awkward situations that this can lead to?Those feelings will come up while watching this movie. These small things are not the main issue in the movie, there's the plot, the hilarious dialogue, the french thing and all the other stuff. But if you ever were in a similar situation, you will enjoy this movie. "},{"Title":"One of my all-time favorites","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sure, it isn't Casablanca - but it doesn't try to be.  It is a romantic comedy very well-cast with Meg Ryan and Kevin Kline (who manages to seem French even when he is walking down a hillside) and a good supporting cast, especially Jean Reno.  Unlike many movies in this genre, the plot actually has some logic to it.  Kevin Kline sticks close to Meg because she has something he needs to recover and the inevitable friction at the start of their relationship is made believable - their characters are two very different people.This movie doesn't try to be more than it is.  You know where it is going to end - it is the journey that is so much fun.  If you like romantic comedies, this one is a must-see.  You'll love it.  Howl's Guarantee. ) "},{"Title":"Kevin Kline and Meg Ryan shine in this highly entertaining romantic comedy filmed in south France.","Date":"20 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Along with several other friends, we spent 2 weeks in the south of France (Provence) in 1998, so this nice romantic comedy has an inside track to our affections. Ryan's fiancee (Tim Hutton), doctor, goes to France on business, later calls and says he has fallen for a French girl and isn't coming back. Ryan didn't go with him because of her fear of flying. However, this news gets her on the plane, she is resolved to win him back.She becomes seated next to a typical rude Frenchman (Kline) on the plane, he is smuggling a grape vine and an expensive necklace into France, puts it is her knapsack to clear customs. They get separated at the airport, but he catches up with her at the hotel she told him she would be at. However, she fainted when she saw her finacee with the Frenchie, and her luggage and knapsack are stolen by a professional thief that Klein happens to know. He finds the thief, the knapsack, the grapevine, but no necklace. Ryan takes off for Nice and Cannes to find Hutton. Klein follows her.She has lactose intolerance, eats too much cheese on the train, they have to stop in a small town, which happens to be Klein's hometown. They meet some relatives, he shows her his dream of his vineyard. In Cannes they meet up with Hutton, he is amazed at what a changed person she is, she realizes it was through knowing Klein that she grew out of her shell, the stolen necklace ends up around her neck, she turns it in to the police, gets her $45,000 life savings wired from home, gives it to Klein pretending it was from sale of the necklace to Cartier.Since she was between foresaking her American citizenship and applying for Canadian citizenship, but her passport and papers were lost, and she is a woman without a nation, she stays in France with Klein. This movie confirms my opinion that Kevin Klein is perhaps the best comedic actor alive, and even sings the closing song, sounding much like maurice Chevalier. The reparte' between him and Ryan is just so much fun. Ryan plays basically the same character she usually does, typified by her role in When Harry Met Sally, but she always does a fine job. This movie is so much fun, and so well done, I rate it 8 of 10. "},{"Title":"meg ryan and kevin kline just irresistible!!","Date":"13 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  just watch this film and all i can say is how can someone not love Meg Ryan?? She's just in it...I mean she looks great in that short hair style and her warm funny personality. She did it better and better in every single film that require her to do such thing....Like Sleepless in Seattle and You've Got Mail. Kevin Kline is kinda new to me, I watched Dave and this one so far but I agree that he's one of underrated actor out there. I dont know much about the autenthicity of his French accent but it sounds great to me. The scenery itself is great! Paris and vineyard somewhere in the heartland of French is amazing. I will buy it of course but not now, I will enjoy this again and again.... "},{"Title":"Don't miss the soundtrack recording","Date":"29 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is an excellent film. I have seen it several times since it's release and never tire of it. Other than the adult theme it would have been suitable for family viewing.  Well casted, and a good mix of both romance and comedy. The casual observer may not catch the best part of the movie, it's soundtrack. Kevin Kline does an outstanding vocal rendition of La Mer. Cole Porter, Ella Fitzgerald, Louis Armstrong, Van Morrison, and others.. How could one ignore this gem? "},{"Title":"Meg and Kevin are a great pair!","Date":"14 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's amazing how 2 people who look so different and are so different in height can create such a great romantic pairing. The viewer doesn't get to see them as a couple in love for very long, but isn't that the way all the great movies do it?  It really entices me to see more of these 2 in the future. "},{"Title":"Best Romantic Comedy I've ever seen....","Date":"13 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  How can you go wrong with two such amazing actors as Meg Ryan and Kevin Kline?  They are hilarious in this movie.  This was my first Kevin Kline movie, after which followed In and Out, and I couldn't believe it was the same guy!  This movie definitely deserves a higher rating than is on this site. "},{"Title":"A great movie","Date":"29 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Meg Ryan was one of my favorite actresses before French Kiss and after watching the movie, she moved up to the number one slot in my book.After seeing this movie, I had to go to France and follow in some of Kate's (Meg Ryan) footsteps.  I stayed in the same hotel she stayed in when she arrived in Cannes and took pictures next to where she ever so gracefully falls over the pastry cart! (Carlton Intercontinental Hotel - Cannes)This movie will have you laughing and smiling.  The plot is good and the scenery is beautiful.  A must see.  If you enjoyed this movie and if you enjoy romantic movies that take place in Europe, I recommend also seeing Only You (1994 - Marissa Tomei, Robert Downey Jr.) "}{"Title":"As always, Meg Ryan's performance is warm and comforting and allows us all the chance to believe that storybook love still occurs","Date":"24 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Meg Ryan's movies are eternally comforting and comfortable.  While her ability to act cannot be denied, she allows us to feel that she is very everyday ... very earthy ... very relative to the lives that the majority of us lead.  In this film, while not as stirring as You've got Mail, Sleepless in Seattle, or When Harry Met Sally, she remains true to the Meg Ryan we have all grown to know and admire.   "},{"Title":"Meg Ryan... Do I need to say more?","Date":"29 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  French Kiss is a wonderful romantic comedy starring the always-lovely Meg Ryan. She always does great job, how could you not like her???? She´s really my favorite actress in the world! Anyway, this movie is not as good as, say, Sleepless In Seattle or You´ve Got Mail but it´s still worth watching.I give this 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A jilted girlfriend flies to France to win back that man she loves.","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is one of the only good romantic comedies out there.  This movie takes the simple tale of one person chasing after the ex-lover who no longer wants to be in a relationship and turns it into a funny, touching story. Ryan puts in an excellent performance with her classic expressions that conceal nothing.  If the sexual tension between the two main characters, Luc and Kate, could be bottled, it would solve the energy crisis. It is an excellent movie to watch with a significant other (because of the light, sweet romance) but also a movie to watch with a friend.  "},{"Title":"In the vein of Sleepless in Seattle","Date":"11 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie does everything a screwball comedy should--and does it very well, indeed.It has a fairy-tale plot, two very charming leads, beautiful scenery and locations, and plenty of laughs and  warm-fuzzies. If you liked Sleepless in Seattle or A Fish Called Wanda, I recommend this film.Enjoy!  I did...! "},{"Title":"Best Film of 1995","Date":"11 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Meg Ryan is her usual self but more charming, more elegant and funnier than ever. Kevin Kline puts on yet another excellent ethnic mask and works brilliantly with it. They are an amazing tandem. The movie gives us a great love story without being gushy, satire without being mean spirited and makes us laugh throughout. The two characters are well defined early and are brilliant foils of one another. The acting is great and the good times don't stop.  "},{"Title":"Lovely!","Date":"24 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is THE best Meg Ryan movie ever. She is so lovely, and Kevin Kline is so charming and funny as the French man Luc. It's hard to believe he's not French when you see the character. Lovely, funny movie, with beautiful French settings, a must-see for people who are not crazy about romantic comedies because there are so many silly ones out there -- but this was quite a pleasant surprise.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful and Funny.  I have watched it over 20 times!","Date":"19 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of those movies that every time you watch it you find something new and funny you missed the previous time.  Meg Ryan and Kevin Kline are excellent for the roles!  Every line has a great punch and comeback. Every line in the movie was craftily written.   A must see multiple times! "},{"Title":"Cute little movie.","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have watched French Kiss several times because I have the video  tape. The plot is not exactly sophisticated and it is highly unlikely that Kate Meg Ryan (You've Got Mail) would fall in love with someone like Luc Teyssier Kevin Kline (A Fish Called Wanda) because she is too wise for that. But I enjoyed the music and the photography. Kevin Kline sings La Mer after the movie ends. I like Lawrence Kasdan (The Accidental Tourist, The Big Chill).  French Kiss is a good movie for a snowy day, it is a feel good, cute little movie. I recommend it! My favorite Scenes Kate hiding behind trees and trays of pastry in the restaurant where her ex-fianceé is with his new girl friend and family. That scene made me think of Lucille Ball. Is is something that Lucy would do.My favorite quote Kate's friend You guys are crazy, I am never going to buy a house or anything else worth anything!  Kate Why not?  Friend Because you think you owe something like that and it end up owing you, and then one day someone forgets to put out their cigarette and it all burns to the ground.                                          "},{"Title":"Adorable Film","Date":"28 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just have to say that this is my all time favorite romantic movie. It's smart, funny, and charming. Meg Ryan and Kevin Kline are wonderful and hilarious. It's not a sappy love story so the guys will enjoy it too. Cute. Funny. Simple. A Delight. What else could you ask for? "},{"Title":"See it!","Date":"19 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This light-hearted film was full of laughs, tender moments, and had the essential ingredient for a great film the transformation of a character through love. Meg Ryan has hilarious at times what a great comedienne. Although some say Kevin Kline didn't pull it off as a Frenchman -I disagree. He was French! I wasn't distracted nor did I care if his accent wasn't 100% during the entire movie. Jean Reno was wonderful as the compassionate cop! It's always a pleasure to see him.I loved this film. It's uplifting, funny, and the scenery was magnificent. "}{"Title":"Exactly why Meg Ryan is a movie star&#133;&#133;&#133;&#133;..","Date":"15 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The premise is a bit far-fetched, but the French scenery is beautiful, although Kevin Kline's French accent is not.But  watch this film anyway, as Meg Ryan earns every buck and  almost single-handedly carries this film. Don't get me wrong, Kevin Kline is fine (but ooh is that accent annoying) and Tim Hutton's destructive tendencies are minimized here.There is a wonderful chemistry between the two principals, the story allows each to pursue their own goals throughout, but of course we know where they'll be in the end. And we would want it no other way.How can you not love Ms. Ryan? Her character's trademark seems to be their availability, and it serves her well here. Kline plays the con-with-the-heart like its second hand to him, he's not yet to old for us to appreciate the mischievous gleam in his eyes.Nice little romance, what's not to love?   "},{"Title":"Extremely entertaining","Date":"3 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Wonderful movie, funny, entertaining, and great shots of one of the most beautiful cities in the world.  Kevin Kline's performance is truly wonderful, and right on. Truly a gifted actor.  Meg Ryan; wonderful as always. "},{"Title":"Un comédie très bien!","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Meg Ryan does her little cute thing in this lovely romantic comedy that also stars a hilarious Kevin Kline as the Frenchman who tries to help her win back her fiancé.  It was extremely enjoyable, sparkling from start to finish.  "},{"Title":"Kevin Kline does it again","Date":"11 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Once again Kevin Kline shows his unequaled talent. He should have several Oscars by now, but he makes it look so easy. Soapdish and I love you to Death are prime examples of comedy at its best. Kevin Kline makes these movies. He is a talent. Sally Field and the others are a comedic force in this wild movie. "},{"Title":"If you like romance and France, then this is for you!","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've seen this film twice, and I have to say it was even better the second time round. Both Meg Ryan and Kevin Kline give stunning performances- Kevin Klines's French character difficult to like at first, but our hearts warm to him. It's very hard to believe that he isn't French.Meg Ryan, on the other hand, plays a fragile young woman, who goes to France on the spur of the moment to search for her unfaithful fiancé. Basically, if you enjoyed her acting in 'When Harry Met Sally', you'll love her in this. Kate's character is relevantly similar to that of Sally's- torn apart.The film contains very pretty scenes of Paris, which only adds to the brilliant structure. Well worth a see. "},{"Title":"wonderful","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  meg and kevin turn out the best performances with kevin almost outdoing meg with his accent.  but meg steals it. the only thing i did not like was timothy hutton.  he was awful.  hilarious great script and great visuals "},{"Title":"Very amusing, very charming movie with great acting from the two stars","Date":"18 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Possible spoiler.....Kevin Kline as a Frenchman? I was intrigued. And yes, he does it perfectly so far as I - not being French but having been there often - can ascertain. I see he was born in Missouri so I assume he must be bi-lingual? What a fun story!The reason I don't give this movie 9 is that the Canadian boyfriend's French interest doesn't get enough attention - it becomes clear eventually that she has a story to tell but we have only a hint of it and I found this frustrating. At first she seems just a ruthless bimbo- fiancé-snatcher, but when Kline's character talks to her we see she's far from that, truly is in love with the berk, she's not as young as she first seemed and she's certainly not objectionable at all - there's such a poignancy about her, very well acted, finally giving the actress a chance to show her quality yet in a few moments that scene's over and we learn no more. I immediately wanted to know more about her along with wondering why this intelligent girl was wasting herself on a twerp the actual heroine is clearly well rid of - so the French girl's past must explain this. Unfortunately the movie doesn't deliver on the other woman beyond this one brief moment, a major disappointment. On the other hand, she does it seems get what she was longing for, which is good.I'm not sure whether we're supposed to feel for the Canadian boyfriend, that he couldn't help changing his allegiance, or to despise him. I felt the actor wasn't sure which angle to put over, another reason for this movie failing for me to achieve 9 or 10.A mention though for the thief's policeman friend - a very good subplot. This movie's a not to be missed, with a lot of laughs and a very engaging story line, enhanced by the fine French settings and a splendid finale. Notice the dress Meg Ryan is wearing in that last scene - so evocative, simply perfect........ "},{"Title":"A Poor Man's Dirty Rotten Scoundrels","Date":"10 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Starring Meg Ryan, Kevin Kline, and Timothy Hutton, this is a most enjoyable little film. If you can get past the first few minutes and bear another mousy-type and phobia-driven performance by Meg, this is a nice way to pass the time. In fact, her peculiarities make her character so real, one really understands and sympathizes with her and can put themselves in her position. Kline is very believable as a french man, and their chemistry comes off surprisingly well. The only reason I didn't give this more than a 6 is because, while it is charming and enjoyable, I couldn't help feeling that there are a whole lot more romantic comedies that French Kiss couldn't even compare to. This almost feels like a poor man's Dirty Rotten Scoundrels with a little bit of romance thrown in for good measure. "},{"Title":"it is the best","Date":"13 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw this movie in the front room of my house, a few years ago on VHS video. I watched it with mummy, who sat next to me drinking tea throughout and weeping into a box of tissues. I laughed. Mummy simply stared back at me with her mascara stained cheeks, and returned to her cup of tea, slurping noisily at the contents. What a noise! I said through puffed cheeks, but mummy laughed at me and continued to slurp. Again, I muttered what a noise under my breath, and then mummy wee'ed herself and blushed profusely. Spike the cat wee'ed himself too, and I was so amazed by what was happening, that I turned the TV off. Mummy was sad, but Spike laughed and I laughed too, and because i laughed so much, Mummy laughed too. Sad, happy said mummy. "},{"Title":"Trading Timothy For Kevin","Date":"24 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Meg Ryan, until fairly recently, had a lock on the role of adorable, gamin urban types, be they opposite Billy Crystal or Tom Hanks (except in JOE VS THE VOLCANO). Here she played the part opposite Kevin Kline, who demonstrated his acting abilities by doing a French accent in his character of Luc. The results worked well again if not (perhaps) as well as in WHEN HARRY MET SALLY or YOU'VE GOT MAIL or SLEEPLESS IN SEATTLE. The interesting part of this film is a drop in chemistry - which works for the film but also works against it. I'll get into this in a moment.The plot is simple Ryan has been living in Canada with her boy-friend/fiancé Timothy Hutton. But Hutton meets Susan Anbeh, a French woman, and finds his hormones rushing. Hutton leaves Ryan and takes off with Anbeh. Furious, Ryan decides to follow and confront them. But she really is more angry than organized, and she does not quite know what she is doing.On the plane trip she meets Kline, a Frenchmen with itineraries of his own. He has a piece of hot jewelry that he is willing to sell abroad for a tidy sum which he needs to create his own dream. It seems he wants to own a vineyard and develop his own brands of wine. Ryan is slowly tied into his plans and life (she learns why his family despises him), and he in turn helps her with confronting Hutton and Anbeh.The latter plot is to make the Hutton - Anbeh alliance shakier than it is to convince both partners that they can do better. Kline trains Ryan in developing a personality that can lure back Hutton by showing a slight coldness to him (an unapprochacility), while Kline dines with Anbeh, and reminds her of what she is giving up in native born Frenchmen by accepting the puppy dog like Hutton. For the purposes of the plot the scheme does work a bit, though it really does not destroy the Hutton - Anbeh alliance. Hutton is tempted by Ryan, but she suddenly pulls the rug from under him, making him see his own immaturity. The odd thing is this is a weakness as well as a strength. Hutton does his role well as a fellow who lets his penis dictate, but he just lacks the chemistry on screen one sees between Ryan and Kline. One can't understand why Ryan's character put up with this weak sister for so long (even though she is willing to - as she puts it - put down roots in a home life with a man she loves). It is the one weakness in the film, and prevents me from giving it more than an 8.The film has some nice parts - Ryan for instance discovering how she loves French cheese too much (as she finds to her cost). Kline certainly manages to fit American popular views of French males self - satisfied and strong viewed.Also to note is Jean Reno as a wise French police inspector who helps Ryan (in the end) to get the jewelry back to it's owners, and make Kline think he got paid for the stolen jewelry. On the whole it is a good little comedy worth watching. "}{"Title":"A pleasant and diverting romance provided your expectations aren't too high","Date":"23 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Timothy Hutton wants to take his fiancée, Meg Ryan, with him on a trip to Paris. However, she's deathly afraid to fly and refuses to go. Unfortunately, shortly after he arrives, he meets and falls in love with another woman. When Ryan finds out, she forces herself to board a plane and goes to Paris--with the intention of getting Hutton back. Along the way, she meets up with a fast-talking crook, Kevin Kline, and her plans don't go exactly as she expected.It's hard to love the movie FRENCH KISS, though it is a diverting little romantic-comedy. The reason is that although the movie does a great job of setting the right romantic mood, the characters are so flawed that the whole package just doesn't make sense. Now if you can turn off your brain and not think about the plot and character holes, you'll no doubt enjoy the film much more.So what is it, exactly, that I didn't like? Well, it was really very tough to like the characters. To begin with, Kline was a habitually lying thief. Then, Ryan was so neurotic and so needy that you wondered what man would want her. After all, the man who was engaged to her dumps her and yet she goes to Paris to beg him to return! What a wiener!! As for Hutton, he was a total slug....period. And for his new girlfriend, she was no better.Despite all this, there is lots of lovely music, nice scenery and Kevin Kline did an amazing job playing a French man, though I do wonder why they just didn't have the supporting actor, Jean Reno, play the part. After all, he is French and is quite the leading man in France. But no matter. This is pleasant and undemanding fare--nothing more and nothing less. "},{"Title":"The Best Love Story in the City of Love","Date":"31 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is my favorite Love story. Kate (Meg Ryan) has discovered that her fiancé has fallen in love with another woman in Paris, France. Kate flies over to try to get him back (even though she has one of the biggest fears of flying) but along the way she meets this Frenchman, Luc (Kevin Kline), who is a type of crook. They meet on the flight to France and start talking about Kate's situation. Luc tries to help Kate get her fiancé back but they, Kate and Luc, realized that they have fallen for each other after all they've been through together. The situations that they go through together is full of fun, laughs and romance. The whole French city setting for this romantic-comedy is perfect for the love story that anyone would enjoy. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"24 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  French Kiss is in my opinion a classic, one of those movies you can watch over and over. That says a lot for me because I am not one to watch something more than twice. I love this movie Meg Ryan and Kevin Kline have great chemistry, it was very believable. Their banter was fun and did not leave a bad taste in my mouth (like some). The only thing that was not up to par is her relationship with her fiancé'. I did not completely believe she was really in love with him. It dose not matter because that not what the movie focuses on.(the two main characters). This is the first movie I have seen with Kevin Kline which is a shame howeverr I am a fan now. The plot and flow of the movie keep me interested, a good romantic comedy.  "},{"Title":"Memorize the script and get the soundtrack...","Date":"21 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The quick wit and chemistry of Kline and Ryan is outstanding. Reno and Hutton are also due kudos for their timing and excellence. The careful viewer/listener will find themselves in love with everything about French Kiss.French Kiss is on my A List for light, happy, romantic comedy. I watch it every chance I get. All the actors make me smile and laugh and want to visit with their characters over and over again just because it's nice to see them.Buy the soundtrack. It's fabulous with Fitzgerald and Armstrong and just so many other great pieces to hum and dance to.  Each track brings you back to that part of the film and the smiles come back time and time again. "},{"Title":"Kevin Kline is perfect in this!","Date":"19 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  He's one of my all-time favorites. And he's certainly one of the most diverse and unique talents out there.The movie itself is charming, light and silly. There's nothing unexpected from Meg Ryan, though she is precious and always captures my heart. But Kevin really made this movie worthwhile for me. I smile just thinking about it. To me, watching it is like the feeling of being winked at by his character, Luke. Ahh, to find a man like him would be wonderful! A man who's lived through things that he's gained wisdom from but is rough around the edges and still fun and crazy...and has what really counts - a good heart.Well, this is degenerating into a personals ad so it's time for me to stop. But let me say that if you are a fan of classy old-fashioned romantic comedies, take the time to watch this one. It's a real gem! "},{"Title":"No other actress should ever have to work so hard...","Date":"4 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Meg Ryan gives a cracking good comedic performance as a woman jilted by her fiancé, flying from Canada to Paris, France to retrieve him, but finding love instead with a scruffy French thief. However, she's the only good thing in the film, which is an underwhelming, cookie-cutter paste-up job. Lawrence Kasdan directs in flighty, old-fashioned spirits, but he can't do much with a sub-plot about the thief's many indiscretions, nor with the detective on his tail(how original), another thief who steals Meg's luggage, a missing passport which never turns up, a stolen necklace, and Meg's life savings of $45K that gets handed over too easily. Not enough attention is paid to the details, but since the romantic angle of the story takes a long while to get its flame on High, what else can we wonder about? Ryan is terrific, tossing off wisecracks and nonchalant witticisms, but she has to carry this faux-bauble a long way to the predictable finish line...and no actress should ever again be made to cartwheel over a dessert tray for a laugh, and then scamper crazily around on the floor splattered with sweets. "},{"Title":"An American mockery","Date":"13 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This comedy, in a long tradition of American movies poking fun at the French and recently revived in Le Divorce starring another ditz blonde, made me laugh. The movie is full of clichés about the French and the Americans alike with the most obvious national quirks being drawn out for maximum laughs. Although I saw some of myself in the character played by Kevin Kline (the driving in particular), I have yet to meet Americans and French who are like Meg Ryan or Kevin Kline' s characters. From the first encounter, we know they will ultimately end up together and, in that sense, the movie is rather predictable but the film offers a series of vignettes that makes us laugh and cringe at the same time but don' t expect that kind of fairytale -or is it horror story?- next time you travel to France. "},{"Title":"Cute and average","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Average romantic comedy with average production and performances and delivers typical Holywood romance comedy goods.The Paris setting was nice but nothing spectacular.This movie will satisfy fans of the genre.Some plotholes may irritate attention to detail audiences.Only for fans of the genre and big fans of the lead actors......   "},{"Title":"BAD","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sometimes I think that these raving reviewers must have points on the films because I keep putting out my money to rent films based on great reviews here in IMDB and they are dogs.  This is one example. I love Kevin Kline and Meg Ryan.  How could they do this to them?  Kevin Kline was so despicable I could smell him from where I sat and Meg was just plain ditzy.  I couldn't and didn't even want to try to imagine them together.  This film was not funny, it was annoying.  Sorry, but I'd suggest you just watch Sleepless in Seattle or When Harry Met Sally again for the 10th time rather than bother with this one. Or maybe In and Out or Dave. You'll be better off. "},{"Title":"Romantic Riot, Even for the Men","Date":"22 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Loved him, loved her, loved the movie. Kline is great, you forget he is not really French, Ryan is adorable (as always) and the plot was interesting and funny enough to keep even my husband glued.  For the ladies, watch Kline when he kisses Ryan in the end during the credits, whoa!  I'm blushing. I always wanted a guy to kiss me that way. I bought the movie just for that kiss and I now believe that Kevin Kline must be the best kisser in all the world. Phoebe Cates (his wife) is the only one who really knows, lucky dog. "}{"Title":"Dull. Klein's French thug just about saves the day","Date":"30 September 2004","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I watched this movie yesterday and I have to say it is one of the worst romantic comedies I have ever seen.The story is dull and far more predictable than even the genre would allow, the characters are unbelievable and that of Meg Ryan so irritating there is no way to identify with her or with Klein's belated liking for her. Aside from a few funny scenes at the beginning, the humour is tired as are the dialogues. Klein's talent (his portrait of a Frenchman is convincing) is wasted, and so is that of Reno in a meaningless role.Sometimes you may forgive a comedy for being dumb, or just not too funny, if it is light and reasonably entertaining. But with this, I was bored to death and couldn't wait for it to finish. I was left with the impression that I had to sit through a very very long film, but I suspect it may be a standard duration feature...  "},{"Title":"Fair Entertainment...","Date":"15 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Lawrence Kasdan's 'French Kiss' is a film, that offers Fair Entertainment. But if you take it too seriously and if you go inn with huge expectations, chances are you might come out with a frown.'French Kiss' is a Romantic-Comedy, where A woman flies to France to confront her straying fiancé, but gets into trouble when the charming crook seated next to her, uses her for smuggling.Adam Brooks's Writing in the first hour is entertaining, and manages to hold your attention thoroughly. But, in the second hour, it falters, especially during it's finale. Though it comes up with a innovative idea to disclose it's final act, the impact seems to be missing. But, again, it doesn't really leave you angry or really disappointed. Lawrence Kasdan's direction is fair. Cinematography & Editing are good.Performance-Wise Meg Ryan is Excellent, and quite frankly delivers one of her finest performances in here. Kevin Kline as a Frenchman, gets his accent and pronunciation right, and entertains in the goings-on. Timothy Hutton is passable. Jean Reno is dependable, as always. Suzan Anbeh is alright.On the whole, Watch it on a Lazy Sunday After-Noon. "},{"Title":"A case for the suspension of disbelief........................","Date":"14 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" French Kiss is a movie that dares to be optimistic about humankind,that says perhaps love IS all you need(well,love and 45,000 dollars,anyway)and you never,ever know when it's going to hit you between the eyes.It is what it is,entertainment designed to make you come out of theatre happier than when you went in as opposed to deeply depressed,homicidal or suicidal.This is a Good Thing.Entertainment movies are not supposed to be like Real Life,most of us have our work cut out dealing with that on a daily basis without paying several pounds to sit in the dark and watch it play out on the screen,merely reinforcing our sense of powerlessness and futility.For a little while let's enjoy the fantasy that pretty American girl Miss M.Ryan can meet scruffy Frenchman Mr .K.Kline on a plane by serendipity and end up owning a vineyard with him.Where's the harm in that?And if a tear sneaked down my cheek at the end,well,I guess a man is allowed to blub in the dark if nobody sees him,just like he did at Babe and Titanic.Shameless manipulation?Certainly.One of the reasons I watch movies (and you too,I suspect)is to experience their power to manipulate my emotions.I may not have believed a single scene in French Kiss,but I enjoyed every minute of it.Miss Ryan could probably do feisty/sensitive/tomboy/innocent/sweet charmer in her sleep but there's no denying she's bloody good at it. Assuming she's not a 24/7 feisty/sensitive/tomboy/innocent/sweet charmer in real life she must be one of the most consistently first - class actresses in Hollywood.Mr Kline has the working class Parisien accent down to a T and he is absolutely right as the perversely attractive down - at - heel rather feckless Copin.In Real Life she would have moved seats as soon as he sat next to her on the plane,but who cares about Real Life.....this is the movies,and I loved it. "},{"Title":"lovely lovely lovely","Date":"5 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" at first french kiss is one of my favorite movies! the reasons especially meg and kevin. meg's character kate is so cute and funny and i can totally understand her! i would also try to get my boyfriend back! she doesn't seem strong and a little bit childish but i think she is brave and she manages this horrible situation in a defenseless way which i think is really sweet. yes, and then there is kevin. he really enchanted me from the first moment on! i think he playes his character in a very convincing way and his accent is so good! and by the way HE IS SO SEXY.... i would love to meet a guy like him. kate made the right decision luc is much better than charlie her boyfriend! last but not least i dream of kevin kissing me like meg in the end scene since i saw this great movie for the first time... "},{"Title":"Meg Ryan is a rare talent","Date":"17 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Meg Ryan is the queen of romantic comedies because she is the onlyactress alive who can be incredibly beautiful and hilariously goofy atthe same time. She's charming, naive, worldy, ballsy and sexy. She'stotally feminine and 'one of the guys' simultaneously. And the fact thatthere could even a remote possiblity that would fall for the scruffyKevin Kline makes her an incredibly believable actor "},{"Title":"Err?(small spoilers)","Date":"28 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am shocked this movie has such a low rating on this database, and I do consider a 6.4 low for this movie.  This is probably the greatest romantic comedy of the 90's!  I watch this movie over and over again and never get tired of it, and I HATE romantic comedies, besides those starring Audrey Hepburn(Sabrina and Breakfast at Tiffany's).  Kevin Kline is absolutely fantastic as the dirty Frenchman (forgive my American stereotype) and Meg Ryan is as cute and adorable as ever.  The humor is nonstop and quite witty(I especially love when she gets the eifel tower statue and says it reminded her of him - hilarious stuff!)  This movie does not fall into that banal, overdone romantic-comedy trap with the ever-so funny sidekicks and two overly likeable protagonists destined for each other.  The humor is focused on the actions of these two unlikely companions set against an unusually entertaining(for a romantic comedy)storyline of theft and lost love.  They are both faulted individuals who find self-fulfillment in each other's existence.  And you still like them for all their peccadillos.  I hope everyone gets a chance to see this movie, it is one of the classics of the 90's. "},{"Title":"It tries too hard from time to time","Date":"22 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" You know what I was first thinking after I had seen this movie how many movies like this have I actually seen in the recent past? That's right, this movie hasn't got much original to offer and in a time in which the streets seem to be paved with romantic comedies, that's not always a good thing...When the man that she loves is in Paris with another woman, Kate is determined to win him back. She hates flying and to make things worse, the man next to her is an obnoxious French criminal named Luc who uses her to smuggle a diamond necklace out of the country. He pretends to be a gentleman, even shows her some parts of the city, but is in reality only interested in the jewelry that he desperately tries to get back.Of course this movie is full of stereotypes, but for once that didn't bother me. This is a comedy and in my opinion a lot of jokes come from the way how we see other cultures. So in that perspective, I can only say that it is funny to see how the French are depicted as obnoxious and arrogant people, how their cheeses are believed to only give you spasms... Even the acting in the movie was quite nice. Kevin Kline for instance was excellent as the gentleman thief Luc and the other actors did a good job too. But all those positive aspects never made me completely forget about the fact that some of the humor was completely over-the-top. From time to time it all started to look a little bit too much like a cheap farce and that's the main thing that I really didn't like about this movie. Still, despite the fact that this isn't the most original romantic comedy and even though it sometimes tries too hard to be funny, it certainly isn't the worst example in the genre. That's why I give this movie a 6.5/10. "},{"Title":"Why would anybody travel all the way to Europe to chase a cheating husband?","Date":"12 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I really don't know why I wanted to see this movie, but I think it is because the cover looked cool so I sought of put it onto my want to see list. It wasn't all that crash hot, more of what one would call a chick flick. I am not entirely against chick-flicks, but there are films that have style and films that don't, and I'm afraid that French Kiss doesn't.Basically this woman's fiancé goes to France and then decides that he will fall in love with a woman there and break off the engagement to her. She decides to go over there to try and patch up the marriage, but she isn't really allowed to leave until her citizenship comes through. She leaves anyway and when she looses everything, she cannot return because the Canadians don't want her and the Americans are offended that she would rather live in Canada than in America.Anyway, everything seems bad, but this one guy who is a petty thief decides to help her out to get her fiancé back, but one wonders why one would want a fiancé back when he dumped you for a woman he just met. She wants security and believes that this guy will give her security. What she needed to do though was learn to take risks. She really did not want to take any risks, she simply wanted back what was familiar, but soon comes to realise that the familiar is not all that worth it. So in the end she takes the risk and goes for the guy that she really did not know all that well and knew was a petty thief. "},{"Title":"Misfire","Date":"28 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The film looks super on paper. A romantic comedy in which a frantic lover gets dragged into a smuggling thriller should be generic cross-breeding gold, especially with this excellent romcomic cast.I'm afraid Lawrence Kasdan simply gives his two stars too much rope though and they duly go and hang themselves. Adam Brooks' script may well be to blame but you'd expect better from the Kevin Kline of A Fish Called Wanda. Instead the two ping-pong off one another and the unlikely burgeoning romance is never reconciled satisfactorily with the reason either of them are in and dashing around France.Jean Reno co-stars amiably as the cop-with-a-heart and I guess wishes he was a star-with-a-part. Mind you he went on to do those Pink Panther remake(s!) so perhaps he was OK with this... 3/10 "},{"Title":"those with low standards will like this","Date":"6 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have to admit that Meg Ryan is a likable star with plenty of comic shtick to call on.. But she really flounders in this. The problem is that although there are some potentially funny situations, the dialog isn't sharp enough and the scenes far from expertly handled. I have to admit it perks up a bit when they get to Cannes, but only to watchable. Offhand, I can remember one funny line, and Kevin Kline is hideous. I hate the fact you have to post a certain number of lines. That really gets on my tits. I wonder if this system is adequately smart enough to detect this. "}{"Title":"French Crass.","Date":"20 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When one is in love one begins by deceiving oneself, one ends by deceiving others. That is what the world calls romance. --Oscar Wilde, The Picture of Dorian Gray.Kate's (Meg Ryan) love-of-her-life, Charlie (Timothy Hutton) travels to France, where he meets his love-of-his-life, thereby leaving Kate. Misbegotten, forlorn, neurotic, rudderless Kate pursues Charlie to France, where she meets an all-new, all-French love-of-her-life, Luc (Kevin Kline). After unfathomably contrived and criminal adventures, Happily Ever After ensues.Kline as Luc is the only watchable thing in FRENCH KISS - besides the glorious Parisian backdrop. The great Jean Reno (LEON, 1992) plays a one-dimensional French cop who allows Luc to evding him because Luc savid hislife once; Hutton is a McGuffin and his high-thighed temptress merely a plot element. And Ryan is so ingenuously irritating and cloying and provincial and desperate and ugly it is no wonder she had that facelift that destroyed her face and career.Timothy Hutton's character does exactly the same thing Warren Beatty does in LOVE AFFAIR 1994 - finds true love on a trip abroad and leaves his current partner to pursue it. Yet this movie makes him the Bad Guy! Even though, like Beatty, he professes his new love is The Real Thing. But true love here is from the dumped partner's point of view ...because my love is there with his slut girlfriend... And true love to Kate is what she has been indoctrinated with in her immature Disney and Brady Bunch culture. She actually says I'm gonna get him back, and I'm gonna make him love me and we are gonna live happily ever after! Free Will, emotions, hormones, pheromones, rationale, reality be damned.Kate meets Luc on the plane. He uses her to unknowingly smuggle a small grapevine into France. This redemptive gimmick only exists to cushion the blow of perceiving him as a one-dimensional thief - the tender side of Luc as he fawns over this vine sapling with which he aims to start a vineyard and Go Legit (of course, his idea of Legit is to illegitimately rip off anyone who could contribute towards his Legit Dream.) We are meant to harken back to this sapling again and again as Luc perpetrates criminal act after criminal act for the sake of love and his dream. While in France, Kate gets her bag stolen, so Luc (at this point, her pseudo-beau) steals a car to recover her bag. But he's so SENSITIVE with that tender sapling and all...Luc is also in possession of a stolen bracelet - but there's that sapling thing...In trying to re-steal his necklace from another con-man, Luc steals a bike. How many people laughed at the owner of the bike running after Luc in fury? Answer Everyone. Because that sapling, oh, that sapling, illustrating his nurturing and caring side...But all that stealing and low crime is simply to kill time while Luc and Kate fall for each other in Paris.Luc calls attention to the woman's weapon - the Pout - where she implies Yes when she means No and says No when she means Yes, leaving her suitor in a state of lustful disarray. How does this appraisal sit with all those High Court Judges and sleek-thighed, mini-skirted temptresses insisting that NoMeansNo? The same audience that laughed at all those wrongful deeds that Luc perpetrated are now faced with either agreeing with this summation of a woman's Asking For It, or dismissing it as film-maker's fancy.Kate is oblivious to the Eiffel Tower, continually missing glimpses of it, until her latent sexual feelings (euphemized in the film as love) rise to the surface. Only when she realises she is falling in love does she notice that BIG PENIS.What we can learn from FRENCH KISS bleary-eyed women will lament, This is how a man should woo me! (Yeah, be a criminal and steal things for me.) Men will view this pathetic farce as education, gleaning the angles women will fall for in The Cultivation. The most valuable lesson any man can learn from any Romantic Comedy is Disguising the fact that the One Thing is prevalent in your mind, is the quickest way to get the One Thing.Movie ends with Luc and Kate strolling through that vaunted vineyard he committed all those crimes to attain. Legitimately, of course.Ain't love grand theft auto?--Review by Poffy The Cucumber (for Poffy's Movie Mania). "},{"Title":"Too Bad two good actors were wasted on this movie","Date":"5 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Kevin Kline and Meg Ryan are among that class of actors which I am always interested in seeing, despite reviews.  I have always found Ms. Ryan to be a charming and winsome actress in nearly all her roles, and Kevin Kline is almost always worth watching.I say nearly and almost in large part because of this movie.First off, Meg Ryan does not play a likeable character, she plays a weak-willed whiner who begins grating on your nerves shortly after the opening credits and doesn't give up until several days later.  That said, Kevin Kline's character is even more annoying and less likeable.  So, even if you normally like these two actors, I recommend your give this movie a pass. "},{"Title":"Paris and Meg Ryan just don't mix.","Date":"23 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" While I have never been a fan of Meg Ryan, I find myself attracted to the films that she is in. Sometimes I just want to sit back and watch American romance comedies &#150; they're usually so much fun. So I watched this, knowing I don't usually like her, hoping that maybe she could change my opinion of her. She didn't.Poor Kevin Kline. This movie could have been really exciting &#150; a reunion with Jamie Lee Curtis would have been perfect &#150; Curtis could have pulled this off with ease. Or how about Jennifer Aniston &#150; a great comedic actress who has the skill for serious drama. But Ryan is just Ryan in this movie I saw her Kate in 'Kate and Leopold' and other Ryan major roles all surface in this flick&#133; and was turned off as usual.There is a strange physical jaunt that she expels in many of the romantic comedies that she is in &#150; in exasperation, she thrusts her arm into the air and bends slightly at the waist rocking back and forth, in an 'Aw &#150; sheesh &#150; damn' kind of rhythm which is so trite and so unnecessary &#150; that she throws at us again in this film. More than once. It is tiring, and too recognizable why should I be reminded of 'Kate and Leopold' or 'When Harry Met Sally' every time I see Ryan?The story is fun and smart, the supporting cast is great. Everyone shines &#150; especially Kevin Kline, whom I don't consider supporting cast, don't get me wrong. He is perfectly cast as the Franco-American with dreams as of yet beyond his grasp. He is sly and wise as a criminal, and gives us the benefit of the doubt throughout this movie. Jean Reno is perfect as his comrade-cum-official.This movie could have been so much more than it is. The French countryside is gorgeous, and you might just wish there was more to the leading lady to complement it. "},{"Title":"Phony as a three-dollar bill.","Date":"8 November 2004","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The premise is ridiculous, the characters unbelievable, the dialogue trite, and the ending absurd. Believe me, I'm a fan of Kevin Kline, but watching him do a Pepe Le Pew accent for 2 hours as a supposed Frenchman is not nearly as amusing as it sounds.For her part, Meg Ryan is once again as perky and adorable as a (take your pick) kewpie doll, baby, puppy, kitten, whatever you happen to think is the cutest creature on earth. She also bears not the slightest resemblance to a real human being.This movie strikes me as an opportunity seized by buddies Lawrence Kasdan and Kline to vacation in Paris and the south of France while being well-paid for it. So I can't really blame them. "},{"Title":"Wow! What a stinker this is!!!","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Un-bleeping-believable! Meg Ryan doesn't even look her usual pert lovable self in this, which normally makes me forgive her shallow ticky acting schtick. Hard to believe she was the producer on this dog. Plus Kevin Kline what kind of suicide trip has his career been on? Whoosh... Banzai!!! Finally this was directed by the guy who did Big Chill? Must be a replay of Jonestown - hollywood style. Wooofff! "}]