[{"Title":"A very low-quality movie","Date":"10 April 2006","Score":"14 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" I gave this movie 3 stars because my (very young) kids seemed to enjoy it, but I really cannot understand how anyone could compare this favorably to Babe the Pig. Babe is a sensitive, entertaining, and even intelligent movie. Gordy is nothing like it. Gordy is cheap, boring, and insulting to anyone with a modicum of intelligence. The acting is poor, the writing predictable, and the hairstyles drove me crazy. It really looked like it was made in 1985 instead of 1995. In contrast, Babe has such a timeless quality about it. My kids don't really like Babe, I assume, because it goes at a slower pace and is not so flashy, but I'm sure that once they are older, they will enjoy it much more than Gordy. Gordy just has no substance. If you are looking for something that you can enjoy with your children, this is not it! "},{"Title":"Made me proud of my daughter","Date":"26 June 2005","Score":"14 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" While visiting family with my four year old daughter we found a video of Gordy and put it on for her. She loves movies, but after about a half-hour she turned to me and said I don't like this pig movie. She loves Babe. It's nice to know she has some taste. The only thing remotely good about this film is Kristy Young, the little girl C&W singer, and the trained piglet seemed like a pretty good swimmer. In the half-hour we watched, the animals never looked like they were talking, the plot was completely uninvolving, and the acting was mediocre at best. One nice thing was finding out the reason that Tom Lester (Eb from Green Acres) never got anywhere with his career. He's a one-note performer. At least Eb had some decent writers. Now my daughter is happily watching The Aristocats. "},{"Title":"It was sorta funny.","Date":"17 September 2014","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" The opening of the movie was kinda boring, so I thought it would be not so good at first, but in the end, it was really funny. I rated this 6/10 about 40 minutes after watching the beginning of the movie because it was getting funnier, but when it got to where Gordy fell in the swimming pool, I decided to change it to an 8/10. When Gordy fell in a swimming pool to save a little boy, I literally laughed my butt off watching Gordy swim. That was the funniest scene I ever saw in this movie. Gordy's voice kinds reminds me of Andy Barclay from Child's Play and Child's Play 2. Gordy's a brave piglet who saved his family from a slaugther house, most piglets would be scared of one. If you're gonna call anything a ripoff, it'd be Spider's Web A Pig's Tale (It was so unspeakably awful, I couldn't last 3 minutes after it. It's a hobo's version of Gordy) or one of South Park's top 10 worst episodes where they ripped off the whole plot by making 4 retarded idiots with annoying voices saving baby cows from a slaugther house (That too, is a hobo's Gordy). "},{"Title":"We need more movies like this!","Date":"16 September 2014","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" This is truly an amazing movie. I KNOW so. Why can't they make more movies like this great gem instead of crap like The Oogieloves and The Boxtrolls? How can you people rate this marvelous masterpiece a 3.8 when The Effing Oogieloves got a 7.3? This belongs in the Top 250! It belongs with The Godfather and The Shawshank Redemption in the Top TEN of the Top 250! You 204 people who gave Gordy a 1/10 rating need new lives! I bet it's the same people who love Sanjay and Craig, Marvin Marvin, and Breadwinners! Or even the same people who hate Liv and Maddie! Have you noticed that? This movie is a lot like Liv and Maddie with it's great focus on family and friendship being more important than fame and fortune! And that very focus on family and friendship also makes it a lot like Lady and the Tramp! We need more movies like this! We really do! The closest thing we got to this in a LONG TIME was last year when we got Frozen! You KNOW this movie is great when at least two people I know like it even better than Frozen! It's true. Grandma and dad both thought that! And it's actually three because I have a friend named Aston who liked it more than Frozen AND Babe! Rating this lower than Breadwinners is no better than The Lion King being rating lower than Toddlers and Tiaras. This movie is wonderful and whoever says otherwise is an absolute idiot! "},{"Title":"Extremely Underrated!","Date":"8 November 2012","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" After reading such negative reviews on here, I just had to step in and write a review! Gordy came out when I was 6, so it was prime time for me. Gordy became one of my favorite movies, along with The Road To El Dorado and The Lion King and many more. Granted Babe was a big hit and a family favorite for many, I would say Gordy is just as good, if not better than Babe. I admit it may be corny to those older than 10, but it definitely a good choice for a young one. The actors are a little cheesy, but the talking animals are too cute. The plot is interesting as the main character, Gordy, is trying to save his family, so of course the story is good for little ones to learn family values. "},{"Title":"Maybe the worse movie of all time","Date":"7 March 2008","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" I sat down with my just turned 5 year old for Family Movie Night and we let him pick this off the free video on demand.Sure the kid loved it, but words cannot describe how awful this movie is. I would rather saw off my head with an electric toothbrush (modified of course) than to watch this movie again.There are so many parts of this movie that are just completely unbelievable, it makes you want to cry (Ignore the fact that the pig talks and humans can understand him....that's the most believable thing in the movie).During one scene, the kid and pig are walking down the road lost when all of the sudden the only people in the entire country that know them pass by them in their RV. Granted this is just some country road and the people in the RV are traveling all over the country singing.Another scene has the bad guys throwing a pig off a couple hundred feet bridge where Cousin Idiot is able to catch the pig in his arms down below without the other people noticing.The wealthy businessman dies and leaves his company to his young grandson. However, because his grandson is too young to run the company, he gives complete control to Gordy. Gordy is a f'ing pig mind you. The pig is then shown interviewed numerous times on stock market / business type shows where the host asks him a question and the pig snorts a few times in response.The entire plot seems like it was generated by some drawing board created by a 3 year old. I cannot imagine how this actually got funding to produce or how badly an actor needed a job to look at this script and say Hell yes, sign me up. "},{"Title":"I LOVED this movie!","Date":"7 September 2006","Score":"12 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" This movie is PERFECT for watching with the whole family! My 3 year old was laughing out loud the WHOLE time!!! My 12 year old loved it just as much as we did. The plot was simple, so that small children could easily follow along with it. Doug Stone as the father was perfect! I can't say enough good things about this movie! And since there is a 10 line min, apparently I'm going to have to find things to say about it. omg I'like feeling dizzy, sorry ya'll but I took a pain pill for an abcessed tooth, and feeling a little light headed. And STILL it won't let me post this comment, Um..it was a cute movie, honestly. Made me chuckle all 12 thousand times I had to watch it. "},{"Title":"A Adventure Fun for The Family","Date":"2 March 2005","Score":"13 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" I love this film. An adventure takes place from a country farm where Gordy's father taken away up North and later learned that his family joined, he tries to find them.The pig makes friends with a daughter of a country music singer (Kristy Young), which country music singer Doug Stone plays her father. Later they make friends with a wealthy family which Gordy saves a wealthy son from the pool.That's a fun movie to watch.Plus country music singers like Christy Lane, Moe Brandy, Roy Clark, and Tom Lester of Green Acres fame appears in this movie as well.I give it 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"cute movie","Date":"3 June 2015","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" This movie is cute and funny. Granted it is unrealistic but so what? It is a kids movie that all ages can enjoy.The pig is very cute as are the two kids. It has some very funny scenes with Gordy in costumes. It also has some good old country music. Boxcar Willy, Jim Stafford and Roy Clark and other country stars appear as themselves. It is a feel good movie with a happy ending. If you need profanity, nudity, sex,violence or rude and disrespectful kids in a movie in order to like it then skip Gordy. It has none of that. The only dirt in this movie is actual dirt on the pigs. Gordy is a good movie for those who like clean, lighthearted family entertainment. "},{"Title":"Gordy's got people!","Date":"6 September 2013","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" The talking pig who made it big has got people here folks! He's just your average adorable little piglet, from a typical farm family. That is, until his family has been taken away! Now he's off on an epic search in the city to find them! Along the way, he makes friends with two kids, and saves one of them from drowning! Gordy becomes famous for his actions of heroism, and becomes the CEO of a business! Eventually, with all the fame Gordy has attracted, he gets his own stamp! Meanwhile, an unscrupulous business man tries to take on Gordy and get rid of him! His henchman are told to kidnap him, tie him in a sack, and toss him in the river! But with the help of his new friends, they all figure out where his family's been taken to (a slaughterhouse in Omaha). They go there and successfully shut the sinister slaughterhouse down once and for all! And in the end, Gordy and his friends and family all get to live together on the farm forever! This seems to be a love-it or hate-it type movie. But I loved it! A sweet story, cute characters, and a precious piglet! This is the most underrated movie ever! It's beautiful and proves that no matter how small you may be, you can always make a difference! And it's NOT a rip-off of Babe. They are just as good and just happen to share some similarities.UPDATE ON September 17 Actually, Spider's Web A Pig's Tale is not a hobo's version of Gordy. It is an in name only mockbuster of Charlotte's Web which just so happened to be released three weeks and three days before the live-action version came out. So, what did they do? That's right, they copied the original animated masterpiece from 1973. Very loosely that is. Hence it's an in name only mockbuster. Also, I never knew South Park ripped off Gordy. And I already hate that show just like you do, for pretty much the same reasons. Look at my list entitled The most overrated shows and movies ever and you'll see my reasons why. And as far as I'm concerned, the real reason Gordy's a great gem of a movie is not because it's funny (although that contributes). No, the real reason it's wonderful is because of its heartwarming story (which is NOT charmless, it's adorable), its lovable characters (come on, you know Gordy's adorable), its wonderful moral messages (I've already touched on this in this review and the one on my other account), and it's just plain entertaining, wholesome family fun. I know a lot of people say it's too dark with the slaughterhouse, but what about Bambi? Or The Lion King? They both feature the death of the most important parent (in Bambi it's the mother, in Lion King it's Simba's father Mufasa). At least Gordy's parents don't die. This is actually one of the few Disney movies where the parents live. Which makes it a lot like Sleeping Beauty, Peter Pan, Tangled, and Mulan. Also, Sleeping Beauty was dark too. And then there's people think this is rip-off of Babe, um, no it's not. Babe's not about a pig having to save his family, Gordy's not about a pig aspiring to become a sheepdog. They're different plots people! Plus Sleeping Beauty was A LOT like Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs, does that make it a rip-off too? And I already mentioned one reason why Lion King and Bambi are alike, but there's more. They both have the Circle of Life theme, they both have the protagonist as next in-line for the throne, they both have the antagonist kill the important parent, there's a fire in both movies, the hyenas assist Scar the same way Man is assisted by hunting dogs, they both have the protagonist fall in love with his childhood best friend, they both have epic battles (like when Scar fights Simba and Bambi fights Ronno), and they even both have the book ends trope! So yeah, you see what I mean? And yet NO ONE has accused Lion King as being a Bambi rip-off. Not that that's what I'm saying, but I'm saying they're more similar plot-wise than this is to Babe. And come on, even shows like Shake it Up and Dog with a Blog have higher ratings than Gordy. WHICH MAKES NO SENSE WHATSOEVER! I already wrote a review of Dog with a Blog explaining why it's awful and SHOULD have been canceled after the first season like Marvin Marvin. But no, they just HAD to renew it for a season season AND a third. It better not last longer than four seasons! If Gordy was a TV show I bet it'd be rated just as high as Regular Show. OK, I'm done with this before I exceed the 1,000 word limit. "}{"Title":"Cute movie","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  I guess it depends on your taste, but I saw this movie when I was 19. I was dragged by parents to see this with my 8 year old brother. I was sucked into the story and found myself enjoying the movie tremendously. I've always recommended the movie to anyone who has little kids. People compare this to Babe a lot since both movies came out at the same time. However, I found that I was bored by Babe, so I guess I'm one of the few people who gives Gordy higher marks than Babe. Some people say the plot is far-fetched or contrived or whatever, but come on, people. It's a movie for little kids. "},{"Title":"wonderful movie heartwarming made me cry","Date":"20 June 2006","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" I love this movie. I love animals especially pigs. It was beautifully written and acted. Gordy and the other pigs were absolutely adorable!!! The music was wonderful!!Those that didn't like it because the animals mouth didn't move to the words!!! so frigging what!!! Use your imagination!!! That's the point of the whole movie!!! A lot of people will say this could never happen in real life so what!!! It's a fantasy and it's a beautiful story!!! By the way I loved Babe too. It's not a matter of one being better than the other. They are two totally different movies and they are both excellent films.They are equal to each other but they tell 2 different stories so please stop comparing them. I think there should be a lot more talking pig movies!!! It's great for children and children at heart!!! One of the ten best movies ever made!!!! yes ever made!!!!and those who don't like go watch one of your dumb movies with bad language, sex, and violence. I am not going to spoil it but it does have a happy ending so that's really sweet!!! "},{"Title":"fantastic","Date":"19 November 2003","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Gordy was a fantastic movie when i watched it. I thought that babe was better. This movie was a similar type to Babe, but this one was a Disney movie as Babe was Universal. Gordy is a Cowboy movie style. i give this movie 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"18 March 2004","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  I can't belive that this failed at the box office!  and only about 120 imdb useres voted on it, and a 3.3! come on, its a good movie. The plot was good, the acting, and the whole movie basicly.  Best Pig movie I have seen.  Its as good as Babe.  I just know that this would be in the bottom 100 if more people would vote on it, Poor Gordy. I Grew up in this film It is a good movie.   I give it a   7 "},{"Title":"Why all the negative comments?","Date":"5 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" I don't get why so many people do not like this movie. I am 29 years old and just rewatched it last night with a friend for the first time since it came out in 1995 and we both loved it.The story of someone trying to save their family and make friends at the same time is always touching. So what if its a talking pig who befriends two young children and takes the nation by storm after saving one of the kid's lives? I found the ending to be extremely touching when Gordy finds his family and the children's parents get married. Doug Stone was fantastic as the father and I still love his singing to this day.Don't watch this movie expecting Aladdin or Beauty and the Beast. Watch it expecting to be entertained and see a family friendly film and you will enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Gordy Review..","Date":"6 April 2006","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" I thought the movie was very cute...I actually don't like babe that much, I like Gordy better...the person that commented and said it was a horrible, well that was their own opinion...if you haven't seen it, then go out and rent it and judge for yourself. The movie is about a pig that is trying to find his family and on the way gets famous. I love the goodnight song that Luke MacAllister sings to his little girl in the film...on the way Gordy finds a few friends (Jenny Sue and Hanky)if you have kids then i suggest this movie...they'll love it...my little brother wont quit watching it...i think tha movie is cute..but you can decide for yourself... "},{"Title":"A Terrible and Pathetic Movie","Date":"27 April 2007","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Gordy is a truly terrible and pathetic movie, and what's unique is that it was released right before Babe. You'd think that would've caused people to confuse the two; yet Babe went on to be a huge hit and get a Best Picture nomination. That really does speak volumes about the quality of Babe.Gordy is just terrible on every level, with a story that is badly put together. Gordy's a talking pig looking for his family. He first gets discovered by a little country girl who sings about checking on your butt (yes, it's true).One day they're at some event for a rich family. The rich little boy can't swim, but instead of being scared of the water, as would be normal, he goes right up to the pool and sits on the diving board! And then, as he's getting up, he's actually surprised that he falls in. Turns out the country girl can't swim either. But wouldn't ya know it, the pig can! So Gordy rescues the little rich boy, and now becomes the world's richest pig.Gordy explains that all animals can really talk, but only simple folks can understand them. This includes innocent children and idiot adults, which becomes an ongoing gag (Cousin Jake is a moron and when the pig talks to him, he can understand! Ho ho!) Eventually Bill Clinton calls (the voice of a bad Clinton imitator) and he can understand Gordy also. Ho ho! (I wonder if they'd have done this same gag if Bush had been president at the time, or would it have been too obvious a joke?).Although this is a silly premise, at least it's something to go on, but the movie doesn't know how to create a plot from it, so it goes in various directions. We have clichés like the evil boyfriend who wants to marry the rich boy's mother for her money. We have a plot line where Gordy and the rich boy run away, shaking off the evil boyfriend's goons, but it only lasts 20 minutes. Even this can't be stretched out to 90 minutes, so we have pointless scenes that're dragged out for no real reason, such as the entire butt-check song, and a depressing sequence where Gordy's family is put in some cruel cock-fight competition.Gordy's conversations with the rich boy feel very stilted. Of course this is because the kid, not a great actor to begin with, was just talking to a pig on set all day, and the voice for Gordy added later does not seem to actually be talking off of him. The fact that the pig doesn't look like its actually talking does not help.So Gordy is...bad. Compared to Babe, which was delightful and had a serious story, Gordy is excrement which fails as entertainment. "},{"Title":"Its the bad version of Babe!","Date":"11 May 2011","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" When I sat down to watch this Disney movie, I expected to be at least somewhat entertained and remember my childhood. I forgot that I had watched Babe and ended up spending 19.99 for some movie about a pig that tries to save his family for the first 5 minutes and then becomes a CEO of a large corporation on Wall Street. I am not lying people a pig becomes a CEO of a company, a legitimate company! There is this one character who's name I fortunately forgot who sings some hick song and is dressed like Hannah Montana next to Billy Ray Cyrus. The only thing that was enjoyable was a retarded rap song called Pig Power in the House by Tag Team. Don't see this movie if you are near sharp objects for reasons I would not disclose. If it were up to me Gordy would be bacon right now. "},{"Title":"Rather charmless, if you ask me","Date":"30 December 2010","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" I'll keep this seemingly inevitable comparison brief. Whereas Babe is a sweet, enchanting gem of a family film, Gordy for me isn't in the same league, in fact it is on the opposite end of the spectrum. Other than the bright and breezy country and western soundtrack and the fact that Gordy is somewhat adorable, this is rather charmless family fare. Gordy does look rather cheap, not in the scenery, the scenery is nice, but the flat and rushed camera-work does not do it justice. The story is very predictable and never seems to find a direction, the direction is sloppy, the script is tedious and unfunny and a vast majority of the jokes are corny. Add some horrible acting and every barnyard cliché in the book, do we really need the evil boyfriend idea again, and we have a film of low-quality and very little charm, also even for quite a short movie it drags badly. Kids might like it, but to be honest adults might find it an insult to their intelligence. 2/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Cute but cheesy. Very cheesy.","Date":"20 April 2010","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" If you're looking for a very well done, deep movie, I would recommend you to look elsewhere.I became curious about the movie when my family and I were headed to our vacation to Charleston, SC. This was just shortly before it came out in theaters; the pig playing Gordy was visiting North Carolina (Statesville, I believe) where we stayed overnight. I wanted to see him but the travelling schedule didn't allow it.I was given Gordy on VHS for Christmas '95 and I've only watched it one other time since. The acting isn't anything to write for nor are the effects for the pig's talking. I have to say though, I thought it was neat seeing a pig swim. "}{"Title":"Ham Handed Crap.","Date":"15 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Gordy (1995) Dir Mark Lewis / Cast Doug Stone, Deborah Hobart, Kristy Young, Tom Lester, Michael Roescher Miserable family fare done to the lowest degree of intelligence. Gordy is a little pig setting out to rescue his family who are bound for the slaughterhouse. They can consider it a mercy killing as oppose to being part of this film. Along the way he is befriended by a young girl who is travelling with her father on a country music tour. He rescues a boy from drowning and discovers that his mother is in show business and hasn't time for her son. His mother is under the demands of her greedy manager. When Gordy gains spotlight her manager hires a couple henchmen to dispose of him. It is embarrassing to watch two grown men try to dispose of a pig and act this dumb. Ham handed bore aimed at families in the mood for the pathetically stupid. Obvious conclusion with uninspired directing by Mark Lewis. Dreadful acting by all involved including Deborah Hobart as the boy's mother whose show business spotlight is upstaged by the pig. Kristy Young plays the young country music starlet who leaves the pig with the boy. Doug Stone plays her father in a cardboard role. Tom Lester plays their manager. Michael Roescher plays the airhead kid whom Gordy rescues from drowning. As bad as family films can get. Watch Babe as oppose to this ham handed pile of dirt. Score 1 / 10 "},{"Title":"Watch Babe instead","Date":"3 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" I didn't like this. The story is so badly written, and makes the movie confusing. Babe has a sweet and simple story. Gordy has a story that leads to some stupid business plot about Gordy and a company. It's complex to young children and may even insult their intelligence about how confusing this is. The film is cheap and has aged poorly because it looks more like the 1980s and Gordy doesn't even have his mouth move to what he's really saying. The characters can be one dimensional business men, or kids, and also the acting for the characters is mediocre. Gordy may be cute, but his voice can be a little annoying. It's really a bad film that I would rather people watch Babe than this. Also, the film is just dull and predictable in the middle. I give this a 4/10. I doubt you'll really like this unless you're a huge fan of pigs. "},{"Title":"Almost better than Babe...almost!","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  It's the talking pig who made it big! This is a truly delightful surprise from Miramax Family Films and Disney. It's become an instant classic in the family library. Although it isn't made with top direction and special effects as in the Academy Award winning Babe. I totally agreed in the saying Charming...Charlotte's Web meets Forrest Gump (Boston Phoenix). No language, violence, or sexual content in any form was portrayed. This is a movie you can let your kids watch over and over again.If you have never seen it before, remember this film was released over a year before Babe. The cast doesn't have well known stars but really its the story that makes a movie...sometimes. Bottom line, it's great fun and hilarious in many ways, so go check it out today. Directed by Mark Lewis "},{"Title":"Gordy, a yawn for the whole family","Date":"19 September 2000","Score":"9 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Over the years I have watched many family films that can be just as entertaining for an adult as a child.  The recent Chicken Run is one that comes to mind.  Gordy, however is not one of these films.Its plot follows sappy, unentertaining, and stereotypical characters who make fun of a child's intelligence with cheesy humour and predictable actions that leaves out any chance for suspense or laughs.The only thing this movie provoked me to think about was Gimme a break!  "},{"Title":"RIPP OFF","Date":"25 February 2003","Score":"11 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  This is one of those obvious el cheapo movies that they make quick when they know a bigger more expensive movie involving something similar is coming a couple months later (Babe) The same thing happened with Antz (a bugs life was made first but was more expensive and was released a couple months after Antz while Antz was cheap and quick) "},{"Title":"Boring","Date":"9 October 2001","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Gordy is a pretty cute little pig (that also talks, not too convincingly), I'll grant you that, but he is plugged into an uninvolving, cheerless, funless, far-fetched plot. Frankly, it's hard to believe that a pig's life could be so boring. The film too often seems like an excuse for some professional country singers to appear onstage and do their stuff; are there kids who are supposed to find those scenes entertaining? (*1/2) "},{"Title":"Silly Old Gordy Fell In A Swimming Pool, All On A Monday Morning!","Date":"8 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" I remembered borrowing this film from my Auntie when I was roughly 9 or 10 years old and I remember that I both enjoyed it and disliked it. The many flaws of this movie was the farm had no farmer and the pig was looking for his father when he said that he was looking for his mother. I don't mind films about animals talking to humans, but this film is all about how a pig gets famous in society and the government gives money towards him (Hankey (HOWDY HO!) is too young so he has to give the fortune to the f*****g piglet who is much younger than him!) which makes the film sound more grown up, but the pig talks to the humans in such a horrible (not as in rude, but in a terrible) manner, he makes snorting noises when he is talking at the exactly same time. Nice try Gordy, but you will never be any better than Babe! If you are a fully grown adult without any kids, then don't watch it without any children. Watch Babe instead if you want to see a decent pig movie! My overall rating for Gordy 1 and a half out of 5! "},{"Title":"Terrible. One of the worst movies ever.","Date":"1 July 2003","Score":"9 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" I had the misfortune of seeing Gordy in the theater at the age of ten. Even then, I couldn't stand it. I saw part of it again the other day on TV. Wow, what a travesty. It was bad enough that the pig didn't actually move his mouth with the words, but you can actually hear him snort over his English. The performances are all horrifically over the top, the plot is ridiculous, there are terrible country songs, and, on at least one occasion, a tree that moves when leaned against. If anyone ever tries to tell you that Gordy is a good family film or almost as good as Babe or any such thing, don't talk to that person anymore. They are not you're true friend. If you value your soul, steer clear of this epic shame of a picture at all costs. "},{"Title":"i take comfort knowing he's just a bit of bacon now","Date":"5 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" so,this is a really stupid movie with a stupid plot.i'm not going to waste my time telling you what the plot is.The acting sucks the talking pig effects suck(basically they gave him a bit of chewing gum)and it is just a stupid stupid movie that completely rips off the Bebe story,seriously you'd think it was made by asylum.(oh by the way that girls grin is kinda creepy)but thats not the worst of it.....it got a rap music video!0_0WTF!?aside from that i have nothing else to say but this review has to be at least 10 lines long so i might as while say this.Has anybody seen my keys,i think i left them at school but i cant help feeling that ,oh wait thats 10 lines so anyway the movie's stupid and that's pretty much it "},{"Title":"Filming Location","Date":"19 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Miss Kitty's, a bar/dance hall that was featured in the movie, GORDY was located on Franklin Road in Marietta, GA. It was once a country dance hall known to many locals which went out of business shortly after The Crystal Chandelier opened in Kennesaw, GA...near Marietta. It is now known as Cowboys which features many current country artists for their weekend concerts. This was one of the few country bars (believe it or not) that existed in Metro Atlanta. What you see in the movie was what you got! It did look bigger in the movie that I remembered. However, the last time I visited Miss Kitty's was in 1991...21st birthday. Miss Kitty's...RIP. Good fun. "}]