[{"Title":"Am I weird?  Because I enjoyed Hideaway....","Date":"9 June 1999","Score":"18 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Call me the ultimate anarch, but I'm inclined to disagree with the slatings this movie has received.  Maybe I was watching a different film, but I pretty much enjoyed Hideaway.  Okay, maybe the scripting wasn't pure Shakespeare, maybe the plot was a little tenuous, or a little unoriginal, but still, a little credit where it's due please.I admit, I was expecting from the write-up a second rate TV movie, but ended up with a deranged grin plastered across my face.  I particularly enjoyed the film's 'darkness', and hellishly black soundtrack that only added to the effect.  Personally, I'm surprised that Jeremy Sisto has yet to be mentioned in the reviews, because I believe his chilling performance as Vasago was one of the shining factors in this movie.  What with his penetrating stare and spooky, well-spoken accent he made, to me, the perfect killer.  A round of applause for the young man, if you please.Personally, I see Hideaway as a movie that should be a big hit with the gothic community, and I shall stand by my word regardless...  "},{"Title":"Dean Koontz","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"22 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Seriously...why can't they make one of Dean Koontz's book into a DECENT movie? I mean they dont even get the characters right...Regina (Silverstone) is supposed to be a nine year old crippled (as she defines herself in the book). Changing her character takes away from the plot of the story! It's a shame that they waste Koontz's amazing talent on movie's like these. "},{"Title":"Entertaining enough.","Date":"9 April 2004","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I haven't read Dean Koontz's novel, but most of this movie's faults can be traced back to predictable and simplistic script, which bears a strong resemblance to The Eyes Of Laura Mars.  Otherwise, this is an entertaining horror thriller, with trippy tunnel vision (literally) sequences, flashes of dark humor and the usual good performance by Jeff Goldblum. The good vs. evil climax does come off a bit cheesy, but that doesn't happen because the effects are not good; it happens because of the way in which they are employed.   (**1/2)  "},{"Title":"He Comes Back to Life With Another Vision","Date":"14 October 2006","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" While traveling on the road with his wife Lindsay (Christine Lahti) and his daughter Regina (Alicia Silverstone), Hatch Harrison (Jeff Goldblum) has a car accident, hitting a truck and falling with his wife in a river. He dies for more than two hours, but the specialist Dr. Jonas Nyebern (Alfred Molina) successfully brings him back to life. Hatch has some weird premonitions and becomes able to see through the eyes of the psychopath serial killer Vassago (Jeremy Sisto), a young man that killed his mother and his sister and committed suicide and was also brought back to life and now is killing young women and teenagers. When he foresees that Vassago is trying to capture his daughter, Hatch tries to find the criminal first, in spite of Lindsay, Regina and the detective in charge of the investigation believe that he needs psychiatric help.Hideaway is another rip-off of Eye of Laura Mars, I believe the first movie to explore the idea of a person connected to a serial killer through his eyes. Hideaway has a good cinematography and special affects, the cast is great and the sequence of the accident of Hatch and Lindsay is excellent. Although not being an original storyline, this attractive movie entertains. My vote is six.Title (Brazil) O Esconderijo (The Hiding Place) "},{"Title":"Excellent horror/thriller!","Date":"28 November 2001","Score":"19 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I've seen earlier Brett Leonard's horror film The Dead Pit(1989-check out my comment of it!)and this director is incredibly overlooked and talented.Hideawy is excellent-fast-paced,violent and really dark.The visuals(especially the vision of Hell)are really impressive,and Jeremy Sisto as a satanic killer Vassago is outstanding-he is pure evil!Great soundtrack bu such industrial/metal bands like KMFDM,Fear Factory,Godflesh(Nihil-I love this song!)and Front Line Assembly.My absolute recommendation. "},{"Title":"Spectacular effects with an extreme plot to make this the best thriller I've seen.","Date":"9 September 1999","Score":"14 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Hideaway grabs your attention from the start with Hatch Harrison going to the spiritual world filled with spectacular, illuminating effects.  Then seeing through the eyes of a killer who is after teenage women and having Alicia Silverstone (Regina)as your daughter you know that he will meet with the killer sooner than he ever hoped.  With the plot having more twists and turns than first meets the eye makes this easily the best thriller I've seen.  With the killer being perfectly cast with his black sunnies and trenchcoat, I even love the music which provides an eerie atmosphere for the movie.  This movie has made me a big fan of Dean Koontz's novels.   "},{"Title":"Suspenseful and chilling.","Date":"16 September 2003","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Dean Koontz chiller, starring Jeff Goldblum. Highly entertaining...suspenseful... even mesmerizing at times.Jeff Goldblum pulls the veritable rabbit out of the proverbial hat in this one. His acting is intensely deep and highly professional in this Brett Leonard (director of the notoriously horrible adaptation of Stephen King's Lawnmower Man, so bad it was, King SUED and WON, to have his name removed from the title and marketing!) adaptation of Dean Koontz's literary effort.This adaptation is horrid, as well. Koontz, in my opinion, should also have sued. The adaptation isn't an adaptation, it's a complete rewriting of the story, dialog, setting and characters. The only thing that remains the same is Hatch (Goldblum) and the circumstances which surround his amazing new gift. Koontz's earlier works, as was the work upon which this movie was based, had little detail, although his characters are very well developed and his story lines/plots move along with little or no distraction at all. This leaves his earlier works easily adapted to film by any director with a capable imagination and even just a little talent. Unfortunately, Brett Leonard displays neither in this attempt. Someone should have told him the red sun ... wasn't SCARY!As a movie, it is highly entertaining, fun, scary and has you literally on the edge of your seat several times during its viewing. There are a couple of really well done scare you! moments and many moments where you catch yourself holding your breath. However good the movie itself may be (or may not, depending on your point of view), Jeff Goldblum's performance completely redeems the horrid rewrite and inept direction of this production. Totally.The scenery and props were very well done, and the scene in which Hatch visits the Tarot Reader is very authentic. The tarot cards she uses are quite unique and extremely well designed. I wouldn't mind having a deck like that myself. The Alpine-styled architectures and wooden and glass designs are truly lovely and well designed. Even the slightest attention to scene settings and props make for a much more enjoyable finished product.Christine Lahti is very convincing as Hatch's (Goldblum's) wife, Lindsey Harrison, and Alicia Silverstone is believable and fun to watch, in her portrayal of the Harrison's younger daughter. I'm not a fan of Ms. Silverstone's, but I must say her performance in this role is about the best I've ever seen from her.The twists and turns in this movie are a bit predictable, but there are a few surprises which leave you saying, Wow......but what saved this production was Jeff Goldblum's marvelous talent. Jeremy Sisto was a nice bit of eye candy for those who are interested in that, but it was Goldblum's wonderful gift for acting that put this movie in my horror collection.It was a good book, and is a good movie; it's just not enough like the book for me to feel comfortable with the adaptation, and the direction was completely lacking. However, the actors weren't walking around aimlessly, spouting drivel and worthless platitudes thanks to Walker's (he did BRAINSCAN!!!!) abilities, but his screen play/adaptation should really have been more faithful to Koontz's wonderful story. It would have made for a much more entertaining evening...and movie.The ending is very satisfying; high tension, wonderful techno music playing not too loud, but loud enough in the background, and Hatch's wife saying over and over, I'm so sorry, for doubting Hatch's visions were real. His gift takes him straight to his daughter's side...and into the clutches of the demon with which he has been granted psychic contact.Who will win the ultimate battle? Hatch (the good guy), Vassago/Jeremy (the demon) or another, unrevealed participant? While the final battle takes place on this plane, the ethereal battle which rages in the background is every bit as important. This climaxial scene is the epitome of metaphorical synergy. It was the only scene in the movie which was well-directed; where the acting quality, the visual effects and the direction were in sync with one another. Before this scene, for the entire rest of the movie, the acting quality is the only thing which will keep you watching it.All in all, it earns a 7.0/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"One of my favorite films... read on!","Date":"3 December 2000","Score":"13 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This film is by far, one of my favorite films.  I will admit that the very end of the movie was a tad cheesy, but not so much that the film was ruined. I left the movie feeling very fortunate to have been able to watch it again.  I saw this movie about four years ago and loved it, and watched it again.  It did have some scenes that I preferred to watch through half-closed fingers, but for the most part, it was truly a wonderful film.  As it is, it is a very underground movie, and in the years to come, it will become even more so.  I recommend this movie to anyone who has a strong stomach and has an open mind. "},{"Title":"Easter Egg","Date":"10 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Don't forget to watch the final scene. If you are patient enough, wait until the credits are over and you will be rewarded with one final scene. I won't tell you anything about it, you have to see it for yourself. Like this one, there are many films that have inserted one extra piece of the story. Some times you have to expect the unexpected, a twist in the plot right in the final scene. Why directors include such easter eggs? Maybe they expect that a film-goer like you should see the entire movie, his whole piece of art. So, run to your video store o videoteque and place the VHS or DVD in your player and enjoy. Remember the story is not over till it's over. "},{"Title":"Deader than Elvis. Not too bad actually.","Date":"7 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Hidaway tells the tale of the Harrison family, husband & wife Hatch (Jeff Goldblum) & Lindsey (Christine Lahti) plus their teenage daughter Regina (Alicia Silverstone). Driving back from a weekend away they are involved in a car accident which kills Hatch but after being technically dead for 1 hour & 20 minutes Dr. Jonas Nyebern (Alfred Molina) manages to bring him back to life using a new form of resuscitation developed by himself. At first the Harrison family believe they have been given a second change & are overjoyed but one night Hatch as a disturbing vision while cutting himself, that of a young missing girl named Wendy Stone (Gaetana Korbin) being brutally murdered. The visions continue as Hatch begins to think that he may have a psychic link with a serial killer named Vassago (Jeremy Sisto) but at the same time Vassago has a link with him & decides he'll pay Hatch's family a nice friendly visit...Directed by Brett Leonard I thought Hideaway was a decent enough horror/thriller but in the end nothing spectacular. The script by Andrew Kevin Walker & Neal Jimenez was based on the novel by Dean R. Koontz who was prepared to sue to get his name off the opening credits he thought it so crap, well I probably wouldn't want to put my name to it but that seems a little extreme. Anyway Hideaway moves along at a reasonable pace although it could have used 10 or so minutes cut out, it takes Goldblum ages to realise what's going on while we, the audience, know almost straight away so we sit there waiting for him to catch up. I was also disappointed in the weak climax, a lacklustre good vs. evil showdown with Goldblum's family in danger, seen it all before. On a positive note I thought the film was entertaining for what it was, there's an average twist at the end which isn't brilliant but is better than nothing I suppose & it maintained my interest in where it was going.Director Leonard doesn't do much to impress, Hideaway is a well made but has little in the way of scares or tension. The best scenes involve Vassago dressed in shades & long black coat, he's has a strong on screen presence. The gore is OK but not exactly plentiful, someone impales themselves on a knife, someone's eye is poked out, there are a couple of slit throats & Goldblum clenches a razor which sends blood squirting everywhere.With an extremely healthy sounding $15,000,000 budget I simply can't see where all that money went, I really can't. Sure you have to pay stars Goldblum & Silverstone but apart from that there's no big action scenes, limited special effects, no exotic locations & the thing looks like a TV film on occasion. Certainly not worth fifteen big ones. The acting is pretty good & Goldblum is always good to watch although I thought Lahti as his wife was awful.Hideaway is a decent way to pass the time, it's not the best film ever but it's not the worst. I liked it but I could see why someone wouldn't, hard to give a glowing recommendation to but I think it's worth a watch. "}{"Title":"Silence of the Lambs, MTV style","Date":"8 June 1999","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Jeff...Goldblum...speaks like..this...in much of his movies which is as fascinating as it is irritating. Jeff's quirky speech patterns have been the saviour of many a dull movie over the years - here, it almost takes second place to Brett Leonard's jaw dropping visual effects. By now, you know the story. Hatch (Goldblum) brought back from the dead by nice doctor Alfred Molina; except he has brought back a part of a creepy serial killer. Both men can see each other's visions and can feel one another's pain. Naturally, both are drawn toward an inexorable conclusion. An okay script, partly by Andrew Kevin Walker of Se7en fame and solid direction by Leonard make this a stylish diversion that should keep first time viewers hooked to the end. Good photography by Gale Tattersall and the Trevor Jones soundtrack punctuates all the right, familiar scenes with bags of style. Not as bad as Neil Jordan's similar offering, In Dreams, but a rather obvious thriller which offers few revelations. "},{"Title":"Banquet for Sisto fans","Date":"7 November 1999","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I rented Hideaway solely because Jeremy Sisto was in it, and I have to say I was only somewhat disappointed. The movie's weakest points, and they are WEAK, are the completely gratuitous, TV-show quality special effects. I have never seen effects that were as utterly ridiculous to end a movie with.This is the sort of movie that reminded me,Oh, yeah,THIS is why I hate special effects.  However, aside from the mind-blowingly bad effects and the predictable plot, there is one very, diamond-bright spot in the movie, and that is Jeremy Sisto as the killer Vassago. Spookily sexy in trenchcoat and leather, he resembles a seriously psychotic Lost Boy. Projecting an enchantingly evil sensuality, he is magnetic in his too-few scenes of dialogue. Truth to tell, if Vassago had cast the spell of his eyes and voice on me, I would have gone with him to a terrible fate. I found enjoyable also the heavy, death-metal soundtrack. (Although I am beginning to tire of the stereotype that killers in movies always listen to metal. What about all the drive-by shooters who listen to rap? But I digress) To sum up, unless you're a big Sisto fan I wouldn't bother. But if you are, Bon Appetit! "},{"Title":"Not that bad, but could've been better","Date":"4 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Hideaway really wasn't as bad as it could've been, but it's not all that great as it is.**SPOILERS**Coming home from their ski-top resort, Hatch, (Jeff Goldblum) and Lindsey Harrison, (Christine Lahti) and his troubled daughter Regina, (Alicia Silverstone) are involved in a horrific car accident, and Hatch is brought back from the dead afterwards. After being normal for a few days, he begins to have weird nightmares and visions, and Dr. Jonas Nybern, (Alfred Molina) confirms it's nothing. Despite the reassurance, he still has the visions of a strange man attacking people, all done with his mind. Eventually learning that the man is named Jeremy, (Jeremy Sisto) and that he had been brought back to life Hatch's recovery from the accident after himself dying. As he begins a city-wide rampage that includes Regina in his targets, Hatch races to stop him before he can fully return from the dark side.The Good News This wasn't all that bad of a film and did contain some nice moments. The fact that the film does use a fairly routine and clichéd storyline into something actually decent. The fact that an ordinary man is in contact with a demonic entity is done before and done quite well, but this is still a very watchable film. They use the technique well and make it a very worthwhile watch. That also has an added bonus in being able to give the film a large amount of suspense through this, and it does have a creepy tone throughout. The visions are thankfully not just of the killer going about his business killing the innocents, but also the set-ups and seemingly random scenes that will eventually be useful later on in the chase. That is a nice touch and is really welcomed. The ending chase is it's best part, full of suspense and some nice action. The reasoning behind the battle is the majority of the suspense, as the longer it takes to get to the final showdown is less time needed to save one of the victims and the journey to get there through a never-ending series of darkened tunnels also chipping in some as well. The final battle, with the turns in the tide of the fight and the setting placed provide some really nice action scenes that effectively end the movie on a high note. The early scenes in the nightclubs do have an eerie quality to them, and are nicely placed to keep it from being a really drawn-process. The car crash at the beginning, while being slightly overkill, is also one of the best scenes, being a really high-action set-piece that is quite thrilling and is a real spectacle. The pace isn't that terrible, and while it could've shortened some scenes there's really nothing that keeps it from being an overlong film. This really could've been far worse.The Bad News There isn't a lot here that keeps it from being that great. As mentioned before, the pace isn't that great, and there are some scenes that drag out far longer than possible. The opening car crash is a major example. Once the car hits the woods, the scene could've ended there and still had the set-up necessary for the rest of the movie. There's no reason to drag it out far longer than it is. The many scenes of wandering around listening to the characters attempt to explain what's going on near the end are some other big scenes. That also brings up the other big factor, which is the stupidity of the characters. Major plot points are not revealed by any intelligence on the characters' part, but based on coincidence. The best is the discovery of the motel the killer is staying at. The character happens to drive by it, even though it's been seen through his visions countless time before it and that takes it sheer coincidence that it happened. The CGI at the end is really unrealistic and only just looks fake now as it did then. With a little help, this could've been a lot better.The Final Verdict There could've been some little fixing to make this a little better, but it's still not that bad as it is. It's not really the worst film of this type, but there is still room for improvement. Give it a shot if it sounds interesting, just don't expect a classic and it'll be a decent watch.Rated R Graphic Violence, Graphic Language and Nudity "},{"Title":"good movie, exciting thriller, nice to watch","Date":"30 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I did enjoy this thriller, it was very suspenseful throughout, climaxing in a marvellous finish.Having read the book (which was brilliant) as well, I must say certain key aspects have been changed for the movie, like for example Regina's character.In the movie, Regina is Hatch's biological daughter - a blonde, green eyed, carefree, flirty teenager, while in Koontz' book Regina is a crippled, small-for-her-age but very smart ten year old orphan with grey eyes and beautiful deep auburn hair, who is later adopted by Hatch and his wife Lindsey.Also, Hatch dies in a traffic accident in the movie and is resuscitated after two hours. In the book, Hatch drowns, but is brought back to life after just over an hour.Hatch is described as five foot ten, 160 pounds in the novel. Jeff Goldblum, who plays him in the film, is much taller at six foot four and a half and significantly heavier as well.Lindsey is blonde in the movie, but in the book she is described as a woman with dark hair.So much for authenticity! At least they made an excellent choice with Jeremy Sisto, who played the mad serial killer Vassago very convincingly.If you happen to have read the book first, you can't help but notice the dissimilarities, but that surely didn't stop me from enjoying this movie a great deal. If you haven't read the book at all, this film will blow you away! Gina Skinner, near London, UK "},{"Title":"Decent film, sick-making effects","Date":"16 January 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  It's true, Hideaway was absolutely slaughtered on release and is still systematically torn apart in the listings every time it's on TV, but - hey! - it's not that bad. Jeff Goldblum is always, er, 'interesting' to watch, and the same goes for Brett Leonard films (try as he might to cripple them with whatever bottom-of-the-barrel SFX company he keeps hiring - the effects here are practically carbon copies of those in The Lawnmower Man, and seeing as they're supposed to represent ethereal spiritual journeys rather than clunky virtual reality environments, it doesn't exactly work wonders). So yeah, for what it was, I enjoyed it. But of course I haven't read the book, so I don't have any outraged fanboy zeal to contend with...  "},{"Title":"Very good movie","Date":"31 July 2003","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I thought the movie was good. A little confusing but good. I personally thought Jeremy's character was great. Jeremy Sisto was the best actor out of the whole movie because he was so into it. I recommend people seeing it who are interested in what happens if you kill yourself or satanic worship. The special effects are good for that time but compared to now it looks funny. Please go rent it and see for yourself! ~*~Cassandra~*~ "},{"Title":"Hideaway not worth seeking out","Date":"2 May 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" One night, while driving home with his wife and daughter, Hatch (Jeff Goldblum) gets into a car accident which results in his temporary death. Enter Dr. Nyebern, who has developed a unique resuscitation technique that can revive the dead even after a prolonged period of time. After his revival, Hatch begins having visions of young girls being murdered. It turns out that he shares some sort of special link with the deranged killer (Jeremy Sisto), as they have both been to the other side. Unable to convince anyone of his warnings and knowledge, it's only up to Hatch to stop the killer, who may have a target in mind close to Hatch's heart.This film wasn't particularly exciting, scary or suspenseful. In fact, I scoffed at it from time to time. It was quite ridiculous, cheap, trashy, conventional, predictable, and laughable. The special effects were subpar and murky. The best and most inspired scene was during the first five minutes when the killer journeyed in agony towards hell, after committing an atrocious act and then committing suicide. At least that was something I had not seen too often before. The rest of the movie was merely another slasher film in disguise, no matter how high-gloss it seemed.By the end of the film, many questions and plot holes had arisen but were not addressed. Also, the science, law, and technicalities (e.g. maintaining a patient's confidentiality despite being a menace to others) brought up in the film were terribly erroneous. Much of the film was in bad taste. From time to time, the filmmakers treaded on thin ice by depicting questionable, unsavory, and objectionable acts and images. I also thought the film was going to make some point about spirituality, religion, hell, or heaven, but no such luck. Though some characters were not written well or underutilized of their full potentials, the acting was fine, especially Jeremy Sisto's risky performance as the despicable creep. However, I simply did not care for Goldblum's character and was not convinced of his suffering. Some of his actions, reactions, and dialogues were wayward and awkward. Sometimes he made mistakes when he should have known better and was slow to catch on with certain matters. His wife's role (Christine Lahti) was mostly limited and reduced to that of the long-suffering spouse. She was there mostly to lend support when needed, only becoming a more independent and stronger character near the end. Alicia Silverstone's daughter character was limited in scope as well; mainly serving as a plot gimmick for the killer to prey on.There are far better and scarier horror films out there, Hideaway is not one of them. One film that comes to mind is Lord of Illusions, which is more grotesque, violent, gory, and over-the-top, but effective nonetheless. It goes all the way with its unique, nightmarish, and sensational imagery, and knows no boundaries. Unlike Hideaway, it establishes no pretensions of the divine and evil, and engages us with interesting characters whom we care about. "},{"Title":"Unwanted killer vision.","Date":"16 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Hatch, his wife Lindsey and their daughter Regina are in a car accident one night, which sees Hatch supposedly die to only be brought back to life on the operating table by Dr. Jonas Nyebern after being dead for a short period . After this miracle he begins having odd flashes / visions that he has trouble dealing with as they seem so real, as Dr. Nyebern seems to be hiding something about his work. Hatch would discover later that he actually has a special connection with a vicious psychopathic serial killer that can see through his eyes and he can see through theirs. Is there a special link to this, or is Hatch loosing his mind? A respectable, but stock-like psychic thriller adapted from a Dean R. Koontz novelisation, which bestows a capable bunch of actors in the likes of Jeff Goldblum, Christine Lahti, Alicia Silverstone (a wholesome turn before making herself big in Clueless), Jeremy Sisto and Alfred Molina. Director Brett Leonard (from the The Dead Pit) brings to the feature the computer special effects that shrouded his previous sci-fi film The Lawnmower Man, but for Hideaway it's only used in minor doses in the sequences involving the afterlife / out of body experiences. Although it lets loose towards the film's rampaging, if overdone climax in a good vs. evil confrontation of souls in illuminating lights, but the computer effects for its period are well done for most part.Nevertheless it's compellingly delivered, even though it consists of some clumpy dialogues and holds quite a stringy plot that has you questioning details for them to only unfold the further it went. When it decided to feed us some of the niggling queries (it opens up a can of worms) to clear up any confusion and this is when it suddenly turned mechanical and unassuming in its plot progression. Gone was the hauntingly edgy and sombre atmospherics of looming nightmares of a character trying to make sense of the erratically jarring images plaguing his mind. Was he unknowingly committing these acts in some sort of blackout or was he tunnelling somebody else's sight? Now it would be replaced with the standard over-the-top race against the clock with the family in peril get-up. This type of story has been done plenty of times before, but Goldblum's sober turn is an interesting one and Leonard's sickly crafted, well paced direction is visually appealing in its dourly under lit, but well filtered tones and glassily etched-out suspense. Gale Tattersall's expressive photography is lean, but precise. Sisto's homicidal serial killer performance at first is sinisterly creepy, but as it went along it began to grate away with his eccentricity opting out. Trevor Jones' music score is hauntingly harmonious in its arrangement and the Gothic / industrial rock soundtrack is fitting.Also after the credits finish rolling there's an unnecessary tacked on shock sequence with Carrie getting a reference. "},{"Title":"Not extremely bad, but that's about it..","Date":"14 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I have to admit, I watched 'Hideaway' because I had quite high expectations of Jeremy Sisto playing the evil guy. And it has to be said, he is fun watching in his role of Vassago. His angelic looks combined with being a 'very bad boy' is an enjoyable combination (especially when he is taking a shower ;-) ). But enough praises for being sexy.Goldblum's performance is also fine. I was less convinced though about Lindsey Harrison, but it might also be that the plot just wasn't really on her hands. The dialogs were often pretty unconvincing and annoying. But the worst part of the movie was the incredibly cheesy end. As soon as the battle between good and bad started, my jaw dropped and I could only laugh. It wasn't all that good till that point, but the end really ruined everything that was still left of the movie. It's not that we are talking about the ineffectiveness of the still young era of computer effects, it was just.. all... just..... yes, terribly, terribly cheesy. If the script would have been better worked out, with better dialogs and a better pace, I might have given it a 6 or 7. But without that dialog and a better pace, and with an ending like this, I can not come up with more then a 4. "},{"Title":"One of the first horror films I remember that used horrible computer generated graphics.","Date":"31 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Yes, Jurassic Park used computer generated images very well. However, they had a big budget and were able to make those dinosaurs look very realistic. This one ended up making very bad images of hell and of weird crap that looked as if it were not there. Jeff Goldblum was in both, coincidence? Yes, but still he was in one of the best examples of early computer images and one of the worst. What makes it more terrible is that a lot of horror movies began doing it, and to this day the monsters in these movies still look like they are not there. So the story in this one has two guys dying and being revived by similar means. One a family guy with a daughter, the other guy...well lets just say he is not so good. The guy who is not so good has a secret about his death, he is also a killer. The other guy (Goldblum) seems to have a link to this killer because of the way they were both revived. Near the end the killer targets the teen daughter and the father must try to pry her from this seemingly evil guy's clutches. Just did not really work for me, and apparently not to Dean Koontz either as I hear he did not like this movie at all. It has a somewhat good cast for a horror movie as along with Goldblum you have Alicia Silverstone and Alfred Molino, but one just can not get the lame effects out of one's head. "}{"Title":"A rare but reflexive movie","Date":"30 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I see the movie here in Monterrey and like too very much ...the movie offers an good approach about the moment of dead and the consequences of human acts, maybe no like to every body but have a good special effects and the director offer a different perspective of the God and Devil struggle.Hideaway offers a good suspense from the beginning and mix the lives of the actors very well, good photography and f/x, the movie have some nudity but no too strong.Hideway is a rare movie from Jeff Goldblum between Jurassic Park and Independence Day, have a good story with some of terror and classic thriller sequences. "},{"Title":"Recommended! A clever story, with excellent special effects.","Date":"29 November 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I had no fore-knowledge of this movie and thus every element was a thrilling surprise. The story-line was a very clever one and had a true sting at the end. The cast were actors of high calibre who gave impressive performances. A pulsing sound-track and impressive special effects, made this a movie that kept me on the edge of my seat. "},{"Title":"Compelling","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"   Hideaway, starring Jeff Goldblum and Christine Lahti, was incredible. The show re-defined the classic battle between good and evil, by literally using the forces of heaven and hell to fight a battle in one scene.  Hideaway is a very compelling thriller about a man who died and then was brought back to life... and brings something back. The actors take their roles very seriously and play the parts to perfection. Everything about the movie keeps you on the edge of your seat. It's the perfect movie to watch on a dark and stormy night... with a big bowl of popcorn and a couple of friends.  I give it ten stars.  "},{"Title":"Why.can't this movie just hideaway","Date":"27 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Hatch Harrison (Jeff Goldblum) seems to be connected with the mind of a murderer after a fatal car accident kills him (he gets better as doctors bring him back to the land of the living after around 2 hours of being not on this mortal coil. The thing is that while he was deceased so was a serial killer whom also gets revived at around the same time. Now suffering from terrifying visions, he has to solve this mystery before the killer strikes someone close to him (namely his daughter played by Alicia Silverstone) even as everyone thinks he's crazy.When anyone claims that Batman and Robin contained the worst acting by Silverstone, I point them to this sorry little flick which she is atrocious in. However that's somehow fitting as this film is uniformly bad in most other aspects as well. Poor Dean Koontz it seems like none of his books will ever translate that well to feature films (and don't even get me started on those Watcher films...My Grade D "},{"Title":"Definitely the worst movie adaptation of a novel I've endured.","Date":"19 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Let me begin with saying, that the movie really isn't that bad. Just make sure you haven't read the book before. If you have, don't watch the movie. Key elements from the plot of the book is either left out completely, or altered so drastically that it has significant negative effect on both the story and for certain characters, the character development throughout the plot. Actually, this is the 3rd Koontz adaptation I've seen in recent history, and I actually thought it couldn't get any worse than Watchers, but this one is. So far, the least worst movie adaptation I've seen, is Mr. Murder. So my recommendation, if your going to rent a Koontz movie, is to avoid this one. Read the book instead. It will take more time but will definitely be worth it. "},{"Title":"Don't Die & Come BACK !","Date":"15 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This film started out very strange, where you proceed into a home with all religious pictures on the wall and a mother and daughter praying before a statue. Then you see a young man go into a locked room and does horrible things to himself as his father tries to help him. The picture proceeds to Jeff Goldblum,(Hatch Harrison) who plays an antique dealer and his wife Christine Lahti,(Lindsey Harrison). This married couple have a daughter Alicia Silverstone,(Regina Harrison) who is bored to death on a vacation her parents are taking in the mountains. Alicia fights with her dad and they all decided to head back home, on the way they have a car accident which causes reason problems with Hatch Harrison. There is plenty of Soul, Body and Spiritual happenings and also Good & Evil Spirits. If you like this type of film, you will definitely love this film and the excellent acting. "},{"Title":"To the Point!","Date":"11 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is mediocrity to the extreme.  Jeff Goldblum and Christine Lahti deserve better that this, but I guess it's their fault for picking this horrible movie.  In fact, it is so bad it isn't even good on a bad scale. But, you have to give credit where its due.  Goldblum and Lahti do their best with the crappy story/script.  The best part of the movie is the eyecandy Alicia Silverstone provides.  This movie deserved a 5 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Would that it had remained hidden away!","Date":"23 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" POSSIBLE SPOILERS HEREIN! Note also that although I personally shun the lengthy review, in this particular case (my first review in fact), I have written a long one myself, for reasons that will become obvious.PLEASE BE ADVISED1) Do not see this film (it is that bad &#150; the details in a jiffy); and 2) When you have done so (seen not this film), it is safe to return here and read the rest of this review.Now that you have complied with the above, let me begin by saying that this is one of those movies that, initially, is just passable enough, in spite of the leaps of faith (suspensions of disbelief) that are required of you, not to turn you definitively off before the plot, initially, begins to suck you in (don't worry, it will soon repel you &#150; oops! &#150; make that would soon have repelled you).Or maybe I should begin by saying that this is one of those movies that you would normally never be tempted to see, and that the only reason you finally seriously considered seeing it (on that movie channel that regularly shows this film, along with a smattering of other repeats) was because there was nothing else particularly interesting on the other channels, yet you were determined to see a movie on the tele on that occasion, and further, none of the films in your video collection beckoned to you, nor were you of a mind to leave your abode in search of a rental.The main two problems with this film, apart from the fact that none of the actors, except for the chap who played the minuscule part of the police detective (I remember him best as Dr. Watson in a Sherlock Holmes series), are capable of rising above the mediocre, are A) The protagonist's journey to the beyond and back relies too heavily on graphic portrayal rather than on suggestion (and this graphic rendering of the soul's maze-like journey (the eyes are the conduit) through the synapses that are presumed to connect this world with the beyond &#150; which journey was replaced throughout the middle section of the film with the capacity of the two linked characters (see the plot summary), once the hook-up was firmly established, to see through each other's eyes &#150; returns with a vengeance towards the end of the film, where it degenerates into a cheap, deus-ex-machina ploy), and B) The implausibilities accumulate at an exponential rate, causing first fidgeting, then red ears, then outright shame accompanied by nausea (to take a simple example, since each of the two linked characters knows that the other can see through his eyes, why give important details away like addresses that can easily be traced? &#150; but of course, without these dumb mistakes, the dumb plot couldn't advance to the dumb ending!). If this film begins at the top of the hour on your movie channel (assuming that you decided to ignore my advice in (1) above), then at roughly the top of the next hour you will find yourself zapping over to catch the stale news headlines, just like I did. After that I zapped elsewhere, but found no alternative worth watching. Having, in the meantime, invested so much time in this crappy film, I decided that I should at least catch the ending so that I could piece the storyline together, however bad it was (one feels guilty for having invested so much time in so much froth, yet one feels equally guilty at not seeing it through, since the hope is that by being able to piece the storyline together, one will have salvaged the time already invested... this is not unlike the manner in which Brer Rabbit found himself hopelessly stuck in the tar!).I missed huge parts of the film between the 58th and 100th minutes (it is 105 minutes long, circa), then came back in time to catch the ludicrous (and ludicrously graphic) climax (but given the absurdity of the build-up that the bad guy's hideaway itself represents &#150; which part, granted, I only caught in snatches &#150; something far-fetched was required to cap off this story). I skipped the ending, which I am sure was dopey... one must cut one's losses however one can. After a film like this, nothing hits the spot like a good, sudsy bath! "},{"Title":"They blew it","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  HIDEAWAY is one of Dean Koontz's best books,and I am not a Koontz fan. I find him rather wordy,but there is not a wasted word in HIDEAWAY. It's an incredibly powerful book. Well,the people who made this movie sucked everything that made the book so good out and left a crispy husk thatfalls apart when you view it. Points extracted for the Stephen King references,too,while they play that stupid movie game. KMFDM's Go To Hell is featured prominently. It's the best part of this movie(and watch out when it's enmeshed with that classical piece from the beginning of the film!)  "},{"Title":"Plain Wierd","Date":"11 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The only word that comes to mind involving this film is weird, wierd, wierd. Who the h was Vassago? A human? A demon? This film had many unanswered quetions. I mainly watched this because I am a fan of Alicia Silverstone and Jeff Goldblum. But this film just didn't make any sense. Hatch was kind of a helpless character and Alicia Silverstone's character seemed aloof and kinda ditzy. This should have gone directly to video. It had a poor script and confusing storyline. 3 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Reminds me of The Lawnmower Man","Date":"22 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Director Brett Leonard incorporates too many Lawnmower Man type special effects in this film. The effects were not handled well, and should have been left out entirely. They should have used another method to convey the shared link between Goldblum and Sisto.Having Goldblum die and come back to life, acquiring a link with a sinister teenage Satan worshiper, was an interesting premise. Both Goldblum and Jeremy Sisto give fine performances, but the special effects keep me from grading this film any higher than a five.The climax was nail biting, and lasted for quite awhile, though the conclusion was a big disappointment. Over-rated actress Alicia Silverstone does her typical pouty brat routine here, and isn't worthy to share the screen with either Goldblum or Sisto "},{"Title":"At my hideaway...","Date":"26 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  ~Spoiler~Hideaway is a fairly lackluster attempt to bring Dean Koontz to the big screen.  Koontz' adaptations are rarely successful.  Most of the films based on his work tear everything in his stories apart.  This film is no different.  But strictly as a movie, it's still bland and nothing worth seeing again.  Jeremy Sisto and Jeff Goldblum's characters have both had near death experiences and are brought back with a connection.  They can both see through one another's eyes now.  A good explanation of this is never given.  Also, a good reason is never given as to how the good doctors were able to bring Goldblum back to life after being clinically dead for 120 minutes.  I guess we're just supposed to chalk that up to the supernatural.  Back to the story, Sisto is a deranged killer and Goldblum wants to stop him.  That's about all there is here.  Alfred Molina is wasted and Alicia Silverstone, thankfully, doesn't have too much screen time.  The ending is very cheesy as are most of the effects.  You can tell this is from the same guy that directed Virtuosity and The Lawnmower Man. "},{"Title":"Horrible...stick to the book","Date":"29 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" If you've read the book you would die seeing this movie. It was grossly misrepresented as being from Dean Koontz novel, he actually fought to have his name removed from the title after screening it. The most fundamental part of the book is the character of Regina, who was a innocent, wise-cracking 12 year old. She represented a pure, loving spirit, all that Vassago despised...she certainly was not a teenage sex pot. What a waste of an amazing blueprint for a film. The book, taken word for word would've made a fantastic movie, a real suspenseful thriller, not the low brow, pathetic drivel the studio made of it. Hopefully someone with talent and vision can find a way to make a movie, truly based on the book with Dean Koontz seal of approval, because I would love to see it. "},{"Title":"Is Sisto Goldblum Jr.?","Date":"18 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I saw it during a cable free preview period.  It was mildly entertaining.  But my real point is this  As I watched the movie, I was at first almost certain that Jeremy Jesus Sisto's character intentionally resembled lead actor Jeff Goldblum.  Am I alone in thinking this?  I just saw Sisto in Jesus and began wondering if that was him I remembered seeing in Hideaway. "},{"Title":"The pits...","Date":"22 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Not long after losing one of his two daughters in a car accident, family man and antique store owner Jeff Goldblum suffers his own car trauma and literally dies momentarily; a doctor brings him back to life, but it seems Goldblum has brought good and evil powers back with him from the other side he is now telepathically entwined with a psychopath who hunts young women. Based on a Dean Koontz novel, this low-grade thriller has one of the laziest screenplays I've ever come across. Writers Andrew Kevin Walker and Neal Jimenez don't seem to have a shred of verisimilitude when it comes to writing dialogue for their equally unreal characters--nobody behaves the way regular people would. Christine Lahti is Goldblum's ineffective wife, Alfred Molina is Goldblum's ineffective doctor, Kenneth Welsh is an ineffective detective. They're all walking contrivances in this half-cocked adaptation, which allegedly embarrassed best-selling author Koontz (if it didn't, it should have). Just back from the hospital, Goldblum begins having nightmares that look like bits and pieces of a heavy metal video; the viewer is cued up for the obligatory waking-up-with-a-jolt-from-a-nightmare close-up (and the movie doesn't disappoint). Turns out there's a killer in town (Jeremy Sisto) who gets around from place to place with effortless, alarming accuracy; when he's not hanging out at a sleazy motel--which isn't even listed with information--he's holed up at a derelict amusement park (seems he conveniently has the place all to himself). Of course, nobody takes note that Sisto's latest victim looks like Goldblum's other daughter (Alicia Silverstone, who does nothing but whine), nor does wife Lahti take into account that just maybe her husband knows what he's talking about when he says their kid is in danger. The movie makes absolutely no sense from a logical stand-point, though all of this is rendered inconsequential once Jeff and Christine arrive for a showdown with Sisto near the park's Big Slide ride. The results of this stillborn finale are so shameful, one can only hope Goldblum and company were well-paid for not looking outraged. NO STARS from **** "},{"Title":"God-awful","Date":"3 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" ***Spoilers may be contained within*** According to this movie's trivia section, the book's author, Dean R Koontz, was sorely disappointed in the movie adaptation and asked that his name be removed. He had every right to be peeved. I saw this in theatres when it was released and was soundly disappointed, too. The previews seemed kind of interesting but I have to admit I'm a Christine Lahti fan, even though her role in this is strictly the wife. The story is that of a man, played by Jeff Goldblum, who, following a near-death experience, finds he is psychically linked with a serial killer, played by Jeremy Sisto, who decides to go after Goldblum's daughter (Alicia Silverstone). A cat-and-mouse thriller with sci-fi overtones. I've never read the Koontz book on which this is based. Goodness knows it can't be any worse. As lead, Goldblum is OK, I guess, though he's given this basic performance before. Lahti, unfortunately, is wasted in a part that could be played by just about ANY actress; it's a step up from and how was YOUR day, dear? but not much. Silverstone, charming in Clueless, here is little more than an irritant, nearly making one rather root for the killer, but she can often be irritating in films, so I can't say if it's the fault of the part as written or the actress. As said villain, Jeremy Sisto has obviously watched every other psycho-on-the-loose movie and decided to juice it up a bit he rolls his eyes, leers, laughs maniacally, tries to seem intimidating by staring through lowered eyes. Every trick in the book is trotted out in his performance and for naught he's about as terrifying as a computer geek. Sisto can, in other performances, be hammy, and he's no less so here one nearly expects to see him studded with cloves and pineapple slices. Oh, it's not TOTALLY his fault, since the pedestrian script practically BEGS for overacting; I suppose if he DIDN'T chew the scenery, it might actually be less entertaining than it already IS. Beyond its psychic-link tricks, the film, in its less-than-chilling climax, throws in, seemingly out of nowhere, the twist that this is almost literally a battle between (of course) good and evil. This is revealed with a scene when Goldblum and Sisto are finally staring one another down, and a shot of red flames are visible in Sisto's eye; suddenly, in response, we see a flash of white-blue light in Goldblum's eye. A moment later, flames shoot and rise from Sisto's body, forming a fireball above him; blue-white rays of light pour forth from a kneeling Goldblum, forming a vaguely female form above him. The combination of film-school special effects (if they look cheesy on the SMALL screen, you can't IMAGINE how bad they were in the theatre!), this last-minute twist, and the inability to stretch one's suspension of disbelief any longer, is fatal. I heard several voices in the audience yell out, in unison, Oh, COME ON! From some of the reviews listed here, this movie has a fair number of supporters. I can only wonder just what version of this movie they saw. "},{"Title":"forgettable thriller with dated computer graphics, and lots of corny moments","Date":"1 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I just watched this on video. Looking at the video box, I remembered looking at the video box before, but I didn't remember seeing it before. I remember seeing it before now, though. Not a good sign. I can honestly, then, say this movie is forgettable.It starts with a young man in a house, with two women who appear to be praying silently. He goes up into a small room in which he has a lot of candles lit, newspaper clippings, and things written on the wall in red. He impales himself on a knife. A man runs into the house, and finds his wife and daughter are not praying, they're dead and posed, and he then finds his dead son. In a CGI scene, the dead son's soul or whatever (his translucent face, and a vague indication of his body) is traveling through colorful tunnels. It's pretty laughably bad.From that happy family, we go to Jeff Goldblum and his wife Christine Lahti on vacation with their daughter, Alicia Silverstone. They're corny, and their daughter finds them annoying. They get into a car accident on the way home, and Goldblum drowns or nearly drowns. He goes through the same sort of tunnels, but he also sees his other daughter who had died sometime in the past calling to him. It's pretty laughable too.Alfred Molina brings Goldblum back to life, but Goldblum starts having visions of himself killing young women. He also finds that when he injures himself, the injuries heal up almost instantly (that was never explained). Goldblum worries for the safety of his daughter, who the killer takes an interest in.In the end, there's a big CGI battle between good and evil. It's pretty corny too, and it's not just a matter of the now-dated special effects. "},{"Title":"Why??","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie just two weeks later I read the book, so I was pretty much eager to see it. The book is definetely a must. I was thrilled page by page on this Dean R. Koontz's classic. Unfortunately the movie is about everything the book isn't.Minor changes always take place when adapting a book to a movie either for good or for bad, so I guess it could have been acceptable up to a degree. But so many important events and characters have been altered in this one, and I just can't hold myself to ask  Why?The characters never develop in this film. We know almost nothing about Hatch's wife or about Hatch for that matter, which gives us little reason to care for them. The same goes for the villain Vassago too, but most importantly I was shocked about Regina. She's one of the characters that is richest in detail in the book, and just I couldn't accept her at all in the film. So much of the fun and thought has been excluded. In fact the only common thing between the two Reginas is their name! Perhaps the film makers thought it would be more 'commercial' if they put someone who is sweet, sexy and popular (Alicia Silverstone). And oh yes, of course Regina has no disabilities like in the book, she has a pretty hand with all fingers... It would be improper to put a Regina who had some physical disabilities in a Hollywood film, wouldn't it??!I don't usually compare movies and the books they are based on, but unintelligent changes of events and characters have taken out all the fun out of this one. If you forget about the book, it's just another horror type of movie. (Because they chose to neglect the parts that made the book unique)Shame...(2 out of 10) "},{"Title":"For Alicia Silverstone Fans Only","Date":"5 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Hideaway(1995) is a bad and forgettable movie that doesn't attempt to be any good.  The acting is average and many scenes are badly executed.  Alicia Silverstone does a reasonable job as Regina Harrison.  The music is nothing to write about and the movie is done in a bland Hollywood style.This movie is an outright disappointment for the director following the fascinating and excellent Lawnmower Man(1992).  It even fails as a slasher movie because the murder scenes lack imagination and gore.  One problem I find with this movie is it rips off every paranormal thriller from The Dead Zone(1983) to Don't Look Now(1972), and finally to The Eyes of Laura Mars(1978).  Its a movie that fails to excite or interest the viewer. "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies ever made","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Hideaway was one of the worst films I have ever seen (and not in a so bad it's good way, either). It was a thoroughly pathetic and predictable supernatural thriller with zero mystery and uninspired performances. The opening car wreck is perhaps the most ineptly filmed in recent memory. **SPOILER** The identity of the killer is revealed way too soon, and when it is, it is as a heavy metal loser with the personality of a doorknob. Every time he shows up, we are treated to lame headbanger music (is that supposed to be scary or just sell copies of the soundtrack?). None of it makes any sense, nor does it ever really attempt to explain how or why any of the supernatural elements are occurring (particularly the painfully incompetent final confrontation between the forces of good and evil, with cornball dialogue like, evil cannot survive in the light.). I couldn't believe this trash was ever released into theaters; it felt like a bad TV movie (and looked about as expensive).As a final nail in the film's coffin, Hideaway suffers greatly under the remarkably ham-fisted direction of Brett Leonard, whose bizarre obsession with utilizing terrible computer animation (ala' his prior, and much better, film THE LAWNMOWER MAN) serves to completely undermine and destroy this picture.I have not read the novel on which this is based, nor any of Dean Koontz's books, so do not take this as an attack on Mr. Koontz's writing ability (which hopefully is better than Hideaway's horrendously cliche'd screenplay would lead me to believe)... I rented Hideaway as half of a 2 videos for 99 cents deal and felt cheated out of my rental fee, as the film failed to deliver even that miniscule amount of entertainment.All I can say is Boo!!! Brett Leonard you owe me fifty cents!*throws popcorn at the screen*  "}{"Title":"Oh dear this is bad. Formula. Bad acting from good actors.","Date":"4 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Well, this is a very formulaic treatment of what could have been a good movie. Unfortunately, the good actors did a really rotten job of acting, and I'm sure the director is incompetent. With such classics as The Lawnmower Man and Virtuosity to his credit, Brett Leonard has managed no better than 5.3/10 on IMDB, yet he's been doing this for at least 15 years. So much for learning. What makes me bitter isn't that it's such a bad movie, it's that I'm too stubborn to turn it off. I hate giving bad ratings to a movie I didn't at least finish. Fair is fair. Oh good grief. This is just too stupid... Finally! Thank goodness it's over. Bah. "},{"Title":"Hide From This","Date":"20 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  What a bore!!  I tried to watch all of this, just to see if it was ANYTHING like the book.  Of course, it isn't.  Not even close.  Hollywood once again tries to sugarcoat a turd, and not even sugar could keep this one from stinking.   "},{"Title":"Wouldn't have watched it, except I remembered enjoying the novel poolside one summer day.  Skip the film and read the book (preferably poolside).","Date":"30 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Wouldn't have watched it, except I remembered enjoying the novel poolside one summer day. Skip the film and read the book (preferably poolside). Koontz novels are best enjoyed on cross-country flights or lazing poolside with nothing better to do. The necessary suspension of disbelief doesn't translate well to film, and always seems forced, contrived and even a little silly in that medium. However, I defy you to put a Koontz novel down once started...The actors here seem to be merely going thru the paces and in some cases are just bad. Jeremy Sisto probably comports best of the highly recognizable group here. I usually like Goldblum and Lahti, but here they aren't given much to work with so they don't. Shame about Ms. Silverstone. "},{"Title":"Trash, but far from perfect","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  What a waste of time! You should know it right from the beginning when the film starts out with a cheesy special effects feast taking the viewer, literally, to hell. What follows is an uninspired tale of a father (Goldblum) who dies in a car crash, is brought back to life and from now on suffers from visions of young girls being killed. It soon turns out that the killer, whose murders he can see, is looking for his daughter (Silverstone). What could have been an entertaining B-movie suffers from a weak script (the story is boring every minute) and from uninspired actors. Christine Lahti remains pale as the worrying mother and wife, Alicia Silverstone´s dialogue consists to 50% in the word Daddy! (she isn´t even as cute as usual in this movie) and the absolute low is Jeremy Sisto as the bad guy whose acting is, to put it politely, wooden and unconvincing. Only Goldblum´s solid performance, the way he portrays the change from a calm but worrying family father to a hysterical and totally upset family father may keep the viewer interested in how things will turn out. The end is meant to be a gigantic battle between heaven and hell, good and evil and is one of the most ridiculous film climaxes I have EVER seen. It includes Goldblum´s second daughter, who died in a car crash before the film´s story sets in, as an angel. This ending was obviously meant to be a big fireworks of special effect, but it only disappoints a viewer, both technically and aesthetically. It is no wonder director Leonard turned to filming Sigfried & Roy shows a couple of years later. "},{"Title":"Another Koontz novel mangled","Date":"13 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Where to begin...(possible spoilers, I guess)Words cannot properly describe my utter disgust at this movie.  It is understandable that some things must be sacrificed to translate a full novel into 1 1/2- 2 hours of script.  However, some choices were made here that needn't have been made, and the dark, beautiful, horrifying, gripping, frightening, and satisfying work that was the novel is destroyed. The Dean Koontz novel raped and pillaged by this film is *terrifying*.  I read it as a young adult and had nightmares.  I constantly looked over my shoulder as I walked down the street alone.  The film was only visually scary.  It lacked altogether the gripping terror.  We don't get fully into Vassago's head, so why be afraid of him?  We never see the depth of the evil created by Koontz.  This is a man who truly believes he's been to hell, and back.  He believes he is a prince of hell.  Who is he in the movie?  Some goth-looking teenager who gets off on killing people.  I think that's been covered in enough movies already, thank you very much. Changing the character of Regina was another mortal wound.  As other IMDB authors have pointed out, in the novel, Regina is a physically crippled, yet extremely precocious young girl who is *adopted* by Lindsey and Hatch.  Her journey to learn to bond with and trust them is touching and essential.  They giver her a home, she gives them comfort for the loss of their biological child.  It is her deep inner beauty that is supposed to draw Vassago to her and to make him want to sacrifice her to Lucifer.  In the film?  Regina is a hot blond teenager.  How shallow and insulting to us viewers.  Jeff Goldblum is vastly miscast as Hatch Harrison.  His bumbling-yet-intellectually-arrogant manner simply doesn't fit here. Dean Koontz's novel is woven throughout with the threads of good and evil, contrasting and preparing to battle.  We are shown why the Harrisons are the good guys.  We are given a window into their hearts and minds.  We *like* them.  We are endeared to them.  As far as I'm concerned, the only reason to root for them in the movie is, well, they're the ones who *aren't* killing people.  The movie lacks this good/evil element throughout...then, suddenly, it magically appears at the end!  What began as the fight of Goth Killer Boy vs. Witless Blond and her Stupid Parents instantly and inexplicably transforms into a mighty (and cheesy...) struggle between heaven and hell.  But, by then, it's just too late to change the movie into something it's not deep.  1 out of 10, because with this source material, they should be ashamed of themselves.    "},{"Title":"A definite bore","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is a good rendering from the novel, which was trash to begin with. How Koontz, the literary equivalent of a bad full moon movie, could reach for stardom is still a mystery to me. On this one, we are always 30 minutes ahead of the characters in terms of what is going on. The on ly fun  part is to see that, as Koontz in his novel rumbles on and on saying that young people don't know what music is and REAL music comes out of the sixties, the soundtrack is made on the best of industrial music ! Apart from that, don't  "},{"Title":"so bad, i actually registered to vote","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Perfect trash? That's about half right. This movie was one brutal cliche after another. I can't believe Goldblum stooped so low, and that this film actually made it all the way through the editing process. Oh well, i guess some networks will pay to show anything... "},{"Title":"Hide away from this movie !","Date":"24 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  You always know there's something wrong when you guess what is going on a long (looooong.) time before the protagonists. This one succeeds in being almost as moralising and self-righteous than the novel. But in the novel, Koontz went to great length to explain that today's music was no good and should end up in a garbage can while only sixties music was the real stuff (Yeah, right.) when this movie's soundtrack feature the best industrial bands in activity ! Well, at least there's one good thing to this movie, but you have to close your eyes. "},{"Title":"Typical Silverstone","Date":"28 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  You know I hate to say it, but this film is not too good. I mean, first of all what really annoyed me is that Satan worshipper cliché of people listening to Rock / Metal / Underground music and going like &#145;Satan&#133; bla bla bla.' That is really cheap and stupid. Another thing that struck me is that Alicia Silverstone, although pretty good looking, sucked in this film as well in all others I have seen her in (Clueless, The Babysitter and Batman and Robin). Seeing this and those other films one need not wonder why she's not cast in quality Hollywood productions. The story itself is pretty good and there is some entertainment but not enough.6 out of 10  "}]