[{"Title":"This one deserves much more credit then it has received.","Date":"1 November 1999","Score":"217 out of 275 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is by far one of the best Bond films simply because it does not try to be a Bond film.  GoldenEye demonstrates an impressive independence that separates it from the tried-and-true-but-getting-boring Bond formula.  The one liners are not that great, but the action sequences are mindblowing. The chase scene is the best I have ever seen in any movie.  Period.  Purists will complain that there is a lack of gadgetry, but let them pout and go back to MacGyver reruns.  Possibility is not permissibility.  Just because Bond has a snazzy car does not mean that he has to utilize every perk that Q has included.  It is a relief that the writers did not force a new scene just to show off the car.  The movie does not need one, which helps it to maintain its quality as not just a Bond movie, but a high quality action movie that can stand on its own.  You will even find (gasp!) . . . character building!  There is actually dialogue between Q and Bond, instead of just a briefing and some commands.  Brosnan more than holds his own against past Bonds, and offers some of that GQ gentlemen element found missing in some of the past ones.  Bond fan, action fan, any fan, check this one out.  I even made my girlfriend watch it, and even she enjoyed it.  Chances are you will too.  "},{"Title":"An Excellent Bond Film","Date":"11 March 2005","Score":"133 out of 180 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After a 6 year hiatus the producers needed to make this film good enough to bring Bond back to the forefront, and in comparison to the films that followed, I believe this to be the best. Without a cold war to fuel plot lines, the story is able to step into new territories, with many great plot elements. Pierce Brosnan portrays Bond amazingly well in my opinion, and ties all the classic 007 elements together flawlessly. Although adhering to the Bond foundations, this film has a great, fresh feel to it, I think partly due to the industrial style score by Eric Serra. I think you need to see this film more than once to fully appreciate it, but it is definitely a classic! "},{"Title":"Brosnan helps resurrect Bond in an A effort","Date":"13 August 2004","Score":"152 out of 218 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Much had changed for James Bond since Sean Connery first took the role in 1962. The series had taken a turn for the worse in the seventies, when five films were made but zero good ones were. Still, the public was willing to grant Bond limitless amnesty that decade, even as his escapades grew less and less exciting and more and more campy with each new film. The 70s came and went, ushering in the 80s, which kicked off well with 1981's For Your Eyes Only. However, it went all downhill from there as the public finally stopped tolerating the bad movies and his popularity tanked in favor of superior competition. Bruce Willis and Arnold Schwarzenegger became mega stars during that time, and the emergence Indiana Jones was making Bond look dull and decrepit by comparison. Tim Burton's summer sweep of the cinemas with Batman in 1989 exacerbated Bond's woes, and when legal disputes arose between the production company and the studio shortly thereafter, it appeared that Bond had finally died his horrible but well deserved death.When the legal issues were finally put to rest in 1994, it was announced that another Bond film was going to be made, but not with erstwhile incumbent Timothy Dalton. Pierce Brosnan was given the role after being forced to reject it in the late eighties, and production began. The success of the film was crucial. If it lacked spark or came across as campy, it was likely that Bond would be finished forever. With the stakes in mind, the Broccoli family (the Bond producers) hired an all-new creative team and set to work re-establishing 007 in a new era.I knew none of that when I first saw the film in 1999. It was my introduction to the world of James Bond, and was a truly an exceptional first handshake. Knowing what I know now, and seeing the Bond films I have seen now, I still find it as worthwhile as I did then, and I am forever thankful that it was made well enough to not only resuscitate Bond, but propel him into the nineties with the momentum of a blazing fastball.The film opens in the eighties, ironically, with a scene depicting the Bond and Agent 006, real name Alec Trevelyan, being detected inside a Soviet chemical weapons factory. This section also introduces the character of Ourumov (Gottfried John), who murders Alec seemingly on a whim.Nine years later, Bond meets an appealing young lady (Famke Janssen) while driving...make that playfully racing, near Monte Carlo. Suspicious, he follows her to a nearby casino where he finds out that her name is Xenia Onatopp and she carries ties to the Janus crime syndicate in St. Petersburg. He chases Xenia when he suspects an imminent crime, but is not in time to avert her theft of the Tiger--a helicopter that is hardened to all forms of electronic interference.Back at MI-6 headquarters, the Tiger is spotted via satellite at Russian satellite control facility, and it soon becomes obvious that the copter is merely part of a grander scheme to steal a scary satellite weapon called GoldenEye. What it does can be described with words, but not with as much clarity as seeing it in the movie (there are lapses in the visuals here, but the sight is so impressive that they hardly matter). Bond then departs for St. Petersburg to find the Janus head man (Sean Bean) and stop him from using GoldenEye on a more vulnerable target. Much mystery surrounds the identity of Janus, but it is in the trailer and I suspect most people know it by now.There are several reasons that GoldenEye is the best Bond film made in many, many years. The first is the tone, which has ushered out all of the giddy goofiness of Roger Moore's films and assumed one reminiscent of the earliest Bond films. The sets, the camera work and the dialogue all come across as subtle, subconscious reminders of why Bond became so beloved to begin with.I always felt there were two major problems with the Bonds of the seventies and eighties. The first is the inane tone (exception For Your Eyes Only,), a point I am driving into the ground. With the same exception, they also featured uniformly unexciting (read it bad) action plus horrendous acting. There are light moments in GoldenEye, as there should be, but the correct tone is never compromised. The only problem is that there is a little too much padding in the middle. The story is well told, although there is a meeting with Bond and Valentin Zukovsky (reprised by Robbie Coltrane in The World is Not Enough) that has no significance to the advancement of the story. It is unnecessary and causes the film to drag some. After Bond meets Janus, though, prepare for the film to take off, as there will be little rest from there on out.Just like in the early Bonds, the acting transcends the genre. Pierce Brosnan is the clear focal point, and is mostly successful. He seems too reserved at times, as if he is a little timid at acting his best for fear it might look bad. He does not lack charm, though, because there is something about Pierce that makes him the ultimate ladies man on screen and off.More successful is Sean Bean as James's opponent. Bean brings cold, subtle intensity to the role that shows off the acting skills that got him cast in The Fellowship of the Ring. General Ourumov, who is in bed with Janus, provides a second bad guy. Gottfried John portrays him as a demonstrative brute, and his style provides a fine foil to Bean's controlled anger. Alan Cumming plays an evil computer nerd who provides most the light moments I referred to earlier. Fellow X-Man Famke Janssen's character is downright demented, and will not be forgotten easily.My friends, I have just explained why GoldenEye is a most superior Bond film that brought Agent 007 back from the dead and won over a new generation of fans. The best way I can think of to conclude this review is to comment on the film's conclusion. At one point it involves a brawl between Bond and Janus (who is referred to by his real name by that time) that buries just about every other one in the series. While it does quite not take the gold from the fistfight that opens Thunderball, is does serve as a final reminder that Bond is indeed back, and that he is once again a force best not ignored. "},{"Title":"Bond is Back","Date":"25 November 1999","Score":"96 out of 143 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Bond is back and better than ever. OK, he may not be better than ever but he's better than he's been in some time. GoldenEye has a great opening scene that is more entertaining than most entire movies. It involves bungee jumping, guns, motorcycles, planes, and nerve gas among other things. Pierce Brosnan's first effort as Bond is a remarkable one. The movie has good acting, good action, and humor. It's great escapism from start to finish. The women are beautiful and Famke Jannsen and Sean Bean play their roles well. GoldenEye also boasts one of the best finales of the series in which Bond must take on the villain atop a gigantic satellite dish. As stated earlier, Brosnan is terrific as Bond. He's suave, witty, charming, looks good in a suit, and has a capacity for action. In conclusion, this is a thrilling Bond from start to finish and should not be missed. Out of 4 stars - 3.5  "},{"Title":"Campbell's GoldenEye embraces many of the best-loved motifs and situations from the classic Bond movies&#133;","Date":"4 November 2007","Score":"52 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Brosnan has the look, the style, the intelligence and the bravura that James Bond should have&#133; As charming, sophisticated, and always in control of the situation, Bond called upon all his ability for improvising escapes from truly impossible situations&#133; The new Bond drives a BMW, remains preferring his vodka martinis 'shaken but not stirred,' and uses a Walther PPK, 7.65mm&#133; The famous announcement Bond, James Bond is changed&#133; The plot line of Goldeneye revolves around an international terrorist organization calling itself Janus that steels a top-secret Russian weapon system named GoldenEye and threatens to use it to destroy a major European city unless paid off&#133;Bond's mission was to find and stop the GoldenEye, struggling with a sadistic assassin, a treacherous general, an 'invincible' computer hacker, and most dangerous of all, a colleague and friend&#133; The opening scene is spectacular with a great bungee jump from a top of a dam to an exciting racing over a cliff in a motorcycle and skydiving into a crushing private plane&#133; Martin Campbell's film comes with a phenomenal tank chase through the streets of St. Petersburg; a brutal showdown in the jungle; and a battle to the death on a high gantry&#133; Goldeneye's female characters are honestly beautiful with particular techniques&#133; The bad one is Xenia Onatopp (Famke Janssen), an ex-Soviet fighter pilot who tranquilly smokes big cigars and knocks off her victims with her 'killer thighs.' In one scene, she challenges Bond's legendary Aston Martin DB5 to a wild road race outside Monte Carlo with her red Ferrari; in another she was so smart that she snatches a top-secret helicopter from under the noses of the French navy&#133; The good Bond girl is the irresistible Natalya Simonova (Izabella Scorupco) who 'tastes like strawberries.' Natalya possesses all the technical ability to neutralize Janus' scheme or to destroy all computer records with the GoldenEye&#133; As one who survived a mass murder, this lovely beauty is suddenly a marked woman&#133; The other supporting actors are all fine Sean Bean plays a potentially fascinating bad character, the embittered and cynical traitor who was believed to have been killed on a mission&#133; Alec Trevelyan has sworn revenge on the country that was responsible for his parents' suicide&#133; Alan Cumming plays the 'invincible' Boris Grishenko who sees crime as a chance to show off his skills; and Gottfried John, the renegade ambitious general who provides inside access to Russian military secrets&#133; Award-winning Judi Dench is terrific as Bond's unshaken spy chief&#133; Samantha Bond as MoneyPenny puts forward for consideration that Bond's behavior might be interpreted as sexual harassment&#133; Serena Gordon as the neurotic MI6 assessor Caroline evaluates 007 for just 'trying to show off the size of his&#133; ego.' One familiar face among the MI6 staff was that of the redoubtable Q, played once again by Desmond Llewelyn who introduces 007 to his latest chariot, the BMW Z3&#133; Although convertible, this agile vehicle doesn't play a significant action role in the film&#133; Q doesn't forget to deliver Bond a typical leather belt, a watch that expels a laser beam, and a silver pen used to clever effect&#133; The 17th Bond film takes us from Russia, Puerto Rico, Monaco and back to England&#133; It features one of the best title tunes performed by the Queen of Rock & Roll, Tina Turner&#133;For trivia buffs Kate Gayson appears as an extra at the Chemin De Fer table at Monte Carlo's gambling casino; she's the daughter of Eunice Gayson, who played Bond's fetching girlfriend, Sylvia Trench in the first two Bond films, Dr. No and From Russia With Love. It was to Sylvia Trench that Sean Connery uttered his first line of dialog, I admire your luck, Mr. ...? "},{"Title":"Amidst Controversy, Bond Re-Invented with Brosnan...","Date":"13 April 2004","Score":"66 out of 94 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  GOLDENEYE, the long-delayed debut of Pierce Brosnan as James Bond, was a film mired in MGM's convoluted legal problems for six years, problems which had nothing to do with the 007 franchise, but which happened to fall at the worst possible time; after Timothy Dalton's 'Serious Bond' experiment, LICENCE TO KILL, failed to break even in U.S. markets. Despite international grosses that made the film a profitable venture, many American critics, long grumbling that the Bond series had outlasted it's welcome, heaped abuse on the newer, leaner direction for 'Bond', and it's taciturn, less light-hearted star...and, with MGM's decision to put the expensive series 'on hold' until their own legal and financial issues could be resolved, LICENCE TO KILL became the unfair 'scapegoat' for the delay.Much happened during the six-year hiatus; with the collapse of the Soviet Union, the Communist undercurrent of many Bond films (and the subject of most of Ian Fleming's novels) was lost; Richard Maibaum, the series' most prolific screenwriter, passed away, and ill health forced legendary producer Albert ('Cubby') Broccoli to turn over his duties to his daughter Barbara, and stepson, Michael G. Wilson (thus ending the other 'prime' 007 screenwriter's script contributions); many other key production figures would retire, die, or move on; and finally, as the delay continued, Timothy Dalton, nearing 50, announced that he was no longer interested in playing James Bond (sparking rumors that Eon Productions, no longer honor-bound by the senior Broccoli's choices, had given him 'the boot').While all this opened the door for Pierce Brosnan's long-awaited debut as 007 (after his aborted first attempt, in THE LIVING DAYLIGHTS), with a new 'look' and style for the franchise, whether audiences would even accept a new 'James Bond' adventure was in doubt. Fortunately, everything 'worked'. Brosnan, now 42, was more ruggedly believable as 007 than he would have been, at 34, and Dame Judi Dench, as the first woman 'M' (referring to Bond as a sexist, misogynist dinosaur), proved a perfect successor to the late Bernard Lee. While the plot of the film, involving the master plan of a renegade Russian General (Gottfried John) and an assumed dead 006 (Sean Bean) to use an electronic warfare system (GoldenEye) against England was nothing new, Brosnan's daring-do and one-liners (with humor restored to the franchise), as he proved his value in the new world 'order', found an audience 'primed' for James Bond's return...and the welcome cameo of the series' last original 'regular', Q (Desmond Llewelyn, 81, and as cranky as ever), cemented 007's links to both the past and the future.James Bond's greatest crisis, whether he still had 'Box Office', had been overcome, and with audience favorite Pierce Brosnan in place, his emergence into the 21st century was assured.  "},{"Title":"Truly 'golden'","Date":"22 August 2004","Score":"72 out of 121 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  *** 1/2Starring Pierce Brosnan, Izabella Scorupco, Sean Bean, and Famke Janssen.Double-0 agent James Bond, still as suave and sophisticated as he was in the last film, enters Russia in search of the stolen Goldeneye satellite. After six years without 007, the fans needed a movie like this.  Just about everything in this works, from the witty plot to Pierce Brosnan as the new Bond.  And I can't review this without complimenting Sean Bean as the series best villain.Rank in the Series 1st "},{"Title":"Bridging the Bond generations!","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"48 out of 77 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  After a 6 year hiatus due to protracted legal wranglings as to WHO owned the BOND film rights, GOLDENEYE was finally made! It was worth the wait! With the almost impossible assignment of both retaining the quintessential METHOD of the Connery period and the need to drag Bond screaming into the new millennium and its new technology, Martin Campbell actually pulled it off.Brosnan, though not my personal favorite I have to say, did a damn near remarkable job, by not only bringing elements of Connery, Dalton and Moore to the role, but by stamping it with his own identity (he WAS actually first choice ahead of Dalton but was contractually tied to REMINGTON STEELE and could not gain a release!)Wishing to link back with the earlier mega successful Bonds, the very title of GOLDENEYE was inspirational, immediately bringing to mind the latent image of GOLDFINGER. Not one half bad title song either compared to some recent efforts.With Bernard Lee's sad demise, Judy Dench made a brilliant replacement as M, all balls and bravado. Similarly, Moneypenny is now a strictly new-age secretary admonishing 007 for his sexual harassment of her good self! Dearest of all, Desmond Llewelyn still shines as Q berating 007 for his behaviour and telling him to grow up.Famke Janssen is a throw-back to the good old days of Bond badgirls as the aptly named Xenia Onatopp. Izabella Scorupco however must be the most beautiful of all the good Bond girls. Feminine to the core and everything the average man would want to love and protect she is is simply yummy.....no more so than when she chides 007's cold-war repartee with his Russian counterpart as Boys with Toys  Soo cute!Action was at a premium from the rip-snorting bungee-jump (pre-credits) to the climactic battle atop the communications tower. Everything gelled in this movie to elevate it to amongst the top 5 Bond films...no question! Top dialog, state of the art fx, innuendos on tap and a really first rate villain. Shame none of the later Brosnan outings have come close to this one!8.8 out of 10! "},{"Title":"I can't help it - this is the best","Date":"15 February 2000","Score":"86 out of 153 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Sorry y'all. I think this is the best James Bond ever. Not only because Pierce Brosnan IS James Bond, or because it feels modern having a woman (and what a woman!) cast as M. Or even the fact that this film actually is just a little bit believable...I love the feel of it. The part where JB races through ... Moscow, is it? I dunno ... with a tank is just superb.There is only one thing I dislike why oh why did they have to put the BMW in the film? They don't use it!It's in the film for only a couple of minutes, not even that. Product Placement at its worst. And it's such an UGLY car! "},{"Title":"The return of James Bond after a six-year hiatus - not vintage Bond, but good fun.","Date":"22 March 2006","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The James Bond franchise, in cinematic terms, began in 1962 with Dr No. There followed a Bond movie every couple of years or so (the longest gap between two 007 films was the three-year-hiatus separating The Man With The Golden Gun - 1974 - and The Spy Who Loved Me - 1977). Then, in 1989, with the release of Licence To Kill the series seemed to die. The box office returns of that film were disappointing; the then-Bond actor Timothy Dalton was axed; the film itself was presented in a grittier, more adult style than fans were accustomed to; and various legal wranglings put the Bond character into limbo. Six long years went by without a Bond movie and many insiders predicted an end for the British super-spy and his outrageous screen adventures. Too much time had gone by, they said, no-one was interested any longer in the character or the stories. But then Goldeneye came along, with Pierce Brosnan as Bond - it went on to become a commercial hit, propelling its star into the A-list and reinvigorating the entire series.James Bond (Pierce Brosnan) and his secret agent colleague Alec Trevelyan (Sean Bean) infiltrate a Russian military installation on a sabotage mission. During the mission, Alec is apparently killed by the enemy forces but Bond manages a miraculous escape. Several years later, a state-of-the-art helicopter is stolen from the West by some Russian spies and used to destroy a Siberian satellite station. When Bond investigates, he discovers to his surprise that the plot involves his old colleague Alec - who is very much alive, having faked his death in the earlier exchange. Trevelyan's plan is to get control of a powerful satellite called the Goldeneye and to use it to destroy a designated target on Earth - in this case, London. It emerges that his parents were Liensk Cossacks, brutally killed by the British when he was a boy, and he has long plotted a way to have his revenge. Bond teams up with a Russian computer programmer, Natalya Semyonova (Isabella Scorupco) and pursues Trevelyan around the globe in an effort to stop his sinister scheme. The trail leads to Cuba, where Trevelyan has a secret lair from which he is on the very brink of unleashing chaos upon the world.... unless 007 can find a way to thwart him.Goldeneye begins with a truly outrageous stunt involving Bond freefalling in pursuit of an unpiloted, plummeting airplane. This dumb but enjoyable scene sets the tone for the rest of the film - very much a tongue-in-cheek, improbable, action-orientated romp. Brosnan is OK as Bond, though I still feel Sean Connery and Roger Moore were slightly better suited to the role. Tina Turner's powerful theme song is very good, but the incidental scoring by Eric Serra has a tinny, tacky feel to it that makes one long for John Barry! As the bad guy, Sean Bean is effective enough even if he never quite matches the memorableness of the all-time great Bond villains (eg Dr No, Oddjob, Blofeld, Francisco Scaramanga). The Bond girls are very good in this one - Scorupco is gorgeous and plays a pleasingly resourceful character, while Famke Janssen has great fun as a female baddie who crushes victims between her thighs (what a way to go!) Goldeneye is by no means the best of the Bond series, but one has to be thankful to it for getting the dormant series up and running once more. And, in its pacy, breakneck way, it is undeniably a lot of fun. "}{"Title":"Worst Bond film ever","Date":"6 January 2006","Score":"17 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I hated this one. There were just too many implausibilities. (See the IMDb Goofs section.) 1. I wasn't buying the woman who kills men with her thighs. And that scene near the beginning seemed almost pornographic, too. 2. When she tries to kill Bond that way, he just seemed like a weenie. I mean her thighs are quite shapely and not at all musclebound, while he on the other hand has beat up hundreds of bad guys with his bare hands. 3. Bond not only catches up with the plane it mid-air, but he also manages to fly into it and take control. This is what I would expect of Bugs Bunny, not James Bond. 4. They link up with an enemy computer system on the train. (It's been 10 years since I saw this movie, so I don't remember the details, but I know how hard it is to get interfaces working on systems that want to talk to each other.) Bond has never been about verisimilitude, but this was ridiculous. "},{"Title":"Favorite of the Bonds","Date":"22 March 2005","Score":"50 out of 93 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After coming of the failures of The Living Daylights and License to Kill, Bond bounces back with a new 007. James Bond (Pierce Brosnan) is sent to discover why a satellite station at Severnaya has been destroyed by a satellite named Goldeneye. Along his mission, Bond receives help from the joyful CIA agent Jack Wade and the beautiful Severnaya operative Natalya Simonova(Izabella Scorupco). Throughout the movie Bond fights in a library and drives a tank through Moscow. The story for a Bond movie was solid and Goldeneye brought my favorite villain in Alec Trevelyan (Sean Bean). Brosnan does a great job as the charming 007 and Izabella Scorupco as the Bond girl. Goldeneye comes along with lovable characters and hateful villains, amazing action sequences and a great hatred between Bond and Trevelyan.Goldeneye. Starring Pierce Brosnan, Izabella Scorupco, Sean Bean, Gottfried John. 3 1/2 out of 5 Stars. "},{"Title":"GoldenEye - Hollow Praise, Hollow Movie","Date":"8 May 2009","Score":"19 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" In a telling scene in Goldeneye, Judy Dench (M) accuses Brosnan (Bond) thus You're a sexist, misogynist dinosaur - a relic of the cold war. Excellent lines, barbed, insulting; great scene, accentuating the fact that despite his background, Bond is a timeless, transcendent character. Most of the rest of the film doesn't live up to the sentiments, the edge, the focus and quality of it, sadly. It's almost like an intrusion from another, better, more creatively realised movie (The Third Man, for instance, from which it cribs some of its' plot). This, along with the haunting night-time meeting in a graveyard for monuments of Soviet Russian icons (a smartly allegorical instance) are perhaps the only truly inspired facets of this film.There is a sort of fragmented schizophrenic quality about GE that relates to tone, content and pacing. From the outset, with the breathtaking bungee jump off the dam, a real stunt by a real guy that manages to be both visually exciting and believable, my first impression was &#x96; if they're going to stick with this sort of approach; we're in for something special.Next, we meet the new James Bond, complete with floppy bouffant hair, hanging upside down in a toilet stall whilst a Russian guard has a bowel action. Sorry, forgot to knock, quips Bond - before cold cocking the defecating Soviet. What? Sorry, forgot to knock? How lame is that? What an awful, misplaced, miscalculated line. It's void and meaningless, ineffectual and completely lacking any sort of wit or contextual relevance. Now suddenly we're in sub-par Roger Moore territory. Even something like Just dropped in, would have at least referenced how Bond got there in the first place. Radio Station Bond suddenly tuned out here, signal lost.Then, for a while, we're back on track with Bond meeting up with 006 and the planting of the bombs, Trevelyan's convincing execution by Orumov and Bond's escape. Great &#x96; a return to action- thriller mode once more.Only, instead of Bond making it to the plane on the motorbike at the last instant, wrestling for control as it slips over the edge of the cliff and flying triumphantly away, what happens? Bond has to fall over the cliff after the plane has fallen before him, skydive to catch it up &#x96; defying the laws of physics &#x96; and then fly away. What for, exactly, and why did they do this? It ruined what could have been a perfectly good conclusion to the PCS. It's as if they just had to add that bit of complete stupidity, as though driven by some irresistible instinct, unable to help themselves. Additionally, has anyone ever noticed that the Russian chemical facility is at the base of a dam and that both are supposed to be situated on a very high mountain where it's possibly a trifle unusual to find a massive dam? And when you see the mountain base from above, where's the dam suddenly gone? Any ideas?As for Brosnan, a prize cheese if ever, he cosmetically smarmed and smirked through the movie with the clumsy over-confidence of an actor who thinks he's extending his range, when he's really showing off his limitations against the backdrop of a more skilled supporting cast who unfortunately looked like they were outshining him even when underplaying. He should always be steered clear of real actors - for his own sake. And was it just my imagination, but didn't I see his right eyebrow strain to rise in an instinctive Moore homage a few times? I'm pretty sure about this.The scene on the beach is jarring, horribly manufactured. The Broz doesn't do emoting in any way convincingly and should never be encouraged to try. Robert Mitchum's advice for non-actors of Just walk around and try not to bump into the furniture is the level he's pitched and stranded at. All that staring off into the middle distance whilst the breeze tickles the bouffant is truly embarrassing. Campbell's attempts at injecting real drama into this sometimes ill-rendered hack-cartoon reality fails to gel, adding to the episodic feel of the film and further to a lack of singular vision.The pacing in GE feels all wrong - it speeds up, slows down, speeds up, like a Ford Cortina with the clutch burning out. And although some of the set-pieces are impressive, it doesn't seem to be able to sustain optimum thrust for long, as others seem painfully dragged out. Not helping in the least is the score which, it has to be said, is a truly dreadful thing of epic proportions. The worst and most offensive example takes place when Bond has a car race with Onatop. What were they thinking? Was it purposely intended for use in screenings only for the deaf? Those notes meant to signify car horns are crushingly ugly and horribly grating. A musical travesty capable of inducing suicidal inclinations in hyenas and hypomanics.What never ceases to puzzle and amuse on a personal level is when this film is rated highly by Bond fans. Ultimately, it provides little more than a flashy, over-hyped, vapid, MTV-influenced pot-pourri of greatest hits moments which don't add up to a satisfying whole. It's like one of those mediocre compilation albums where you simply flick through to the songs you like, enjoying the few good bits, and arbitrarily disregarding the rest. Fleeting surface flash and gloss with no real heart or soul. A hollow Bond movie garnering hollow praise. "},{"Title":"Bigger is not better.","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Pierce Brosnan is outstanding as 007 in GOLDENEYE, but the film lacks the spirit of Timothy Dalton's two cracking adventures, THE LIVING DAYLIGHTS and LICENCE TO KILL. This film, alone, earned twice as much as those two and in a way it's sad because it shows that people are coming to watch Bond films that now concentrate on action, modern technology etc, than those which have these elements but still have a lot more in them. Timothy Dalton should return. "},{"Title":"Brosnan follows the trend of an underwhelming debut","Date":"2 April 2007","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" There seems to an unspoken rule that, barring Connery, every subsequent Bond actor must have an underwhelming debut film. After a lengthy hiatus, Pierce Brosnan takes on the role (after an earlier near-casting) of 007. Ironically, many cite this film as the best of his run, but I find it both the stodgiest and the most unenthralling of his run.Bond Brosnan has the right combination of polish and sophistication for the part, but his initial outing finds him downright stiff and uncharismatic. I am hard-pressed to remember him changing expressions for the duration of the film and he seems a bit uncomfortable with the role at this point.The villains Sean Bean, who has made it a profitable sideline playing villains, is one of the more dull Bond villains. As a corrupt former double-0, the story tries to humanize him and provide him with a a bit of a back story. The end result is a forgettable, uncharismatic villain. Alan Cumming is merely irritating utilizing every nerdy cliché as a turn-coat Russian computer geek.The women Izabella Scorupco is quite appealing and manages to carry her own subplot until the mid-point, at which time the screenwriters hook her up with Bond and promptly forget to give her anything further to do. Famke Jansen, an actress I normally enjoy, is dreadful here playing a murderous assassin who enjoys crushing her victims with her thighs during sex. Both her performance and the character are so over-the-top that they seem more suited to a Zucker Brothers parody than a straight action film. Watching her lick her lips lasciviously as she guns down whole roomfuls of people is ludicrous and she never seems much of an obstacle for Brosnan's Bond. Perhaps the reason why Jansen's performance sticks out like a sore thumb and seems so buffoonish is because the remainder of the film is so slow-moving and ponderous, nearly bereft of any humor whatsoever, that she seems to have walked in from another production. The action sequences are flat, the villains uninteresting and Bond seems a bit lifeless himself. The normally reliable Tina Turner contributes the second in a series of godawful wailing diva title tracks. Not the most auspicious beginning for Brosnan. "},{"Title":"Excellent Bond film and  Brosnan's best outing","Date":"24 March 2008","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Six years passed between the release of Licence to Kill and GoldenEye, Pierce Brosnan's debut as Bond, and those six years were clearly beneficial to the franchise. GoldenEye has its fair share of flaws, but it feels revitalized and fresh, unlike the film it follows, Licence to Kill, a lethargic offering that was deservedly the lowest grossing Bond film when adjusted for inflation. GoldenEye makes a clean break from previous franchise films, becoming self-aware for the first time and taking on an almost revisionist feel by casting Judi Dench as M and having her call Bond a 'sexist, misogynist dinosaur'. Even the Bond girls are in no way dependent on Bond- if you count the villain she was clearly the uh... 'dominant' half of that relationship, and even the 'good' girl bossed Bond around. In a way this is refreshing to see, and Brosnan fits the part excellently, never losing his composure, always with a witty one-liner to throw back. The main reason I like Brosnan a lot better than Moore is that he doesn't take the 'class' act too far. He's classy, charming, witty, but also cruel and ruthless when he needs to be. I don't see the validity of the claims that he was the wimpiest Bond; he's got far more physicality than Moore and a much harder edge, generally speaking. GoldenEye does have its flaws, of course. The film could have been a whole 20 minutes shorter, the musical score is not one of the best of the franchise (but not nearly as bad as some suggest), and the humor, outside of Brosnan's one-liners, falls flat most of the time. I'm also not sure about the huge emphasis on technology, which is taken too far at times here, and would be taken even farther into the land of the completely ridiculous later in the series. Then again, it was the mid-90's and technology was a hot topic. The film handles its subject matter well for the most part. The film's action set-pieces are terrific and the sets look beautiful. One of the things that impressed me most about GoldenEye is that when it went for drama it succeeded reasonably well. Sean Bean and Famke Janssen make a terrific team of villains and Martin Campbell keeps the film moving at a swift pace, drastically improving on John Glen's work in Licence to Kill.GoldenEye may not be the best Bond film, but it's a welcome addition to the series. Brosnan is not as good a Bond as Connery at his best, but he's on par with Lazenby and Dalton, if not better, and most certainly better than Roger Moore. 20 minutes shorter and GoldenEye could have been an absolute classic, but as it is it's an excellent Bond offering and one of the better Bond films. The title song is terrific, isn't it?8/10 "},{"Title":"Decent bond","Date":"11 February 2012","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Bond is back and better than ever. OK, he may not be better than ever but he's better than he's been in some time. GoldenEye has a great opening scene that is more entertaining than most entire movies. It involves bungee jumping, guns, motorcycles, planes, and nerve gas among other things. Pierce Brosnan's first effort as Bond is a remarkable one. The movie has good acting, good action, and humor. It's great escapism from start to finish. The women are beautiful and Famke Jannsen and Sean Bean play their roles well. GoldenEye also boasts one of the best finales of the series in which Bond must take on the villain atop a gigantic satellite dish. As stated earlier, Brosnan is terrific as Bond. He's suave, witty, charming, looks good in a suit, and has a capacity for action. In conclusion, this is a thrilling Bond from start to finish and should not be missed. Out of 4 stars - 3.5 "},{"Title":"Swell Looking Bond, Wrong Feel","Date":"15 December 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Pierce Brosnan was the best looking and least likable of the six actors to play 007 for the Eon production team. No film demonstrates this better than this, his first.It's a new decade for James Bond. Now he works for a woman, has to be evaluated for mental fitness, and with the fall of the Soviet Union must rely on the friendship of old enemies not to mention the enmity of old friends. All this comes into play when he is sent to discover the reason for an explosion at a Russian satellite monitoring station.When GoldenEye came out, more than six years had passed since the last Bond movie. Many wondered if time had passed James by. The movie plays this up when Bond is called a sexist, misogynistic dinosaur by his new M (Judi Dench). Bond seems unfazed by this, and everything else.Trick is to quit while you're still ahead, says his most charming adversary in this adventure, Xenia Onatopp (Famke Janssen).That's one trick I've never learned, Bond replies.Brosnan looks fantastic in the action sequences, better than any Bond before him, and his James Coburn-like grin rivals Connery's smirk and Moore's raised eyebrow for a facial signature. Too bad his overall smugness gets in the way. Here's one Bond you actually root against, especially when pitted against Onatopp. Employing missionary zeal if not position in her quest for the perfect kill, Onatopp is one of Bond's most memorable adversaries, and a riot as played by the brave Janssen.Also helping matters a lot is the film's other Bond girl, Izabella Scorupco, and a nifty title song from Tina Turner written by Bono and The Edge that captures the spirit if not the sound of 1960s Bond movies. Q (Desmond Llewelyn) gets off some good lines.What loses me about this movie most is the second half, where a once-taut and plausible story (well, except for Bond jumping off a cliff and into an airplane) gives way to a lot of nonsense where Bond drives a tank through St. Petersburg and outraces a speeding train. Crazy visuals are one thing, but Bond kills more Russians in this movie than he did in the whole series up to this point, and many of them are innocent patriots who merely get in his way. So much for the end of the Cold War!Director Martin Campbell, who would go on to unretire Bond more effectively a second time in the later Casino Royale, fashions a clean visual look that gives the action sequences added oomph. There's some wheat among the chaff in terms of dialogue, though the writers overdo the humor probably trying to compensate for the previous Bond, Timothy Dalton, whose sober mien was (unfairly) criticized by many. Let's just say that our first image of Brosnan as Bond shouldn't be of him hanging upside down in a toilet stall, but it is.The Brosnan of GoldenEye presents us with a good actor and an electric screen presence, but he lacks the occasional deferential quality other Bond actors had; the ability to look at his situation with an encouraging shrug or wink that allowed you to feel some kind of bond with him. Brosnan's about coolness and distance, which detract somewhat from the generally decent GoldenEye, and would become more of a problem in time. "},{"Title":"What's the motive","Date":"29 November 1998","Score":"18 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is probably the weakest in the series, with a Bond (Brosnan) and a villain (Bean) who simper at one another more like girls in a convent school than two hardened secret agents. After an absence of almost eight years it is easy to see why a new generation of fans, who'd never seen Connery, Moore and some decent Bond films on the big screen, would be taken in by what looks like a TV movie. They should get some of the older films on video or DVD and find out what they're missing, because this one's got TURKEY written all over it. To start with the opening sequence these usually create the atmosphere in which the audience is able to suspend disbelief for the rest of the film. Unfortunately, the death-defying opening stunt, where Bond parachutes over a cliff, defies the laws of gravity and catches up with a plane already in freefall simply by leaping after it, is clearly just nonsense. Compare this with the opening scene in Moonraker, in which Moore's Bond catches up with a man already in freefall by using known parachuting techniques. Sorry, guys, but even Moonraker is better able to suspend disbelief than this! At least Moonraker didn't look like it was filmed entirely with a computer graphics package. The next problem is the Bean character's motivation. He changes his reason for doing what he's doing two or three times his family was sent back to Russia to be executed by Stalin (which must make Mr Bean at least 65 to start with); he hates Britain (well, that's not unreasonable...); he also hates Bond; he's doing it for the money! Yea Gods! Can't he just make up his mind? They've given him the scar, so he's the bad guy! And was he already a traitor at the time of the opening sequence or not? Why doesn't anyone bother to tell us? Aside from these implausibilities, there is the problem of Brosnan. He just hasn't got any screen presence; he sounds American and he looks like he would be unable to pick a fight with a packet of fried potatoes, let alone a real tough-guy. After two Bond films (The Living Daylights and Licence to Kill) in which Timothy Dalton had gone back to Fleming's books for inspiration and found a man haunted by his past, who is sometimes forced to question the sanity of what he does but who, when action is called for, does not hesitate to do what he knows to be right, Brosnan looks a trifle inadequate to say the least. "},{"Title":"Wow, What An Opening.....But After That?","Date":"2 March 2006","Score":"19 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Perhaps the best part of this 130-minute film is the first 10.5 minutes. It's so spectacular that the rest of the film almost becomes a letdown.When I first saw this 10 years ago, I thought that opening action scene, capped by the most outrageous stunt I had seen to that point in film - Bond falling off a cliff and catching up in mid-flight to a falling airplane, landing in the cockpit and righting the plane - was, of course, ridiculous but great fun to watch.The rest of the film is more typical Bond silliness with far less spectacular scenes. When it comes to gadgets, sexual innuendos, unrealistic action with Bond escaping from impossible situations, lots of pretty women and exotic scenery to ogle, these James Bond films always give plenty of the above. Sad to say, in this film, the dialog is much dumber than usual and the fake Russian accents are hard to decipher which is very annoying.One good point there is almost no profanity in this film, even minor stuff....but overall, it's just a fair Bond flick. decent but nothing to write home about, except to note that it was Pierce Brosnan's debut as Bond and he is fine in that role. "}{"Title":"This movie is invincible","Date":"6 December 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" GoldenEye is a movie that saved Bond after an unsuccessful Licence to Kill. Pierce Brosnan plays Bond this time and he's amazing in the role definitely one of my Top 3 Bonds. Martin Campbell directs this movie and it's one of the most well directed action movies ever made. This is a Bond film that is very difficult to top. This is not the traditional Bond we know and love, but somehow it manages to be just as good.This is one of my favorite movies of all time and I'll explain why This is the first Bond movie with a fully original story after The Spy Who Loved Me (which only had the title of the novel). The pacing is really good, it's fast and only stops when it's really needed.The characters are all great. Sean Bean is fantastic as Alec Trevelyan. He's an insane mastermind who is definitely one of the best Bond villains of all time. Izabella Scorupco as Natalya Simonova is the third best Bond girl in my opinion after Diana Rigg's Tracy and Barbara Bach's Anya Amasova. Famke Janseen as Xenia Onatopp is one of the best henchmen and how she kills people is genius. Another memorable henchman is Alan Cumming as Boris Grishenko, a nerdy guy who thinks he's invincible. Gottfried John plays yet another villainous general - Ourumov in James Bond franchise and he's absolutely great. Joe Don Baker works much better as Jack Wade than as Brad Whitaker in The Living Daylights. He is one of the best Bond allies and so is Robbie Coltrane as Valentin Zukovsky. Samantha Bond replaces the awful Caroline Bliss as Moneypenny and she's the second best Moneypenny, with only Lois Maxwell in front. But most importantly we get Judi Dench as M, she is the best M we've ever seen, she's complex and it really feels like she's Bond's boss. Desmond Llewelyn returns as Q and we have one of the best Q branch scenes.Action is very well done especially the tank chase. Bond never takes advantage of the new BMW car but it's redeemed by awesome gadgets such as exploding pen.The main song by Tina Turner is great. But Eric Serra's score for the movie is overall pretty weak.Now this movie might not please the fans of classic Bond that much, but any action movie fan will enjoy this one. This movie was definitely worth 6 years and it's a very impressive movie that won't leave your mind soon. I can't praise this film enough. I've got 10/10 for you tonight. My second favorite Bond film after The Spy Who Loved Me. "},{"Title":"This is one of the best bond film","Date":"24 November 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Warning spoilers.This bond movie was definitely one of the best ones. It takes place during the Cold War and has a really good plot and villains. Alec travlyn is definitely one of the best bond villains in the bond series. He also is one of the best because he has a reason to turn rogue unlike other villains and has a really plot to have world domination. He wants.to use a space weapon called goldneye that will destroy England. Alex was once a mi6 agent like bond but decided to turn rogue and faked his death when they were on a mission. It also has a good Bond girl who was a survivor from the shootout the space program per company in Russia. It has a story of betrayal between bond and Alex and Boris and Natalya. I would definitely recommend this movie to a person is a fan of James Bond or a fan of pierce bronsan. "},{"Title":"Brosnon's Best Bond Offering","Date":"7 December 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After six years of apprehension and uncertainty about the series' future, Goldeneye was everything fans had hoped for and come to expect. Larger than life villains, exotic locals, death defying stunts, and the world's most sophisticated spy. There was no doubt about it, Bond was back.Goldeneye begins with the best pre-title sequence of any bond film. Bond is joined by agent 006, Alec Trevalen (Sean Bean), in sabotaging a Soviet chemical weapons facility. Things go south fast, Trevalen is killed, and Bond makes his escape in one of the most astonishing action sequences ever filmed. Fast forward six years. The cold war is over, and the red menace vanquished. But the Soviets' demise has brought on a plethora of new threats. Agents of the mysterious Janus syndicate have hijacked the Russian Goldeneye satellite weapon, destroying its control center and killing all but one of the operations crew in the process. Bond must locate the massacre's lone survivor and unmask Janus before the weapon's power can be unleashed.I think we can all agree that the producers made the right choice in casting Pierce Bronson as the new Bond. He might not be the equal of Connery, but he is the most stylish man to ever play the role. Between his looks and his natural charm, it's understandable that his contract forbids him from wearing a tuxedo in any other movie. He's also suitably physical and handy with a gun.More brilliant than the choice of Bonds was the choice of villain. The real genius of this movie was to make to make Janus someone that Bond has had a long personal history with, someone he saw as a friend and mentor. When they meet, there's going to be a lot of bad blood, and those who haven't seen the film or played the video game will be surprised. And it's somewhat refreshing that the villain's big speech lays out not his plans, but his motivations.And Janus isn't working alone. His right hand man is the corrupt general Ouromov (Gottfried John), head of Russia's space weapons division, and the man who killed 006. There's also Boris Greshvinko (Alan Cumming), a brilliant hacker with the maturity of a fifth grader. But the most fearsome- and alluring- villain is Xenia Onatapp (Famke Jassen). She's combat trained, built like an Amazon, and takes great pleasure from every death she inflicts- especially using her own unique and especially brutal method, which I will allow to discover for yourself.This film's bond girl is Natalia Simonova (Izabella Scorupco). She's quite pretty, and what she lacks in toughness she makes up for in smarts and programming skills. But Bond doesn't meet her until halfway into the movie, and there are almost no scenes where the two of them are alone, so we never get to see their relationship develop.This movie is of course action driven, and there are several striking action sequences besides the opener. Both of Bond's encounters with Onatapp are suitably physical, and one of the film's high points comes when he chases Ouromov through downtown Saint Petersburg- in a tank! The effects, though usually recognizable as such, are quite good, and the bad guy's hideout is the most impressive since Moonraker. Goldeneye may not be without its flaws, but it's still a solid thriller, and one of my favorite Bond movies. "},{"Title":"Pierce Brosnan's best Bond film by a landslide; It's intense, exciting, and bound to get your adrenaline running!","Date":"16 September 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Goldeneye means a lot to me. I grew up on the Nintendo 64 game, and it leaded me to this movie because I loved the game so much. I would spend literally hours playing the game, and my Dad surprised me one day by buying the movie for me. I watched this movie over and over to the point where I know it by heart. It has many standout action scenes to get your blood pumping, along with many twists and turns. One twist is perhaps the best one in the entire Bond series involving Sean Bean. Pierce Brosnan made his Bond debut in this one, and it's auspicious to say the least. He looks comfortable right from the outset, and is fully adept at playing the action man. He was awesome, but wasn't able to duplicate this performance in future films, despite always being a great Bond. Izabella Scorupco is rather bland to look at, but she had her own brand of charm as the Bond girl. I enjoyed her for the most part. Sean Bean is utterly fantastic. He played off Brosnan extremely well, and he'll stick in your mind. Famkee Janssen's aggressive style was mesmerizing to watch. She is downright vindictive, cunning, and remorseless, and to top it all off, the definition of sexiness. Alan Cumming plays hilarious comedic relief. (YES! I AM INVINCIBLE!) Sorry. I couldn't resist adding that quote. Joe Don Baker adds class to his role. He appeared in Living Daylights as wellFinal Thoughts This is a fantastic Bond film, there is no other way to put it. It's full of action, and everything you love about James Bond. I just hope you think it's as special as I do!8.7/10 "},{"Title":"A Belated Debut","Date":"30 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" GoldenEye marked the debut finally of Pierce Brosnan as 007. Brosnan who wanted the part, but couldn't do it back in the Eighties because he was committed to Remington Steele finally got to play the part that his fans said he was born for. After GoldenEye it was more than just Pierce Brosnan fans saying it.The title refers to a Russian satellite with nuclear capabilities that any number of folks would like to get their hands on. The ones who do are the Russian Mafia, in league with a traitorous Russian general played by Gottfried John.Some others that James Bond has to face here are Russian pilot Famke Janssen a girl dedicated to her mission who resists Bondification and a traitor within the ranks of the British MI5 itself. Not the least of Bond's problems are a new M in the person of Judy Dench who also resists Bondification.Another milestone and a tribute to new relations with Russia is the filming of large portions of the story in St. Petersburg and I'm not talking about the Florida retirement city. It's hardly a first, the film Gorky Park with William Hurt and Lee Marvin was shot in Moscow during the Eighties while a thawing Soviet Union was still in control.Izabella Scorupco plays a Russian computer programmer who embraces Bondification gladly as she aids 007 in his efforts. She is the only survivor of a massacre at a Russian tracking station instituted by the Russian Mafia and the traitorous general.My favorite in the film however is another Russian traitor, Alan Cummming playing a nerd Russian computer programmer who defects to the bad guys. He steals every scene he's in.Brosnan acquits himself well after the most popular of Bonds, Sean Connery and Roger Moore have passed from the scene. He would do three more films and unlike Connery was able to do other roles and well and still be accepted for them as well.Still Brosnan's 007 does have the style needed to carry off the part and carry it off he does. "},{"Title":"Best Bond Film Ever","Date":"3 January 2014","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Where to start? an absolute classic, a film that you can watch over and over again and still get surprises. The story is captivating with wonderful set pieces, especially the end many twist and turns throughout and it confidently struts itself effortlessly throughout the film with memorable quotes like Beg your pardon, forgot to knock and You don't need the gun, Commander. Well, that depends on your definition of safe sex.The whole cast deliverer a stellar performance with a brilliant bond as Pierce Brosnan whose shows a witty, charismatic side with a swagger that draws you instantly to the new bond. What a bond girl Natalya is my favorite by far not just a beautiful women but a well crafted character with brawn. This film wouldn't be as good without the villains like Xenia and Alec who definitely pull off there roles quite perfectly.To end on this film want disappoint, not just a great bond film but can easily be a stand alone film in its own right. "},{"Title":"Better luck next time... Slugheads!","Date":"9 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" We journey on the further adventures of the sexist, misogynist, dinosaur James Bond in a film that features my favorite Bond, Pierce Brosnan. Purists will be upset at the music, especially the opening credits, as they abandon the traditional Bond music for a music video style, this time featuring Tina Turner singing music by Bono and The Edge.The lovely Famke Janssen (The X-Men series, House on Haunted Hill) as Xenia Onatopp (Oh, those names!) provide more than sexual excitement as she and Brosnan engage in a super fight scene that alone is worth seeing the movie for.Of course, it is hard to pry our eyes from Izabella Scorupco to watch it, but we try.Support is provided by Alan Cumming (The Nightcrawler), Sean Bean (Boromir), and Minnie Driver, who gives us a great rendition of Tammy Wynette's Stand By Your Man. "},{"Title":"James Bond. Charming, sophisticated secret agent. Shaken, but not disturbed.","Date":"17 July 2012","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" GoldenEye is directed by Martin Campbell and adapted to screenplay by Jeffrey Caine and Bruce Feirstein from a Michael France story that uses characters created by Ian Fleming. It stars Pierce Brosnan, Judi Dench, Sean Bean, Izabella Scorupco and Famke Jansen. Music is scored by Eric Serra and cinematography by Phil Meheux.Bond 17, 007 and his friend Alec Trevelyan (006) are assigned to destroy a Soviet chemical weapons installation but the mission goes awry and 006 is executed. Forward 9 years later and Bond is sent by M to locate a weapons system called GoldenEye that may have fallen into dangerous hands. Travelling into new Russia, Bond unearths a fiendish plot involving the GoldenEye and a face from the past threatens to usurp his efforts.With the lengthy litigation issues between Eon and MGM/UA finally resolved, a new Bond went into production 6 years after Licence to Kill was released. By now Timothy Dalton had moved on to other things and had amicably left the role he so respected. This let in Pierce Brosnan, finally, someone who had long courted the role and was agonised to miss out on it back in 1986. A very popular choice, Brosnan would be the spearhead of a new strategy to update Bond for the 1990s. Michael France came up with a story involving new Russia since the Cold War had ended, the new M was to be played by a woman (Dench) and a dynamite cast assembled for the picture. Even a new studio was built at Leavesden, this because Pinewood had been taken over by another production-Sean Connery's First Knight! Press conferences went well, hopes were high that Bond could remain a viable action franchise in the mid to late 1990s.I might as well ask you if all those vodka martinis ever silence the screams of all the men you've killed... or if you find forgiveness in the arms of all those willing women for all the dead ones you failed to protect.GoldenEye proved to be a great Bond film because the makers got most of the key elements right. They managed to freshen up things by way of the astute casting of Dench, the new Moneypenny (Samantha Bond) was appealingly feisty and they gave Brosnan a script perfectly tailored to his talents. Crucially the classic elements of previous Bond productions are deftly incorporated as well, exotic locations (Monte Carlo, Puerto Rico), tough and sexy Bond girls, gadgets, many different vehicles, strongly played villains and Bond also has to use brain and brawn at times. There are many who love the gadget side of Bond, and many who prefer him as an intelligent and tough human being, GoldenEye caters for both sides of the fence. One minute he's using a head-but to escape from a perilous cockpit situation, the next he's got a laser watch to get out of another deathtrap. Something for all here. There's also some edginess in the script, a truly great passage as Bond and M drink Bourbon, you can cut the atmosphere with a knife, a dialogue exchange about Cossacks where an acknowledgement comes from Bond that carries real weight and the barbed observations that Trevelyan throws Bond's way. While it's great to see a ruthless Bond in the final showdown. This is often mature and potent stuff.Brosnan does great work, handsome, athletic and a magnetic screen presence, hell he even managed to carry off the witty one-liners that so many Bond fans seem to love. He is helped immensely by the cast put around him. Bean plays off of Brosnan very well and their interactions sparkle, while Dench wonderfully brings back the tension and respect aspects of M and Bond confrontations not seen since the Bernard Lee years. Scorupco gives Natalya Simonova great courage and cynical bite, nice to note that she never once glams up, she's always in her standard clothes as she tags along with Bond amongst the carnage. The stunningly sexy Jansen gets a villainess role of a lifetime as Xenia Onatop, a complete bad ass who gets sexual pleasure from death and destruction, she smokes cigars and dresses with an erotic kink. Gottfried John (General Ourumov), Robbie Coltrane (Valentin Zukovsky) and Tcheky Karyo (Dimitri Mishkin) skillfully act out their respective roles. While Desmond Llewelyn as Q engages in only the way he can.Problems? Yes. Trevelyan's motives are a bit weak, nigh on unbelievable in fact. Alan Cumming's nerdy computer geek is annoying and at odds with the strong characters around him, and a couple of ludicrous deaths hark back to the cartoon parts of Roger Moore's era. While we definitely could have done with more Coltrane! Major problem is the score from Serra, as part of the refreshing process for a new Bond era, the makers brought in Serra to provide an experimental score, it doesn't work, the themes are out of sync with a Bond movie. Even his end credit song is wrong, he sings it himself and closes down a great action movie with puffy romantic strains. A shame since the title song is a strong one, belted out by Tina Turner and written by Bono & The Edge of U2 fame. No matter, GoldenEye survives the missteps to become a part of the upper echelons of Bond movies. Crammed with high energy action (Martin Campbell proving adept in this department, tank chaos a pure delight) and amazing stunts (oh my that leap off the dam), rich Bondian characters and top end production value, all sit nicely alongside a new and popular James Bond actor.The worldwide box office sang to the tune of an incredible £351 million, proving once again that when Bond's viability as a box office draw is called into question, nobody actually does it better. 8.5/10 "},{"Title":"Certainly not an ageless classic","Date":"7 September 2010","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I am writing this review as soon as i finished watching it on a rental DVD. I did watch it, twice, when it was released in theaters, and remember just loving it to the max. Brosnan was a darn near perfect bond after Connery. And the technology, gadgets, and special effects were all brought up to date by Martin Campbell. But looking at it now, what came across as cool and awesome then comes across as goofy now. Brosnan is still awesome, but everyone around him, and the storyline, brings forth unintended chuckles. The whole pun on the Onatopp word, the admiral with a stupid smile on his face, Boris spiking the DOJ and the FBI, the character of Boris itself, all seem goofy and shallow when watched now. Brosnan is a savior no doubt, and the action scenes are also awesome, so it is not entirely a dud. Still watchable, but certainly not ageless. "},{"Title":"An anemic lead cannot salvage a series that is running out of steam.","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"16 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  There are lite colas, lite beers, and lite cigarettes. Pierce Brosnan is Bond-lite. For those of us who actually saw the early James Bond films with Sean Connery in their original release (beginning with DR. NO in my case), this is a prime example of diminishing returns. For those of us who actually read the original Ian Fleming books, this is just another distortion of Fleming's original character.This film is slickly made, but no amount of camouflage can conceal the fact that Brosnan is wildly miscast as Bond. At best he is warmed over Roger Moore. It's really regrettable that Timothy Dalton could not have continued in the role. In an ideal world, Dalton would have replaced Moore years before he actually assumed the role.Comparisons may be odious, but Dalton really resembled the character that Ian Fleming wrote. He made a concerted effort to play Bond the way that Fleming wrote the character. Brosnan is handicapped by his fundamental unsuitablity for the role. Rather than investing in what Fleming wrote, he settles for an unflappable attitude to danger that is a crashing bore. These points, and the fact that he doesn't look as if he could stand up to a twelve year old boy in a fight, sabotage the film in the last analysis. "}{"Title":"The return of 007","Date":"12 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Six years after the last bond film license to kill back in 1989 due to legal disputes and Timothy dalton resigning from the role, pierce Bronson assumes the role of the legendary 007 and I will say that in his first performance of his four feature tenure in the role, he does a fantastic role in the job. He balances the gritty and humor of the character while making it his own. Judi dench in her first of 8 performances in the films, plays m as one who is tougher than the previous m while bringing a sense of balance and resistance toward 007 charms. The story has James Bond dealing with an old agent from the past while also dealing with the aftermath of the post Soviet Union world. Famke Jansen plays the role of Xenia with charm and deadly femme fatale issues as she squeezes the men she encounters with her legs while hiding a sadistic nature. "},{"Title":"007 next generation!","Date":"10 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After 6 years without a Bond movie, all the fans were more than ready for some Bond firework. And what a banger it became!Just about everything in this film is successful. From the truly beautiful Natalya Simonova to the truly evil Xenia Onatopp. From a great start as 007 by Pierce Brosnan to Sean Bean as the series best villain.From the witty plot to the great action scenes, this film keeps you on the edge of your seat for the whole of its duration. With this great movie, Bond was regenerated after two less successful ones. And this is why it will always have a special place in the hearts of all Bond lovers. "},{"Title":"Brilliant Brosnan","Date":"23 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" GoldenEye is one of the best Bond film made in many, many years. Pierce Brosnan's debut as Bond is brilliant and I felt about time we had a real James Bond unlike the previous incarnations with the over comedic Roger Moore and the overly serious Timothy Daulton. Brosnan has the perfect attitude and character to play Bond. A mix of sophistication ( that Craig lacks) and a ruthlessness that makes the action believable. GoldenEye brings back Bond to what it should be, it is like an up to date Sean Connery with in my opinion an even better Bond in Brosnan.We have a deadly satellite weapon system falling into the wrong hands, and only Agent 007 can save the world. Yes Bond IS back at last!Bond races to Russia in search of the stolen access codes for Goldeneye, an awesome space weapon that can fire a devastating electromagnetic pulse toward Earth. Xenia Onatopp, is an assassin who uses pain and pleasure as her ultimate weapon. A great Bond villain if ever there was one.Brosnan's Bond films are the ones I watch over and over again and this is one of his very best. "},{"Title":"Pierce Brosnan's 007 first.","Date":"11 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is Pierce Brosnan's first movie as James Bond 007. Here, after a deadly satellite weapon system falls into the wrong hands, Bond races to Russia to search for the stolen access codes to the space weapon Goldeneye, which can fire an electromagnetic pulse toward Earth. At the same time Bond is pitted against colleague-turned-enemy Alec Trevelyan.There are some nice action sequences and thrilling stunt scenes, and Alex Trevelyan (Sean Bean) and Xenia Onatopp (Famke Janssen) make a pretty notorious team of villains, deviously depicted who will have you rooting against. However, I thought the Russian formula in the plot is a little overused in the series by this time. And, while Brosnan makes a good action hero, he didn't quite have the charm, class and suaveness as Connery and Moore had as Bond. The one-liners and wit that defines Bond were few in this film.Overall, it is not a bad Bond entry. It's an OK action film, but minus some of the classic 007 flavor.Grade B- "},{"Title":"Good start to the Brosnan era","Date":"2 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Russian Janus group has hijack a Eurocopter and use it to steal the access chip to a Soviet era satellite named Goldeneye. It emits an EMP that would destroy all electronics at the target. James Bond (Pierce Brosnan) must team up with a surviving programmer from the attack on the Goldeneye base to battle a Russian general, a former 00 (Sean Bean), and crazed assassin Xenia Onatopp (Famke Janssen).This is the standard Bond fare of convoluted story, improbable escapes, and crazy action. It is what a Brosnan Bond will represent. In this one, he even gets to drive a tank in St. Petersburg. Alan Cumming is probably the most memorable character as the sexist Russian programmer. This is the first Bond movie of the Brosnan era. And it's a pretty good start. "},{"Title":"An action packed secret agent saga","Date":"5 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" *Spoiler/plot- Goldeneye, 1995, In Russia there is a search for top secret space weapon in orbit that works on devastating electromagnetic pulse theory. A fellow British agent turn coat mastermind is behind the world's problems due to holding a long vendetta against the Western governments.*Special Stars- Pierce Brosnan, Judi Dench, Sean Bean, Izabella Scorupco, Famke Janssen *Theme- Secret space weapons and the Cold War heats up for awhile.*Trivia/location/goofs- This was Pierce Brosnan's first appearance as James Bond. The satellite dish at the end of the film is the Arecibo radio telescope in Puerto Rico. Final James Bond movie viewed by Albert R. Broccoli, the series long-time producer. First 007 movie in the series to feature a female - Judi Dench - in the role of M. This was the first time a German sports car, in this case the BMW Z3, was used as the primary Bond vehicle. First of two appearances by Joe Don Baker as Bond's CIA counterpart Jack Wade, who would also appear in Tomorrow Never Dies. Wade was created as a replacement for Felix Leiter, who had lost his leg and presumably retired from field work as a result.*Emotion- Essentially all European filming locations. Izabella Scorupco character in this film is wonderfully strong & complex and sexy as the computer programmer. The female villains is unique and memorable. A new female lady M was a nice touch and well performed. The new Ms. Moneypenny actress was lovely and well acted, but I miss the previous established actress. Seeing more of the brother agents like 006 in this story gives the viewer more background and understanding about the secret agent society. An action packed secret agent saga up to the standards set my Mr. Fleming. "},{"Title":"A competent start for Brosnan","Date":"19 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I have fond memories of this film. After a six year break Bond returned with a bang. Pierce Brosnan was less assured in his first outing, but everything else is pretty good. The film is well paced, the opening sequence is worth watching, and Sean Bean makes an interesting villain. The part everyone remembers is probably the tank rampage through Moscow, but what I remember most of all is the violent climax. Judi Dench plays M with her job being primarily to give Bond a dressing down ('a sexist misogynist dinosaur'). Some of the dialog is frankly unbelievable but this is a Bond film we are talking about!Overall 7/10 "},{"Title":"An excellent Bond film","Date":"5 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I have been a James Bond fan my whole life and I was disappointed when there was a 6 year pause after License to Kill. I was afraid the Bond generation was over. But then Martin Campbell was able to bring the franchise back with not only a terrific James Bond in Pierce Brosnan, but also a great movie.This movie was terrific in many ways. It has a different plot than the other Bond films in that Bond has to eventually face the truth that his enemy is a former MI6 agent. Never done in previous films. This was truly a great idea. Sean Bean was a great choice for this evil character. There is great acting in each character, stupendous suspense, and wonderful action sequences.Does anyone realize that Martin Campbell introduced both Pierce Brosnan and Daniel Craig? He seems to be born to direct Bond films. I do hope he returns to direct another in the future. "},{"Title":"There is no substitute","Date":"11 February 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" GoldenEye is the first Bond film to star Pierce Brosnan, and it's my favorite of the whole series. It has all the elements of a great Bond film, it has a great Bond actor, excellent action sequences, a good sense of humor, and of course, a great villain. It was also the first Bond film not at all based on any Iran Fleming novels.Pierce Brosnan is fantastic as Bond, he's got a dose of everything that made previous Bond actors great. He's charming and self-assured like Connery, he's witty like Moore, and he has the same determination Dalton had regarding the mission. I personally feel he's the best actor in the role of James Bond. The villain of GoldenEye is one of the best Bond villains, he knows how Bond thinks and works, and has a history with Bond that really makes him and his villainous motivations stand out.The opening action sequence is yet another aspect if the film I rank highly against other Bond films, and the action continues to be great as the film progresses. Tina Turner's title song is one of my favorites, and the title sequence that goes along with it is equally great. The Bond girls are quite good in terms of sexuality and acting, especially Natalya.Both a great and important film to the series, GoldenEye remains my favorite Bond film. It's exciting, funny, and captivating all at once. "},{"Title":"Bonth Month #17 Pierce Brosnan's Debut is Amazing","Date":"22 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" GodlenEye was touted in 1995 as the most modern Bond to date. Yes it most certainly was in that year! GoldenEye dealt with something that plagued the Bond producers, is Bond still relevant in today's world. GoldenEye is the answer to this question, and offers a fantastic debut to the Bond I grew up with, Pierce Brosnan.The story involves the theft of the GoldenEye satellite disk, which can destroy a target electronically with an EMP device, by a crime ring known as Janus. The Sovet Union has fallen by now, so the new M (played by brilliant Judi Dench) warns Bond the sexist, misogynist dinosaur relic from the Cold War to keeps his wits about him and not let prejudices and habits affect anything. Bond discovers that the villain is former 006 agent Alec Trevalyan, who wishes to destroy England and all their government lies (oh and seize their money too) Pierce Brosnan was the Bond I grew up with, and the one I actually find to be my favorite one (well next to Sean and Daniel) He is a better looking Bond than all of the rest and he has just the right amount of humor and seriousness to convey the character. He is also very calm and collected, but can get primal when he needs to.Bond finally gains the first Bond girl since Tracy in OHMSS who actually helps him in the best way possible. Natalya Simonova is the best Bond girl of the 90s. She starts out as a nerdy computer technical but eventually becomes a sexy bombshell who is still smart and helpful to James.The villain is good in Alec, but the most memorable of the film is Xenia Onatopp (hahahaha the name hahahahahah) played by the luscious Famke Janssen. She is also twisted by the fact that she is turned on by the death of people and violence. very memorable indeed.The whole movie deals with the new age of Bond and also gives way to new stunts and action scenes. Bond drives a tank through the streets of Russia after a general. AWESOME! AWESOME! AWESOME! The rest of the action is amazing, and seems more logical than most. I really have to give credit to director Martin Campbell, who truly understood what made Bond work, but also updating it to fit his standards as well as the modern cinema-goers of the 90s. The writing is excellent the acting is excellent, and everything about this is excellent. We're onto a good era now ladies and gentlemen... "}{"Title":"An explosive reboot.","Date":"12 June 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After 6 years, Bond finally made an explosive comeback with this strong entry into the franchise. Goldeneye (named after Ian Flemming's house), is easily Brosnan's best Bond, and there's no doubt that this is set Bond on a better path. This has some fabulous action scenes, some strong acting, better and believable gadgets and a very neat, tight plot. In the dying moments of the Cold War, James Bond (Brosnan)and his friend and colleague Alec, 006 (Sean Bean) are sent on a mission to destroy a dam and weapons depot in the USSR. Alec is killed, and Bond is able to escape. Years later, in Russia, a rogue General steals a secret Russian nuclear weapon that can destroy electrical circuits. Bond is sent to investigate, and soon finds that the General is working for someone else, and that someone wants revenge on Bond, and Britain. There's no doubt that Brosnan's Bond was the most complete since Connery. Whilst I thought Lazenby was hard done by, Moore was a hit and miss, and Dalton was underrated, Brosnan really does tick the boxes. He's suave, smart, good looking, and can handle the serious with the light-hearted. Even now, with Daniel Craig as Bond, Brosnan really is Connery's heir. It was just a shame that he didn't have better story lines further on. Brosnan is also complemented by a very strong supporting cast. Sean Bean is a strong villain, even if not the strongest, and gives some heart the the villain who was perhaps betrayed. Izabella Scoripco is a very strong minded Bond girl, who isn't afraid to fight, and doesn't spend all her time screaming endlessly. Robbie Coltrane is on hand to provide excellent support as the Russian Mafia, and finally Judi Dench excels as the first female 'M'And then there's the action. If you like action, you will like this. From the opening scene at the dam, to the ST Petersberg chase, to the climax. It's pretty non stop, and benefits from not being too cartoonish that you can't believe it wouldn't happen. Even if there are some moments in the plot that don't quite make sense, you just don't care. All in all, a very neat, impressive Bond film. 9/10. "},{"Title":"Good 007 Epic","Date":"16 December 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Pierce Brosnan makes his mark as James Bond in GoldenEye after the Bonds pretty much came to a halt amid lawsuits and languished for several years after Timothy Dalton's rein as 007. Another disgruntled British Intelligence agent wants to make Great Britain pay for its treachery toward him. Sean Bean make a first-class villain and the pre-credit scene where Bond skydives to get behind the controls of a plunging plane is top-notch stuff. In fact, all the villains were rather well done, but the overall plot remains as formulaic as the previous entries, though this entry is romantic with a cute heroine. The scene in the helicopter where Bond has to use his head to escape is fabulous. The only thing that I didn't care for to this date is Bond's appearance in a toilet where he suspends himself upside down and punches out a guard. The Tina Turner theme song is memorable and the credits with the gals smashing statues of Lenin is cool. "},{"Title":"Brosnan's best Bond film","Date":"16 October 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" A lot has happened since 'Licence to Kill'; not only has Timothy Dolton been replaced by Pierce Brosnan but the Soviet Union is no more; but this doesn't mean you can't have villainous Russians any more. The prologue took place six years previously when the Soviet Union still existed; it featured Bond dramatically breaking into a Soviet installation where he is joined by 006, his friend Alex Trevelyan; the mission is a success but before he escapes Bond sees 006 being shot in the head by General Ourumov.Once the action has switched to the present Bond has a run in with Xenia Onnatopp, a member of the criminal Janus group. She steals a prototype advanced helicopter; it is special because unlike other aircraft it is shielded from EM radiation. The next time the helicopter is seen it is at a remote Russian facility; the home of the GoldenEye satellite based EM pulse weapon. When it lands Onnatopp and Ourumov get out and kill the people working there; with two exceptions; Boris Grishenko, the inside man and Natalya Simonova a programmer who just got lucky and survived. Before departing with the weapon's control unit they use one of the satellites to destroy the facility. Bond heads to St. Petersburg to meet the leader of the Janus group and when he finds him he has quite a surprise! Meanwhile Natalya has made her way to St. Petersburg and met her 'friend' Boris... this leads to Bond and Natalya meeting each other... just before they going to be killed! Needless to say they escape and after a series of spectacular incidents they confront Janus again; this time in Cuba.After the light-hearted Roger Moore era things got more serious for Timothy Dalton's two films; clearly they have gone someway back again although this still more serious than the Moore era films. There is a lot of impressive action including dramatic shootouts, explosions and a chase through St. Petersburg where Bond is driving a tank... and it was actually filmed in St. Petersburg... growing up I certainly never thought I'd see a Bond film made in Russia! The story is standard Bond fare but there is nothing wrong with that; it is after all a winning formula. Brosnan makes a good Bond and this is probably his best outing in the role. Izabella Scorupco and Famke Janssen were good as Natalya and Onnatopp although the latter's character was a bit too over the top; it looked liked she was about to climax as she gunned people down let alone when she killed somebody in bed! There was a nice twist midway through when we learn who Janus was so to avoid spoiling it I won't say who played Janus but will say I thought he did a decent job. There were some silly moments I could have done without but they weren't enough to really detract from this fine romp of a film. "},{"Title":"An enjoyable update of the secret agent franchise","Date":"28 April 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Released in 1995, GOLDENEYE is the seventeenth James Bond film in the official series and the first to star Pierce Brosnan as 007. It's the one with Famke Janssen, the tank, the giant satellite dish, the bungee jumping, Alan Cumming as a computer hacker, and the Cold War prologue with Sean Bean.Director Martin Campbell tries to give the series a fresh start for its new star, with Judi Dench playing the new M and Samantha Bond playing Miss Moneypenny. Desmond Llewelyn is the only actor carried over, reprising his role as gadget master Q (a role he'd originated during the Sean Connery Bonds).The action is updated for the 1990s, with computers, email, satellite imagery, etc. The adventure is set after the fall of the USSR and the end of the Cold War, but the story leans heavily on the lingering effects. The story moves along at a brisk pace, with lots of action chase scenes, heavy gunfire, fiery explosions. The script incorporates a lot of humor, while keeping its serious edge. Campbell tries to make this Bond outing a fun one.Famke Janssen plays a character named Xenia Onatopp, a sex-crazed femme fatale. The other Bond girl is Izabella Scorupco as Natalya, a poor Russian caught in the middle of a weapons crisis. Both actresses do a good job in their respective roles. Janssen leaves quite and impression and Scorupco proves to be a useful ally for James Bond. Also joining the cast are Joe Don Baker as a friendly American CIA agent and Robbie Coltrane (Hagrid from Harry Potter) as a Russian mobster. Both Baker and Coltrane add humor to the spy games and their supporting characters add a lot to the movie.Pierce Brosnan is good as 007. He masters the suave secret agent persona. He's irresistible to women and he uses his charm to his advantage. He's also quick with a witty innuendo or one-liner. And he's handy with a firearm and just as tough without one.GOLDENEYE is a fine modern James Bond adventure. It's my favorite from the Pierce Brosnan era. Sure, there's a lot of action and excitement throughout and it certainly has a different feel than the classic 1960s and 1970s Bond films. But I think that's just a sign of the times. The script has humor, but never falls into silliness or self-parody. The film is respectful to the James Bond tradition, while updating it for a new generation. The result is a fun and sexy action thrill ride.GOLDENEYE is just what James Bond movies should be enjoyable action-packed secret agent escapist fun. "},{"Title":"Pierce Brosnan's Best (and First) Run as 007...","Date":"30 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" For me, this was the film that started it all. It was my first exposure to the James Bond films and the one that spurred me to see all the rest. This film is Pierce Brosnan's first portrayal of the iconic character and, when I first saw the film, I was blown away. Since then, it seems to have lost some of its magic but I still rank it as one of my favorite Bond films. In this installment, 007 must track down a stolen satellite that has the ability to release an EMP and cripple a nation; the trail leads him to a criminal organization known as Janus, run by a spectre from Bond's past. The film is directed by Martin Campbell (who also directed the more recent Casino Royale) and would become Brosnan's best outing in the role.In my opinion, this was the last Bond film to utilize all of the normal 007 film elements without going over-the-top. Bond continues with the one-liners and innuendo but it's never groan-inducing (though some of the supporting cast do have a couple lame ones...I'm lookin' at you, Xenia...). The action has the usual outlandish stunts, including an awesome chase through the streets of St. Petersburg, Russia with Bond driving a tank...still one of the best 007 chase scenes. Brosnan does a great job of taking of the character, bringing the usual suaveness with realistic tones that never cross over into camp.This film also boasts one of the hottest (and most talented) Bond girls from the series, Izabella Scorupco as computer programmer Natalya Simonova. She's got beauty and brains, adding a nice counter to Brosnan's Bond. Sean Bean's been an actor I've respected in everything I've seen him in, and he plays a perfect antagonist in the role of a former MI6 agent...the guy's talented and would've made a great 007 himself. Throw in the gorgeous Famke Janssen and Judi Dench's debut as M and you've got a great cast. Really, there isn't a lot to complain about with this film. At points, it may drag a bit but it's a well-rounded film that does it's job...it entertains. "},{"Title":"an adrenaline soaked action thriller with Brilliant Brosnan","Date":"26 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" James Bond (Brosnan) investigates the mysterious dealings of Goldeneye, a satellite which was kidnapped by a group of Russians.Pierce Brosnan's (Mamma Mia!) first role as the famous British spy is probably his finest to date with specific and exciting acting, not to mention he is the cheekiest and smartest Bond since Connery.Six years Bond fanatics had to wait after 'Licence to Kill' was released in 1989 and weren't we treated? Goldeneye has everything a Bond fan could ever wish for, high action, attractive female leads and a fantastic trio of villains to make the ultimate knockout action thriller.Brosnan's performance is excellent and really helps gain that edge of your seat excitement but also an ultimate relaxed feeling to. Bond's first line Forgot to knock will have fans smiling to.Brosnan delivers the best acting out of a terrific cast which also includes a memorable performance by Sean Bean (Sharpe series) who never disappoints with a sweet evilness and malice to his character.Izabella Scorupco is one of the least interesting Bond girls of all time. However Famke Janssen as Onatopp is one, if not the, best female Bond villain of the series to date with a fantastic viciousness and cutting edge to her personality.The writing works well with great dramatic tension surrounding the characters. From the cool and sophisticated agent to the troubled and sad Russian researcher, writer Michael France has created one of the finest Bonds to date. Goldeneye isn't based on an Ian Fleming novel, which is evident with the amount of action encoded, which isn't a bad thing at all.Goldeneye is all about the memorable action sequences. The film opens with a terrific and remarkable bungee jump of a damn. A true heart stopping and terrific piece of film making, which makes one of the finest Bond openings to date. The film is constantly hitting new heights with a dramatic plane flying sequence, a tank cutting traffic and plenty of high flying helicopters to match.There are questions of realism but regardless Goldeneye treats viewers with its high octane vibe and a fantastic ensemble of performances, particularly by Brosnan and Bean. "},{"Title":"Extending the Plot Possibilities, but still Carries the Classic Bond with it.","Date":"8 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" My Take Brosnan's first performance as Bond is a thrilling spy adventure.Goldenenye marks the new age of Bond. Irish-born Pierce Brosnan gives yet another dimension of character to Her Majesty's best super spy, a tough, yet suave characteristics. The plot, as well, have changed. Instead of throwing back the basics, the writers coped for a more advance plot involving a Russian foe planning to use an advance Soviet helicopter and a space weapon, Goldeneye, to obliterate the western world. This plot is hardly different from all those Cold-War era Bonds, but it just comes to show that even outside his own era, we can always rely on Bond to be a memorable screen hero. The film may have made major changes with the plot, but it still carries the much-loved formula of the original series, and not just carrying it, it reaches it into new heights. Most of the clichés are ignore, in favor of moments with pure excitement. Director Martin Campbell gives a top-notch direction, giving us cliffhangers, suspense, action, and also combining some interesting dialog and fantastic moments were it states You don't need CGI to do it. GOLDENEYE is a most satisfying return for 007, and for the record, it's just as great as some of the the better entries in the series. Rating **** out of 5. "},{"Title":"A Fantastic start for Brosnans Bond","Date":"11 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Goldeneye was the 17th Bond film produced in 1995 and directed by Martin Campbell and gave the world Pierce Brosnans take as James Bond.This Bond film feels so different compared to the previous movies. The only returning cast member returning is Desmond Llewlyn as Q. Samantha Bond brings us a good Moneypenny but does not live up to Lois Maxwells version. Judi Dench brings us a wonderful M who feels very strict and feels like a female version of Bernard Lee.The villains are also interesting with some wonderful Russian accents. Sean Bean although doesn't look the part of a Bond villain, really fits the part for this movie as he looks very much like an ex-spy. Famke Jannsen gives us a very interesting character that feels different to the franchise.The action as always is very impressive with the tank chase in st. Petersburg the high light and nothing like it has been seen in a while in the Bond world. The music is also different and has a very Russian feel to it, but can feel repetitive and glad they decided not to keep Eric Serra.This is one of the best Bond films and is up there with Goldfinger, On Her Majestys Secret Service and Casino Royale.James Bond will return in Tomorrow Never Dies "},{"Title":"After a 6 year break -- Bond is back","Date":"8 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Former Remington Steele star as James Bond ? I did not think he would have the weight to carry the role . Martin Campbell and the screenplay by Michael France give him a great build up. His first close - up appearance are his eyes.From that moment in the film -- I thought we are in safe hands! Pierce Brosnan in  Goldeneye is a revelation -- he gives a very skillful and stylish performance. He is a joy to watch in scene after scene and makes his debut seem effortless. Sean Bean as Alec, Judi Dench as M ,Samantha Bond as Moneypenny and Robbie Coltrane as Valentine are also effective -- They tend to mock Bond which seems to make him a stronger hero for some reason-- a great addition to the franchise! "},{"Title":"For england James!!","Date":"29 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The names Bond....James Bond! What a film that contains four things! It contains humour, action, Russians and tanks, and with all these things combined means a great British film.......*scratches head* Yeah well the film still deserves a 10 for sheer class! It also includes Russians which have spasms making them strangely jump...some viewers may take this offensively..because here at Mat Neve.co we love you all *loads shotgun* see ya later!* In conclusion this film rules! p.s If you haven't seen this film you are not complete! Get it, Get it, Get it, Get it, Get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it!! "}{"Title":"The best Brosnan Bond film to date!","Date":"8 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" In my opinion this is the best Brosnan Bond film to date. However, this does not make it the best Bond film ever. It is a refreshing change from Moores and Daltons versions of Bond, which were not as good as Connery's in my opinion, and Brosnan in the role of Bond for the first time did great, second to that of Connery (maybe even on par). Not only this but the plot is interesting and easy to follow with a plot twist which maybe some may have expected, but I sure didn't! While not being that big it was a change and it meant that, while not being as emotional as Dalton, Brosnan did put character into the character and didn't just spout cheesy one liners like Moore all the time. As well as an interesting plot the characters livened up the film with possibly the exception of Ourumov who I didn't like much due to being rather miserable and not very menacing. The gadgets on in the film were, from what I've seen and heard of other peoples opinions, not very hi tech and not many were seen (like in Bond's car for instance). However, I think this was a welcome change compared to Brosnans last two Bond films which relied upon the excess use of gadgets. On the other hand, without giving much away, there are parts of the film which have a load of hi tech weaponry and gadgets, but this is what is required from a Bond film, what I am saying about the other two films is that it more heavily relied upon it and as a result they became boring. As for Bond women this film was the last in my opinion (apart if you count Paris Carver in Tomorrow Never Dies)to actually have a half decent reason to why Bond sees a woman instead of her being just a spy working with him for world peace. Not only that her character builds up from being a pathetic coward to being able to look after herself. To sum up, while not being the best Bond film I would say this is one of the best ones. While having bad parts the good parts weigh them out. "},{"Title":"Great Debut for Brosnan.","Date":"10 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Pierce Brosnan's first Bond film is huge success succeeding as both a great Bond film and a great spy thriller about the world after the Cold War. As first films go, Brosnan has an ease and a level of security here that works very well. You would never know watching it that this was his first Bond film, he is fantastic. It helps, though, that he is corresponded with a great supporting cast and a fantastic script that, despite a huge plot hole, works very well.The best part of the script is seeing how Bond is now interacting with the world now that not only the Cold War is over,  but that the world has gone and become a more politically correct one. His interaction with a modern Moneypenny a female M (who refers to him as a sexist misogynistic dinosaur) are all wonderfully done, but it is the more familiar Bond elements that make this the must see that it is. The far fetched plot, insane villain and two beautiful Bond girls all ensure a classic entrance for Brosnan and a brilliant reintroduction for the character.The plot is also quite strong as Bond deals with the death of a friend, only to learn that he has been betrayed. It all leads to a fantastic moment where 006, played with great aplomb by Sean Bean, is revealed to be the actual villain, having faked his death in the pre-title sequence. The scene features some wonderful music by Eric Serra and a wonderful scene where he reveals to Bond why he has done what he has done. The fantastic performances from Bean and Brosnan ensure that the film has a wonderful dynamic for hero and villain to play against. Trevelyn is not just another super villain looking to destroy the world, although that is something he is wanting to do, of course, but the fact that Bond is fighting against a man he believed to be his friend gives the film a mighty emotional punch, especially in the final moments that mark it out as something else. Add to this wonderful elements the shape of two beautiful Bond girls in the shape of Izabella Scoropco as Natalya Seminova and (my personal favorite) Famke Janssen as Xenia Onattop and some fantastic action sequences, such as the tank chase through St Petersburg and we have an all time classic Bond film, the beginning of a new era and one to rival the Connery dynasty. "},{"Title":"A Super Duper Movie","Date":"15 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  GoldenEye is one of the best bond movies. It has great action. I loved this movie. There is never a dull moment. That is if your watching it for the first to 6th time. The opening credits can get really boring during the 10th viewing. Sean Bean is a good villain. He is evil enough. Boris is a good villain too. He can really make you laugh. Pierce Brosnan is the best Bond since Sean Connery. He has a Moore/Connery feel about him. So in closing watch this movie.  IT RULES!  "},{"Title":"The Best Bond Movie Ever Made","Date":"24 August 2014","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Goldeneye has to be my favorite James bond film. I love all the action and shooting in it and it has all the levels just like the n64 game except silo and i think the caverns level. Pierce Brosnan was an excellent bond in this movie. The movie is just like the game like i said and i love playing the game all the time. Bond and Alec were MI6 partners and friends in the beginning of the movie when they were both in the Facility level. But on the other hand, Alec betrayed bond because pierce changed the time limit on those gas tanks. I love the scene where James and Natalya met in the library room and bond protects Natalya from the bad guys. I don't really like Xenia, Ourumov, Alec and of course Boris because Boris Actually betrayed Natalya too, which i don't understand that.I will always love this movie and watch it.. "},{"Title":"Possible Spoiler - One of my fave Bond films!","Date":"1 February 2013","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" 1. Tina Turner sings the opening song with music by Bono and The Edge of the band U2. 2. Famke Jenssen (Jean Gray from the X-Men films) as baddie, thigh crushing killer Xenia Onatopp 3. Sean Bean 4. Judi Dench as 'M' 5. Minnie Drivers cameo as the Russian singer singing 'Stand By Your Man' 6. Alan Cumming as Boris 7. A chase through the streets of Moscow IN A TANK! 8. The opening scene rocked! 9. Q - it's always nice to see what Q has in store 10. The movie just rocked. They really brought Bond back in a big way with this movie. I was VERY VERY happy with the entire movie. I don't think anyone does it better than Bond! If you want a good starting off point for a Bond flick, go with this one! "},{"Title":"One of the best Bond films to date!","Date":"4 November 2012","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After License to Kill's disappointing box office, there would pass 6 years before the next Bond film would be released. During those six years many events occurred; Dalton thought he had aged too much since License to Kill so that he refused to declined to make another Bond movie, long-time screenwriter Richard Maibaum suddenly died of old age, Albert R. Broccoli's producer's chair was passed on to his daughter Barbara. The biggest question however was if Bond was able to find his place in the new world, after the Berlin-Wall fell. Luckily, the answer was yes! Remington Steele-star Pierce Brosnan was cast as James Bond, one of the most visionary Bond directors Martin Campbell was directing, Michael France wrote the story, Jeffrey Caine and Bruce Feirstein wrote the screenplay and Michael G. Wilson and Barbara Broccoli was producing!The opening title sequence takes place in 1986 in the USSR. James Bond and Alec Trevelyan aka 006 is to infiltrate a military compound and blow it all up. One of the best Bond stunts occurs at the opening when Bond jumps from a huge dam (actually shot at the Hoover-dam)! The stunt is beautifully shot and marvelously executed by the skilled stuntman! After that a cool sequence ensues when Bond and Trevelyan silently infiltrates the compound. However, the mission goes awry, 006 is killed and then the film jumps over to a huge action sequence! The whole thing is beautifully shot and executed with Bravour! Then Tina Turners cool title song is heard and you immediately know that this film is gonna be extraordinary!Martin Campbell directs Goldeneye with finesse and professionalism, and the whole thing pays off! Martin Campbell makes everything in this movie so intense and interesting, that you probably are gonna see it more than once! The screenplay and the story is brilliant and so is the cinematography! The action and the whole film is very skillfully edited and choreographed. Gotta' love Goldeneye!Pierce Brosnan is brilliant in the role as Bond! He has both the Moore and the Connery feeling about his portrayal! Sure, he is charming and he can crack a quick joke, but he can also be a serious and calculating Bond at the same time. Brosnan is therefore a brilliant choice to the role of Bond! Sean Bean must be one of the most iconic Bond villains of all time! Not only is he a revenge-driven and calculating enemy, he is also 006! He know all of Bond's moves before he does them, and is therefore always one step ahead of Bond! Bean's performance is also very solid and memorable! Izabella Scorupko as the Bond babe is also very great. Her and Brosnan have some great chemistry, she is beautiful and a good actor. All the virtues of a true Bond girl! Famke Janssen is a brilliant sidekick to Sean Bean's character! She is ruthless, psychopathic and perverse more than any other Bond villain ever shown! She strangles people with her legs, and has some sort of orgasmic pleasure in killing people! How evil is that?! Janssen is one the most memorable and scary Bond villain ever shown! Gottfried John and Alan Cumming also portray cruel and memorable Bond villains. Robbie Coltrane is also good in this movie as Valentin Zuckovsky! Judi Dench as M is a true pleasure to watch! She owns the role. Nough' said. The film has some minor set-backs, though. After a cool tank chase through Moscow, the film slows down and therefore the pace also slows down! It seems like sometimes there are a few scenes not very important, when all you wanna see is the epic conclusion to one of the best Bond films ever! Also some lines in the movie only makes sense, if you've seen all the other Bond movies. However, these are only minor complaints to an otherwise masterpiece of a movie!Overall, Goldeneye is one of the best Bond films to date, and one of my personal top 5 Bond films! 9/10 "},{"Title":"The Debut Of Golden & Best Bond Ever","Date":"12 January 2012","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Goldeneye 1995 starting Pierce Brosnan as one of the best & golden James bond 007 ever out of all actors after timothy Dalton.i am a huge bond fan i collect bond films but i love Brosnan bond films & this one is my favorite & i call this number 1 bond film there are reasons for it.golden-eye is about bond is sent to investigate to what happened to a stolen nuclear space weapon codenamed golden-eye & to stop the man who is behind it. the main point of the movie is its strong story. i am not going to reveal much that what happens in the story but in terms of action,acting,music & entertainment plus the villains in the movie are great Alec 006(sean bean),Xenia Onatopp(Famke Janssen). the bond girl Natalya played by Izabella is good but annoying most of the times.overall i would say Goldeneye is Gold & Pierce is best 007 ever i love this movie I've seen it so many times & i recommend it to bond fans. a must buy DVD for everyone.My rating is 10/10 Must See Adventure "},{"Title":"Golden Touch (dvd)","Date":"25 August 2011","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I am not a Bond fan see my 400+ reviews, in six years, i saw only one Bond movie (Quantum) and it was the choice of the kids. Bond isn't my favorite because i laugh at the villain and it's always the same recipe the girls and the high-life, all the more than it's contradictory to have Bond in casinos because the terrorists don't hide there.But i make an exception for this one because at least, the reason to have spys is put in the plot politics.I think it was a great choice to have Bond finally tackle soviets and the time of ending the cold war. Next, the movie has the best villain of all franchise Famke is a vicious soldier who literally eats the screen. From Monaco to Saint Petersburg to Cuba, it has the best locations and newcomer Brosnan is the perfect pick for the job. The soundtrack is excellent with Serra and U2 (sounds a bit like Goldfinger) and Campbell is really good at filming action as he would prove again with Tomb Raider.In conclusion, if you would have to watch only 1 Bond, pick this one! "},{"Title":"When Lots of Movies are Freaking Scary, Who's The Cream of the Crop? JAMES BOND!","Date":"25 August 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Meet Pierce Brosnan, an awesome actor from Ireland who still among others rules over other lousy horror films. Pierce is James Bond. He is the double-oh seven (Oh, James!), in what is among the greatest of the James Bond classics GoldenEye! In the whole great decade of the 1990s the three greatest elements of action and adventure were Wallace and Gromit, James Bond, and The Matrix series that started in 1999. I ask myself, why didn't this Bond movie enter the Oscars for 1995? Huh? HUH?! Alright, I'm exhausted from my rant. In terms of the Academy Awards, that never happened to the other fellow (007, duh!), but this is Pierce Brosnan's first Bond film and the best.The timeless story is filled to the brim of Bond's martini glass that is washed to perfection. This whole political plot pits the British Secret Intelligence MI6 against the corrupt spoiled side of the government of the Russian Federation. What trouble is stirring in Russia? Nuclear space technology! 'gasp'! In the high frosted winterized mountains of Siberia, a technological satellite and signal dish base called Severnaya contains a safe protected square golden silicon data disk in the shape of an eye called...GOLDENEYE! That's the lit up name that is also the name of a duck/bird species. You know how birds swoop down to their prey of either insects or fish? That's what this GoldenEye disk does. It controls the satellites dubbed Petya and Mischa that contain a little special something of a weapon of mass destruction...NUCLEAR WARHEADS! Rumble rumble boom boom boom! Thanks timpani drummers. So just like birds, the satellites are deployed in space orbit to the coordinates of a target, and like blinding lightning, they rip open with an atomic explosion. The swarming gamma rays and electromagnetic radiation waft and become exposed to the atmosphere and Earth surface. If there are any vehicles and buildings that have lights and computers, then BOOM BOOM BOOM, they explode in sparks and up in smoke goes any source of electricity and communication. The Petya satellite goes nova in a nuclear blast and destroys the Severnaya Base. What if this scary thing happened to a national capitol like Moscow, Washington D.C., Paris, Tokyo, Ottawa, or Beijing? Scary, huh? What do you say to that, Wes Craven?Now James Bond 007, assigned to search and destroy the GoldenEye weaponry disk, goes all over the blurry windswept world from a cold snow swept London, Monte Carlo and St. Petersburg, Russia to the gorgeous North American tropical rain-forest of Cuba and a smaller island nearby. What you'll find are a lot of cool influences from the Indiana Jones film Raiders Of The Lost Ark. Bond meets the one Severnaya survivor and damsel of a Russian woman, Natalya Simonova, portrayed very smartly by Izabella Scorupco. The source of this post Cold War conspiracy is Alec Trevelyan, the head of the JANUS syndicate (SPECTRE and the Roman God, anyone?). Trevelyan is played in great cynical anger by Sean Bean, and he is the former MI6 agent 006 whom Bond thought was killed in a Russian weapons destruction mission nine years ago. Now this British lunatic, deranged from the World War Two deaths of his Cossack parents, plans to have his computer hacking crook-buddy Boris, played by a zany Scottish actor Alan Cumming, to steal all the billions of pounds electronically from the Bank of England. Trevelyan would then take his violent turn and manipulate the GoldenEye nuclear satellite Mischa to wreck and ruin the United Kingdom capitol city of London. Not only would millions of people be killed in this catastrophe, but an Economy of the stock exchanges of the rest of Great Britain, including that of New York, Tokyo and Hong Kong would go up in smoke and destroy everything that is financial. Trevelyan would be the only rich terrorizing criminal that would rule the world! OMG; Oh my god. That's one wicked scary Englishman.Trevelyan's other crooked associates include a deranged General Ourumov (Gottfried John) who leads the space division of the Russian government, and Xenia Onatopp (Famke Janssen), a cigar chomping psycho beauty who has the world's strongest thighs that can kill a man by asphyxiation with a very good squeeze. Seems a tad like Snow White's spoiled queen, huh? To Bond she seems like his perfect blind date, but like any blind date it can be bad if she kills with sexual hoots of sour joy. Bond also has a fine warm relationship with the troubled Natalya, just like his marital engagement with Tracy in On Her Majesty's Secret Service. Their togetherness includes a daring fight against Ourumov and his wave of Russian police and soldiers in Saint Petersburg. And when Natalya's kidnapped by the whiskey chugging Ourumov in his black Volvo sedan, Bond takes the proud Green and Giant TANK! Vrrmmm! Grrrr! Bond is the perfect tank trucker in Russia. Driven by Pierce's Bond, no less. Other exciting elements include a nuke train battle on the old Russian railroads, and the whole big climactic battle at the private JANUS radio telescope base on a Caribbean island. Pierce is as ingenious as Bond as Sean Connery, George Lazenby, and Daniel Craig. How you judge your James Bond is your call. The Bond director, Martin Campbell, is really adventurous and motivating as Peter Jackson. After all, Martin is another New Zealand movie man. So Martin, I give your martini a 10 star rating! If this movie were vodka, it would be deliciously shaken and stirred. "},{"Title":"Bond's Beautiful Return For A New Generation","Date":"6 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" In 1995, I was seven years old and had no idea who James Bond really was. My dad, my older brother, and his girlfriend all suddenly swept me up one day, taking me to see Goldeneye. I was dazzled. As a seven-year-old boy who was already into superheroes and action figures at the time, you can imagine how a good, large-scale James Bond movie would sweep me off my feet. This is one person's perspective of James Bond's return to the next generation after a six-year absence. I'm now eighteen years old and revisiting the Bond films, and though I bought it on VHS the first day it was available over a decade ago and watching it so many times, GoldenEye could be considered the gateway to the modern action movie. It's definitely one of the best of the best in the Bond series, and the high-tech thrillers of the following years could be considered its spawning.Pierce Brosnan is the side of James Bond that my age group knows best, and though he brings a sort of laid back arrogance to the character, he is among the best to have ever played Bond. What's interesting about Pierce Brosnan's version, especially after watching those of the other actors whose careers have been blessed with the curse of being one of the many faces James Bond, is that he brings an almost surreal cockiness and emotional invincibility to the hero. No matter what happens to him in this film, no matter how cataclysmal a human or objectified nemesis may be, he never breaks the facial expression he wears, which is that of a person who has just had a wonderful massage. He is completely assured of himself to the point where he knows as sure as he's born that he could never even trip and fall, for that would make him imperfect, the thought of which he would laugh at. We are surely so used to this brand of action hero now that it's a surprise after watching Connery's cold yet quietly intense suavity or Dalton's aggressive, vindictive boldness.Whether you are one of the many that enjoy the fantasy of such a character or one of the many that can hardly stand such delusion in an important means of artistic communication like film, or someone who's torn between both views, GoldenEye's plot is genuinely exciting, as if the 007 franchise had a battery that needed to be recharged. Even though Dalton's two Bond films were an improvement over the slump that Roger Moore's overlong stint put the series through, they ran on atmosphere and dark romantic undertones rather than good plot or substantial wit. GoldenEye is a refreshment, the best Bond film for years.It's ending is purely a formulaic wrap-up just as most 007 endings are, and the action sequences run beyond the normal lack of practicality or realism, the tank chase having a few points of hilarity because of this, but the Bond women of the new age are very strong characters as opposed to the helpless bimbos of the series' chauvinistic history, and the opening title sequence and theme song are tremendously impressive. The film is directed extremely well and there are no bad actresses in this one. "}{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"20 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Since Connery gave up his licence to kill, we've seen Roger Moore's tongue-in-cheek portrayal, that wasn't without it's charm, but always seemed a little more humorous than in previous outings. Timothy Dalton brought a serious and gritty take on the character, which reflected Ian Fleming's original vision very well, but he still lacked the charisma of Connery's Bond.In Goldeneye, we see Pierce Brosnan take on the role of our favourite spy, and being the gifted actor that his is, he re-captures a lot of what made Connery so special, while imposing himself on the character of Bond really well. The movie itself it simply brilliant, it has a fine plot (one of the best in the series) and its packed with great action and stunts that are believable and very impressive. The introduction of Judi Dench as 'M' was also a inspired move, she slips into the role effortlessly. Everything in this thrilling instalment adds up in the tradition of the genre, definitely one of the best Bond movies.9/10 "},{"Title":"Welcome back, Mr Bond,,,","Date":"23 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This was my re-introduction to the Bond film franchise and I've been to the cinema to see every one since Pierce Brosnan took on the 007 role.Brosnan has real screen presence, important for a role in a movie that is basically a reprise of those before it. The last Bond, Timothy Dalton, is a fine actor but his Bond was a humourless automaton compared to Brosnan's. The Brosnan Bond has a twinkle in his eye and the definite feeling that the only time he's not enjoying the ride is when he really thinks he's going to die (or have to make a commitment to one of his many female conquests.)Goldeneye ticks all the Bond Boxes. The girls, guns and gadgets are all there, along with a creditably megalomaniacal villain (Sean Bean's creepy Alec Trevelyan/Janus.) There are also some well-cast supporting roles for Judi Dench as the redoubtable M, Joe Don Baker as CIA liaison Jack Wade (Felix Leiter having had his legs chewed off in Licence to Kill) and Robbie Coltrane as Russian gangster Valentin Zukovsky. Alan Cumming also deserves a mention for almost but not quite acting everyone else off the screen as Boris Grishenko. His role as the uber-geek evil genius is one of his finest.You can complain that the plot is formulaic and riddled with inconsistencies, but that's the same for all Bond films. Before Jaws came along, the Bond films were what we now refer to as Summer Blockbusters. We knew what we were going to get with a Bond film and the studio rarely tinkered with 007's trusty format. Goldeneye harks back to the Connery Era, with a Flemingesque storyline and a charismatic actor as our favourite super-spy. Welcome back Mr Bond! "},{"Title":"Nobody Does it Better!!!","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Goldeneye is what we have been waiting for since we saw Honey Rider step out of the beach in Dr. No. With Pierce Brosnan (who put simply IS Bond) and an excellent supporting cast, we are given THE Bond film. It has the right amount of suaveness, action, character and plot presented in the best way. Brosnan gives off the Best debut of any Bond. He has all the right amounts of past Bonds along with a sense of emotion that is all Pierce. It also has the series Best villian, Alec Trevelyan, who is more than just some random physco wanting to destory the world. He wants revenge. This and other parts to his character complicate 007's relationship with the man he used to call his friend. Bond feels used, and as if he is in over his head. It is the most complicated Bond role since OHMSS. And Brosnan does it with style and hints of vernurabilty.We also see a new kind of Bond girl. Natyala is a grown up Bond girl, who is able to hold her own and is not jsut a Bimbo. She also has and emtiotianl undertone that haunts her,she, like Bond feels betryaed. GoldenEye also boasts some of the series best action scenes with tension not being lost to the plot. If you only see one Bond film, see this.  "},{"Title":"James Bond's irresistible and brilliant comeback","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  During the first few years of the 90's I was absolutely certain that the filmmakers would never come up with another James Bond film. Somehow the whole idea of a new Bond movie seemed just so bloody improbable, ridiculous and absurd thought it could never happen. World had simply changed too much and to me Bond was pretty much a character that belonged in the 60's-80's but no longer in the 90's world. But despite of my expectations they did Goldeneye anyway and thankfully Licence to kill (better one of Timothy Dalton's Bond films but far from the biggest 007 highlights) didn't turn out to be the last part of the series.Goldeneye is already an important part of the cinema history. It was a strong and stylish comeback-Bond and Pierce Brosnan's excellent debut in the role of the British secret agent meant a great rise of his career. Everything in Goldeneye is perfect and brilliant. I had to even watch it twice in the theater. Action scenes are thrilling, exciting and breathtakingly enjoyable, acting and characters just as irresistible as they should always be in a good Bond movie (today it's so moving to see late Desmond Llewelyn in one of his last performances), plot inventive and stylishly modern and theme song as performed by Tina Turner is one of the best in the history of Bond themes. If you love James Bond movies, you'll love Goldeneye very, very much. "},{"Title":"What an amazing comeback","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  What an amazing comeback. This truly is one of the best bond films ever made. With a game based  on the film too Goldeneye is all you need. I have seen this film so many times and have never got bored. When it comes on TV ill sit there and watch it just knowing that ill be entertained. A stunning performance by Brosnan compliments the film as well as the locations and music. "},{"Title":"THE BEST BOND,ACTOR AND MOVIE","Date":"12 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  WOW, what a movie. This was the one that got me interested into the Bond movies. I have seen 16 of the 19 and this one is at the top of my book. Non-stop action, great story,excellent villans, great opener, cool action sequences. It is my Bond movie of choice. Pierce Brosnan is the best Bond it is just to bad he didn't start when he was supposed to(In the Living Daylights). Everyone said how good Sean Connery was and Brosnan was aweful. So I didn't watch this movie with any high standards, but it really supprised me!!! This one ranks up there with THUNDERBALL,TOMORROW NEVER DIES, AND MOONRAKER. Excellent movie to watch on a friday night with friends. Not extremely bad in the improper conduct department(considering that this is a Bond movie). If you have never seen a Bond movie see this one first, or even if you have. This one won't let you down.**********(10)out of 10. "},{"Title":"Bond is back with a vengeance...","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I'll be honest, the first time I watched Goldeneye it didn't do a thing for me.  This was mainly because the plot seemed to be jumping aimlessly around.  Boy, was I wrong.After watching it again and working out all the twists, I realized that Goldeneye is a real action masterpiece.  The storyline and villian were the best of any Bond film to date (admit it, Blofeld was just ridiculous after a while).  Brosnan's portrayal of Bond is marvelous, the lines Bond, James Bond, and Vodka martini, shaken, not stirred, roll of his tongue like he was born to say them.  Connery's tux has been very effectively filled, though certainly not replaced.Goldeneye is like a cold breeze in the desert, its refreshing.  After 7 films starring the foolish Roger Moore and 2 staring homely and grim Timothy Dalton (who I didn't mind, by the way)the Bond franchise has finally had a worthy addition.My rating, 10/10. "},{"Title":"Fantastic New Beginning for Bond","Date":"21 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Of course, I'm biased, but this film is fantastic - the villain, Alec Trevelyan (Sean Bean), who almost had more money than God, is excellent, the women are sexy, and the inclusion of Robby Coltrane and Minnie Driver as his mistress is pure genius. All the classic Bond elements are back in place, and the film spawned an amazing N64 game. Pity about Tomorrow Never Dies, though.  "},{"Title":"Overrated","Date":"27 February 2011","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I remember that a big fuss was made about this film when it first came out in 1995. It was supposed to usher in a whole new era of Bond adventures and Pierce Brosnan was much lauded as the best Bond of all time. But the years have not been kind to this film. After the admittedly impressive stunt-scene opening on the gigantic dam, it lapses into crudity and chaos, with an embarrassingly bad car chase thrown in for no reason, a cringeworthy script and a distinct lack of scene-setting for both our hero and his motivations. I admit it, I've been spoiled by Daniel Craig's outing CASINO ROYALE, which is at least three times as good as this effort.The good news is that the film improves somewhere after the outset, although it still feels disjointed and the plot doesn't make a great deal of sense. I appreciated the Russian villains, but the double-crossing plot is a bit lacklustre and Bond just seems to be in the right place at the right time all the while. I suppose you could say that believability is lacking. In the end, all the things that were wrong with Hollywood in the 1990s &#x96; lame humour, an emphasis on computer effects and spectacle over intricacy and tension, bloated running times and seen-it-all-before fatigue &#x96; are present here.Still, there are a few halfway decent action sequences to enjoy along the way. The big tank chase that occurs halfway through is the film's highlight, a masterpiece of technical skill, even if the tone varies wildly with unwelcome comedy popping up all the while. The movie also boasts a great villain in Sean Bean, sadly beginning his typecasting as a Hollywood bad guy that continues to this day. He's certainly better than the smarmy Brosnan, whose Bond is and will always be my least favourite of the various actors who've played the iconic spy over the years.I didn't really like Famke Janssen's wildly over-the-top femme fatale here. She's featured in an explicit sex scene that has no place in a Bond film and her mannerisms are completely over the top, cartoonish even. Still, there are some welcome faces in minor roles here, from larger-than-life Robbie Coltrane as a sinister contact and Tceky Karyo as a politician to Michael Kitchen as a nervous spy chief and Joe Don Baker as an ally. Desmond Llewelyn gets some genuine laughs in his appearance as Q and Judi Dench is excellent here as the ball-busting M. The less said about Alan Cumming, embarrassingly bad in one of those geeky hacker type roles, the better. "},{"Title":"The Best Brosnan Bond","Date":"2 February 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" In the early 1990s there was a great deal of concern about the Bond series. Licence to Kill didn't do as well as expected while the changing world events made people ask whether Bond was relevant. But in 1995 Bond proved himself in this excellent film. Directed by Martin Campbell (who also directed Casino Royale) Goldeneye puts Bond firmly back on the map. It addresses the criticms levelled at Bond in several ways. His sexism is now countered by Judi Dench's M while the writers bought Bond back to Russia, once his enemy now a not always trustworthy ally.Pierce Brosnon never did better, not quite of the standard of Connery but comes pretty close and just manages to combine the qualities of Connery and Moore. The Bond girls also stand out in this movie. At one end of the spectrum there is the ultra realistic Natalya Simonova (Izabella Scorupco), a computer technician who is thrust into Bond's world after being betrayed by a Russian General. Unlike other Bond girls it takes her a while before she actually falls for Bond. At the other end of the spectrum there is Famke Janssen as Xenia Onatopp and her killer thighs, probably the most over the top Bond girl ever. As for the villains, Sean Bean does well as Alec Trevelyan, a former MI6 agent turned arms dealer.Bond purists complained about the lack of gadgets and Eric Serra's avantgarde score (which is actually pretty good aside from it being mostly taken from Leon), but ignore them and enjoy. "}{"Title":"Pierce Brosnan's First and Best Bond Movie","Date":"30 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After the 6 year lay-off from 1989 Licensed to Kill, the Bond franchise returns in 1995 with Goldeneye. I believe this film proves to be not only be one of the best Pierce Brosnan film, but one of the better movies in the whole franchise.During the six year lay off, the international spectrum changed with the Berlin Wall and communism falling. The Cold War was always the force which drove the James Bond series and the filmmakers needed to transition Bond into the New World Order of the early 1990s.The movie has many great strengths, the strongest being Pierce Brosnan himself. There has not been a better Bond since Sean Connery. Both men seem to have this incredible presence on camera, and look dashing in their suits. Another strength is the plot. Unfortunately for spoiler reasons I can not disclose much information, but the movie examines a personal side of Bond in regards to his relationship with one of his former Double-0 agents. Another strength is the addition of Judi Densch as M. She is absolutely terrific in the role. She provides a perfect contrast to Bond and the franchise certainly took a tremendous leap forward in her casting.The rest of the typical Bond ingredients are there, exotic locations (Meditterean, St Petersburg and Cuba). The gadgets with Q (Desmond Llewelyn) and the action sequences are great (primarily the opening sequences, climatic fight at the end and the tank chase in Russia).The only negatives were very slight. I felt that there were too many witty one-liners, I thought Natalya Simonova (Izabella Scorupco) was a little bit less than average in the performance as Bond girl and I thought the musical score was unnecessarily bland. The music was very disappointing along with the theme song.Looking back at the four films Brosnan did this one is the best. It took the Bond franchise in a slightly new direction (however not as drastic as the Daniel Craig film would). And from top to bottom it has one of the strongest plot, action sequences and feel of a Bond film not only being the best in Brosnan's career but being one of the better films in the whole franchise. It is a must see for Bond fans and should be an enjoyable experience for movie goers alike.8 out 10! "},{"Title":"ONE OF THE BEST JAMES BOND MOVIES!","Date":"20 January 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Goldeneye is one of the best james bond movie ever made. It has action, humor, a cool scenery, a neat cast, numerous gadgets and weapons, edge-of-your-seat entertainment and a well-developed plot with good quotes. But Xenia Onatopp is what really made it good. Over the years Bond has had many villains, but hardly any were women. Goldeneye finally came up with a good woman villainess, though Mayday was also good, Xenia was so hot. She had her unique way of killing people by suffocation between the thighs and she was sexy. Villainess in movies should be more like Xenia. Xenia was the best bond villainess and will be missed.  "},{"Title":"My Favourite Bond Film.","Date":"1 January 2012","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Goldeneye Was A Brave Attempt, This Was A Point When The Cold War Was Over So They Couldn't Rely On That For A Plot And Die Hard Was An Action Hero Movie Franchise That Had 2 Entries In A Very Successful Movie Franchise Enough To Put 007 To Competition. Also As An Opinion Note They Had To Recover After That Turkey Liscence To Kill Which Was Utter Crap.Martin Campbell Not Only Wowed The Audiences With This But They Also Made The First Movie-Based Video Game.This Is My Favourite Because Brosnan Plays Bond Exactly How You'd Imagine An Ultimate Womanizer Spy To Act, Even Connery Complimented His Performance Saying I Thought Pierce Brosnan Was A Good Choice. I Liked GoldenEye. Timothy Dalton Never Got A Handle On The Role. He Took It Seriously In The Wrong Way. The Person Who Plays Bond Has To Be Dangerous. If There Isn't A Sense Of Threat, You Can't Be Cool. And I Agree With That Quote 100%.Sean Bean Is Also A Good Bond Villain, He Isn't Exactly The Cheezy Villain Like Some Of The Other Bond Films (Blofeld In Diamonds Are Forever Anyone?) He Brings Something Truly Amazing To The Character.If You Want A Reason As To Why Its My Favourite (Besides The Fact That It's All Personal Taste) Is That It Has The Coolest Gaget (The Exploding Pen), Has One Of The Best Villains, Its What You'd Expect From A 007 Film And Gives You So Much More. I Also Thought That Alan Cumming Was Hilarious In His Role, YES! I AM INVINCIBLE!Overall The Best Bond Film.PS For Anyone Who Is Interested My Favourite Bond Films Are 1. Goldeneye (1995) 2. For Your Eyes Only (1981) 3. Die Another Day (2002) 4. From Russia With Love (1963) 5. Goldfinger (1964) (Brosnan, Moore And Connery Are My Favourite Bond Performances In That Order)EDIT Better Luck Next Time Slugheads. By God! I AM INVINCIBLE! (Just me joking around) "},{"Title":"Couldn't get past inane opening","Date":"11 November 2012","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Even by Bond standards, the end of the opening scene - where Bond in free- fall catches up to the plane, climbs in and flies it away to safety - is incredibly stupid.I had heard that this was one of the best Bond films, but I was so put off by this scene that I had to stop watching. This might seem extreme (and you can certainly fault me for rating a movie that I watch so little of) but doesn't this scene imply that the rest of the movie will be total void of reality too?All Bond movies require a certain suspension of disbelief, but there is a limit - past that point something snaps and the whole thing turns into a comic. "},{"Title":"A new, exciting chapter, that makes 'Bond' History","Date":"12 September 2006","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Enter Pierce Brosnan. I was floored at what I thought this would be, verses what this played-out like on the big screen. From the first scene, this was a brand new and exquisite 007. A shining 'Freshman' in the chain, but, an experienced veteran to the screen. Brosnan was amazing! Even Connery was interviewed in regard to the newest entry of the 'Bonds'. He said he thought that Pierce did an outstanding job, he just thought that 'they' (the Production co.) should have let Tarrintino direct it. Whoa! Now there's a strange adventure waiting to happened. The 'Dam' scene that was in the beginning along with the breath-taking original soundtrack was a wider dimension than I had thought it would be. The 'THX' in the theater I saw this in, rocked!! My heart pounded. The pace was just what it should be, and the storyline was right on top. The entanglement of Bond however with the Russian Villianis, was a little different this time around however, she was quite a bit more on the controlling side of strength and power, than I can remember from the decades past...Brosnan to me has always been a winner, from the 'Remmington Steele' days to 'Detonator I' and 'II'. He always seems to bring a certain dignified respect and style to the roles he plays. This was no exception. From the Russian Satellite communications station to the beach, the scenery was wondrous. This Bond was a solid addition to the 'Broccoli' cereal. The new characters and the changing of the Mi-6 guard was interesting to me too. except for 'Q' good olé' Desmond, now late. I was, well not ready for the Judi Dench, 'M' but she turned it around from seeming like an irritated mother figure to a respectable boss. And what can you say about Sean Bean as the switch-over agent, he is a grand villain. Bravo to the cast and the director.The music the action, and the performances, were fresh and worth waiting for. After all I had been waiting for a good return to Bond. This, without a doubt, is one if not the most 'suave' James yet.I had heard some years back in the eighties that Brosnan was looking to come up for the role of 00, but that he was beat out. But I am glad he made it and it was the right story for him and the perfect timing. In addition they sold a ton of those new BMW two seater convertibles mainly due to this one. Funnier thing is, that as for the sophomore Bond, Tomorrow Never Dies was good fun and at times gritty action, then along came the third installment, The World is not enough, which for me was a little better than the preceding (1997) but then came, Die Another Day (2002) This had the cheesy- effects, and one of the lamest plots, after the first scenes of the film, were outstanding it quickly dropped, just like the Titanic setting sail. In closing for me, good Ole' GoldenEye, is Brosnan's seminal straight-up action, spy-role Masterwork.I say, 'Good show'. Long live Bond, James Bond. "},{"Title":"Bond....James Super Human Bond!!","Date":"28 July 2009","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Have you ever gone to the movies and no more than 10 minutes in the film you realized this film is going to suck? Well, with me that film was Golden Eye. As I have said before in other film reviews there needs to be some sense of realism in a movie (unless you are watching a cartoon)for me to accept it. Well, no more than 10 minutes in this film Bond (played by Peirce Brosnan)is trying to escape from a mountain stronghold and is fighting to get to a plane that is going down the runway to take off. Bond manages to fight off his attacker and go for the plane. At this point I was expecting him to climb into the plane and fly it off the mountain, which would have made sense. Well, instead the plane goes off the mountain and Bond goes after it. It is now in a zero dive with no one in the cockpit heading to the bottom of the canyon. But wait!! Bond dives after it and catches it, then manages to climb in and take the controls and pull the plane out of that zero dive and fly it away. Here are the problems with realism 1) He could never have caught that plane being it weighed more, and it would have fell away much faster.2) once in a zero dive there would have been no way he could have pulled it out of the dive and level it out and fly it away.Talk about showing a contempt for the audience. What were the film makers thinking? I know its James Bond but its not suppose to be Super Man. I miss the days of Roger Moore and Sean Connery as Bond where they did things that where a little hard to believe (but was not out of the realm of possibility)but it was fun. I am done with Bond. "},{"Title":"Probably the Best Bond Movie Ever","Date":"5 March 2005","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I've given this film a 10, not just because I thoroughly enjoyed it, but because I believe its the best Bond ever made. It was actually the first one I watched as well (I watched it when I was 8 and am now 16.) I have seen the rest of them since and still have this one down as my favourite. Pierce Brosnan is terrific in his first appearance as Bond and I think him and Connery are the best of them all who've stepped into the role so far. Izabella Scorupco is gorgeous as his sidekick Bond Girl, and Famke Janssen is brilliant as the sexy villain, partnering Sean Bean, whose also excellent.The plot is simple and interesting, and more importantly, the action sequences are truly outstanding. The opening 10-15 minutes is definitely right up there with the best bond openings and again, probably the best. The movie never drags like several others have before in which I wish the action would just get going after a while. Other action sequences that are decent include some good aircraft crashes and explosions into a satellite dish, a great shootout in a military archive,which leads onto the highlight of the movie- an outstanding tank chase through Russia. The climax is also great as well. Its set at the top of a strange scaffolding, and features a great, suspenseful fight between Brosnan and Penn.The film is Directed by Martin Campbell who must be one of the most underrated action filmmakers around these days. I think this was his debut or possibly his first proper Hollywood blockbuster, and he certainly makes the most of the opportunity given to him. I also liked his other film Vertical Limit, but haven't seen Mask of Zorro. I hope to though. But, this is much better than Vertical limit and I hope he comes back to do another Bond film soon. I recently heard that hes doing the next sort of Bond. A Casino Royale re-make I think. I don't know whether thats even a Bond film and whether its a good idea or not. I'll watch it anyway, and I believe with him at the helm, it has a good chance of being successful.Overall, this is not only, in my opinion, the best Bond film ever made, but also one of the best action films ever made. Its certainly right up there with my other favourites such as The Rock and the Die Hard trilogy.I had a great time watching this and I'm sure you will too, unless you don't like action or Bond of course! Otherwise, give it a rent and prepare to entertained! 10/10 and very highly recommended! "},{"Title":"The worst Bond ever","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"17 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Timothy Dalton created a new 007 in the Living Daylights and Licence to Kill. Year in year out, the Bond franchise was growing enough cash to dare be a little more creative. But after a 6-year break the producers understood they'd better stop quarreling, so they were eager to switch on the cash machine again.I prefer to think Goldeneye became the biggest 007 success thanks to the 6-year break. Audiences have had time to breathe and after a 6-year leave it's a real comeback not just a periodical show/nuisance. Because to me Goldeneye is a reel nuisance. A James Bond movie is not top art -ok- that is just meant to be entertaining. But imagine a fast entertainment theme park you got a 3 min credit to get entertained here, 2 1/2 min there, 1 min for a pee stop and so on for every attraction. This is Goldeneye everything is fake and jerky. First, Pierce Brosnan is dull. The storyline is heavy-handed yet not so heavy as the PP shots (Product Placement) for BMW, Omega or Perrier (did Eurocopter pay?). Tina Turner has been called as a substitute for Shirley Bassey and her memorable Goldfinger song. Eventually continuity makes as much sense as in a video game. This blinker clinging flick starts with Bond jumping down a dry and warm valley only to emerge a little latter at the top of a snowy mountain, and the end is a shameless carbon copy of 'You Only Live Twice (1967)' (qv).Before Goldeneye I had seen the whole series on TV. After this poor theatrical experience I said I would never go back to see a Br007snan. Never say never again, I went to see The World is not enough. Well, not too bad but Brosnan is definitely too pale a Bond. "},{"Title":"Walther PPK 7.65 mm, Only Three Men I Know Use Such A Gun, I Believe I've Killed Two Of Them","Date":"3 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" During the Cold War James Bond 007 and Alec Trevelyan 006 infiltrate a Soviet chemical weapons facility. However as the detonators are set to destroy the facility, alarms sound and Trevelyan is killed by Soviet troops as Bond narrowly escapes with the entire complex exploding. Nine years pass and the Cold War has ended, although MI6 learns that a devastating satellite weapon known as the GoldenEye has fallen into the hands of a notorious crime syndicate known as Janus. 007 is sent to St. Petersburg to investigate and to his horror discovers not only that his old compatriot Alec Trevelyan is very much alive and the chief of Janus, but has stolen the codes of the GoldenEye and now controls it. Bond learns that the vengeful Trevelyan aims to use the GoldenEye to fire a destructive electromagnetic pulse at the UK, thus allowing him to hack into every bank account in the country and erase any trace of theft...GoldenEye heralded a new beginning for the Bond franchise. The original creative team was almost entirely replaced and the producers began pushing the franchise in the direction of the modern action flick. With the culmination of the Cold War the world began advancing rapidly in terms of technology and various political ideologies would be completely changed. It was with things like these that the Bond movies would have to compete, therefore the series underwent a serious rejuvenation as the filmmakers sought a fresher approach. Timothy Dalton resigned from the franchise after playing Bond only twice as legal disputes threatened to kill the series. However setbacks were professionally overcome and GoldenEye was released after a bleak six year gap, this time with Pierce Brosnan in the role of agent 007. GoldenEye really was a spectacular comeback for the franchise, although I think that the 80s Bond movies are among the best in the entire series!. The Pierce Brosnan era is my least favourite(I always have and always will prefer the pre 1990s classic era)but GoldenEye is by far Brosnan's greatest. His second and third outings were fun, but lacked the elements which made the older Bond movies so great and his fourth was just downright awful. Exploding with rollicking action sequences and boasting some terrific dialogue, GoldenEye gets off to a cracking start with an enthralling shootout and chase which both end in an extremely impressive cliff-dive on a motorcycle!. It also has some of the craziest stunts of the series and the bodycount is higher than that of your average Bond movie. Then we have another anarchic shoot-em-up in a Russian military archive directly followed by an awesomely chaotic pursuit which sees Bond hijacking a Russian tank and wreaking destruction on the streets of St. Petersburg!. Then exhilarating chase and fistfight between Bond and Trevelyan which both lead up to their taut confrontation atop a huge satellite antenna was just as spectacular!. This was the first Bond movie to use CGI which is fortunately kept to a bearable minimum. The other realistic special effects, such as the fiery destruction of Trevelyan's armoured train as well as the aforementioned satellite antenna, look amazing!.Whilst Pierce Brosnan is decent in the role of 007, Timothy Dalton is greatly missed here and I would have much preferred to see him return to the role a third time. I thought he was fantastic in the previous two films(especially Licence To kill)and the dark premise of GoldenEye was much better suited to him rather than Brosnan. Game Of Thrones' Sean Bean made for a superbly jaded Alec Trevelyan and the gorgeous Famke Janssen was also brilliant as the sex-loving, thrill-seeking assassin Xenia Onatopp. Eric Serra's score was decent enough, but he's no John Barry.An immensely fun actioner with riotous proportions of chaos on show. 8/10 "},{"Title":"A new life for Bond","Date":"2 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Directed by Martin Campbell and produced by Barbara Broccoli (daughter of Albert Broccoli, who stepped down for health reasons), has screenplay by Jeffrey Caine and Bruce Feirstein, and is the seventeenth film in the franchise. It was produced after a long gap of six years, due to legal problems involving firms that had rights to the franchise. And it's very different from what was in the eighties, beginning with the cast a veteran Judi Dench gave life to M, and for the first time the role was assigned to a woman; the role of Miss Moneypenny was awarded to Samantha Bond and 007 was assigned to Pierce Brosnan. From the list of previous films only survived Desmond Llewelyn, the eternal Q. In the film goes even Izabella Scorupco in the role of Bond-girl Natalya, Joe Don Baker in the role of Jack Wade, Robbie Coltrane in the role of Valentin Zukovsky, Alan Cumming in the role of Boris, Famke Janssen in the role of Xenia Gottfried John in the role of General Ourumov and Sean Bean in the role of villain Alec Trevelyan.In this film, James Bond seeks to combat Janus, a powerful criminal who stole a Russian mass destruction weapon, Goldeneye. To stop the villain that threatens to destroy London, he will ally Natalya, a Russian expert computer working on the Goldeneye project before it being stolen.This is the first Bond film to be released after the end of the Soviet Union, when the film industry had questioned the appropriateness of continuing the franchise. Despite the doubts, Pierce Brosnan took the role and the task of bringing his character to a new era of invisible enemies (using the words that M will say in Skyfall, ten years later, when faced with precisely the same doubts). Although not one of the best films of the franchise, Goldeneye knew, in fact, update it. Brosnan is not surprising in his role but can be up to the challenge. Surprising is Judi Dench, in the role of M, achieving a remarkable performance. Its the first time that MI6 boss assumes a major role in the plot, and shows even little appreciation for Bond, considering him a relic of the past and something to be discarded, as to seem a form of play with the criticisms made to the franchise before the film's release. The chosen locations are excellent and some of the film's scenes are worthy of memory. This is the case of the tank sequence in St. Peterburg's streets, or the final fight in the antenna. The script is also well thought out, despite having decided to completely ignore the novels of Ian Flemming. The story revolves around the end of the USSR and the remains that were all this past we do not speak only of weaponry but also of people, as Bond and Alec, were marked by decades of cold war. The theft of Russian weapons may be the introduction of the new Bond world of terrorism? Perhaps. The opening theme of this film, sung by Tina Turner and consists of Bono, in my opinion, one of the best of the entire franchise. "}{"Title":"Golden.","Date":"15 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Goldeneye (1995) Dir Martin Campbell / Cast Pierce Brosnan, Isabelle Scorupco, Famke Janssen, Sean Bean, Alan Cumming First 007 film in eight years, with a questionable title. Plot involves an earth satellite and those who control it gaining power over governments. James Bond traces them after a helicopter is stolen. What follows is steamy sex and spectacular action. Detailed setup with numerous twists and a conclusion highlighted by action violence. Director Martin Campbell handles the action and is backed with massive sets and visual elements that these films are famous for. Pierce Brosnan displays charm and charisma as Bond. In the opening sequence he is involved in two stunts, one in which involved a plane and a motorcycle. There are two women whom he becomes involved with. The first is Isabelle Scorupco who plays a computer expert, and the second is Famke Janssen as a villain who seduces then crushes her victims with her thighs. Sean Bean is effective as Bond's partner. Alan Cumming provides high flamboyant amusement as a villain computer programmer whose send off is priceless. All of the elements are in place here including the special effects, gadgets, exotic locations, and a lot of sex. It is a welcome and successful return to the series but it is also pointless mayhem that is undeniable fun and exhilarating. Score 8 / 10 "},{"Title":"A Fantastic Debut for Pierce Brosnan, and a Superb Modernization of 007","Date":"8 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" At the end of the Cold War, people thought that this was the end of James Bond. However, with the release of this film, they showed that James Bond lives on forever. This was an outstanding movie and an outstanding way to modernize the Bond concept.This is the first Bond movie to star Pierce Brosnan in the role. Brosnan is probably the best Bond next to Connery. In a way, he kind of combines Connery's manliness with Moore's wit and charm and Dalton's grittiness. He also looks how most people would imagine Bond looks.Sean Bean great as Alec Trevelyan. He is one of the most charismatic Bond villains and probably the most personal, having been an old ally of 007. Boris, played by Alan Cumming, is also pretty entertaining, and I loved how he was put away, but I won't spoil it.This film has a lot of the qualities and staples of the old Bond films. The script is witty and incredibly fast-paced and the film still has a really nice look to it even 20 years after its release.The action scenes will give you the bang for your buck. The stunt sequences in the pre-credits are spectacular, but the true stand out in this film is the tank chase through the streets of St. Petersburg. It was pure mayhem, and it was simply awesome.The only gripe I have is Xenia Onatop. While she isn't quite as creepy as May Day in A View To A Kill, you still can't deny that she's pretty crazy. Natalya is a pretty good Bond girl, though. The theme song by Tina Turner is also really good.This is bar far the best of the Pierce Brosnan films, even though I also like the other ones. It is also proof that James Bond will never be outdated.8.5/10 "},{"Title":"7 - Good","Date":"22 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Goldeneye modernizes the series, between the self-deprecating dialogue about Bond being a Cold War relic, the inclusion of strong women character (including a memorable performance of M by Judi Dench). Pierce Brosnan is the Bond that's both a charmer like Moore and a killer like Dalton ; he's handsome and perfect in the role. It's full of action, even including one scene of Bond pummeling through a city with a tank. The electronic-industrial soundtrack is unique and adds a dark vibe to the film. In some ways, it still feels stuck in the past because it's plot follows the predictable formula in which Bond visits the typical locations and a plot of an egomaniac with a superweapon is found. But within the formula it manages to have hilarious henchmen like Boris and Xenia, Natalya Simonova as a Bond woman with dept and character, as well as Sean Bean playing a really good villain. While the first act is kind of slow for an action movie, the second act picks up and the third act is stellar. "},{"Title":"Pierce Brosnan has a Golden Eye for Bond","Date":"17 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" In James Bond's first appearance after the Cold War comes Pierce Brosnan's first appearance in the role. In this movie, Russian bad guys take control of a special weapon in space. This weapon is essentially a large satellite nuke controlled by a golden eyed device which can send out EMPs that take out all tech in the hit areas. Combine this with the new attack helicopters they have which are not affected by EMPs and a dangerous problem is created. James must stop the terrorists before they attack the U.K. and go on to destroy the world. This movie brings out a side of Bond that people love. Dropping countless corny one liners, an enormous sex appeal, a female villain who literally kills you with sex (and whose name is a sex pun) named Xenia Onatopp, and countless action scenes and villain monologuing are all over this film. It brings out a bit more humor to the 007 franchise, and is a fun experience. Pierce Brosnan brings an excellent take on the character, and Judi Dench as the new (and first female) M is wonderful and refreshing. Altogether, this is a fun Bond experience, and definitely one to have in your collection.7/10 "},{"Title":"Out with the 2-timer, in with the new guy!","Date":"5 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" A 007 makeover. A bunch of greatness in this movie but some not so good. It was 6 years between Bond movies, the longest break ever, and by far. Gone is Timothy Dalton who brought a real and flawed and emotional James Bond to the screen, a darker Bond. In is Roger Moore style action in the form of one Mr. Steele, Remington Steele... errr, I mean Pierce Brosnan. The stunts are great, most of them, but comic, too, such as freefalling to the side of a nosediving airplane. Give me a break! But we do have a return to action and that's a wonderful thing for the thrill seeking Bond viewer. Unfortunately, we have lame music and a lame opening Gun Barrel sequence. The main song, written by Bono and The Edge, is great, but where's the Bond Theme throughout the film? Yes, music can help make a movie and here it helps break it. Ugh. Terrible! But overall I am impressed. Brosnan is going to take some time to get used to. He's the third Bond in four films but he might do. We shall see! Oh, and interestingly to me, this is the first James Bond film (chronologically) that I never previously saw. For the life of me, I cannot remember seeing any of it ever so this was the first time. I know I've seen clips and I have seen other Brosnan 007 movies, but never this one. In any case, it's not amazing but still great and so very welcomed. Will definitely watch again one day!7.5 / 10 stars--Zoooma, a Kat Pirate Screener "},{"Title":"New Bond, New World, New Enemies","Date":"4 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" With 1989's Licence To Kill being a worldwide box off success (though a more modest success in the United State), the Bond films looked set to enter the 1990s. But soon legal issues would overtake the series, delaying work on the seventeenth Bond film for years. By the time work would begin again in earnest, the Cold War that had dominated the first three decades of the series had ended. This, combined with Timothy Dalton departing the role of 007 left many fan to wonder if 007 had indeed fought his last battle. 1995's Goldeneye was a result touted as the film that would make or break the series for the 1990s. Thankfully for Bond fans, Goldeneye succeeded.Goldeneye's successful re-launch was in no part thanks to Pierce Brosnan's debut as 007. Having barely missed out on playing the part in The Living Daylights, Brosnan had long been considered for the role and in Goldeneye, Brosnan shows why. His characterization is, to a certain extent, an amalgamation of what others had brought to the role previously. He has the sleek and dangerous shark quality of Connery, the charm of Moore (whom he outshines without problem) and yet also brings the sensitive and coldblooded elements that Dalton brought to the role as seen, respectively, in the scene between Bond and Natalya on the beach and in the final line he delivers before dispatching his enemy to his death. Brosnan's Bond may be an amalgamation of his predecessors but it is certainly a successful one.Izabella Scorupco as Natalya Simonova is an interesting character to say the least. Clearly, the filmmakers were trying to bring the role of the Bond girl into the 1990s by making her a more independent and well-rounded character. Natalya Simonova does this, but with mixed results. Even in individual scenes, like the entire section set at Severnaya, the character fluctuates between Bond girl extremes. Thankfully, Izabella Scorupco plays the role well though at times it's clear that even the actress is struggling between the extremes the character keeps bouncing between.More successful is Sean Bean as Alec Trevelyan, 006 and later Bond's adversary. The character's introduction is the film's teaser sequence sets up the character as a good guy, a friend of Bond lost in the line of duty. That scene though is only setting the audience up for one of the best plot twists in the history of the Bond films 006 has turned traitor. While Bean is clearly too young for the reasoning to be 100% believable, Bean makes the successful transition from ally to villain in one incredible scene. Bean is just as importantly believable in the climatic fight that bits two former friends against each other with the fate of the world hanging in the balance. While lacking all the three-dimensional characterization of his immediate predecessor, Alec Trevelyan comes across as one of the better villains of the series and a true threat to Bond.The supporting cast also serves the film well for the most part. Famke Janssen as Xenia Onatopp has become one of the film's most iconic elements though sadly the character rides the thin line between good and cringe worthy a bit too much with Onatopp, like Natalya, being all over the place in terms of quality. The rest of the supporting cast suit the film much better including Joe Don Baker as CIA agent Jack Wade, Gottfried John as General Ourumov, Robbie Coltrane as Valentin Zukovsky and Alan Cumming as Boris Grishenko. The film also introduces several new members to the MI6 staff including a female M played to perfection by Judi Dench, a more combative Miss Moneypenny in the form of Samantha Bond and MI6 chief of staff Bill Tanner played by Michael Kitchen as well as the ever welcomed return of Desmond Llewelyn as Q.Goldeneye also boasts some of the best action sequences of the series, something that was all important for it to bring Bond into the 1990s. The teaser sequence features not one but two impressive stunts as well as gun play. The film's most impressive action sequences though come in its back half from the running gun battle through a government archive and the iconic (and surprisingly still incredible impressive) tank chase through St Petersburg while the film's climax hearkens back to the Bob Simmons staged fights of the early Connery films. The results are impressive, even seventeen years on.Perhaps the biggest problem that affects Goldeneye is that it has become oddly dated. The plot hinges heavily on the computer technology of the early/mid-1990s which looks oddly out of place when viewed from a perspective of seventeen years later. It isn't just technology though that has dated the film but certain aspects of its plot as well. The reveal of Alec Trevelyan being a Lienz Cossack and the film's setting in the early post-Soviet era Russia have also dated the film significantly. While this can be to the detriment of films as they age (see the space race elements of You Only Live Twice), Goldeneye manages to fall into the same category as For Your Eyes Only in that those elements date the film but don't detract too much from enjoying it.As the vehicle to bring 007 into the 1990s, Goldeneye is an unqualified success. When viewed from seventeen years later, it has its elements which work better than others while it has oddly dated in some ways. Goldeneye though remains one of the better Bond films thanks to Brosnan's excellent debut as Bond, memorable characters and action sequences that stand up years later. Bond was back in action and here to stay. "},{"Title":"Brosnan saved the Bond franchise","Date":"22 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After what was a bad turn of Bond's after Sean Connery gave up the role with lackluster performances by Roger Moore, George Lazenby and Timothy Dalton it didn't look like the Bond 007 series would go on much longer. There was a 6 year gap between License to Kill and GoldenEye, which is an astronomically long period between Bond films. Pierce Brosnan was who they originally wanted to play Bond years earlier instead of Dalton anyways but his TV deal playing Remington Steele didn't allow for him to take the role. But I guess things were meant to be this way since he may been stuck in a bad script like Dalton had for his first Bond film in The Living Daylights. I would rank the Bonds as 1. Connery, 2. Brosnan, 3. Craig(still could jump higher with more time in the role). "},{"Title":"A Great Action Film, but not a great Bond Film","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  GoldenEye is very well done, but not as a Bond film, it was missing to many elements, such as Q gadgetry. Brosnan although far better than poor George Lazenby (On Her Majesty's Secret Service) is one of the worst Bond's atleast in this one (in the next one he tries a little harder). Joe Don Baker returns as a sidekick for Bond although played a villain against Timothy Dalton, 8 years earlier in the LIVING DAYLIGHTS (1987). Thats another thing Brosnan is a very sharp drop from Timothy Dalton's work as Bond. He had said that Connery was excellent, but would not copy him, although he wound up copying Roger Moore (as a matter a fact Moore was 46 when he start playing Bond, and Brosnan wasn't far behind at 43, although Dalton started at 43 too). They are definitely the oldest Bond's, the youngest Sean Connery and George Lazenby. The film though is very good action-packed, but not worthy as a Bond film. "},{"Title":"A big comeback","Date":"2 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" GoldenEye saved James Bond. After a six-year hiatus Bond was back. And what a comeback that was.This movie gave as a great twist in a villain- Bond's friend,agent 006 who faked his death nine year prior. The character of Alec is so cleverly constructed that he just might be the best Bond villain. His parents were Lienz kozaks and Stallin executed them in WW2 second. With that he wants to justify his plan- robbing the Bank of England and the firing secret weapon called GoldenEye that was made during the Cold War. Bond even says how he just wants to justify a common bank robbery with his trauma from childhood. This movie also analyzes the character of James Bond. From M(played brilliantly by Judi Dench) to the Bond girl Natalya Simjonova to the 006 himself. Oh spare me the Freud James. I could ask you if all those vodka martinis ever silence the screams of all the men you've killed. Do you find the forgivness in the arms of all those willing women-for all the dead ones you failed to protect. It's a brilliant line spoken by a great villain played by the great Sean Bean. It's brilliant. And so is this movie. And I can't just pass this and not mention James Bond himself. Pierce Brosnan-the man who was nailed as the ideal Bond ever since Remington Steele. And rightfully so. He has everything Bond needs to have. The man IS Bond. He is the first one I ever saw and he will always be my favourite and the best for me. The charisma,the sophistication,the ability to be both cold-blooded and humorous when the situation requires. "},{"Title":"An excellent Bond movie","Date":"10 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is probably the best James Bond movie. I used to play the N64 game when I was a kid and when I watched this movie, years later, It was like I'm kid again, seeing all the scenarios that make this game one of the best shooters of all time.Pierce Brosnan was the best 007 actor and he was excellent in this movie. The other characters were also great. This movie has a good story and pace, with excellent action sequences, a great villain and beautiful women.9/10 "}{"Title":"Classic Bond","Date":"15 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I really do love Goldeneye. Perhaps it's because Pierce Brosnan was the first person to play Bond that I saw in theaters? Maybe it's because of the awesome N64 game that I played as a kid? Whatever the reason, I find Goldeneye to be a lot of fun.Pierce Brosnan really does play Bond well. He has that charm and swagger and over all badass-ness that Bond should have. He becomes Bond. Izabella Scorupco plays Natalya, the Bond girl, who I think really is gorgeous in this movie. She's got that exotic Russian girl thing going on. Even Famke Janssen who plays Xenia Onatopp does a great job playing a very evil and very weird villain. She seems to be sexually aroused by violence... but trust me, that's not a complaint. There are lots of other great performances, such as Sean Bean as the main bad guy, and even a bunch of other smaller characters do a great job. The cast is full of interesting characters. The movie really blends that mix of drama, action and humour that I think the Bond movies do so well. It can be extremely cheesy at times and may require you to really suspend your belief when it comes to certain things, such as the dive to grab the plane, or the fact that the thugs cant seem to hit Bond when he is five feet away. Regardless, it's a fun popcorn flick and a memorable Bond movie that really showed just how awesome Brosnan was in the role. "},{"Title":"Brosnan's first and (unfortunately) his best","Date":"13 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Really Pierce Brosnan suffered from a great disadvantage with this film. Sean's films got better as they went along, most people agreeing that Goldfinger was his masterpiece. Equally Roger started slow but reached his peak with The Spy Who Loved Me and Moonraker and Dalton's second effort Licence to Kill was far better than his first, such a shame he wasn't able to continue. Brosnan started brilliantly but then just couldn't keep up the freshness and energy. So we should really value Goldeneye for the mini masterpiece it is. So much good stuff, Pierce is excellent in the role, he just seems to fit in effortlessly to the character and delivers some Moore style humour just as well as the Dalton style toughness. We have a new female M and Judi Dench brings some true class to the part (as she does to virtually everything else she does). The action sequences are terrific, especially the tank chase and the magnificent opening, you're just urging him to run faster as he tries to catch the bike/plane. Wonderful music too both the thumping incidental stuff and Tina Turner's bombastic main theme tune. Nice pair of Bond girls although interesting that the actress who plays the villainess is the one who goes on to huge success rather than the heroine. Joe Don Baker is good as the Felix Leiter replacement and Robbie Coltrane intriguing as Bond's old KGB nemesis, demonstrating how the old certainties have changed in a post Cold War world. Best of all though is the relationship between Bond and Trevalyn, we have a villain with no need for the usual hulking, Oddjob style henchman, he's a match for Bond in every way (and just as sexy, even with his scarred face). He also has a genuine motivation for his actions for once although a rather biased reading of history, Britain never promised the Coassacks anything when they surrendered, it was wishful thinking on their part to think they wouldn't be repatriated to Britain's wartime ally.All told a truly brilliant Bond film and in my top 5. "},{"Title":"One of the best of the series!","Date":"20 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Probably the most underrated film of the series, with Brosnan inheriting the infamous code number 007 from Dalton. This installment certainly returned with a bang&#x97;rightfully so&#x97;after a five-and-a-half year hiatus from 1989's LICENSE TO KILL. Bond is assigned by M (Judi Dench) to prevent an arms syndicate from using a satellite weapon (the GoldenEye; titled as an homage to series creator Ian Fleming's Jamaican estate) to cause worldwide financial destruction. Despite not focusing too long on development, the cast does an excellent job bringing to life extremely interesting characters&#x97;which is quite a feat for an episodic spy film&#x97;such as Brosnan, Bean, a sadistic Janssen, Dench, John, an underused Coltrane, Llewelyn (of course), and especially Cumming&#x85; even Billy J. Mitchell's death-face is classic. Éric Serra's score is untouchable (save the ridiculous car-racing scene immediately following the amazing opening sequence). The plot is a little too complex for its own good&#x85; but why pry when there is never a dull moment? Spawned one of the greatest video games of all-time, bearing the same name and released two years later on the Nintendo 64 console.***½ (out of four) "},{"Title":"Basically, a stolen EMP space weapon goes into the wrong hands and Bond needs to stop it","Date":"8 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" One of the things I did not like about the flick was the opening car chase scene that may have nothing to do with GoldenEye, and Bond inside a Russian military depot trying to find something related to GoldenEye before he makes his very bold escape. But when the space station scene at Severnaya, Russia, happens, we are introduced to a new way of creating nuclear war. Not by heat blasts, thermal winds, or radioactive fallout. The new threat was realized in another movie called The Day After, where a first simulated nuclear blast was an airburst that set off an EMP pulse wave. Car engines die, lights go off, LED displays go black. In short, an EMP used as a weapon can knock out anything run by electricity. So in GoldenEye, this title refers to an EMP space weapon that, when fired, threads the needle in about a 10-20km radius...a surgical EMP strike that cripples and knocks out all electricity from everything like computers and televisions and similar devices. 2 such weapons already appeared in space for the simulated test firing on the space station, and the one that was fired was called Petya (the other was Misha). So, a space station general and Xenia enter the station, arms the weapon to target Severnaya, and then Xenia surprisingly shoots and kills 15-20 station facility members. One member who was alive after being shot did press the panic button just before being shot dead by Xenia. Then they make their escape out of the space station by their chopper before the EMP weapon fires, and steals the GoldenEye. 2 fighter jets were scrambled as well as a Tiger battle helicopter to the space weapons site, but they were no match for the GoldenEye's EMP when the strike hit. The jets and the chopper all went down and crashed due to the pulse. Natalya, who works at the station, was the lone survivor who was able to evade the mass killing but could only watch the first-hand damage to the station when the space weapon was fired and she could not stop it. The other part of the movie I liked was the army tank chase across the streets of St. Petersburg. You never seen such chases like that in most movies. I was able to see Bond overwhelm several Russian squad cars with the brute size and strength of the tank. Then, the final scene, where a secret plan to use GoldenEye in Cuba was launched, reveals the character Natalya at her best. Even though she was a 2nd-level programmer, she was able to change the access code to the Misha EMP space weapon, so that it re-enters the atmosphere to burn up over the Atlantic so the weapon is no longer a threat to the world anymore. How can she do that when her enemies who was about to kill her and James Bond tried so hard to make sure that GoldenEye would be shot over London and bring London totally out of business...but regrettably, could not do it? "},{"Title":"A high point for the lead and the series","Date":"14 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" GoldenEye -my favorite of the Brosnan era- is the movie that made me a James Bond fan to begin with. It successfully reignited the franchise with new blood, a new star, and that they set it against the backdrop of post-Cold War Russia lends the movie a distinct sense of character. The film hits all the right notes on big action setpieces an awesome cold open, the tank chase, Severnaya's destruction and the fight on the satellite dish. Great stunts, and Serra's atmospheric score sets this apart from the other Brosnan entries. And Pierce plays the icon with cold assassin's eyes, yet with self- deprecating ease (the guy also wears the hell outta those suits). And he's backed by a pretty great cast the smokin' Izabella Scorupco, Sean Bean, Alan Cumming, Famke Janssen, Joe Don Baker, Robbie Coltrane (Zukovsky's a great character) and the marvelously ball-busting Judi Dench. The only disappointment in the movie is the underuse of the Z3 . . . or maybe Q was just jerking Bond's chain and never actually installed those stinger missiles. This movie's an A effort, and although it lacks the hard-hitting magic of Casino Royale, Martin Campbell really did bring Bond roaring back to the big screen. Some of the techno thriller angle is quaint for today (oh man, 14.4 modems!), but on the whole, GoldenEye wears its time well. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Where GOLDENEYE Stands","Date":"9 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" A Bond film worthy of being best! Goldeneye stands 3rd on my list where I have ranked the Bond films from worst to best. There was a 6 year break since Licence to Kill was made in 1989. Licence To Kill is one of the best Bond films of all time in my opinion but there was not much liking to the film by others as Bond went serious in that film. Due to the other not so good films before Licence to kill, the creators of Bond said they would end the Bond film series until Goldeneye came along and pretty much saved the day. Goldeneye is Pierce Brosnans first performance as Bond and is very good. As James Bond in this film, Peirce Brosnan makes the character very cool and smooth. Although this is probably Pierce Brosnans only good Bond film. It has action packed scenes round every corner, including the great tank chase. Goldeneye has a very fair place as 3rd on my list and it seems that the film film is always exciting to watch. "},{"Title":"Xenia Onatopp is only refreshing thing here","Date":"19 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Looking back, it sad to admit that James Bond movies became total parody on itself. Cliché agent, cliché script, only stunt work and gadgets are only thing that improves from film to film. Goldeneye doesn't have single original idea for except main female villain, who crushes men with her tights. OK, mr. Campbell, where did you get this idea? In Basic Instinct? Anyway, Xenia Onatopp is only refreshing thing in this movie. It almost a dream for man to die like this. However, her fights with Bond are totally unrealistic. No way, guy would escape her. It seems that she having mercy him in a last moment, or she just wants to get more of her masochistic pleasure. Eventually, it takes two to get over her. Yeah... What would Bond do without sidekicks? "},{"Title":"a confident display of sophistication","Date":"29 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" A Bond movie that stoically makes a milieu out of the Bond character, something which the series failed to do for quite some time. And it does so, even if the geekiness which it is regularly subjected to is rather unnecessary. Otherwise, this is well-timed and highlighted by some effective action and henchwoman Onatop's steamy scenes. Under the circumstances which demand a politically correct Bond, Brosnan delivers a smooth and refined performance without ever aspiring to counteract Connery's virtues. The film's masterstroke, however, is that it gleefully recycles Bond shenanigans with irony obliquely suggesting the character's past sell-by-date status, and yet it manages to glorify him as a timeless hero; and this can surely be defined as nothing else but a confident display of sophistication. "},{"Title":"Famke Jansen.","Date":"28 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" To me, Famke Jansen is the sexiest Bond girl. Not only do I think of her as Jean Grey or his bitch ex-wife in Taken. I think of her as the sexy seductress Xania Onnatopp in Goldeneye. Peirce Brosnan's first and best entry as Bond. Goldeneye is a fantastic Bond film with tons of great action sequences form start to finish. It's such a badass movie also. The film seems like this sexy, stylish action thriller. Because that's what it is. I still have one question about this film though. Is Xania Onnatop squeezing their penis's during sex or what. Because when she's having sex with the captain of the ship he saysXania...I...can't...breathe! I've always wondered what she is actually doing to the poor old fart. Goldeneye is a sexy Bond film that deserves the PG-13 rating. Goldeneye is an awesome Bond film that has a great cast and good acting. Goldeneye is one of my favorite Bond film for many reasons. The action sequences are great, I very much like Sean Bean as the villain. Goldenye is an exciting thrill ride form start to finish. The film is just so cool and it's definitely Peirce Brosnan's best performance and Famke Jansen's best performance. Xania Onnatopp isn't the only Bond girl. Izabelle Scorupco plays the other Bond girl. Of course she's not as hot as Xania but she's not as much as a sexy bitch as Xania is. Goldeneye is a fantastic Bond film, and I definitely think you should see it, if you haven't already.The PlotJames Bond teams up with a lone survivor of a Russian research center that was destroyed to stop a seductress and a spy that Bond believed was dead. "},{"Title":"The mother of all modern bond films!","Date":"28 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After a slump in the franchise, James Bond took a few years break, and knowing they'd have to produce a terrific film to get fans back on side seems to have helped. This film is superbly done.To start with it has to be said the opening sequence itself will get you hooked. The dam jump is one of the most memorable incidents in the franchise. After the theme song is over (by the way a terrific song to go with the film), A disk that operates a satellite dish is stolen, and bond is sent to relocate it. The best thing about how the film pans out is, that aside from pierce brosans obvious understanding of the suaveness of the character, the plot line itself means the audience isn't entirely sure of who the real villain is until half way through the film.The villains themselves are well acted, and its clear that all have their different purposes in the scheme, e.g Orumov is there to ensure they can penetrate the base in which the goldeneye is stolen from, and Boris is there to actually operate the disk. The point I'm making by this is that the plot is clearly well thought through.This film is a must see in the point franchise as it blends action and espionage so well, which is what a James bond film should be. The tank chase in Russia, the dam jump, and the climax of the film itself are all memorable moments in the James bond franchise. Seriously watch this. You wont be disappointed "}{"Title":"First Cinematic Bond Experience","Date":"15 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" When this movie came out I was 9 years old, my Dad had told me to lie about my age if someone asked as the film was a UK12. Growing up obviously I had seen all the bond films on TV at some point, so at 9 I had a good idea what James Bond was about. As a kid I had loved Roger Moore's bond films, because as a kid they were just fun films to watch, with classic villains like Jaws. So, this was my first visit to the cinema to watch James Bond on the big screen, and I remember the excitement I had when the gun barrel sequence came up. The opening sequence in the movie was fantastic, terrific introduction to Pierce's Brosnans Bond era. Over the years I have watched this movie countless times, I loved the GoldenEye game on N64, and for me it has always been my favourite Bond movie. I grew up with Pierce Brosnan as Bond, and I think he is the perfect Bond. I've got every Bond film on DVD, including Casino Royale on Blu Ray and every year or so I go through the series and watch them all. Obviously each Bond brings something different to the series, and Pierce was just fantastic (I just wish Die Another Day hadn't turned out the film it was because I thought his first three were all very good films in there own right, but the 4th kind of put a bad mark on Pierce's reign). Obviously Bond these days have gone in a different direction just like FOR YOUR EYES ONLY did after MOONRAKER, but thats whats great about watching the series, Bond changes with the times. I loved CASINO ROYALE and I thought QUANTUM OF SOLACE was a good film, and I do like Mr Craigs portrayal as Bond, but during QoS I was just wishing for some of Brosnans charm and in between the action set pieces. 8.5/10 "},{"Title":"Well, back to the old drawing board...","Date":"10 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Timothy Dalton last played 007 six years and a lengthy court battle ago... dating back to 'License to Kill'.When production began for Goldeneye, a throwback Bond adventure and the first not based upon any written work of Ian Flemming, Dalton stepped down. Dalton carried the mantle for 9 years through two mediocre films and was done.Enter Peirce Brosnan... one more time. This time, though, Brosnan was the man.Not to say Goldeneye didn't present some growing pains, as it was originally written for a grittier Dalton type Bond to play... it kicked off the Brosnan era no questions asked.Ultimately, it would be Cubby Broccoli's final production at the helm, but he got the 007 he wanted and left the franchise secure for those who he'd selected to carry on.Though not the best Brosnan Bond vehicle, it was an excellent start, and served as the blueprint for the sequels which set the franchise off like a rocket for the next decade.Gadgets guns and girls, Brosnan helped return James Bond to the relic Judy Dench's new M accused him of being; just plain cool. "},{"Title":"A Prescient Bond","Date":"5 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The first Bond movie with P.Brosnan was a huge eye candy , action galore , stunning and breath-taking ,even in some instances simply overdoing it , against all laws of physics , specially the initial scene , where Bond jumps off a cliff into the huge ravine ,trying to save his skin by catching a diving plane no less ! , and what was so important - remaining true to the basic concept , namely , fighting a villain or an evil organization bent on taking over the control of the world , all set in the real world in real conspiracies , very possible scenarios and 'realpolitik'- geopolitical situation at that time , in this case Russia and chaotic situation there in the mid-90s. The title signifies a powerful EMP weapon satellite having been built unknown to the West during the Cold War , and the weapon's activation and its consequences are shown in one of the best scenes in the action /war genre so far. All other typical Bond elements are here  beautiful girls , especially the Russian computer programmer , brilliantly portrayed by I . Scorupco , who becomes entangled in the life and death battle against her will , car chases &#150; Bond in a tank , original ! , and another unique gem &#150; the arch nemesis , a former Russian woman army pilot with an elegant name - Onatopp, who gets her rocks off either by squeezing her 'lovers' to death or shooting them to little bits , and is indeed an original example of women's sadism , and , the obligatory final duel , reminiscent of one in Empire Strikes Back ! This Bond is light years ahead of the refuse with the last Bond , played by D. Craig ( with highly pro-feminist and pro-homosexual overtones , and no connection with anything !) "},{"Title":"Goldeneye-The only great Brosnan Bond","Date":"13 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This Bond entry is very special for me because it was the first Bond movie I saw in the cinema. As many Bond fans know there was a six year hiatus between LTK and Goldeneye but it was well worth the wait. In a way the six year delay worked in its favour because Goldeneye comes across as one of the freshest Bond in the series. Brosnan took over the role of Bond from Dalton but he wasn't the only one to get replaced. Judi Dench took over the role of M and Samantha Bond was the new Moneypenny. Thankfully Q didn't get replaced and he's there to remind the audience that they are watching a Bond movie.The opening sequence, which is reminiscent of TSWLM was simply breathtaking. Sean Bean as Alex Trevalyn was pretty good, in fact one of the better recent Bond villains. The plot was good but the action scenes were remarkable, the tank sequence was outstanding.One interesting aspect of GE is the interaction between Moneypenny and Bond. In almost all the Bond movies Bond would enter M's office and the first thing he does is start flirting with Moneypenny. In Goldeneye when Bond tries flirting with her she playfully starts accusing Bond of sexual harassment. This shows that Bond movies are willing to support women's right because for the first time since Bond's debut in 62 it shows that Moneypenny is strong enough to reject Bond's flirtations. The times had changed since Bond's debut, in 1962 Women were generally housewives but by 95 trends had changed and women had well paid jobs and supporting themselves instead of relying on men to bring home the bacon. M also calls Bond a sexist mysogniist dinosour. It was a brave move for the Bond producers,it could have ended up alienating the fans but it worked in the producers favour. Gone are the days when Bond girls were shown as insecure dim women who would just jump into bed with Bond at the drop of a hat. The director of Goldeneye has recently revived the series with Casino Royale, which was nothing sort of brilliant.Goldeneye is a classic Bond and like CR will be fondly remembered for years and years to come. "},{"Title":"I expect you to die Mr. Bond...just not quite yet.","Date":"5 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I will admit that I was never one of the Bond Followers that liked Sean Connery (sorry), too much before my time, I started watching Bond as a kid with Roger Moores 'View to a kill' and from there my love of the movie grew. 6 long years after Daltons 'License to Kill' we were given 'Goldeneye' and what can I say, THIS IS BOND. Just look at Pierce Brosnan and tell me he does not fit the mental image of Bond. Even with todays entrys into the franchise (Casino Royale anyone?) this was an excellent entry into his entertaining time as Bond. And with it being about a technological threat, the plot hit close to home with the Y2K scare quickly approaching. Still by todays standards a very good movie. "},{"Title":"Awesome James bond 007 movie.","Date":"14 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This another awesome James bond 007 movie and it is all for the same reasons it has lots of action it it has it has a good screen play to it pierce brosnan does a great James bond 007 also this is pierce brosnans first time playing James bond 007 and he does it great. It has good acting in it the actors in it are good the villains in it are good i think Sean bean plays a great villain and same with Famke janssen who plays Xenia zirgavna onatopp. I'm sure you will not be disappointed with goldeneye. I'm sure you will have a good time watching goldeneye and you will watch it over and over again. Great adaption of goldeneye. So make sure that you buy or rent goldeneye because it is an awesome James bond 007 movie. Also this is my second favorite pierce brosnan James bond 007 movie.Overall score ********* out of ********** **** out of ***** "},{"Title":"The Best Bond For The 90's","Date":"7 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After Timothy Dalton stepped away from 007 Pierce Brosnan filled in the shoes. To make this film, in my opinion, the greatest Bond for the 90's it would require some great elements. The villain may not be as good as Blofeld or Goldfinger but the fact that the filmmakers attempted a double 00 betrayer was a smart and good move. I Love Famke Janssen as Xenia Onatopp (she has to be in my top Bond girls, along with Ursula Andress as Honey in Dr. No and Carole Boquet as Melina in For Your Eyes Only) and the insanity of her character. Making Judi Dench 'M' was a good move-she is a good actress- and its good to see Desmond Llewelyn re-attach his role as 'Q'. I didn't really warm to Isabella Scorupco or her character. She was good but not a huge most remembered Bond character. The character of Jack Wade was weird- why not have Felix Leiter as the contact?- but he was good. I liked the General and the Defense Minister- as they sort of pieced together the whole Goldeneye piece. Overall Goldeneye is one of the Best Bonds Ever and It shows that the director Martain Campbell is a great Bond director. "},{"Title":"See him move through smoke and mirrors.","Date":"30 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" You don't review James Bond movies, you evaluate them, rate them according to how well they meet expectations. There are certain things one has come to expect, even demand of a Bond film and each individual effort either delivers or it doesn't. So, here are ten elements that make a Bond film a Bond film and how GOLDENEYE rates on a scale of 1 to 10 Title GOLDENEYE Goldenfingereye. For Your Golden Eye Only. The GoldenSpy Who Loved me. Live and Let Golden-die. Or maybe it is just a reference to the producers' accountant. Whatever, it works. 7 points.Pre-Credit Teaser Inexplicably James bungee jumps off a huge dam in order to break into a Russian installation on the top of a mountain. Then when making his escape he hops on a motorcycle and chases a runaway airplane off a cliff, where he skydives to catch up with the power-diving plane so he can climb aboard and fly to safety. Exciting, hilarious and totally unbelievable, Good stuff! 8 points.Opening Credits With the passing of Maurice Binder, whose title sequences weren't always great, but nonetheless distinctive, the torch goes to Daniel Kleinman. Inspired by Binder's iconic work, but not imitative, Kleinman brings a fresh eye -- and CGI gimmicks -- to the project with great success. The fall of the Soviet empire is commemorated by a selection of barely-clad beauties taking sledgehammers to the fallen statues of Lenin and his ilk. Clever, stylish, sexy and most of all puckishly funny. 10 points.Theme Song Other than alphabetically, one would not expect see the name Bono anywhere near Bond, but the U2 rocker and his partner The Edge have contributed a slinky, pounding tune that nicely accentuates Kleinman's wonderful title images. Unfortunately, they can't seem to lick the continuing problem with lyrics -- why is it that no one seems to be able to come up with a Bond song with catchy lyrics anymore? Even the distinctive voice of Tina Turner doesn't help. 7 point.Bond, James Bond Certainly the best looking of all the Bonds, Pierce Brosnan makes his long-awaited debut as 007 and the results are pleasing, if not overwhelming. Falling somewhere between Roger Moore's broad comic strokes and Sean Connery's tongue-in-check sarcasm, Brosnan's low-key comic approach to the character is certainly a vast improvement over Timothy Dalton's sour-puss attitude. The change alone is worth 8 points.Bond Babes The two new Bond Girls are an interesting picture of contrasts. Dressed in comfortable clothes and a frumpy sweater, Izabella Scorupco as Natalya Fyodorovna Simonova, a Russian computer programmer, has a girl-next-door wholesomeness, but proves quite resourceful in a pinch. On the other hand, Framke Janssen as Xenia Onatopp joins Fatima Blush and May Day as assassins who are as stylishly over the top as fashion plates as they are as killers. If Natalya is a symbol of Bond's new honest approach to women, Xenia is a welcome flashback to the day when the series reveled in excess. Add Samantha Bond's debut as the prim but sardonic Miss Moneypenny; Serena Gordon as Caroline, a Fergie-esquire bureaucrat; and Minnie Driver in a funny cameo and you have the best ensemble of Bond Girls ever. 10 points.Bond Villain Two for the price of one A traitorous Russian general teams with an equally traitorous British agent. Gottfried John is something of a cliché -- cold, stiff and humorless -- as the corrupt general. He is especially disappointing coming on the heels of Jeroen Krabbé's cheerfully duplicitous Russian general in THE LIVING DAYLIGHTS. Meanwhile, 007 wannabe Sean Bean is down graded a notch to become the evil 006. It is easy to he why he didn't make the Bondian grade, but he makes for an okay bad guy. 7 points.Bond Baddies Before he became a ubiquitous fixture of 1990's film, television and theatre, Alan Cummings made an impact as invincible Boris Grishenko a computer geek with delusions of grandeur. He's proof that you don't have to go to comic book extremes to create a villain who is colorfully unforgettable. Never underestimate a nerd with a god complex. 8 points.Sinister Plot The evil Russian and the evil Brit team up to harness the use of a secret Soviet satellite to rob a bank. Well, rob a bank, totally destroy England's power systems with a nuclear blast and cause total world economic chaos. Just another day at work. 8 points.Production values The rather small stories of recent Bond adventures have been put aside in favor of the save the world mentality that made the series so popular in the first place. They even make a joke about it. Though Brosnan boasted about returning a sense of reality to the character and to the films, fortunately that was not the case and a larger-than-life sense of fun has returned. 8 points.Bonus Points No doubt as a belated response to feminism, 007 gets a female boss in the form of Judi Dench as the new M -- though portraying the character as a dried up, petty, condescending old prune with a chip on her shoulder hardly makes some sort of bold feminist statement. They probably wanted to show that even a woman can be a tough boss, but instead the character becomes an ugly cliché of feminist as man-hating shrew. And it is a bit late in the game to try to establish Bond as an anti-establishment anti-hero by placing him at odds with his own government. Minus 5 points.Summary Having lumbered through Timothy Dalton's two downbeat adventures, Bond comes back in style with a flashy, stylish and inventive adventure. And most of all, it restores a sense of fun to the series.Bond-o-meter Rating 76 points out of 100. "},{"Title":"the Names Brosnan, pierce Brosnan.","Date":"28 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This movie is really good.It is one of my top 5 bonds and is the bearth of the James bond we know as, Pierce Brosnan. in this movie, he is kinda how id describe Daniel Criag's performance as Bond. dark and with tons of character.If you have not seen this Bond, you don't even know the heights of James Bond.If Pierce Brosnan ha never played James Bond, I bet you the series would not be doing as good as it is now.I give this movie a 10/10 because it is the movie that launched Pierce Brosnan and he did a GREAT job. "},{"Title":"My Favorite Bond Film Ever","Date":"17 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This Bond film is in a class of its own. Goldeneye is by far the best Bond film ever. It is definitely my favorite Bond film. I have 3 reasons for that. First of all, Pierce Brosnan. He makes an amazing debut as James Bond and I think he is the best Bond yet. Second of all, Sean Bean. I have seen a lot of his previous work and I think he is an amazing actor. In this film, he is incredible!! His performance is absolutely astounding!! Last but not least, reason #3. The action. The action in this film is very impressive!! I was astounded by the car chases in this film. This film is definitely the best Bond film for action and possibly even one of the greatest action movies of all time!! Goldeneye was directed by Martin Campbell who, in my opinion, is the best director a Bond film has ever had. He has a great style that works wonders with this film. I'm just hoping that Casino Royale will be just as good or better than this film. I'm sure it will. Mr. Campbell really seems to know how to make an action movie. Let's hope he does whatever he did with this film and applies it with Casino Royale. In conclusion, Goldeneye is the best Bond film yet and I enjoyed every single minute of it. I know you will as well. "}{"Title":"Oh yes , it was good .","Date":"9 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Pierce Brosnan played Bond with so much style it was truly a pleasure watching him on screen . The whole plot of this new James Bond film was an excellent one as well which kept it glued to your seat considering that the USSR and issues with the cold war ended a while back ago . As I said the acting was to notch , Sean Bean was a really impressive almost psycho bad guy , FAMKE JANSEEN - WE GOT TO HANG OUT !!! Q was still as impressive as always . The film maintained a very good pace that required you to pay attention so I really had no reason to look the other way . The action sequences were like nothing that I have seen in a 007 movie , they reminded me of more like a Schwartznegger flick but still it was mixed in nicely and it worked really well , the car chases were also something to talk about I mean I could just stay here and talk about the opening car chase all day long and not to mention that action packed chase involving the tank . Pierce Brosnan also pulls out Bonds cheeky one-liners with style that it makes you laugh at the right moment . All in all , the only thing I can say is that Pierce Brosnan has made one hell of an impact with this newest Bond outing winning winning a whole wave of new fans ! Well done Pierce !!! what can i say apart from DIFFERENT STYLE , SAME BOND !! BROIS - YESSSS , I AM INVINCIBLE !! "},{"Title":"i LOVE this movie","Date":"15 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is by far one of the best James Bond movies! I love Famke Janssen as the bloodthirsty killer and the way she enjoys her work.The way Bond's countryman turned into a traitor was very shocking, making it even more entertaining.I made sure I went out and bought a copy as soon as it came out and I have watched it over and over. The part of the Russian turncoat was played very well also. He made me laugh and yell at him at the same time. As for the theme song, well, Tina you did it again! I have a CD of all the James Bond music and that is one of my favorites. I hope James Bond will never die!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Quick Reviews!!","Date":"25 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Brosnan's first outing as Bond is easily his best, but also one of the best of an actor yet. It has the perfect mix of humour and darkness, not overly serious like Dalton's films, not overly funny like Moore's. Not only is it a new Bond, but of course it is a new era, Cold War over, girl power starting etc. All of these themes are covered- we have a villain who simply wants revenge, while surrounded by the fading images of the Soviet Union, and several strong female characters who make Bond earn his money rather than simply making them do what he tells them to. M is dead-long live M- as Judi Dench takes over as Bond's boss, making sure he knows exactly who is in charge. Natalya, a computer programmer is feisty and capable of surviving many fights on her own, while Xenia Onotopp is like nothing Bond has faced before, and probably the best female Bond villain so far. No, definitely the best.Anyway, the story begins a few years in the past, with Bond and his fellow agent and friend Alec Trevelyn tackling the evil General Oromov in Russia. However, Trevelyn is killed and Oromov escapes, leaving Bond with another lost friend. Flash forward a few years, and Bond is investigating Oromov's whereabouts, and his involvement with a new uprising in Russia. Bond investigates, finding Natalya along the way, as her Satellite base was destroyed in a missile attack by Oromov and Onotopp, leaving her the only survivor. Bond hears that Oromov's boss wishes to meet with him, and in a shock revelation, we see that it is Trevelyn! He wants revenge for his family's treatment by Britian, as he was a Lienz Cossack. Bond is horrified. The race begins to stop Trevelyn as his new warhead becomes functional, and Bond has to decide whether he can kill his friend. 'For England James?' Trevelyn asks, leading Bond to question his part in Britain's game- he, like all the agents are after all, simply pawns, no matter what they might think or achieve.The chemistry between Bond and Bean is excellent, making Goldeneye one of the most emotional films to date. He genuinely seems to like Natalya, and the scene where she tells him he will always be alone is both stark and beautiful, and one of the best scenes in the Bond series. Oromov is a great villain also, and the audience hates him, Onotopp is so good we almost want her to kill Bond, and Alan Cummings as Boris adds some comic relief. In the game, everyone loves killing Boris. The song is OK, the revamped Bond theme is not as good as the original, but the incidental music is the best since You Only Live Twice.There are many memorable set pieces and stunts including the Dam jump, the plan jump, the Tank chase, and the final fight, and makes you wonder how Die another Day could have been so awful. The film is almost flawless, as the game was, and should be considered as one of the best films of the nineties. 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"We meet again Mr. Bond....","Date":"28 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This movie without a doubt brought the James Bond franchise into the '90s and did a good job at it. I'm very happy for that. Pierce Brosnan was perfect for it, and an excellent story, and the villains were okay. I like that Boris guy a lot, especially his famous line I'm invincible! I'll never forget that! This movie is everything you would expect in a Bond movie, the gadgets that are hi-tech and kept discreetly, the prologue with Bond shooting, a smooth soundtrack, fast cars, a lot of guns, and the women who are all over Bond. And Bond is as shrewed and suave, Pierce did a very good job! This proves that a very old franchise and series can live on and catch up to today, and attract a whole new audience. I recommend this to all fans of James Bond, and I recommend you play the N64 game, it's unforgettable as well. Bond will return. "},{"Title":"The best of new Bond movies times 20","Date":"7 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" By far the best of the new James bond movies. It has one of the best villains in bond history. Even the Video Game is great. The Video game may be the reason i like the movie so much but forget about that. The action was great. There are many henchman that are very awesome. In my opinion its not only one of the best of the new bond movies but one of the best bond movies. It was Peirce Brosnan at his best. I didn't much care for the bond girl and i never like the bond songs accept for live and let die. I wish they would make another good movie unlike Tomorrow never dies. I wish they had a two disc DVD and not just one but hey its such a good movie i don't need that. "},{"Title":"Brosnan gets off to a great start","Date":"2 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  It seemed for a long while in the early 1990s that we would never see a James Bond film again, as the franchise became enmeshed in endless legal wrangles and a disillusioned Timothy Dalton decided to quit as OO7. However EON productions were eventually able to begin work on the 17th official Bond film, and GoldenEye exploded onto the big screen in 1995, six years after the release of Licence to Kill. Happily the wait was worth it, because GoldenEye is one of the best Bond films, featuring a satisfying mix of great action and memorable characters. It was a huge hit, reinventing Bond for the 90s and helping to ensure that the franchise would continue into the 21st Century.The film succeeds in part because it feels a bit like a Bond greatest hits, with such OO7 trademarks as the Aston Martin, beautiful women and big action set-pieces all playing a prominent role. Martin Campbell proves himself to be a worthy Bond director, orchestrating the impressive action scenes with great flair, particularly a memorable tank chase through St Petersburg. However, GoldenEye (named after Ian Fleming's home in the Caribbean) also acknowledges the fact that times had changed since OO7's Cold War heyday. Bond finds himself travelling to a newly capitalist Russia, and he also has to deal for the first time with a female M, played wonderfully by Judi Dench, who makes no bones about calling OO7 a sexist, misogynous dinosaur, a relic of the Cold War, although underneath she already has a sneaking affection for him. There is also a feisty new Miss Moneypenny for Bond to contend with, Samantha Bond replacing Caroline Bliss in the role and making it quite plain that her Moneypenny will be no pushover for OO7. Q, however, is still played by the ageing but sprightly Desmond Llewelyn, and although he is only in one short scene it is a good one, providing another link to Bond's past.Unlike many Bond films, GoldenEye has quite a good plot. It certainly helps that the chief villain is a fellow OO agent, who was once a close friend of Bond's. This set-up adds real spice to the scenes between Bond and Trevelyan, for in OO7's eyes Trevelyan has committed the ultimate sin of betraying both his country and his friend, giving the film a serious edge. Indeed, one of the most welcome features of the film is its lack of schoolboy humour, which the producers might have been tempted to include after the dark Licence to Kill's poor Box Office showing; thankfully they resisted the temptation, and GoldenEye is much the stronger for it. Another plus is the strength of many of the principle characters. Izabella Scorupco is one of the very best Bond girls, proving herself to be a good actress as well as a beautiful one, and her character fits in well with the serious, modern tone of the film by being both quite a realistic character and a skilled computer programmer. Sean Bean is good as Trevelyan, even if his rather forced upper-class accent prevents him from being one of the great villains. Still, he is menacing and his final showdown with Bond is gripping and effective. Stealing the show is Famke Janssen, who is gloriously OTT as the sex-mad henchwoman Xenia Onatopp. Onatopp kills men by crushing them with her legs, and she makes for a classic Bond femme fatale.Then of course there is Pierce Brosnan, who makes a strong debut as OO7. Brosnan was of course invited to become Bond a decade earlier, before his commitments to Remington Steele prevented him from taking the part. Now the Walther PPK was finally his, and he makes the most of it with a performance that nicely blends toughness with humour, and also traces of humanity. In certain scenes Brosnan does a very nice job of portraying the essential loneliness of OO7, and also his fierce loyalty to his country.  In doing so he maintains the welcome seriousness that Dalton brought to the role, but he also comes across as more relaxed and humorous than Dalton, making his Bond a more rounded character in the style of Sean Connery. Arguably, it is the most impressive debut performance of any Bond actor.Naturally, GoldenEye is not perfect. It is a bit too long, and I found Alan Cumming's Boris a rather irritating character, although his eventual comeuppance was very satisfying. Robbie Coltrane's entertaining cameo as a former KGB agent could also have been longer, and I am not a fan of Tina Turner's dreary theme song. These, however, are minor quibbles. GoldenEye is a very entertaining and action-packed film, which captures the essence of Bond and has some real substance too in its plot and characterisation. I would rank it with From Russia with Love, For Your Eyes Only and Licence to Kill as one of the top Bond films, and subsequent Brosnan outings have not yet bettered it. "},{"Title":"Pierce Brosnan and Sean Bean.... WOW!!!!  ***May contain spoilers***","Date":"24 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS!!!Ok, here we have one of the best Bond movies I've ever seen.  It's just spectacular!  Pierce Brosnan has definitely kept the Bond torch burning. This movie is thoroughly engaging and totally captivating, right from the very first scene.  Sean Bean's (006/Alec) first scene definitely hightened the interest level for me too.  The classic characters are back... M and Q, also with the addition of three more very likeable characters (Natalya, Xenia and Boris), although two of them are baddies, but what the heck.Pierce Brosnan is just perfect as James Bond, he's pulled the role off quite remarkably.  Did I mention he's extremely handsome?  Speaking of handsome, Sean Bean was just magnificent.  The best Bond villain ever, according to me.  His intensity and charisma just made Alec all the more interesting to watch. It's no surprise that he was the next likely candidate to play 007, if Brosnan didn't take the role. Besides, he looked extraordinarily cool in black. (all through the movie)Alan Cumming, Famke Janssen, Izabella Scorupco, Robbie Coltrane and Judie Dench were all great as well. Excellent, excellent film.  *****/*****. "},{"Title":"EXPLOSIVE","Date":"8 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  As every James Bond movie this one is another example of a masterpiece of action, suspense and thrills. Congratulations to director Martin Campbell and of course to all the actors and stuff. I liked very much the performance of the bad girl, bad boy Sean Bean and Pierce Brosnan as the agent 007. Very nice pictures and once more MGM created a top action thriller. If you liked this don´t miss the other James Bond in TOMORROW NEVER DIES or THE WORLD IS NOT ENOUGH. I highly recommend also VERTICAL LIMIT from the same director. 8/10.  "},{"Title":"No - No - No more foreplay! - James Bond **spoilers**","Date":"9 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is the best of all of Pierce Brosnan's Bond installments, hands down - I know elsewhere I said Tomorrow Never Dies, but after thinking it over I realized that this one had the edge in everything - plot, acting, believable characters, casting, and definitely humor - this is the only of Brosnan's films so far that's made me laugh out loud - and it did that many times.The plot? A mysterious explosion wipes out a supposedly shutdown Russian computer base in the middle of Siberia. 007 (Brosnan) is sent to investigate, and finds out that a cabal of ex-Soviet soldiers/agents, led by his old colleague 006 Alec Trevalyan (Sean Bean) (who Bond had left for dead in a mission nine years earlier), are planning to use a satellite-based weapon called GoldenEye to nuke London and numerous other major cities. It's up to Bond and the lone survivor of the missile-base, a second-level programmer named Natalya Simonova (Izabella Scorupco) to defeat Trevalyan and his minions.The casting and acting is arguably the greatest in any of Brosnan's Bond films, just edging out The World Is Not Enough. Brosnan, of course, is great. Sean Bean, as the villain, was very good, and his portrayal of a betrayed man (and the secert from his childhood - but see the film) is superb. Pollack-Swede Scorupco is very good - she is not the most beautiful Bond girl ever (IMO), but she is still a relative rarity - she isn't a kickass sidekick a la Wai Lin or Jinx Johnson, but she's not a helpless bimbo either. Her Natalya is surprisingly realistic, and she gives a good portrayal. Famke Janssen, as Xenia Onatopp, one of Trevalyan's henchmen, is great - though I personally prefer Sophie Merceau's more layered performance in TWINE, the very sexy Janssen handles her role quite well. German character actor Gottfried John is another henchman of Trevalyan (and also a former nemesis of Bond), General Orumoff. John's performance is superb and subtly humorous (I like how, during the tank chase, he kept taking shots of whiskey while watching Bond's pursuit).The other actors are just as good. Robbie Coltraine as ex-KGB Agent and victim of Bond Valentin Zukovsky - save perhaps Rowan Atkinson, Coltraine is my favorite actor, and though he has only a bit role, he is still much funnier than in his extended role in TWINE. Alan Cumming, as yet another Trevalyan henchman, Natalya's friend Boris Grishenko, is hilarious (I AM INVINCIBLE!) and goes out in an indescribably funny way. Joe Don Baker, as CIA Agent Jack Wade, proves he can be a good actor when he wants to be - though he has only a comic bit part as well. The regular MI6 staff (including Judi Dench as the new M) appears, and Desmond Llewelyn (sp.?) has his only really funny scene in a Brosnan film (Don't touch that - that's my lunch!). Turkish actor Tchéky Karyo (1492, The Patriot, Wing Commander) is good in a cameo as the Russian defense minister.The action scenes are all well put together (though the St. Petersburg tank chase wasn't my favorite scene). For once, the humor is funny, though most of it goes to the supporting players (esp. Boris, Zukovski, and Wade). Special effects are very good, and the action scenes don't go too over-the-top.Eight stars for GoldenEye. "},{"Title":"Remarkable Debut","Date":"18 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  After years without a Bond, Brosnan makes a remarkable debut and immediately IS James Bond 007, child of the late and the great Mr. Ian Fleming.From the opening scene, a bungee jump off a dam that has no right to be that height, Bond is back with a vengeance.Long may he live, may he live forever! "}{"Title":"Great film...but so many mistakes","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Before I start, I'd just like to point out that I absolutely love this film to bits - I once was so obsesses with it that I watched it several times a day. Thankfully, I now don't do this, bit it still remains my favourite film.Has anyone noticed the following mistakes though(a) When Bond is being briefed on the situation in Severnaya, the satellite is knocked out and all the computer screens aren't getting a signal. During this time Natalya is climbing up the dish to get out of the building. The satellite only comes back when Natalya is running across the snow, but when Bond and Natalya are about to be interogated by Defence Minister Mishkin he says to her 'And I'm willing to bet that you're the one that climbed up the dish to get out'. How did he know that? And how would Bond have been able to point to a person on a computer screen and assume she would know who the insider was? And the conversation in the briefing room with Michael Kitchen and Judy Dench really doesn't flow like a natural conversation - it sounds like it's being read from a script and it's far too predictable.(b) When Bond and Natalya are about to be questioned she also tells Bond 'I've never been to severnaya' but he holds up her arm and says 'Your watch has - frozen by the Goldeneye blast'. How would he have known she was wearing a watch? How would he have known it was her from the satellite when he only met her when they were captured by Mishkin's men and didn't have a chance to talk.(c) In the scene where Bond goes to the boat and opens the wardrobe door only to get the dead admiral (killed by Xenia) falling out in front of him, the film doesn't really explain who stole his ID card from his jacket the night before when he was getting a good squeeze from her. Then, at the same time Bond discovers the body Xenia and some bloke posing as the admiral are being welcomed on board the other boat displaying the Tiger helicopter. This bloke looks very much like the admiral, but who is it? Ourumov? If it isn't him in disguise then where does he come from later on to be able to steal the helicopter with Xenia?Well, that's all I can think of for now. In the scene where Natalya gets reunited with Boris at Janus Headquarters in Cuba and she attacks him, two guards pull her off him. Has anyone noticed how red one of those guard's faces gets? Maybe I'm just sad for noticing? There are also differences between the widescreen and full screen versions.By the way, the soundtrack is great. And anyone who loves the song at the end performed by Eric Serra (the man!) himself will be interested to know that in the film Leon The Professional at one point in the film (as he does the music to that too) is an instrumental bit of that song! "},{"Title":"Pay Attention, 007","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Whilst Sean Connery's interpretation is rightly regarded as the definitive James Bond, GOLDENEYE is worthy of recognition as the movie that dragged what was a tired, bedraggled franchise kicking and screaming into the '90s and it's one of my favourites of the series. Pierce Brosnan gets the chance to show us all why he was producer Cubby Broccolli's preferred choice to replace Roger Moore (Brosnan had to back out in 1986 due to contractual obligations for the TV show Remington Steele) and we finally get a Bond that has the dangerous glint in his eye that so endeared us to Connery in the first place. Brosnan looks good, he moves well and he can deliver those zingers. Sean Connery may not be gone completely from our minds but it's easy to forget him for a couple of hours with Brosnan on-screen.Director Martin Campbell knows exactly where to point the camera for maximum effect and the fast-moving fluidity of the editing gives the whole thing a marvelously kinetic shot in the arm. The action sequences fairly crack along and there's barely time to drawn breath. The late Maurice Binder would probably weep in sorrow if he could see how perfectly Daniel Kleinsman has produced typically Bondian lush visuals to back Tina Turner's terrific rendition of the title song (written by Bono).The story (by Michael France) has a little more depth than usual and the supporting characters are not just stock-in-trade caricatures (Robbie Coltrane's Valentin Zucovsky and Gottfried John's General Ourumov being just two examples). Famke Janssen is delicious and steals every scene she's in as sexually voracious hit-woman, Xenia Onatopp. And whoever thought of casting Judi Dench as M is definitely on to something - she's only in one scene but it's a cracker. My only slight concern is with Sean Bean as the main villain who is outshone by his hench-woman and just isn't in the same league as Blofeld or Goldfinger.It is a sad fact that, during Brosnan's tenure, many of the Bond stalwarts both behind and in front of the camera are now deceased (Cubby Broccolli, Vic Armstrong, Desmond Lewellyn, Maurice Binder to name a few). I guess this is understandable when you consider just how long these films have been going now. CASINO ROYALE (2006), directed again by Campbell and starring Daniel Craig as Bond is the 21st Bond film in a production cycle has been continuing for over 40 years. Let's hope they keep making them as good as this. "},{"Title":"THE GREATEST BOND FILM EVER!!!!","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  With Goldeneye bond is back to the style and appearance that as notbeen seen since the days of Sean Connery. Everything is perfect, thereis not one flaw in this whole movie. If you only see one bond movie in your entire life see this!!! Brosnan is Bond and the cast follow him to awsome performance. The pre - creditis secquence is the best. With theBond series on the line, the prodouceres wanted to make a solid Bond film, happily they created something more! "},{"Title":"Pretty good but takes itself way too seriously","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Goldeneye is a pretty solid 007 film that is way too heavy in spots and takes itself very seriously.  The new M is established with blinding political correctness and much of the series long charisma between Bond and Moneypenney is also roasted in the politically correct furnace.  The accents in the movie are also ridiculous.  Goldeneye has some nice characters.  The idea of an ex-double 0 agent being Bond's antagonist is a great idea and Alec Trevalyan is a nice character but he's not given much too do but be bad.  Famke Janssen as Onatopp basically steals the show but she's almost too ridiculous in spots.  Izabella Scorupco is ok as the heroine but her character is way out of place and spends much of the film trying to figure out what's going on.  Pierce Brosnan is good but strangely unappealing as Bond.  He's not overly charismatic but pulls off the action sequences well and is a solid dramatic actor.  Goldeneye has a nice mood to it and has some great action.  The tank sequence is pure Bond and the opener is dynamite.  The ending is pretty disappointing for several reasons.  A pretty good Bond to establish Brosnan in the role.6.6/10       "},{"Title":"The weakest of Brosnan's Bonds","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I'm a big fan of Bond movies, I think I've seen them all and I gladly watch them again as many times as I can. My favorite Bond is Sean Connery (but Roger Moore does it good too) and as such I also like the movies he was in the best, and I think that is why I think this is a pretty weak part of the series. Where films like Goldfinger and Dr. No are very unrealistic when you think about it and rely much on Bond's sly attitude, one liners of course, and how he interacts with the bad guy, Goldeneye I think is just too serious. Bond and the main evil guy Trevelyan are like best friends and then they hate each other it just doesn't work. It's not supposed to be like that. There are however good parts, some funny one liners from Bond, Izabella Scorupco is sexy as hell and I agree with the commenter who said she is probably the most good-looking Bond girl so far. So don't get me wrong, I still think Pierce Brosnan works as Bond, the next two movies with him - Tomorrow Never Dies and The World Is Not Enough - are *much* better and I hope he does a good job in the upcoming film. It has already been said but I just have to point it out too, the music score was very bad here. Rarely noticeable at all and I can't remember one scene where you actually hear the theme song we all know and love so much. "},{"Title":"Beaches, Babes and BMW's","Date":"16 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This film marked the return of James Bond, 007 to the big screen. And I must say it was quite the big bang. It brought into the cash register about 350 Million Dollars (Tomorrow Never Dies did slightly worse and The World is not Enough did (very) slightly better). Still, having seen all three 007 movies I must say that it is the best Bond of the 1990's. That might be strange, regarding the fact that it was the first offering since 1989 when Timothy Dalton lead the famous character into a deep, black hole. I'd never dare to say that Dalton was the worst Bond ever (thank god for him there's George Lazenby!) but I must say he kind of brought the series to a low point for me. Pierce Brosnan though, miraculously came shooting out of that black hole, flying sky &#150; high towards the stars. He immediately formed the best original Bond (Connery) substitute ever (in my opinion), by making this film.This one has everything that defines a classic, though none of the names to do so. Then (back in 1995) every actor that starred in this film was pretty much a blank to the average audience member. Something that didn't remain like that for long and rightly so. Famke Janssen (Xenia Onatopp) came to star in X &#150; Men (and the sequel next year I guess), Minnie Driver (Irina) made Sleepers, Good Will Hunting and gave her voice to Jane in Tarzan, Sean Bean (006) will make himself immortal this and the next few years in J.R.R. Tolkiens The Fellowship of the Ring, Judi Dench (M) made Shakespeare in Love (apart from the other Bond films that is), Izabella Scorupco (Natalya Simonova) made The Vertical Limit, Martin Campbell (the Director) made The Mask of Zorro and The Vertical Limit and Brosnan, well he (of course) became the most successful Bond EVER!Back to this film though. I must say this one has everything a Bond film should have. A great story, exotic locations, action, beautiful women, fast cars and a lot of gags. It are of course these typical Bond things that make this film what it is. But it is the great direction, acting and script that make this a dream come true for filmfreaks. Every character is cast brilliantly, beginning (of course) with Pierce Brosnan and ending with Minnie Driver, who is in only one scene but still makes me laugh. And so does almost every character in this film. Bond's famous innuendo's are (again) brilliant and funny, but so are some the comments Miss Simonova makes. Whereas Miss Onatopps can even make me laugh just by means of facial expression. I mean the character Famke Janssen portrays is just plain and simple cool. She is just this sexy sadist who can crush people with her thighs. Which brings me to another good thing about this installment. There are by no means even hints or suggestions to why Miss Onatopp is enabled to kill people by breaking their backs with her thighs. They don't even try to explain, she just can do that. That I think is great, because if you are honest you must say ever attempt to explain this phenomenon would have been laughable.The direction is splendid as well and focuses on the most important things a bond movie has to offer shiny new vehicles, action, exotic locations and babes. These things are all captured very well by Martin Campbell and I must say that my favorite scene in the whole move (direction &#150; wise) is the &#145;beach scene' with Miss Scorupco and Mister Brosnan.  Not only does Martin Campbell capture the beauty of the surroundings and Izabella Scorupco here, but he also captures the dilemma of being James Bond. It is just a wonderful scene and I think show Bonds weak spot for the first time in the series. All in all I cannot do anything else as to highly recommend this film to you. Even if you don't like James Bond or maybe even just if you do not like that character. Because let's face it, everyone who likes him has already seen this movie.9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"The man who saved the James Bond series","Date":"18 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Without Pierce Brosnan James Bond would have died as a film series hero. The die-hard Bond fans may be sceptical to Brosnan all they want but fact remains He is the only one who can portray 007 at the moment and the only one who could save the series. And so he did.GoldenEye is not Brosnan's show all the way though. Judi Dench makes her wonderful debut as 'M', Sean Bean gives the best Bond villain performance since Joseph Wiseman's Dr No, Izabella Scorupco makes a great Bond girl, Robbie Coltrane is a great Russian mafioso and Desmond Llewelyn delivers yet another impeccable 'Q' performance.The story isn't half-bad either and I was glad that it wasn't too complicated. That would have given Brosnan too little room. Martin Campbell is just perfect behind the camera and I sincerely hope that he would return as Bond director. "},{"Title":"My number 154 movie ( contains story )","Date":"20 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Yes, you have read correctly. This is my number 154 movie ( outta 750 about ). Golden Eye is about a weaponry that someone wants to rule the world with. I do not remember more details of the story. I like Golden Eye because I am a kind of James-Bond-Fan and I like action movies. But it could have been much better, if the actors were better chosen. Pierce Brosnan and Famke Janssen do a good job, but the others. . . they were just bad. ( I do not often complain about actors ). Golden Eye is a good James Bond Movie, but there are better ones ( Tomorrow never dies,/ Octopussy / Moonraker / License to kill), but there a also worse ones ( On Her Majesty's Secret Service / World is not enough / From Russia with love ). All in all, I rate this movie 8/10. I recommend it to James-Bond and to action-fans. "},{"Title":"Nobody does it better!!!","Date":"9 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Goldeneye - a weapon control system -  was stolen.  The first trace leads 007 to St. Petersburg, Russia.  The cold war seems not to be over...Shaken, not stirred - her majesty´s favorite agent  is back after six years of abstinence. Goldeneye  was Pierce Brosnans debut as 007.  And I must admit  he is the ultimative James Bond  - besides Sean  Connery, of course. He´s got the style and the  humour that the character of 007 needs. What I  especially liked about Goldeneye? I guess it  was the melancholic  touch that reminded me of From Russia with love. Sean Bean as Alex  Trevelyan (006, James Bonds former partner) is  the bad guy, but Famke Janssen and Gottfried John  sometimes steal the show! A little weak point was  Eric Serras score  - the 007 theme appears only in  a few scenes. But besides  - after the few times I´ve been watching it now - this is one of my  favorite Bond-movies. Mr. Brosnan, you can return... "},{"Title":"Monsiuer Bond est BACK!","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Ah, the renaissance of James Bond under Pierce Brosnan after the awful non-appearances of Timothy Dalton.Point of interest Pierce Brosnan's Christian name is an anagram of Recipe.The Goldeneye, a former Soviet piece of technology that can render any electronic equipment harmless falls into the wrong hands, those of Sean Bean - formerly 006 and friend of Bond.This plays excellently on the paranoia of some in the West about former Soviet technologies falling into the wrong hands, and is Bond back to his best.  Despite being a little predictable at times, this was very good and worth watching throughout.Famke Janssen as Onatopp was worth watching it for alone, she was hilarious! "}{"Title":"Good comeback","Date":"7 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  In terms of action this is the best of the bonds, dispensing with plot to bring the bond cocktail of high octane action sequences into the 90's. No brainer cinema at its best and a great evenings entertainment if you suspend your disbelief. "},{"Title":"Best out of the Brosnan-Bond trilogy.","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Best Bond film and one of the best action films of all time. Brosnan played an excellent 007. Sean Bean was a great bad guy. My nationality is Dutch so I was very excited to see Famke Janssen in it as well. I really loved the end fight between Brosnan and Bean. You didn't see that in the two bond films that followed. It was a great ride. You should own it on video or DVD. 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Best Bond Comeback!!!!!","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  What a lot of people don't realize is that the Bond series almost died after License to Kill. This movie could not have made a better comeback. Before Timothy Dalton, Pierce Brosnan was set to be the new Bond. I was the first to think that he would have never done a good job to uphold the Bond name. After seeing Goldeneye, I could not have been more wrong.With the fall of the Soviet Union, the movie had a great story line to act on. With the dialog between the characters it made the movie even better. What also put a neat twist on the series was bringing in a woman to play a new M, played by Judi Dench. She plays a bit of a stronger M character not intimidated by the lady killer Bond and did sweet justice to the part.  Another of the better revived characters was Moneypenny, who could really dish it out to Bond.This movie did sweet justice to the series and has revived a whole new generation of Bond lovers. "},{"Title":"One of the best bond-movies","Date":"14 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Goldeneye proved to be one of the best bondflicks ever. It starrs Pierce Brosnan and is his first outing as 007. Goldeneye has the atmosphere and style of the past, and the special-effects and the sex roles of the 90`s(Bond`s boss is now a WOMAN) Goldeneye is a great film, and honestly Brosnan`s best 007 film this far. 9/10 "},{"Title":"One of the BEST","Date":"27 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  GoldenEye is one of the BEST bond movies ever. I think the theme is GREAT and the plot is a mix of classic Bond and new-age technology incorporated into a great storyline and the musical scores just added to it. A MUST for all Bond fans. "},{"Title":"Wow, what a film...","Date":"24 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I started watching Bond films about a year ago, when I bought the game on the N64.  I got into Bond straight away, and I can now call myself an 'expert'!!!  I have watched all Bond films at least twice, and I can safely say Goldeneye is the best.  It has everything, a great plot, fantastic actors, EVERYTHING!  It is really one to watch. "},{"Title":"Terrific Bond movie","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  After a six year hiatus, the James Bond franchise made a triumphant return with Goldeneye, the 17th Bond film (that does not include Sean Connery's 1983 non-Albert Broccoli produced Bond film Never Say Never Again). After Timothy Dalton decided not to return as 007 after two films, Pierce Brosnan took over the role that he originally won in 1986 after Roger Moore retired from the role. But due to his contract dispute with his '80s TV series Remington Steele, Brosnan lost the part and Dalton was hired. After the so-so box office response to Dalton's first Bond film The Living Daylights and the disappointing box office performance of his second film Licence to Kill, Dalton quit the role and the series went in limbo. Then after a couple of years, Brosnan got the role of 007 right back and in 1995 his first Bond film Goldeneye was released. This is a terrific Bond film. It's much better than Dalton's two Bond films. It has good action scenes, sexy women, and a nice sense of humor. Goldeneye also features the series debuts of Dame Judi Dench as M, and Samantha Bond as Miss Moneypenny. Desmond Llewelyn returns as gadgetmeister Q, the only holdover from the old days of 007. Sean Bean and Famke Janssen are the villains, Izabella Scorupco is the love interest, and Joe Don Baker (who played a villain in The Living Daylights) is the assistant and sidekick. All the actors do a good job in the movie. But the standout performance comes from Famke Janssen as the villainess Xenia Onatopp. She's one of the best female villains the Bond series has ever had. Since this movie she has gone on to appear in many more movies (including The Faculty, and this summer's upcoming X-Men.) This movie went on to become the highest grossing Bond movie in franchise history, and it brought the series back from near death. I'm glad. Because I'm a huge James Bond fan. ***1/2 (out of four)  "},{"Title":"Excellent.","Date":"19 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Slam bang bond film is one of the best.Pierce Brosnan does a good job as 007.The plot is about James trying to stop 006 from  using a deadly satellite.Terrific action sequences to say the least.Rated PG-13 for Bond elementsRating**** (out of five) "},{"Title":"Typical Bond, and earns its place in the Canon","Date":"26 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  No-one watches a Bond film for intellectual stimulation.  Girls, gadgets, gazillions of stunts.  Goldeneye delivers. As silly as the Evil Bond Girl is; as stunningly unbelievable as the airplane stunt before the credits is, as implausible as the Russian accent on the Computer Hacker is, this is a worthy addition to the Bond Series of films.  Maybe not the best one, but it earns it keep. Bond is once again pitted against a villain bent on destroying a major city, and again he is aided by a brainy but buxom babe.  Sound like 90% of all Bond films?  Yes... what did you expect? Good stunts, good acting (for the genre), good characters (especially the CIA agent), and good special effects.  Not too many ludicrous plot twists, some witty lines, and some of the usual titillation make this a fine film to watch Sunday night when your brain really needs some eye candy. "},{"Title":"to me, THIS is the best bond movie ever","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  this is the first james adventure i could see in the theatre, i'm too young to have had a chance to see any of the other ones. But, of course, there's always the good old TV, and that is where i have seen almost all of the James Bond movies. So, to me, GoldenEye is a very special movie. It is the first modern Bond movie. All the other ones sucked compared to this one, i thought when i saw 4 years ago. You'd probably think i've become wiser now, and may be true, but GoldenEye is, in my eyes, still the best Bond movie. Although i agree Sean Connery makes for the best bond interpreter, none of his movies (this is MY opinion)can top this one. I had a great time watching this, and it is a movie anyone can enjoy. It is so full of action, humor and beautiful, it gives anything you'd wish for in a bond film. If you haven't seen it, you really should.  "}{"Title":"The Best Bond Film","Date":"30 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Action packed fun. It does not get boring once. Good amount of gadgets. The tank chase scene is one of the best if not the best in the bond films. The only films that can compare to it is Thunderball, Goldeneye, and You only live twice. Pierce Brosnan is probily the best Bond. The only other one that is that good is Sean Connery. This one, in the future, will be looked at as a classic. "},{"Title":"His name is Brosnan, Pierce Brosnan","Date":"14 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Bond returned after six years, with Pierce Brosnan in the roleof Bond, James Bond.Brosnan does a nice job as mr. Bond. The plot in GoldenEye is a basic Bond plot.007 has to go to Russia to safe a secret space weapon called GoldenEye. The Bond girls are beautiful as usual.And Desmond Llewelyn still is the old inventor genius Q.GoldenEye is a Bond movie with lots of action.Pierce Brosnan's first effort as agent 007 works great. "},{"Title":"disappointing return for 007","Date":"20 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Now that the hype is over it seems hard to believe that Goldeneye got such favourable reviews back in 1995.The plot is wafer-thin and the background of Trevelyan seems to be tacked on rather unconvincingly.Pierce Brosnan is a junk bond the scenes where the writers attempt to explore Bond's psyche is simply outside of his limited acting range.Izabella Scorupco in contrast turns in a fantastic performance and Sean Bean, although underused here,will probably make a fine 007 one day. Eric Serra's score is completely unsuitable and sounds like a dirge. "},{"Title":"Almost there","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  A nice, archetypal Bond movie with a strong performance from Brosnan and some nifty special effects.  I'm still not as enthralled by the more recent Bond films, but GoldenEye is definitely an improvement over the last three or four.  "},{"Title":"Another timeless classic","Date":"19 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Yes, it had it's unrealistic edge. Perhaps the plane scene takes that much flak because it's not cutting edge technology where you have the luxury of technical leeway. Anyway, it got the movie off to the kind of start we expect from a 007 movie. I love Pierce Brosnan's version of Bond. I've heard criticism that he's not physically large enough, but I think that he has a very deceptive physique, and they scripted him to have Bond-like strength, so it didn't matter that much anyway. I did enjoy the special effects, as outlandish as they were. The plot-line was solid enough for a Bond movie. There were holes, but no gaping holes, just minor ones. I loved Joe Don Baker as Jack Wade; I was glad to see him back in Tomorrow Never Dies. All in all, a great Bond flick. If you're a Bond connoisseur, you will probably offended by this or that, but if you're just a Bond fan looking for a good Bond picture, this will more than satisfy. "},{"Title":"Amazing!","Date":"20 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This has got to be the best Bond to date! There's no other movie like it, from St. Petersburg to Cuba to Severnaya it has everything in it to make it a quintessential Bond movie as well one of the best movies evermade! "},{"Title":"Not at all believable...","Date":"5 January 2016","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The beginning is very good and typical of Bond movies. After the credits, the movie degrades quickly. There is a gratuitous porn scene shortly after Bond meets a Russian woman. The woman is shown on top of a man and she makes all the orgasm sounds while bopping up and down as he lay on his back. And, not just for a couple of seconds. Then, the movie degrades even further when the scene turns to Russia at a secret lab where not only do all the Russians speak accented English, but their computer images are all in English, their passwords are in English, their wall maps are all in English. For a movie to be good, it has to mimic reality. Had this movie used the Russian language with English sub-titles (and left out the porn), it would have been very good. Otherwise, sorry Boris. "},{"Title":"Most spectacular and senseless Bond ever","Date":"30 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" From the opening bungee jump down a dam, through the tank chase and train collision to the finale this contains the most grandiose stunts in any Bond ever. I guess that is easy to do if the plot is untrammelled by any need to make sense. This film is full of head scratching moments which just make you say WTF? For instance, after the spectacular opening dive, Bond breaks into a secret hideout only to meet another agent who is already there, but it is not explained how. There are other anomalies in this opening which cannot be expressed here so as to not give away the plot. At another point, the tank which Bond has been driving sees a train speeding away and then we see the tank has managed to get ahead of it? These details should have been ironed out in the script. However the stunts and effects are so good that you can perhaps forgive the lapses. "},{"Title":"The Best of the Bond movies","Date":"18 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The first movie that I am aware of to have a free-falling scene built into an escape sequence.. absolutely knocked my socks off just for cinematography. I was not a Pierce Brosnan fan prior to this movie, I suspect that this is his best work, although this movie has the tightest writing for a Bond picture - Judi Dench's first appearance as well on the Bond scene adding a different nuance to the pseudonymous M. Pierce Brosnan seems to be well in action movies and there is a high degree of realism to this flick adding to the adrenaline rush of the shots and fast-paced storyline. And let us not forget Famke Janssen, who blew us away in this flick as the lung-crushing femme fatale. "},{"Title":"The Perfect Bond Movie","Date":"23 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I'm not going to lie and say that I've seen every James Bond movie ever made. But I will say that of the ones that I have seen, GoldenEye remains my favorite. And that's not just because it spawned off one of the best video games ever created.This is Pierce Brosnan's first outing as the tuxedo-wearing and martini (Shaken, not stirred)-drinking superspy, and as usual for franchises, it's the best of his outings. He brings a clever wit to the proceedings that makes him instantly likable, and his charm is irresistible. Yet Brosnan doesn't allow Bond to become a one-note character. He gets angry, and feels pain (lots of it). But Brosnan is talented enough to handle it all. The producers made a great decision by picking Brosnan to reinvigorate the 007 franchise.Now to the plot...James Bond is back. After a mission left another 00-agent dead, Bond become embroiled in a mission that forces him to face his old demons. A new, top-secret satellite called GoldenEye has been stolen by a renegade Russian general (Gottfried John) and his psychotic femme fatale partner (Famke Janssen). Now, he has to team up with a mousy computer programmer (Isabella Scorupco) to find out where they're going to use it next.Apart from Brosnan, another recurring character has been replaced. That is M, now being played by Judi Dench. Like Brosnan, she brings an element of wit to her character, and few British ladies have the acid tongue that Dench gives to her character.There are three things that James Bond movies are known for (apart from Bond himself) over-the-top action sequences, exotic locales, and gorgeous babes. GoldenEye does not disappoint.The film boasts two women, and both of them are very easy on the eyes. They are also played by capable actresses. Natalya, played by Scorupco, is not drop-dead gorgeous in the traditional sense, but she is sympathetic, and alternately tough and vulnerable. Most importantly, she has terrific chemistry with Brosnan. The other, Xenia Onatopp, as played by Jannsen, is completely opposite. While she is a knockout, she's a complete psychopath. She kills everyone in sight with evident delight, and uses her body as a weapon (literally). For comparison, she makes Mona Demarkov in Romeo is Bleeding look like a nun! In true Bond fashion, GoldenEye traverses all across the globe, standing still mainly in Russia and Cuba. Russia never looked so intimidating (the scene with the statues is genuinely creepy), and Cuba never looked so good! The action sequences come at us one after the other (although there is plenty of time to further the story). Each one tops the next. The opening sequence is breathtaking, and all the action sequences get the adrenaline running very fast.James Bond would be nowhere without a dastardly villain trying to wreak havoc on the world. Of all the Bond movies I have seen, no one is more unforgettable than Alec Trevelyan (played by Sean Bean). If he doesn't creep you out, nothing will. This is Hannibal Lecter creepy. His cool, almost soft demeanor belies his cunning mind. Alec Trevelyan will chill you to the bone!Even if you're not a Bond fanatic, don't dare miss this one! "}{"Title":"Best Bond film of 1980-2000","Date":"1 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" GoldenEye is one of the best runs in the infamous James Bond franchise for many reasons. To start off, this is one of the few 007 adventures combining camp, humor, and gritty realism all in one while still providing the amazing set-pieces you would have come to expect from the original Bond films. This is a new flavor for James Bond, yet has enough home touches that it feels right at home in the series.Being the 17th entry in the never-ending series revolving around the British super agent this film had a lot of history to live up to, but under the direction of Martin Campbell (who would later comeback to direct the superb Bond film Casino Royale) this is one of the most fun and thrilling entries in the entire series. There is homage to the original Bond films, but this film also takes full liberties to make itself an entirely new, refreshing entry in the franchise.Tina Turner provides the vocals for a very classy opening song (with lyrics and music written by Bono and The Edge). As far as Classic Bond Songs go I can say that over the last fifteen years this is by far the most classic Bond song ('You Know My Name' from Casino Royale is my favorite, but it lacks the characteristics of a classic Bond song). The opening montage that goes to the song is also on of the most intricate, visually fascinating ones I have seen in ANY Bond film and really gets the audience pulled in.Okay, now that the little aspects of this film are out of the way Let's take a look at the things that really make this a special entry in the 007 Franchise. This is the film also brought in a new Bond in the form of Pierce Brosnan, who plays the part exceptionally well. Brosnan brings wit and charm to the role like a mixture of Connery and Moore with his own twist added in. This Bond is cool-headed, but when confronted with the thoughts his own actions it becomes apparent that Brosnan's Bond is a man who hides lots of feelings under his cool façade.The villain of this film is something you'd think the Bond franchise would have done before and that is the concept of a MI6 agent who is a friend of Bond going rogue. Alec Trevelyan (006) is played by actor Sean Bean and makes for a particularly cold, and coolheaded villain who being someone who knows Bond close gives dialogue that you have never heard before in any other Bond film.I might as well ask if all those vodka martinis silence the screams of all the men you've killed...or if you've found forgiveness in the arms of all those willing women, for all the dead ones you failed to protect. That is what Trevelyan says in this film that you have probably have never thought of before when watching James Bond. This is one of the defining aspects of GoldenEye because it is one of the few Bond films that effectively asks the question Who is James Bond, and why does he do what he does? How does he live with himself? Of course the villains aren't the only ones confronting Bond with this question. Even Bond's girl of the movie turns against his charm to question his attitude and his actions. Natalya (Izabella Scorupco) goes so far as to ask Bond why he's so cold, to which Bond replies with an emotionless stare It's what keeps me alive. In the days of Connery he'd never be asked that, and he would never reply in such a manner, which shows a more human aspect of Bond's humanity. It is modern and somewhat shocking to see Bond, one of the greatest icons on cinema be asked these questions and it allows the audience to actually sympathize with the lovable character who has always manages to spend time in casinos, shoot bad guys, escape from exotic traps, and make it out safe and with the girl.GoldenEye is one of the best entries in the James Bond franchise, and Peirce Brosnan makes for one of the best Bonds I have ever seen and it is really a shame that in his later films he wasn't provided the proper scripts that would have allowed him to truly leave his mark on the franchise. It is a shame that Campbell didn't do any more of the entries with Brosnan, but he did bring us the brilliant Casino Royale. "},{"Title":"Bond, unapologetically!","Date":"6 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After a good amount of time had passed from the days of Licence to Kill, the bond franchise was literally declared dead by many who felt the end of the cold war was the end of our number one hero, James Bond. How did the producers respond to this? With the excellent, finely crafted Bond of all Bond films...Goldeneye. But who would bring James Bond into the 90s? Who would have the ability to bring the franchise back to its million dollar empire?? Look no further than the best Bond of the series, Pierce Brosnan. Finally, we have a Bond that can do it all! Serious when he needs to be, but still quick to dispatch an enemy with a clever pun rolling off his tongue. I don't want to spoil this film for anyone who hasn't seen it because it rally is a true gem in the series. This film is typically top 5 on the all time greatest Bond films in the series and its easy to see why. Everything simply works perfectly! This film is guaranteed to make you a bond fan. "},{"Title":"Bond number17 Brosnan begins, the music rocks, a sex icon is born.","Date":"5 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" A electromagnetic-pulse-resistant helicopter is stolen from the Europeans. The code keys to a diabolical weapon called Goldeneye are stolen from the Russians. Bond travels to newly capitalist Russia to track down mysterious criminal mastermind Janus, an old foe with a particularly ambitious use in mind for the weapon.Brosnan's first outing as Bond made the world greet him as the second coming of Connery, and while a touch too flattering, this compliment is not entirely unfounded. Brosnan reaches a near-perfect balance of charm, humour and danger to be one of the better Bonds. In fact, the whole film benefits immensely from a serious artistic kick up the backside. The action stays physically believable (no sci-fi overreaching or Looney Toons stupidity) while remaining fun and wild in a uniquely James Bond manner, the girls aren't just pretty faces and become relevant to the plot and (gasp) memorable (Xenia Onatop is the craziest Bond girl ever put to film)...Tina Turner's hit title song might well be the best ever heard in the series, and Eric Serra (Léon, the 5th Element) gives the score a unique flavour. The villain is also interesting in a way that was surprisingly never previously developed in the franchise.Oddly enough, Goldeneye suffers sometimes from being a tad too knowing, even though this sometimes makes for sparking dialog (especially with new M, Judie Dench, a masterstroke of writing and casting). It deserves to be seen, for series sex goddess Xenia Onatopp (Famke Janssen) and that crazy tank chase. "},{"Title":"The Best of the Bonds","Date":"6 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After the shameful film license to kill six years later we are given this true masterpiece. Back to the original quality Bond had in the 60's but with the updated backdrop of the 90's. Pierce Brosnan excels and makes the role his own bringing comedy, drama and action at all the right balances. Unfortunately there is a lack of gadgets within the car and the car is rarely seen, but this is made up by incorporating the classic Aston Martin DB5 at the beginning. The villains added with a foreign cast clearly help add more points to the final score. Tina Turner might as well have sung her song 'simply the best' for the main theme because that would describe this film perfectly. Goldeneye= Simply the Best. "},{"Title":"by far the best Bond film since the 60s","Date":"19 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" From the fantastic bungee jump in the opening sequence, to Robbie Coltrane trying not to smirk as he identifies the sound of the Walther P.P.K., it's obvious that everyone involved in this is having a great time. And that includes the audience.Brosnan brings the suaveness and wit that was lacking from Timothy Dalton's over-serious approach, and a believability that was even more lacking from the campy Roger Moore efforts. The action sequences (particularly the aforementioned opening sequence, the chase in the middle, and the fight at the end) bring the franchise up to the state of the art, the villain is Bond's equal, and both the girls are as hot as hell.It's just a shame that they couldn't keep up the momentum in the rest of the Brosnan films, in particular the invisible-car travesty of Die Another Day. "},{"Title":"A very good movie and a great game","Date":"17 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  First I just want to say that the Nintendo 64 game based on this movie is one of the very best video games ever produced. The movie is also excellent. Although Brosnan looks somewhat slight (he bulked up for his later outings), he nevertheless made a convincing Bond amalgamating much of what his predecessors have done with the role. His nemesis, 006 played by Sean Bean was a very interesting villain (the concept of a fellow agent gone bad was borrowed by Woo and Cruise for MI2) and their familiarity made their eventual confrontations all the more intriguing. Boris as the nerdy computer hacker henchman was a welcome departure from the brawny baddies of Bonds past. Gottfried John as Orumov was very good as well, his main job being to nail that Russian accent. As for the Bond girls Natalya had a nice girl next door look and Xenia, almost played over the top by Jansen certainly got viewers' attentions. The stunts (especially the bungee jump off the dam and the tank chase) and set pieces (notably the antenna cradle and base) also added to the splendor of the picture. All in all a very good Bond movie and an excellent debut for Brosnan. 8/10.   "},{"Title":"James Bond is back in a new world, and boy is it a wild ride!","Date":"28 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  People may say this film does not seem like a James Bond movie or that the plot is weak, but the truth is, this plot is absolutely terrific.  Having Bond face his near equal is a terrific plot, and I thoroughly enjoy it every time I watch it.  Many people say that this was a disappointing movie, and the only disappointing aspect I find is the score by Eric Serra.  He massacred the sanctity of our beloved Bond Theme.  I prefer David Arnold's score from Tomorrow Never Dies 10 times more than Goldeneye.  I think that is the only major flaw in Goldeneye.  The stunts are terrifically thought out and performed, though many call the plane stunt in the pre-credits sequence unreal or impossible, yet they forget this is James Bond.  James Bond is a fantasy, and not all of the things are real.  James Bond movies take the world we live in and twist it a bit to make a great movie.  Take for instance Moonraker.  In Moonraker, they take advantage of the new space shuttles in the movie.  There are factual inconsistencies such as the fact that NASA could not launch a space shuttle just like that.  It takes major preparation to launch just one space shuttle, which includes combing the road where the space shuttle is taken down to the launching pad, test firings and numerous hours of training.  Even with this, they require a launch window, which I doubt would just happen to be there.  My point is, many things in Bond flicks are not total reality, but based on it, and that is why we love the films.  I give this movie a 10. "},{"Title":"Far-fetched James Bond","Date":"25 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Another Bond film about a Soviet electromagnetic weapon this is very far-fetched (particularly with the orgasmic villainess) as usual and better digested more than once (with time elapsed between viewings). "},{"Title":"Best of the Bonds","Date":"31 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Whenever I tell people that my favorite Bond film is Goldeneye, I'm usually told it's because of the video game. That may be part of it, but I'm sure without the game, I would still consider it one of the best. Not only does it have a multitude of great action sequences and set pieces, but it also delivers some humanity into the Bond films. The true nature of 007 is revealed with lines like Natalya's How can you be so cold? (It's what keeps me alive.), M's sexist, misogynist dinosaur, and Alec's I might as well ask if all those vodka martinis silence the screams of all the men you've killed. Goldeneye is not as explosive as the other three Bond films, perhaps because it was released in an era less populated with such films. This helps the movie. It is not as slow as Dr. No, but less overblown than Die Another Day. Complaints that it uses the Bond theme sparingly are unfounded, because I believe the soundtrack is just fine and when the Bond theme is used, it is used well (the tank chase). It all makes an excellent film. So see Casino Royale, see Goldfinger, but after those, see Goldeneye. "},{"Title":"a ho-hum Bond movie","Date":"15 July 2012","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I'm not a big Brosnan fan. Watching him is like watching a runway model try to act. His acting seems 'flat'. He's sort of like David Bowie or Sting in that he seems overly nervous of letting down his pretentious front in fear that he will be left vulnerable. It's either that with these kinds of people or they are just plain shallow and do not have anymore depth than that, who knows, surely we never will. Anyhow, I think he's definitely the wrong person to be playing Bond.Famke Janssen was nice eye candy and a pretty good depiction of a bond woman -- obviously hot, intelligent, classy but also sensuous -- she was well cast and played her part well.The old James Bond films were the best. Not because they were old, just because they were better.I doubt producers read these IMDb comments (they should if they don't), but these modern Bond movies could really use some surf guitar for the incidental music. The reason I think surf guitar works is probably for a few reasons -- it's cool yet cheesy and gives a sense of comedic release without having something overtly comedic happening visually. Sound and music is very important yet is too often overlooked. The best modern soundtrack I have heard was for Get Smart (2008 release). That movie btw totally blew most of these 'thriller' type bond movies out of the water -- all that and it was actually a comedy -- go figure. "}{"Title":"Awesome start for the 90's Bond era","Date":"26 May 2011","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" GoldenEye (1995) is the 17th movie in the official Bond movie series. It is directed by Martin Campbell, first of the two Bond films he made, and stars for the first time Pierce Brosnan as 007.The film opens with James Bond on a mission with his fellow agent Alec Trevelyan, to destroy a Soviet chemical factory. Alec is killed by a ruthless General Ourumov but Bond still manages to complete the mission. Nine years later Bond discovers that Ourumov is working with a criminal syndicate Janus to steal GoldenEye satellite that can be used to cause electromagnetic pulse to destroy any machinery. Bond follows leads to Russia, only to discover not-so-dead Alec Trevelyan as the head of Janus and planning his revenge on England.This is the first Bond film made in a time when the wall of Berlin and Soviet Union no longer existed, and it raised a question how well the character would work. Well, if there is something director Martin Campbell proved with this film and later with Casino Royale, it's that he can update a character. Bond is still Bond, the charming spy who is always there for the Queen and the country. Just because world changed doesn't mean he is no longer needed. In a typical Bond movie fashion, the movie has no lack of action. My favorite scene would have to be the one where Bond drives a tank through the streets of St. Petersburg.Pierce Brosnan's take on the Bond seems to be a mix of Timothy Dalton's serious professionalism and Roger Moore's witty comebacks. While he's not my favorite Bond he does play the part well and never goes too campy with it (even if the movies did go). Isabella Scorupco gives a good support as Natalya Simonova, a programmer who gets thrown into action against her own will. Sean Bean seems to have fun playing Alec, one of the best and most unique Bond villains, as no other villain had ever been Bond's friend. Deliciously wicked Famke Janssen plays Alec's henchwoman Xenia Onatopp, who gets sexually aroused by killing. Both of them completely overshadow Gottfried John as General Ourumov.In minor parts we have Judi Dench as the first female M in the series, and quite possibly, the best M as well. Samantha Bond takes over the role of Miss Moneypenny and former Bond villain Joe Don Baker plays CIA agent Jack Wade, a wise-ass been there done that guy who is clearly replacing Felix Leiter. Robbie Coltrane makes a nice cameo as former KGB agent Valentin Zukovsky and Alan Cumming steals every scene he's in as the invincible programmer Boris.GoldenEye is the best Bond film of the 90's and a fantastic start for a new time in Bond movies. It's got great direction, actors, action and story, everything a good Bond film needs. Definitely one of the better ones. "},{"Title":"Appeals to both die hard Bond fans and bonded Die Hard fans","Date":"3 July 2007","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The first Bond film to star Pierce Brosnan is the best of his reign as far as I'm concerned. I grew up with Brosnan as Bond. I remember Goldeneye 007 was one of the first games I got on N64, and is still quite possibly the best video game ever created. The film has everything thing you would want out of a Bond film, with some upgraded gadgets and a bonus with the infamous sex goddess/killer Xenia. Brosnan delivers the one liners admirably, and Sean Bean is awesome as always.Sadly, the Bond films all went slowly downhill from here on out, until Casino Royale of course. But i still think Goldeneye will always be my favorite Bond film. "},{"Title":"One of my five favorite Bonds","Date":"9 June 2007","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is an excellent Bond with lots of action, a good story, and a great cast. I really like it. The story is really good and it's original. That's why I like it so much. There is also a lot of action throughout the whole movie. And when I say that, I mean from start to finish. I think that this is my five favorite Bonds of all time (As of 2007). I think that my five favorite Bonds of all time, in order, are Casino Royale, From Russia With Love, Goldfinger, Goldeneye, and then A View To A Kill. Those are my five favorite Bonds of all time. (The reason I put a view to a kill is because it takes place in San Francisco and I live in San Francisco) Anyway, one of the main reasons why I like this particular Bond so much is the fact that I think that Famke Janssen is the hottest Bond girl to date, even though she's the bad guy and not the main Bond Girl. I mean, she is hot! I love this movie for that. She is so sexy and she kills people by seducing them and having sex with them and strangling them with her legs. I would like some of that action, if you know what I mean. She is just so hot. I really this movie. 8/10. "},{"Title":"Not just Brosnan's best, Bond's best.","Date":"27 December 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Put simply, this is the best Bond film ever.Both Bond girls are incredibly hot, in particular Famke Janssen's Xenia Onatopp. Seriously, if I had to choose a way to die, I'd choose the way she kills people. In case you haven't seen the movie, I won't elaborate, just watch it, you'll know what I mean.The story was amazing, and this was much more realistic than some Bond films to follow (Renard in The World Is Not Enough was a good villain, but the bullet in the brain thing was just a bit off-putting. Same goes for Gustav Graves in Die Another Day, with the gene therapy). Brosnan was great as the suave, sophisticated secret agent.Of course, I can't finish this review without mentioning the incredible performance of Sean Bean. Alec Trevelyan was the best villain in all the Bond films, and I'm not sure I'll ever see the day when someone surpasses him. "},{"Title":"Lifeless and mostly boring Bond movie","Date":"25 April 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  What did I even bother with this, I'll never know, because it sucked!!  I dont know why so many people liked this film, maybe because we had not seen a Bond film in almost 7 years.  I found this movie to be all style and no substance, like most action films these days.  The only thing that kept me from falling asleep was the beautiful Famke Janseen, who made the movie almost watchable.  I dont know, I guess I just dont enjoy 90's action movies.  ** out of *****. "},{"Title":"Not to worry...Bond is back with a vengeance!!","Date":"8 May 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Just when we thought that the James Bond films were passe, along comes Pierce Brosnan to put his own distinct brand of charm, humor and action hero movements on the legendary licensed to kill agent 007. He fills the role and then some--handsome, debonair and cool--real cool.This time he is up against an enemy (Alex Trevelyan) who used to be a former agent and there's a convoluted plot about Russian espionage--but nothing really matters except that the stunts are jaw-droppingly good, the action is non-stop, the sexual titillation is there and the James Bond theme is back with pulse-pounding volume. Enjoyable yarn, one of the better James Bond films. He was supposed to be Bond years ago but did Remington Steele for TV instead. The role fits him like a glove. Pierce Brosnan makes an ingratiating action hero for the '90s and beyond.  "},{"Title":"The best plot, the best characters, the best BOND!","Date":"24 July 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I remember when I first saw Goldeneye when I was just five years old or so. I remember loving it even though I didn't really understand it at all. Now I'm almost sixteen years old and I'm a hardcore James Bond fan. I've seen all the James Bond movies, and also own them all. Goldeneye to me is something special, it is the most complete James Bond movie. Even though it is Pierce Brosnan's first outing as Bond to me it is his best. The villains are all very cool, and stand out among other ones of the series. Alec is my favorite Bond villain, because he has the most depth as a person, he is so similar to Bond, and yet completely the opposite. His parents died just like Bond's, and he is a 00-agent in the beginning of the film just like Bond. The other villains are good too. Onatopp is a great female villain with a strange method of assassination unsafe sex. The action in the movie is well done, and brings back memories of the past old-school style of the Bond films. There is a perfect amount of action in Goldeneye, and it does not start till the middle, like the old films. One of my favorite, and possibly the most memorable things about Goldeneye is the musical score. It is by far the most unique in the series, and has a really dark kind of mood, which fits the movie very well. The Bond girl in the film is not the best in the series, but does not do anything bad spoil the movie. She is still hot, and a good actress though. Overall I give it ten out of ten. Goldeneye is the last film to capture the old style of James Bond, that we Bond fans love to watch, and that movie makers have stopped doing. This is the kind of Bond I want Casino Royale to be. "},{"Title":"Finally.","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  A mess over the franchise lasted six years as Bond was left in limbo. Finally Pierce Brosnan got the job that he should have had back in the mid-1980s and the series finally got out of a small hole with arguably the best installment since Connery's tenure, if not the best entry ever. The Cold War is over, but evil forces still loom overhead as the beautiful but deadly Famke Janssen has stolen a state-of-the-art helicopter which is able to fly without ever having its electronic mechanisms jammed. It appears that crazed Russian general Gottfried John is attempting to create world destruction by stealing the GoldenEye, a satellite which creates a nuclear pulse which can cripple all electronic equipment. Russian computer professional Alan Cumming may be able to create the chaos that the evil general wishes for. However as Bond and computer whiz Izabella Scorupco learn more it appears that there is a mastermind behind all that is going on. Could it be the deceased former-agent Sean Bean? The possibilities are better than you might think. Bond has rarely been better and supporting turns by Judi Dench, Joe Don Baker (who plays a different character from The Living Daylights) and Robbie Coltrane all steal scenes and Pierce Brosnan's look and charisma make him the definitive view that most have of James Bond. 4 stars out of 5.   "},{"Title":"The best Bond debut since Connery.","Date":"11 March 2007","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" It had been more than ten years since we had seen an entry in this beloved series that we could call,well,good,and we knew what an excellent James Bond that Pierce Brosnan would make.We needed a good Bond film after several dry years and with Brosnan,our hopes were high.He didn't disappoint us.GoldenEye is thoroughly entertaining and is second only to Goldfinger as the best in the series,in my opinion.The action is much more raw than it has been in the past,but the good versus evil elements that made it a successful series to begin with are still very evident.Brosnan was nothing short of excellent here,as we knew he would be,and Sean Bean is terrific as a former close friend of Bond's gone bad.Also worthy of note is the addition of Judi Dench taking on the role of M with raw effectiveness.This is definitely a worthy watch! "},{"Title":"Why cant you just be a good boy and die?","Date":"24 February 2006","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Ahhh! this is like the 17th bond movie, is anyone as bord of them as i am. Sure, they are cool for about 5 films, but after i relised that he never gets hit after doging like 5 million bullets.It's the mainstream crap that just kills me. The cheeze lines, predictable plots, everything is just ridiculess. It's like Tripple X with a touch of class.Whats puzzles me is that there are so many people who would kill to direct a Bond film. It really needs to stop, unless they change the format, and work on some character development or something. So come on writers, and James, Why cant you just be good boy and die? "}{"Title":"Best Bond in years!","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Not since Sean Connery has there been a James Bond as good as Pierce Brosnan. As with Sean Connery, he almost seems fit just right for the Bond pictures. I haven't seen a Bond film this good since Goldfinger, and I hope Die Another Day continues this great legacy(much to my dissapointment of TWINE and TND with Pierce Brosnan playing Bond. Brosnan just snaps right into the role, bearing all the classic action, adventure, humor, and the infamous Bond Girls associated with Bond, James Bond----MovieCritic2003 "},{"Title":"CONTRIVED - where's the plot???","Date":"31 August 2005","Score":"12 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The movie is is basically just Bond moving from one blow-up scene to another, to see how many billions of dollars in equipment & buildings he can destroy.Subtract those scenes and what have you got? About 15 minutes of real story.Pathetic.(sigh) I have nothing more to add, but IMDb requires I type in 10 lines, so let me add *Pierce Brosnan did an excellent job as Bond.* It's not his fault the script was so shallow (in fact, Brosnan recently said in an interview I quit Bond... I grew tired of saying silly lines in silly scripts). But Brosnan's acting skills are very good & remind me of the excellent Sean Connery. Watch Brosnan's performance in Die Another Day.Overall, I rate this movie Goldeneye as the one of the worst of the series (about equal to Moonraker). Goleneye is the kind of movie you get when you substitute Special Effects, and forget to include the story.troy "},{"Title":"Brosnan 1st and Best.","Date":"13 February 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" At last...Pierce Brosnan got it. One of the most honorable missions a male actor could been given in the mid 90's. And he'd been in the shadows for years, just waiting to get the chance. (The Remington Steel-work was put to extension in the late 80's, blocking the production team from already choose Pierce in front of Timothy Dalton as 007 in The Living Daylights.) This first movie of his are still the greatest, by all means. The story, the women, the whole environment is just perfect mix for a Bond movie. Yes, loans from the past is always there, for the sharp-eyed. But that means nothing to a Bond fan like me.... Love the DB5 evaluation scene; classic 007.Sean Bean does very well as former MI6 agent, who's thirst for more got him into multi-million blackmailing business. Got the right looks, got the sense of a single-minded villain just right.Pierce Brosnan knew that this work was kind of responsibility. And GoldenEye shows it. He puts all of his efforts in it, knowing that his appearance was important.He was sadly never to make an equal 007 movie like this. Not his fault; the merchandise thing took over the movies completely after this. And the goodbye-movie Die Another Day was way out spaced, too super-natural for me. It was meant to be kind of a tribute to earlier Bond, celebrating the 50th anniversary of 007 on screen.Pierce Brosnans Bond was good, but not unforgettable. We will always remember him for his natural given Bond-looks, and this great movie. "},{"Title":"Brosnan Stays Onatopp of Things","Date":"29 October 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Six years. That's the time it took for Bond to find a way back onto the big screen. After 1989, Bond had hit a dead end. Fast forward to 1995 and Pierce Brosnan was the new face of 007 with enough charm to give Sean Connery a run for his money.After a less than successful mission was accomplished by 007 in 1986 on a Soviet base; Bond is tasked with retrieving the Goldeneye weapon, which when activated causes an electromagnetic pulse destroying all electrical equipment in its nearby vicinity. Bond must destroy it before it sets England back to the Stone Age. Although when 007 comes face to face with the ghosts of his past, this becomes a far more personal mission than previously thought.Martin Campbell is one of a couple of Directors to actually bring substance and style to the series. Not just for Goldeneye but Casino Royale as well. Bond has personal enemies to confront this time. One of the best. Sean Bean as the long thought dead 006 agent Alec Trevelyan. He attacks Bond on not just a physical but psychological level. It makes their encounters all the more gut wrenching and palpable. There is even Russian General Ourumov a relic of the Cold War days. He manages to outdo all of the usual clichés and that's because his character is more than a Russian accent. He will carry out his ways by any means necessary, with or without the help of his own people.There is a tech savvy Bond girl Natasha Simonova who chastises 007 with ease Well don't just stand there get us out of here. She is also much smarter than she lets on and actually plays a part in the action that takes place on a regular basis. The femme fatale Xenia Onatopp is frighteningly fearsome and frisky. Bond finally meets a woman that is almost a match for him and her method of dispatch could not be any more gruesome than it already is; leading Bond to quip She always did enjoy a good squeeze. All of which culminates in one of the best climaxes in a Bond film; atop a huge satellite dish holding onto for dear life, whilst fighting against the twisted 006.Goldeneye effectively went back to basics for Bond. The approach needless to say paid off. Martin Campbell delivers an astonishing Bond entry that this witty, smart, sexy and tense practically non- stop. When it comes to Bond nobody does it better than Campbell. "},{"Title":"Ready to save the world again","Date":"20 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Bond Review. Title A Bond title always sounds good when gold is involved.Pre-Titles Bond and fellow agent Alec Trevelyan infiltrate a Soviet chemical facility to plant explosive charges. Trevelyan is apparently killed, but Bond manages to escape as the place blows up. This is a fantastic opening, throwing us straight into some intense action and it has Bond at his physical best. The famous dam bungee- jump is spectacular and Bond's escape where he free falls after a plane is ridiculous but extremely enjoyable.Theme Song Tina Turner croons through a decent theme. It's nothing out of the ordinary and Turner's vocals are a little dull, but it is a nice call back to Shirley Bassey's themes and the bombastic arrangement carries it well.Plot A deadly satellite weapon named the 'Goldeneye' is stolen and Bond is sent to Russia to locate it. Bond soon learns that the organisation behind the theft is fronted by his former ally Trevelyan who has sinister plans for the Goldeneye. This is a great plot with a smart and rather unique twist as we see Bond battling against somebody from his past. Trevelyan's scheme is suitably extravagant for a Bond villain, while there is plenty of action and character driven scenes throughout. The film is extremely successful at blending its grounded tone with some classic excessive moments.James Bond Pierce Brosnan makes an assured debut as Bond. Dalton's tough edge is missed, but Brosnan is extremely charming and delivers his lines perfectly. He also looks just as you would imagine Bond to. I'd say this is his best performance in the role, his Bond seems most humane here and he handles the action well.Bond Girls Izabella Scorupco is excellent as computer expert Natalya. She pretty much has the perfect balance as she is sweet and vulnerable, but tough and fully able to hold her own. She is just a really likable presence and has great chemistry with Brosnan. Villains Sean Bean is superb as Trevelyan. As said it's great to see a villain who knows Bond and Bean is effectively the evil side of the character. He's the perfect physical opponent as Bean is subtly charismatic in the role and has an intense presence. Famke Janssen is also wonderful as Xenia. She's incredibly attractive, has the characters seductive nature down perfectly and is involved in plenty of the action. Not to mention using her thighs as a killing method. Gottfried John is very good as treacherous Soviet Ourumov. He uses his expressive face and intimidating presence tremendously.Support Judi Dench is brilliant in her debut as M. She retains the characters no-nonsense approach and has some enjoyable lines, but has a more understanding side. Joe Don Baker brings some humour as CIA operative Jack Wade and Robbie Coltrane is good fun as Russian mobster Zukovsky.Action The action here is outstanding with some great set-pieces. The car chase with Xenia in Monte Carlo is great fun, the stealing of the Goldeneye is intense and we get to see Brosnan bang a few heads together with is always great. The tank chase around Moscow is an incredibly entertaining set-piece. The climax is brilliant and builds the tension well. The fight between Bond and Trevelyan is truly superb, it is extremely rough and looks like a fight to the death should. The action doesn't shy away from the more vicious aspects and its blends the tough with the fun terrifically.Score Eric Serra provides the series most experimental score. It's very synth heavy and has a lot of ambient arrangements, but it is unique and fits in seamlessly. Many of the compositions are memorable and they do create tension well, whilst there are some really soothing slower pieces.Production Values Martin Campbell does a solid directing job. He knows how to make dialogue seem important and his grounded style always keeps the film focused. The cinematography is impressive, it looks a lot slicker without completely losing its grittier side either. For the most part the dialogue is pretty good too. Most of the lines and conversations do sound realistic, but when lines come along that are suitably big or exaggerated they don't feel out of place. The editing is solid as the film slows and quickens at exactly the right points, though it does slow a little too much before the climax. The lack of gadgets and downplayed one-liners might disappoint some, but this was a clear attempt to make Bond more real and it works fine here. The sets are great, especially with the cradle in the climax, and there's some great miniature work too. The locations are excellent as usual, with an interesting look post-Cold War Russia and the tropics of Cuba used well. Conclusion GoldenEye was a fantastic return for Bond after 6 years in the cold. It is easily one of the best balanced films of the series, it is a serious film with plenty of serious moments but it never forgets to have fun or to give the audience some pure entertainment. Pierce Brosnan makes a confident debut, Sean Bean is a very memorable villain, both the female leads are great, the score is interesting and the action is absolutely stunning. The writing and visual stylings are both on form here too, whilst it gives you time to get wrapped up in the tension or to simply enjoy what's on screen. GoldenEye is very much a classic Bond film with a smart modern twist. "},{"Title":"What comes around goes around...","Date":"20 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" ***Warning! Spoiler Information Inside!***After half a decade of uncertainty caused by the lackluster reception of Licence to Kill (1989), the franchise luck turns full force netting at last actor Pierce Brosnan , to star in the ride of a lifetime , James Bond.No Brakes and no holds barred , Bond is reintroduced in cold war operations with an MI-6 counterpart who are assigned to take out a high grade soviet military installation. The mission while successful results in the death of the counter part operative.Picking up where the Living Daylights left off , Bond (Pierce Brosnan),is again the leaner , meaner type with slightly more wit. The Deft decision to guide the character out of his native cold war setting is brilliant , refreshing the entire franchise and giving new Bond director Martin Campbell a clean start. A Russian general has stolen a top secret satellite to assist in the theft by hacking of several billion dollars from the worlds banks. Of course , you know who gets the call.Brosnan is the right choice for James Bond from scene one , and we are lucky fate was kind enough to realign for him. On top of his amazing grace in character , his supporting cast of Sean Bean (Janus/ Trevelyan) Famke Janssen (Onatopp) and Alan Cumming (Boris)are strong and smooth holding a complex script tight. The details even improve as a modern reflection of power and role are adapted in the casting of the intelligence handler M (Dame Judy Dench). Caroline Bliss lost in the filming gap , is replaced by Samantha Bond for a Money penny in keeping with the upgrade. The Script and the action are deftly executed.This might easily have been the best movie of the classic Bond era.Four Stars(of 5.) "},{"Title":"great first bond for Brosnan","Date":"28 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" i'm reviewing the movie nearly 20 years after its release, but the movie still kick asses even today! The movie was the perfect entry for Brosnan after much issues with the james bond series, as the last bond was 6 years prior to this one, goldeneye who came out in 1995. Almost everything is good in the flick and all the bond elements are present, sexy cars, beautiful bond girls, great villain, kinda average plot but still entertaining! Last but not least the action is almost non- stop, this is a very fast-paced bond.The cast is splendid, one of the best of all bond films, especially Sean bean's impeccable job as a quite memorable villain as Alec Trevelyan.The score is nothing short of awesome just like all bond films, the end was kinda sucky though and ridiculous but it doesn't hurt the movie too much, the fight scene between the two agents was excellent and one of the best fist fight in a bond film.For me it was my first bond film in cinema, maybe thats why i rated so high but many people will agree its one of the best bond easily top5! "},{"Title":"If being water-boarded at Guantanamo is his idea of fun . . .","Date":"5 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" . . . then James Bond is in for a jolly time as GOLDENEYE closes. Of course, a comeuppance is past due for this inept womanizer, who's seen here playing boys with toys for 130 minutes. Yep, when he should be nipping Osama bin Laden in the bud (remember, this flick is set in 1995), Agent 007 is driving tanks through Russian apartment buildings and crushing rush hour commuters instead. The theme of GOLDENEYE, as was the case for most of the previous Bond film outings, is that you can never trust a Russian. (Since it's common knowledge that these bozos never have been capable of getting a warhead close to the U.S. mainland, the fact that we've not yet nuked them suggests that it's the Americans who are riddled with traitors; we even are ignoring our promise to the Ukraine from the 1900s when we bamboozled them into giving up their own hundreds of nukes that we would reduce Moscow to rubble with the U.S. nuclear umbrella if any unwanted Russian ever set foot in their homeland!) While some of the stunt work--such as the opening bungee jump off the dam--continues to impress in GOLDENEYE, many of the cheap explosive special effects seem like throwbacks to the 1960s. With its writing and plotting also clearly targeted at Pre-teen boys, it's a wonder that there have been SIX MORE Bond flicks produced since the release of GOLDENEYE. "},{"Title":"Pierce Brosnan makes a very impressive debut as a new Bond for a not so new decade","Date":"15 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Pierce Brosnan's first Bond film, the series returns in dramatic style with its first post-Cold War instalment. After the release of Licence to Kill, Eon became involved in a lengthy legal dispute which precluded them from moving forward with the next film for several years. By the time that it was settled in 1994, Timothy Dalton no longer wanted to play Bond and Brosnan, who had narrowly lost the role in The Living Daylights due to his contractual commitments to Remington Steele, became the fifth 007. He was the Bond that I grew up but the fact that I adored Dalton's darker interpretation of the character meant that it took a good half an hour for him to become Bond once again in my eyes. Effortlessly suave, Brosnan excels as Bond, playing the role with great charisma, style and sophistication. He is equally comfortable with the requisite action sequences, romantic scenes and quips. I loved the suggestion that Bond's life is essentially empty and that he uses humour and his numerous romantic flings to hide his pain and his true self from the outside world. In that sense, he's the most vulnerable Bond to date and the most psychologically interesting one after Dalton's. Like Franz Sanchez in Licence to Kill, Alec Trevelyan is a dark reflection of Bond. In this case, the parallels are more apt given that he is a former 00 agent and friend of Bond. However, I still found Sanchez to be a far more interesting character in large part because Robert Davi is a better actor. Sean Bean is quite a good actor but he tries too hard to be suave and sophisticated. It doesn't come anywhere near as naturally to him as it does to Brosnan. That said, the two actors have good chemistry and their reunion after nine years is one of the tensest moments in the film. Izabella Scorupco is very good as Natalya Simonova. Like most of the best Bond girls, she proves an extremely resourceful and valuable ally to Bond (in more ways than one!) as her computer skills prove crucial to the plot on numerous occasions. She also has great insight into Bond's personality, telling him that he will always be alone if he remains so cold. While she was strong to begin with, she grows into an even stronger person as the film progresses. I also liked the fact that she was a computer programmer, which is in stark contrast to the glamorous and exciting lifestyles of many Bond girls. The most memorable Bond girl in the film, however, is Xenia Onatopp, which as names go is only slightly less subtle than Pussy Galore! While her Georgian accent is shaky at times, Famke Janssen is nevertheless mesmering as the sadistic former Soviet agent who gets a great deal of sexual pleasure from killing, death and destruction. Like Scorupco, she has great chemistry with Brosnan and their scenes are a delight. My only criticism is the fact that her death scene seems a bit rushed, though it does lead to one of the funniest lines in the film! In very different ways, Natalya and Xenia are both excellent Bond girls for the 1990s. The idea of having a female M is something that could have backfired badly but a combination of wonderful acting and writing make the new M a very interesting, strong and successful character. I'm a huge fan of Judi Dench, whom I consider to be the best actress alive today. She's simply wonderful as M, playing her as tough and uncompromising and as a strong leader who happens to be a woman rather than as a strong female leader. The scene in her office in which she tells Bond that she thinks that he is a sexist, misogynistic dinosaur, a relic of the Cold War is the tensest Bond-M moment since the Sean Connery era. While her predecessor Robert Brown was generally far too soft in the role, Dench instantly makes an extremely strong impression and gives even Bernard Lee a run for his money. The appropriately named Samantha Bond is very good in her first of four appearances as Miss Moneypenny. Again, she has great chemistry with Brosnan and the character has been updated for the 1990s, teasing Bond about her date with another man and making a joke about sexual harassment. Desmond Llewelyn &#x96; the only on screen survivor (at least playing the same character) of the Dalton era, let alone the Connery one &#x96; has even less screen time than in previous films, perhaps due to the fact that he was 80 at the time, but he is as wonderful as Q as ever and this film's briefing scene is the funniest to date. He even shares a joke with Bond for the first time! Jack Wade is a character who, if handled badly, could have proved to be a major embarrassment along the lines of Sheriff Pepper. Joe Don Baker is much better as the crude, slovenly but lovable Wade than he was as Brad Whitaker in The Living Daylights as it's a role which plays far more to his strengths as an actor. Alan Cumming is very good as the slimy, treacherous Boris, even if his accent slips at times particularly towards the end of the film. Gottfried John is suitably intimidating as the equally traitorous General Ourumov. Robbie Coltrane, another Scot playing a Russian oddly enough, is excellent in his all too brief role as KGB agent turned mafioso Valetine Zukovsky and I'm looking forward to his return in The World is Not Enough. Overall, this is an excellent film which introduced an updated Bond to the public after a far too long absence from our screens with great style and panache. If the film did not suffer from pacing issues in its first half an hour, I'd give it a perfect score. "},{"Title":"The First of One of a Superb Bond,","Date":"8 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" GoldenEye is a good movie with a very well developed storyline and a very talented cast.This movie is the first James Bond film starring Pierce Brosnan,arguably one of the best Bonds,and he proves from the very first scene that he is definitely suited for the role.The movie is action packed and thrilling from start to finish,Sean Bean is a great and quite terrifying villain and Izabella Scorupco is a really great Bond girl,her character development and acting is very high standards compared to some previous love interests of Bond,it usually only matters on their looks but she was very attractive and a very good actress as well,the only performance I didn't appreciate was Alan Cumming,he was clearly there for comic relief but I didn't find him funny and his characters catchphrase (I am invincible) was irritating.GoldenEye is a great movie that fans of Bond,action or thrillers will definitely enjoy. James Bond tries to discover who is behind the destruction of a space weapon center.Best Performance Pierce Brosnan Worst Performance Alan Cumming "}{"Title":"Has the greatest fight scene in the franchise to this point. 75/100","Date":"8 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" 18th of 23 Bond movies (17th of 22 official Bond movies) Pierce Brosnan assumes the role of James Bond in this movie. There was a time when this really would have been exciting to me...i.e. when I was a fan of his action series Remington Steele. However, by the time Brosnan did become available for the role, I think a lot of the excitement had ebbed away. It was his role in Remington Steele which did in fact prevent him from taking on the role as Bond for so long. As a much younger person at the time, it's also possible that Timothy Dalton's time in the role may have lessened my enjoyment of the franchise too. Having recently re-seen - or perhaps seen, in one instance - Dalton's movies again, I have to say that I appreciate him much better now, even though those comic book elements appeal to me less now.In the opening sequence Pierce comes across as a coiled spring action hero...veritably panther-like. However, with Pierce, he is like an ice-berg...the character is mostly beneath the surface. Whereas Roger Moore in the role was one for eye-brow raising, with Pierce he maintains a poker face...giving nothing away. Maybe that's not such a good thing. This movie does have moments where it plays things for laughs and we see Bond in a new light...as someone who revels in his extraordinary masculine abilities. Anyway...Exotic locations The 'new' Russia (after the break up of the Soviet Union and the Cold War that came with it); The Caribbean...Puerto Rico.Plot Takes place 9 years after the pre-title sequence. In the Space Weapons Control Centre in Russia, a rogue military group seizes control of GoldenEye, an armed Russian satellite in space which can send cities and countries back into the Stone Age.Franchise clichés Pre-title sequence - Gun barrel sequence with techno type music playing. Pierce's Bond has a no nonsense approach and a narrow stance. Some of these sequences in the earliest Bond movies were quite fruity...e.g. Sean Connery's Bond did have some wobbly gaits and back legs in these movies.The PTS proper has Bond in Russia working to disarm a chemical weapons lab. He has the assistance of 006 - Alec Trevelyan - on the mission. Things don't go quite according to plan. The end of the sequence has one of the great action sequences in any Bond movie...it's right up there with the one for Moonraker...it's fantastic - in the literal sense. If you found the PTS in Moonraker unbelievable, well, this is Unbelievable...on stilts.Theme song - Tina Turner sings. Surprised that it was written by Bono and The Edge of rock band U2. It's a slow, Broadway show type tune. Nothing special...apart from the names involved. End credits seem to be getting more theme songs now too...here it's The experience of love, sung by Eric Serra and written by Eric Serra and Rupert Hine. I think that this may be Hine's 2nd end theme song in the franchise. Interestingly, the end credits reveal Minnie Driver to be the singer of Stand by your man in the movie proper. The name rang a bell which is why I'm noting it here.Q - Played by the same actor - Desmond Llewelyn - unlike numerous other regulars who have been 'rebooted', so to speak. It's casting like this which makes taking the franchise as chronological and consistent impossible.M - The new guy is...a woman. Played by Judi Dench. This is the first Bond movie to recognise/acknowledge the dated attitudes of the franchise...at one point she says to Bond You're a sexist, misogynist dinosaur. A relic of the Cold War. Not exactly sure what she's getting at here! Moneypenny - Another reboot here. This is only the second time in a Bond movie where she is not a vacuous character. The first time was in the greatest Bond movie of them all, On her majesty's secret service. On this level, it's the perfect follow up to that movie, as far as Moneypenny's minimal character 'arc' goes. Like M, she has some good meta-comments about their relationship.Silly female character names -They're back! Xenia Zirgauna Onatopp!Wine buffery - One of the few if not the first time Bond has uttered the phrase Vodka martini. Shaken, not stirred. Trivia Bond tells the new M that the old M had cognac in his top drawer. New M prefers bourbon...she offers one to him and asks if he wants ice with it. Yes.Sexism/misogyny - Made no notes on this...like I said, there's a consciousness in this movie about this element of the franchise in the past. In other words, this element is being left behind in the 1960s.End teaser - James Bond will return. No specific title given.Watch for * Bond also speaks French. Is there nothing this man cannot do? * Bond plays baccarat...not sure how many card games Bond is proficient in to this point...or whether we've seen him play this game in earlier movies.* Jack Wade of the C.I.A is introduced. Presumably he plays the role that Felix Leiter did in previous movies. See Licence to kill for Leiter's last outing with Bond. Jack mentions Guantanamo Bay to Bond...this was filmed before that place had nasty connotations, due to US practices there.* a history lesson on the Lensk Cossacks and their relationship with Britain during World War 2. It's an unhappy one, which casts Britain in a poor light...perhaps a first for this franchise...Britain isn't squeaky clean.* Revelations on how Bond's family died (a climbing accident) and how 006's parents died. "},{"Title":"Smart and involving thriller that essentially saved the franchise in bringing it into a new world full of new order.","Date":"30 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" GoldenEye was James Bond's return after his then longest time away from the silver screen, a 1995 film brought to life by New Zealand born director Martin Campbell who, as with 2006's Casino Royale, invigorated the franchise from one thing to another; in that particular case daft actioner into something with soul and feeling; but here Bond is brought out of the slump infused by studio based problems which blighted 1989's Licence to Kill, a film which, despite being perfectly functionable, always felt like a globe-trotting revenge infused narcotics thriller than anything else, and back into a character whose life is persistently revolving around espionage and political intrigue. In short, it sits along side the aforementioned Casino Royale as being one of the better James Bond entries of the last twenty-plus years or so.GoldenEye's pre-credit sequence is an announcing bearer of new order, a back to basics espionage infused sequence that sees old fashioned infiltration of a Soviet base by James Bond and fellow agent Alec Trevelyan (Bean), who actually gets the jump on Bond in a storage room in what is an early example demonstrating a feint sense of superiority he has over him. Set prior to The Cold War's closure, and with an eye on the fact the film was the first Bond entry since, Campbell systematically introduces The Cold War as an item that requires dealing with before rounding off Bond's relation to it. The film will come to meld burning clandestinity with the more contemporary action genre, and if the majority of previous Bond entries revolved around that fear of both nuclear war and Soviet retribution set during the Cold War era; then GoldenEye, by way of a certain Soviet character in this piece, detaches the series from these binds during the climax to a particular gunfight on a train about half way through. To exclaim precisely what happens would spoil the feature but needless to say, the removing of a villain and substituting him for another signals a 'passing over' of a particular guard; both in terms of the world within GoldenEye as the film veers more towards action orientated escapism and for the series as a whole - something that saw the franchise require villains like Western, media-infused billionaires and those from nations such as North Korea.It is Pierce Brosnan playing the famous agent, his first of four incarnations although probably not his best turn when compared to The World is Not Enough; although the necessary emotional weight is rather effectively pulled off when it transpires he's going up against a former comrade and needs to take that on board. He very nearly gets to utter the immortal line of announcing the character's name at the exact same locale as Connery did in his and the series' first whilst sitting at a card game; although by the time he does so, he's got up and moved a few feet away. Throughout, there are numerous references and acknowledgments to wartime years of old; sarcastic but somewhat enjoyable without ever being overly cynical jabs at secret agent clichés and techniques of old &#x96; my favourite of which sees Bond interact with an American named Jack Wade (Baker), a sort of Felix Leiter substitute, and their exchange ought to see them swap codes in the form of odd sentences but the notion is initially dismissed before being executed in a drawn out manner, thus brining attention to itself. GoldenEye seems to know where it stands; its early scene in which an enemy higher-up named Ourumov (John) demands Bond come out with (his) hands up is poked fun at by Bond as being somewhat clichéd; as if Bond knows where he is and that villainous demands such as these are what they are.Ourumov is involved with a mysterious, villainous individual linked to a Russian crime syndicate; although it will later transpire they have more in common with one another in the sense they're grotesque traitors to their states. Their plan revolves around the titular GoldenEye , a satellite orientated weapon of mass destruction unless a ransom is paid; something that is rather a little overly overt by the time it arrives for a piece whose first two thirds are a cracking ride of all sorts. Bond's ally in missile base technician Natalya Simonova (Scorupco) is both well observed and constructed; her beginnings seeing her survive a massacre at her military base as she takes cover in the a locales that suggest the ultimate in domseticisation the kitchen. This is before branching out into a strong female character without ever really undergoing trangresification, nor being 'punished' by the film for adopting these traits. The film allows Natalya to take control of certain situations, asserting herself, and shows ingenuity in making a discovery that Bond otherwise wouldn't have been able to do so in furthering the cause. In handing Bond a female accomplice, the film is only too pleased to do the same to the enemy; a female mercenary who goes by the name of Xenia Onatopp (Janssen), her bright red sports car with her loose and erratic driving plus flirtatious glance at the beginning only adding to the overall aura of danger we come to learn she carries. It turns out blending pleasure with pain with business is nary too far away from the woman's agenda. A really interesting moment in GoldenEye's addressing of its Cold War transitional phase sees Bond meet with an arch enemy in an uncanny and expressionistic locale full of old Cold War relics and paraphernalia; the enemy taunting Bond about his past what with all his easy women and cheap murder, in what is a dramatically effective and grossly understated sequence which impressively comes across as more revisionist than other entries have dared explore, at least until Casino Royale. The film is thrilling and smarter than your average action film, with a number of decent attributes and positive film-making aspects that work well. "},{"Title":"Bond at his best","Date":"3 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This review may contain MINOR plot spoilers.I find this film to be not only one of my favorite Bond films, but also one of my favorite films in general. I liked the atmosphere, the storyline, the characters, and the music. This film, in my eyes, is THE Bond film to see.After a new military prototype helicopter is stolen, Bond heads up investigation. An attack on a remote satellite outpost occurs in Russia using the stolen helicopter, and Bond soon realizes that someone from his past may be involved.There is much more to the story, and a lot less cliché than my little synopsis may appear. The characters are very well fleshed out, even some of the minor ones that have small screen time. I even loved the self awareness the film had of the first female M, and her character is straight up and not afraid to speak her mind (If you think for one moment I don't have the balls to send a man out to die, your instincts are dead wrong.)The music is also something that captures my attention. I have a deep love of music and at times, people get annoyed with me for pointing out pieces of the soundtrack that I find to be interesting. Composed by Eric Serra (credits include Leon The Professional and The Fifth Element), he brings a different take to the music of 007. I've read that many people were displeased with the soundtrack, which I CAN understand as it's different, but I wholeheartedly disagree with. The music has a very strong militarism type sound which fits perfect with the tone of the film.While composers such as John Barry and David Arnold have both done a fantastic job (I own 007 soundtracks from both composers and listen to them often), I find Eric Serra's soundtrack to be my own favorite. He has a certain distinct sound that he uses, much like any composer would such as John Williams. But enough about the music, lets look at Brosnan as Bond.I feel that this film, along with Tomorrow Never Dies, is Peirce Brosnan's crowning achievement. I have always have had a somewhat controversial viewpoint of Brosnan being the one of the best actors to portray the dark and mysterious Bond, even beating out Connery as Bond (and creating even MORE controversy by believing Daniel Craig was even better, but I'll save that for my Casino Royale review). I always felt that Peirce Brosnan was MEANT as Bond, especially after seeing his performance as the titular character in the 80's TV show Remington Steele.This is why the film ranks up there for me, I loved pretty much every aspect of the film and is one that I tend to watch over and over. "},{"Title":"Brosnan's Debut as Bond","Date":"19 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Some years after the end of his hit series, Remington Steele, Pierce Brosnan finally got the chance to play Bond and utter those immortal words, Bond. James Bond. His first attempt was subverted by the producers of Steele. The Bond series had been on a hiatus.The film begins in the '80s, when Bond and Agent 006 are found within a chemical weapons plant in the Soviet Union. 006 is murdered. Nine years later, Bond plays chicken with a woman driving near Monte Carlo. Her name is, in true Bond fashion, Xenia Onatopp, and she is connected to a crime syndicate in St. Petersburg. He's assigned to watch her, but she manages to steal the Tiger, a helicopter impervious to any attack. But Onatopp's and her cohorts' real goal is GoldenEye, a satellite weapon, which is responsible for some awesome special effects in the film.Brosnan stars with Famke Janssen, Sean Bean, Judi Dench, Alan Cumming, and Robbie Coltrane. Brosnan is at the height of his Black Irish handsomeness here. He looks great but doesn't exhibit much in the way of personality. I'm not an expert on James Bonds, but I'm guessing there was no one like Sean Connery. As Steele, Brosnan had great charm and a wonderful sense of comedy. With better direction, he might have been able to strike a better balance in the role.Even back in 1995, James Bond was a franchise that had probably seen better days. However, it goes on now with Daniel Craig, so audiences still like it.As a bit of trivia, Pierce Brosnan was both the slimmest James Bond and the heaviest, going from 164 to 211 pounds in the 7 years he played Bond. This is possibly because he quit smoking in the late '90s. "},{"Title":"A New Bond with a New Style","Date":"14 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" James Bond changed for a fifth time with this, the 17th official Bond film, emulating the venerable Dr. Who once again. Fans welcomed the change from Timothy Dalton to Pierce Brosnan, and they vaulted this movie to the highest grossing Bond movie at that time. Brosnan made Bond more suave and sophisticated than Dalton's Bond, with a dash more humor, though less humor than Roger Moore's Bond. It helped that this movie featured non-stop action and a foe with malice toward England in his heart, and the ability to execute a nefarious plot. In the opening scenes of this movie we see a breath-taking stunt, as Bond, well his double actually, leaps off the side of a dam on a bungee cord. Bond is penetrating a secret Soviet chemical weapons facility. We learn that Bond is on this mission with Alec Trevelyan, Agent 006 (Sean Bean). Unfortunately it appears that Alec does not survive an encounter with General Arkady Ourumov (Gottfried John). After a daring escape involving multiple close calls, the movie forwards into the present to the Mediterranean. Bond encounters Xenia Onatopp (Famke Janssen), and she is behaving in a most unusual fashion. Of course, Bond may have been attracted to her because of her incredible beauty, but regardless of the reason, she has gained Bond's interest. We soon observe that Xenia is a most cruel person, and she is ruthless in stealing a super secret helicopter that is resistance to electromagnetic pulses, such as a nuclear weapon might cause. We now move to Severnaya, Russia, where the helicopter has been spotted by satellite. We have the benefit of going into Severnaya as General Ourumov and sadistic sidekick Onatopp enter the facility and demand an inspection of the Goldeneye system. It seems that during the cold war the Soviet Union had developed an electromagnetic pulse (EMP) weapon, Goldeneye, which was capable of wreaking all sorts of havoc on any electronic equipment in the weapon's aim. Unfortunately for the personnel of Severnaya, once General Ourumov obtains the control module he has Xenia eliminate the staff of Severnaya. However, one member of the staff, Natalya Simonova (Izabella Scorupco), has survived Xenia and the activation of the first of two Goldeneye satellites. M (Judi Dench) sends Bond to Russia to find out what is going on. Bond soon meets with former foe Valentin Zukovsky (Robbie Coltrane), who gives him some clues that might lead Bond to the information he seeks. As a side note, Minnie Driver has a brief role as Irina, Zukovsky's tone deaf mistress. While Bond has been tracking down Ourumov, Natalya has been tracking former Severnaya associate Boris Grishenko (Alan Cumming). After a surprised Bond encounters Alec, he awakes to the yells of Natalya, and quickly learns that they are in the cockpit of super secret helicopter, and missiles have been programmed to fire and destroy the helicopter. After a typically close call, Bond and Natalya soon end up in the hands of Ourumov and Alec once again. The ever-resourceful Bond escapes, of course, in one of the best chase scenes of all time. The action speeds onward to a hidden satellite dish, which looks remarkably like the observatory at Arecibo, Puerto Rico. Okay, I am kidding, it really is Arecibo, except when it is a model. The action intensifies toward the exciting conclusion that takes place under, around and on the huge radio telescope facility. This Bond movie is as good as you might think it is. We hungered for a new Bond film in the six years between the release of License to Kill in 1989, and the release of this film in 1995. The world had changed a lot in that time. The Soviet Union was gone, and the nature of Bond villains changed as well. As a point of trivia, this Bond marked the first time a Bond movie actually filmed in the former Soviet Union. You can tell the style of this movie a little by the nomination for Saturn Awards this movie received for Best Action/Adventure Film and Best Actor by the Academy of Science Fiction, Fantasy & Horror Films (USA). The movie was nominated for a couple of other awards, and won a BMI award for music and a Golden Screen award (Germany). Pierce Brosnan occasionally looks slightly uncomfortable as Bond, but he quickly makes Bond his own. By the end of the movie I was comfortable that Brosnan made a suitable James Bond, and was already looking forward to the next Bond film. I recommend this movie highly to fans of the James Bond series and for fans of action-adventure movies. This movie is a winner and a keeper. "},{"Title":"Brosnan flic less camp then Moore's","Date":"10 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Typical of the 007 genre this one has all the chase scenes and explosions you would expect or want including Bond chasing the bad guys through St. Petersburg in a tank destroying everything it his path. The plot is interesting and the whole thing is less camp than some of the Roger Moore flicks. That's true even with a Russian villainess who's thighs squeeze the life from her prey leaving the corpse with a smile on his face. There is a Russian computer nerd named Boris and I have to admit expecting a line about making big trouble for moose and squirrel but it never happens. There is no sign of Grace Jones in this Bond either so I'm happy on both counts. On the home front Q has become even more crotchety and impatient of 007 and Moneypenny has been replaced with a newer model more suited to the younger Bond's innuendoes. "},{"Title":"James Bond steps out of the Cold war, but not out of the Cold...","Date":"6 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" James Bond, the legendary fictional spy created by Ian Flemming in the 1950's was essentially a product of the Cold War. International intrigue, plots and counter-plots by the rival superpowers and their allies were as often the subject of 007's missions as the generic megalomaniacs with designs for world domination. Bond came from an era where morality was loose and accountability even looser when it came to the planning and execution of clandestine activities in the name of 'queen and country', where agents were freely permitted to kill and/or destroy if it would further the 'cause'.It is therefore no surprise that with the end of the Cold War in the early 1990's, nearly four decades after 007 sprang to life on the printed page (and three decades before his even more grandiose debut on the big screen), questions regarding the characters relevance in the new era of relative peace in Europe and the wider world inevitably sprang up. Nevertheless, Barbara Brocolli resolved to end the speculations in 1995 by continuing the 'family business' and bringing the legendary spy back to life. And hence, Pierce Brosnan was chosen to play 'Ian Flemmings James Bond 007' in 'Goldeneye'.The film begins like any Cold War-era Bond adventure (indeed because it begins in the midst of the Cold War). Bond and his fellow agent, Alec Trevelyan, 006, infiltrate a Soviet weapons facility for the purpose of destroying it, their motive as always-'for England'. Unfortunately for them, the mission goes horribly wrong, when Alec is killed by Colonel Ouromov. Bond succeeds in destroying the base and barely escapes with his life. After a visually spectacular opening credits sequence (symbollically depicting the fall of the Soviet Union) the film flashes forward by nine years, to the post-Cold War world of the mid 1990's. James Bond's world has clearly changed drastically in many regards. MI6 has a new chief, the 'Evil Queen of Numbers' who has assumed the mantle of M, who clearly does not accord Bond the same level of professional respect her predecessor did, instead considering him as merely a 'sexist, misogynist, dinosaur...a relic of the Cold War' (a view many critics of Bond in the real world had been upholding at the time). As a consequence of the new regime, Bond's trained instincts after years of active field work are largely ignored by 'statistical analysis'. Miss Moneypenny is no longer the passive creature of bygone years but an actively assertive feminist. Bond's counterparts in the CIA sneer at his seemingly childish adherence to 'secret codes' and protocols. Russia is no longer the enemy, it is now an ally to some extent. And yet, the more things change, the more they stay the same. Bond still drives his Aston Martin, drinks vodka martinis 'shaken not stirred', relies on his trusty Walther PPK, and makes a pass at every 'next girl'. He still gathers elaborate gadgets from Q (and still misuses them!). And despite her initial disapproval of him, M still requires 007 to investigate and pursue the Janus crime syndicate. So Bond travels to St. Petersburg and Cuba, discovering a deadly satellite weapon, a conspiracy within the Russian government, an old friend turned foe and two women who are more than just eye candy; one is a psychopathic femme fatale named Xenia Onatopp; the other is a skilled computer programmer named Natalya Simyonova. As always, Bond saves the day by thwarting the villains plans, but there is an added depth to the character hitherto unseen in any Bond film. We learn that Bond is not merely a hired gun for Her Majesty, he is his own man with his own feelings and motivations. And we also learn that while the Cold War may have ended, Bond is yet to completely step out of the cold, after a lifetime of treachery, violence and death. Nevertheless, by the end of the film, we can assume that Bond has at least left some of his demons behind and is prepared to embrace the new world where his services are still required...Pierce Brosnan does a fabulous job as James Bond. His Bond is a perfect blend between the rough and ruthless portrayal of Timothy Dalton and the comparatively smoother and sophisticated portrayal of Sean Connery. Bond's 'boyish charms' conceal the coldness of a professional killer, an aspect which Brosnan masterfully portrays. Sean Bean does a great job as Alec Trevelyan, a darker version of Bond who HAS embraced the new world in order to destroy it. Judi Dench does well in the first of many appearances as M, a portrayal which would go on to evolve and live on beyond Brosnan's tenure in the tuxedo. Famke Jacksen stuns the audiences with her role as the psychopathic femme fatale Xenia, while Izabella Scorpusco does okay as the ever-efficient cool as nerves Natalya.All in all, Goldeneye is in many ways the rebirth of James Bond in the post-Cold War world, much as Casino Royale went on to become the rebirth of Bond in the post 9/11 world. "},{"Title":"Bond is back in his greatest outing during the '90s, GoldenEye","Date":"22 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After a six-year hiatus, Ian Fleming's James Bond returned to the big screen in a big way in GoldenEye. When it was released in 1995, the Cold War was over, so a new enemy was needed to rise from the ashes of the conflict. And a new James Bond was needed, since License to Kill in 1989 was both a critical and commercial disappointment. The man chosen to fill the shoes of James Bond this time out was Welshman Pierce Brosnan, who is my personal favorite Bond. This time out, Agent 007 squares off against his former ally Agent 006 Alec Trevelyan (Sean Bean), now a terrorist-for-hire after being believed killed on their last mission in the former Soviet Union. Trevelyan's plan involves the theft of the top-secret Russian military satellite GoldenEye, and with it he's going execute his own personal vengeance against Bond and MI6. Bond girls here include sexy-but-deadly Xenia Zirgavna Onatopp (Famke Janssen), the Russian helicopter pilot who can literally crush a man to death with her legs, and the sexy-but-sexy Natalya Simonova (Izabella Scorupco), the Russian computer programmer who survives the initial theft of the GoldenEye satellite. Martin Campbell directs this picture. Brosnan was always my personal favorite Bond character, after the departure Timothy Dalton. He's more vulnerable and human than past Bonds, but he's still the hip, suave, and witty British secret service agent with a license to kill and a penchant for bedding beautiful women. As a Bond picture, it has everything a James Bond movie should have a globe-spanning odyssey through exotic locales, over-the-top villains, spectacular action sequences (including a tank chase through the streets of St. Petersburg, Russia) and beautiful women. GoldenEye was a marvelous return for a series that some thought had gone the way of the Cold War and into the annals of history. Thankfully, the changed political environment of the post-Cold War era of the 1990s proved that James Bond still has what it takes to save the world, and not just be the prototypical Commie-killer of years past.10/10 "},{"Title":"Post-Soviet Bond","Date":"15 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The producers of the Bond films had originally intended that Timothy Dalton should star in three films, but the third, provisionally titled The Property of a Lady was never made, for a number of reasons including legal disputes and the lack of success of the second Dalton episode, Licence to Kill, at the box office. The result was a six-year hiatus, the longest ever gap in the series.During those six years after Licence to Kill opened in the summer of 1989, the world had seen many changes. The Cold War had ended, the Berlin Wall had fallen and the Soviet Union had collapsed. Goldeneye was therefore the first post-Soviet Bond. Yet these changes were not necessarily a disadvantage for the film-makers. While the works of more realistic spy writers such as John Le Carre and Len Deighton were mostly rooted in the espionage battles of the Cold War, Ian Fleming's hero had always done battle against a wide spectrum of villains, most of whom were neither Russian nor Eastern European, nor even Communist. Indeed, the makers of Goldeneye were able to turn the changes in the international political order to their advantage, setting the film in a post-Communist Russia. Even the opening titles depict the destruction of Soviet symbols such as the red star and hammer and sickle.In real life a goldeneye is a species of duck, but it was also the name of Fleming's Jamaican estate, which is doubtless the reason it was used as the title. (Its similarity to Goldfinger may also have been a factor). In the film Goldeneye is the name of a secret satellite weapon which has fallen into the hands of a Russian crime syndicate who intend to use it to blackmail the West. It falls, of course, to Bond to thwart this scheme.The six year gap between Goldeneye and its predecessor provided the producers with a chance to rethink the way in which the series was developing. It was the first Bond film to be based on an entirely original story; all previous episodes had had at least a nominal connection with a Fleming novel or short story. Only one actor, Desmond Llewelyn, returned from earlier episodes. Bond's superior M was played for the first time by a woman, Judi Dench, a development possibly inspired by the real-life appointment of Stella Rimington as the first female head of MI5. The most important change in casting was, of course, the appointment of Pierce Brosnan to succeed Dalton as Bond.The film also varies two important elements of the Bond formula, the villain and the Bond girl. Traditional Bond villains, like Gerd Frobe's Goldfinger or Michael Lonsdale's Drax, were mostly gloating megalomaniacs bent on world domination, surrounded by wicked henchmen and, occasionally, by glamorous but equally wicked henchwomen. Here we have not one main villain but a quartet. Colonel Ourumov is a rogue Russian officer reminiscent of Orlov in Octopussy. Boris Grishenko is a brilliant but childish and sex-obsessed computer nerd. Alec Trevelyan is a renegade British intelligence officer of Cossack descent and a former friend of Bond, now heading a Russian crime syndicate. And finally there is Xenia Onatopp, the sexiest Bond villainess since Caroline Munro's Naomi in The Spy who Loved Me. Onatopp is a beautiful but sadistic former KGB operative; her speciality is crushing men to death with her thighs while having sex with them.In the early films, although there were exceptions like Pussy Galore in Goldfinger, Bond girls were normally bikini-clad bimbos like Ursula Andress' Honey Ryder. To try and make the films rather less sexist, during the Moore/Dalton era this characterisation was altered somewhat and the typical Bond girl became a bimbo actress trying to pass herself off as either a tough secret agent (Barbara Bach, Carey Lowell) or as a brainy scientist (Lois Chiles, Tania Roberts). In Goldfinger the heroine is an ordinary woman; Natalya Simonova is a relatively junior technician who is the only survivor when Ourumov's men attack and destroy the Goldeneye command centre. Realising that she is still in danger from them, Natalya makes common cause with Bond against the villains. Although Izabella Scorupco was very attractive, Natalya is one of the less glamorous heroines in the Bond canon, and this may explain why Scorupco has not gone on to become a major star, unlike Famke Janssen who played Onatopp and has since starred in films like X-Men and Don't Say a Word. Something similar happened in The Spy who Loved Me, where it was Munro rather than the film's ostensible heroine Bach who went on to greater success.Incidentally, in the later Brosnan films the scriptwriters returned to a more traditional conception of what a Bond villain or heroine should be; Jonathan Pryce in Tomorrow Never Dies and Toby Stephens in Die Another Day are both monstrous tycoons in the Goldfinger mode, and Denise Richards in The World Is Not Enough represented an unwelcome return to the bimbo-as-nuclear-physicist style of heroine.Although Die Another Day represented a falling-away of standards, Pierce Brosnan's first three episodes were considerably better than either of Dalton's or most of Roger Moore's later efforts. Much of the credit for this belongs to Brosnan himself, a stylish hero and neither too serious like Dalton nor too jokey as Moore could be at his worst. Goldeneye, perhaps surprisingly, showed that the series, conceived in the early sixties, could still flourish in the very different world of the mid nineties. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Bond #17 In the middle of the action","Date":"12 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After the longest wait ever from one Bond movie to the release of the next, Goldeneye probably didn't disappoint anyone. Pierce Brosnan played Bond very similar to Dalton, important for a good continuity (instead of an unwanted revolution), and an excellent cast was found from Sean Bean to Robbie Coltrane. Famke Janssen steals the show, playing the craziest killer Bond ever had to face, though the list of his enemies is longer than her arm - or even leg.Technology had made a step forward in the 90s, especially the explosions are impressive. That is also a matter of camera viewpoint, it seems a lot more in the middle of the action than it was in the View To A Kill days. Also the characters are modernized, M is now played by Judi Dench who is allowed to call Bond a dinosaur, and the Bond girl no.1 is a computer programmer by profession. Only Q is still the same when he reminds Bond you have a license to kill, not to break the traffic laws. Great movie without any serious flaws. "}{"Title":"The Long Awaited Appearance of Brosnan as Bond Does Not Disappoint","Date":"12 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The Bond films had done well recently, but had lost something. Roger Moore was never fully accepted by some as Bond, though he was just as good as Connery, albeit different, and had gotten old and the stories were silly. Timothy Dalton was a great Bond, who also never got accepted and was caught in the era of a politically correct Bond, where the advent of AIDS, Reaganism, and other events forced the makers of the Bond Films to try to adapt. You can't adapt who Bond is to a politically correct world and Dalton was the scapegoat- sad, because he was good as Bond- probably the most physically accurate depiction of Bond, based on Fleming's descriptions.Anyhow, the Bond folks took a few years off, rather than the 'every 2 years policy that had existed since Thunderball. In that time, Communism fell, which may have been a good thing, but world politics became less stable and the rise of Russian gangsters and their eastern-European counterparts occurred.At the same time, a US television show, Remington Steele made relatively unknown Pierce Brosnan a star. His character had all the charm and suave of James Bond and folks began saying he would make a great James Bond. Unfortunately, TV contracts kept him from being able to take the role that went to Dalton. By 1992, Remington Steele had faded away and Brosnan was available.With 5 years to prepare, a new, already-popular Bond now available, EON productions was ready to bring Bond back with a bang. And they did. Set amidst the changing Cold War dynamics and international intrigues of the day, GoldenEye was the best anyone could hope. Brosnan was already in Bond mode (no adjustment necessary) and he proved to be a truly 50/50 split of the Connery and Moore portrayals. The confident swagger and looks of Connery with the quirkiness and humor of Moore were mixed with a solid plot (with a couple of not-possible events- once again, the Bond writers do not understand lasers)...All the elements are here... this is the full Bond Formula used to its best effect... from titles to end credits, all the elements of the stereotyped Bond are here, but re-vitalized with a more current and topical storyline, the action and intrigue one wants, and new technology for film-making that improves many of the stunts and special effects.Brosnan's Bond movies would later devolve into the world of cheap trick gizmos, poor one-liners and ridiculous plots, but here it is all to the good. There are only two weak spots in the film- the laser knowledge 9again) and while exciting, the recent chase scene is a little too weird and in reality, not even the greatest super agent in the world could have pulled it off and escaped as Bond does.The tension between Dame Judi Dench (as the new M) and Brosnan (as Bond) hearkens to the old Connery-Lee days, but their interplay also suggests a temporary moving away from some of the sillier elements of the Bond Formula. Women are now totally on equal footing and the love interests are not simple jiggling breasts with an empty head or overzealous hard chicks which showed up in the 80's.Sean Bean is excellent as Bonds one-time friend and partner, Alec Trevalyn, and comic Robbie Coltrane has a great appearance, too. No cheap jokes, no overtly campy stunts. GoldenEye hits with true realism that too often fades from the Bond movies in favor of shiny toys and silly gimmicks.Definitely one of the 3 best Bonds ever made. "},{"Title":"Bond for a new generation","Date":"27 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Compared to all that came before it, GoldenEye is a vastly different film, at least in terms of style. The trademarks are all still there. The tuxedo, the martini, the Bond, James Bond delivery, and even the original Aston Martin DB5, all make an appearance, to establish the validity of it being a Bond film. I believe this film's overall motive, if it had one, was simply trying to say that, while times had changed, Bond has not changed. What seems to be emphasized through these trademarks is 007's timelessness. Outside of these aspects, however, the film takes on an identity of its own. The first thing to notice is that it is surprisingly dark. Not necessarily in terms of seriousness or violence, although there is certainly that, but more in terms of the overall atmosphere, particularly the scenes in Russia, which come off very bleak, even Gothic at times. It is a unusual style that somehow works for this film.The plot takes full advantage of a post Cold War world. Bond still has strong connections to the former Soviets, only they are not the enemies this time around. There is a subtle shout out to feminism, when the misogynistic James is forced to take orders from his recently appointed chief, the new female M, played by the marvelous Judi Dench. Both Dench and Brosnan play well off of one another and each slip smoothly into their roles.Brosnan proves his worth as Bond. He certainly looks good in a tux (I mean that in the most heterosexual way) and appears very comfortable in his own skin. He is not the kind of tough, hard hitting Bond, but he successfully pulls off an interesting combination of humor and vulnerability, along with a sheer athleticism that pays off in the action scenes. You can tell he is putting forth the effort while having fun in the role.Sean Bean (Patriot Games, The Lord of the Rings) gives us our villain, Alec Trevelyan, and in many ways, he is a shadowy reflection of Bond himself. He is one of the few villains that really mix wit with brawn. A former ally turned villain, he is one of the most formidable foes in the series, pushing our hero's limits. Bean plays the character with such relish that he makes you want to root for him at moments.The love interest in this film is Natalya Simonova, played by Izabella Scorupco (Vertical Limit, Reign of Fire). Aside from being a beautiful actress, her character is given a substantial chunk of the story all to herself. We see much of the crisis that takes place from her perspective. She has just as much stake in the overall plot as Bond does, which makes the story and their relationship ten times more interesting. The first half of the film follows each of their individual stories, and when we get to the point where their paths intersect everything falls into place, and we fully understand each character's motivation.The action is pretty spectacular. Granted, there are moments when the envelope is pushed a little far. Nevertheless, it will keep you engaged throughout the movie. On the other hand, one thing I appreciated about this film is that it did not depend on the action sequences to create excitement or suspense. There are several moments that pit our characters in hazardous situations that manage to create intensity without the use of explosions or gunfire.I consider it a must for any serious Bond fan. Although, what is also great about it is the fact that one does not necessarily have to be a Bond fan to enjoy it. Outside of a strong cast, a great script, spectacular sets and locations, it's stylish, exciting, sexy, and most importantly, it's creative. It's Bond for a new generation. "},{"Title":"The First Reboot","Date":"23 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I have always argued that there have been two instances in the Bond franchise where the story and style have been rebooted in order to fit the changing needs of the time. The first was the introduction of Pierce Brosnan and Judi Dench with Goldeneye, and the second was the introduction of Daniel Craig into Casino Royale. Being the First Reboot, Goldeneye holds a special place in my heart as the film that both introduced me to Bond and also reinvigorated a dying franchise - for the first time.Pierce Brosnan, the new James Bond, is an amazing choice for the protagonist. In fact he would have won the role had Remington Steele not been renewed for another season - but then again, he would have likely been cast in the rather mediocre films that Timothy Dalton ended up starring in. Instead, Goldeneye is a well-written film with cinematography that truly took Bond to a new level, and was the first to deal with the state of the world following the Cold War.In keeping with the theme of post-Cold War problems, the movie centers around post-Soviet Russia, which is seeing a capitalist revival and the rise of a corrupt mafia and government. During an operation at a chemical weapons factory, Bond's compatriot, Agent 006, Alec Trevelyan is killed by General Arkadi Ouroumov, a Soviet general. Approximately ten years later, he returns to Russia to investigate the theft of an experimental electronically shielded helicopter capable of withstanding the most powerful electronic countermeasures. Concurrently, a Russian satellite weapon known as the GoldenEye destroys a secret complex in Siberia - the platform from which it is controlled. The sole survivor, Natalya Simonova, escapes with the knowledge that Ouroumov is behind the attack.Bond finds out that the theft of the helicopter and the detonation of the GoldenEye device was masterminded by a crime syndicate known as Janus. The organization is revealed to be led by none other than the thought-dead Alec Trevelyan, a traitor seeking revenge on England for murdering his parents, who were Lienz Cossacks, a group of Russians who sought asylum in England and were deported. His ultimate plot is to use the GoldenEye satellite to wipe out the electronics of London - and by doing so, destroy the financial market of Europe and cause the world economy to collapse as an act of revenge.The plot is beautifully Bond-like, and while from a scripted perspective seems stereotypically megalomaniacal, Trevelyan is not a typical villain. He is a vengeful, angry assassin who seeks revenge, not glory or money. His plight is understandable, not the result of some deluded fantasy, and Bond makes it his personal mission to kill him - not because of Dear England, but as he says, for me. It brought out a whole new character in James Bond, a quality of pride and vengeance that had not been seen in Connery or Moore - and only touched upon by Dalton. Oddly enough, this is usually one of the criticisms of Daniel Craig's Bond, his vengeful nature, and yet Brosnan is the one who sets the precedent.Judi Dench is a completely different M from her predecessors, most of whom either were entirely antagonistic to Bond or were gruff old men who gave Bond a free reign. She is a cold, calculating, ice queen of numbers (as Tanner puts it) who considers Bond an asset outwardly, but thinks of him almost as a son. She is subtle and decisive, acting in a way that is often unexpected, and her wit is, of course, worthy of recognition.Although perhaps not the best of the Bond films, GoldenEye is considered one of the best, and Brosnan, despite all odds, proves himself as a contender for the iconic model of the super-spy. His legacy will (and has) defined that of his descendants. "},{"Title":"and the best Bond film is....","Date":"14 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Connery was the best, but nostalgia aside, the best film is probably Golden Eye. It has a fabulous opening title sequence, the best chase scene (Bond in a tank, through the streets of St.Petersburg), one of the prettiest babes (Izabella Scorupco), the most bizarre bad-babe character (Famke Janssen, not only named Onatopp but also able to crush men between her thighs) and best of all, the most stylish and psychologically convincing villain by far in Sean Bean, back-from-the-dead agent 006.In fact Sean Bean with his great lines and superb delivery out-classes Brosnan without trying. See the movie again and be surprised, like me. Brosnan's possibly the only minus to this film. Makes you wonder, why wasn't Bean made the next Bond instead of Craig? Probably because he already played this role! Real pity. "},{"Title":"Perhaps better than any Bond film from the 80's","Date":"1 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After a six year gap, the longest so far in the James Bond movie franchise, they finally returned with a new Bond, Pierce Brosnan, the fifth actor to play the main character in the franchise, starting with the seventeenth installment. Unfortunately, by the 1980's, Roger Moore's best Bond material was behind him. That was the decade when he starred in his last three films in the franchise, and was then replaced by Timothy Dalton for the next two. Personally, I think the best 007 film of the 80's is The Living Daylights, the first of Dalton's two, but this first 90's film in the franchise, GoldenEye, the first of four starring Brosnan, is slightly superior.James Bond is assigned to follow Xenia Onatopp, a former Soviet fighter pilot who now works for a crime syndicate known as Janus. The British agent unfortunately fails to stop her from stealing a powerful Tiger helicopter! She and Russian General Ourumov then go on a killing spree in a bunker in Severnaya, and manage to escape with the control disk for the GoldenEye satellite weapon, which they can cause a lot of damage with (and will if nobody stops them), along with a backstabbing computer programmer named Boris Grishenko! The only other survivor of the attack, and the only one left in the crew who is not on Ourumov and Onatopp's side, is a computer programmer named Natalya Simonova! Bond must now set out on a mission to retrieve the key to Goldeneye before the evil plan is carried out! He is joined on this mission by Natalya, but discovers that Alec Trevelyan, agent 006, who was thought to be killed on a mission in the presence of 007 nine years ago, is still alive, and is now his enemy, no longer his ally! I remember seeing some of this film in the late 90's (I didn't remember its title), but had to see it again in order to see how Pierce Brosnan was as Bond. Now that I've seen the entire thing, after watching all of its predecessors, I can say he is a bit different. I guess he's one of the less serious Bonds, like Roger Moore. One difference I sometimes found was the accent. For example, Brosnan can't seem to say, My name is Bond, James Bond, like his predecessors could. However, despite his differences, I think his portrayal of the character is decent. He still has his charm. In a Bond film, one would likely hope for suspense, and if you ask me, there's definitely a good amount of that in GoldenEye, including the opening sequence (set nine years before the rest of the movie), and many others that follow during the main course of the movie. One also might hope for some humour, and there's some of that here as well, such as the driving sequence after the opening theme, and sometimes the antics of Boris Grishenko, played by Alan Cumming. The movie may stumble at times, but has enough action, suspense, and humour to make it impressive for the most part.Watching the films in order, 8/10 is the highest I've rated any of them since 1977's The Spy Who Loved Me, which I think is Roger Moore's best. Some would disagree, but many would agree that Pierce Brosnan started well in the role of James Bond with this 1995 spy thriller. While it's no Goldfinger (it may not even be QUITE as good as The Spy Who Loved Me, though if not, it comes very close), I would say it's one of the stronger films is the franchise, quite intriguing for the most part, unlike some of them. So, after a six year hiatus, they still managed to make a decent Bond film, even though the franchise had been going for over thirty years after starting with Sean Connery, and some believe that no one has managed to match him in the role. If you want a long but thrilling spy film, GoldenEye could be what you're looking for, and watching it could be quite an experience. "},{"Title":"Great action, great villains, classic Bond","Date":"5 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I've never been fond of GoldenEye. However, I now realise that I didn't enjoy it previously because I wasn't looking at it in context. Coming off the Dalton and Moore films, I was expecting something similar and was disappointed. It was only watching it this time, after Goldfinger, that I realised GoldenEye is trying for the style of the classic 60's Bonds, not the Moore era.Literally, when I watched the scene of Brosnan dispose of a henchman with a towel, then dab his face, it clicked. That was a deliberate attempt to mimic the sophisticated, witty style of Terence Young and Guy Hamilton. Obviously, GoldenEye has to update this for the 90's, and that's the movie's other bullseye. GoldenEye feels more realistic than before, a world of genuine consequences. Subsequent Brosnan movies clearly lost this, and it's alarming to compare the almost cartoonish figure of 007 from Die Another Day with the believable government killer of GoldenEye. Did I say The World is Not Enough is Brosnan's best performance? It isn't, it's GoldenEye. He's lucky that the script was written for Dalton's more volatile portrayal, and he not only gets to play Bond's genuine hurt at his friend's betrayal, but also open up to Natalia about what makes him what he is. In some corners it is suggested Brosnan didn't live up to his potential as Bond, and this is more the fault of the scripts than the actor. They just didn't build on what was achieved in GoldenEye.The movie has great villains; an evil Bond in Alex Trevelyan's 006, perfectly played by Sean Bean (who is always great). Famke Janssen takes the classic Bond bad girl and makes her into a ferocious femme fetale. A beautiful woman who gets aroused by killing people? Is there anything more Bond than that? And the Russians are always worthy villains for Bond.One thing Campbell can do as good as any other Bond director, is action. There is a scene where Bond and Natalya escape from a Russian cell, only seconds, but really poetry in motion as far as action goes. Fast, powerful, unflinching. I'd even say GoldenEye needs more action. Some people think a good action movie simply depends on the budget. To them, I would suggest watching GoldenEye, and then The World is Not Enough or Die Another Day. Campbell is a master of the action scene, those who followed where not. Roger Spottiswoode (Tomorrow Never Dies) is good enough, but his set-pieces lack the precision of Campbell's.As for the nagative details; the locations lack the glamour of Bond. Campbell is not one for attractive visuals. Alan Cumming's character Boris is just annoying. Bond gets a bit too much criticism for being un-PC, the audience is beaten over the head with it, almost. Judi Dench's M is basically just there for that speech. The music isn't very Bond-esquire, but it is exciting enough.So to sum up; the combo of the classic Bond style, with the more real world feel, and great bad guys and action, really elevate this to one of the best of the series. There are two absolutely fantastic Bond moments in the pre-credit sequence - the bungee jump and the freefall into a falling plane - that the series has not been able to match since.So I'm now a fan of GoldenEye, and it only took thirteen years. "},{"Title":"The Best Bond Film Ever Made!","Date":"11 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Almost thirty years and fifteen Bond films later, it was time for (yet again) another change. After the Box Office failure Licence to Kill, Bond needed a new face. Along with a new film, the producers give us Brosnan, Pierce Brosnan as James Bond. He gets the job done, he gives us spectacular acting, he gives us amazing action, and he makes Goldeneye the best film ever made.There are many great James Bond films, but none of them come close to Goldeneye. Perice Brosnan is James Bond. He plays him so well that I want him to be Bond forever. It is like he was born to play the part. Connery was a good Bond, Moore wanted too many laughs, Dalton was to serious and Lazenby just plain sucked. I know I will have many Connery fans after me for this, but I don't care, Brosnan is the best. He is so suave and his acting is so stylish that he delivers great action scenes.The action in this film is breathtaking and suspenseful. Bond fights bad guys on gigantic satellite dishes two hundred feet off the ground, he takes on a massive armor train with a tank, and chases bad guys through St. Petersburg Russia smashing everything in site, including a Perrier truck. Other great scenes include a chase through a soviet archive and a satellite in space destroying a bunker using electromagnetic pulse.The plot of Goldeneye is also amazing. James Bond must stop Russian rebels from destroying London's economy using a spaced based weapon that emits electromagnetic pulse. The weapon is obviously known as Goldeneye. The Goldeneye is now in the hands of Alec Trevelyan (Sean Bean), or as Bond knows him, 006. He vows revenge against London and England for providing an unpleasant childhood, killing his parents in World War Two. Along with Trevelyan is the secretly corrupt Russian General Ourmov (Gottfried John) and the devilishly beautiful supervillian named Xenia Onatopp (Famke Jansen). I would say Bond has his hands full, especially when he discovers that Xenia's secret weapon is strangling people with her legs.Many other brilliant new characters are introduced in this film. Judi Dench plays M, the head of M-I-6. Samantha Bond play the new Miss Moneypenny who devastates Bond when she tells him she went to the theater with another man. Isabella Scorupco plays Natalya Simonova who proves that Bond women can be smart and still be very sexy. She probably is the best Bond girl to date.Peirce Brosnan has changed Bond forever. Why? Because he has made it better. I would never have expected Bond to be better in the 1990's. The 1980's was a bit of a drag, but that's in the past. There is no doubt that Bond will get better throughout the years to come. Unless the producers have some new tricks up their sleeve's, Goldeneye will always be the best Bond film. "},{"Title":"BOND#17 Eye on the New 007 for the Nineties","Date":"28 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" MASTER PLAN utilize the new Goldeneye device to destroy all electronic banking records, throwing England into a dark age. After an absence of six years (since License to Kill), a new era in Bondism dawns; everything, out of necessity, is new a new Bond, a new M, a new Moneypenny and a whole new world, without the Soviet Iron Curtain which dominated the Bonders in the eighties. Well, Q is still here - the same old Q; he shows up in a wheelchair and we think, oh my - he's not doing well; but, it's all part of the sleight-of-hand during the gadget-facility scene. The teaser starts things off right, beginning with a spectacular bungee-cord jump and ending with a stunt that attempts to surpass the best teaser of all time - the one from The Spy Who Loved Me. The only way to beat that one was to show something unbelievable and this does, but so what? It's Bond. It's also interesting that the teaser takes place nine years earlier, which would place it around the time of the first Dalton Bonder. Tina Turner sings over the strange and even, at the time, controversial credits, which depict Bond girls smashing symbols of the Soviet regime - oh-oh, a subversive, subliminal message here? Probably without meaning to, the filmmakers gave the new Bonder some edge for the nineties.Six years doesn't really sound like a long time but it almost looks like we've entered a new century since the previous Bonder. There's a heavy emphasis on computer technology and both the white hats & the evildoers seem to rely on these new advances, most of which did not exist in the eighties. Some of the dialog reflects this passage of time, such as when M, a female successor to the post, voices her negative overview of what Bond represents - or, what he used to represent. There's also a decidedly different flavor to the relationship between Bond and MI6 HQ, including Bond's bond with Moneypenny - certainly not the warm relationship we'd seen between Connery & Maxwell, for example. Ironically, there's a coldness here even though the Cold War is over, maybe because they're not teamed against the Soviets any longer. We kind of expect M (the always effective Dench) to criticize Bond, but nice Moneypenny? However, the scene where they all watch an electronic map as the pulse goes off is excellent, suggesting close teamwork. Brosnan does well as the new Bond and it's fortunate he didn't get the part earlier as planned - he's just the right age here. He doesn't have Connery's power but he also doesn't indulge in as much awful smirking as Moore, creating a well-balanced interpretation. He's a bit more emotional than those two old-timers, letting loose with a great big smile more than once, but he's also very serious when he needs to be, sometimes switching to a grim outlook almost abruptly. The tension is there, unlike the Moore version, but he also has a nearly superhuman competency, which is what 007 needs.The mission begins in beautiful Monte Carlo (cards, anyone?), featuring the return of the Aston Martin, a spiffy auto race and the theft of a special helicopter. Bond then visits the new Russia in St.Petersburg, where there's a prolonged chase with a tank. He ends up somewhere in Cuba, searching for a huge satellite dish - this reminds of the fake lake from the humongous You Only Live Twice days. The villain ends up being former agent 006, whose closest parallel among past Bond villains is the assassin of The Man With the Golden Gun, who was presented as Bond's opposite number, like an evil brother. Alec, 006, is the scarred, twisted version of 007 and makes a great opponent simply by virtue of his backstory. He's certainly not two-dimensional and you wonder just how bad can this guy really be if he was such good friends with Bond? Since he thinks like Bond and can perhaps out-think him, their final battle has that extra punch. The super-henchwoman, Onatopp, made quite an impression on me when I first saw this; when I viewed this again, her repeated orgasms during all her action/kill scenes became a bit silly and tiresome by the 3rd or 4th time. But, her final fight with Bond is also well done. Jack Wade replaces the crippled Leiter as Bond's CIA liaison; actor Baker hams it up. The femme fatale (gorgeous volatile Scorupco), the secondary villain (a Russian general) and a couple of other amusing characters (Boris, Valentin) are well drawn, adding to the overall adventure. This was a pretty intelligent and exciting restart for the series, though individual stand-out scenes are better than the overall uneven structure. Bond would return in Tomorrow Never Dies. Bond8 Villains8 Femme Fatales8 Henchwoman8 CIA7 Fights9 Stunts/Chases8 Gadgets7 Auto8 Locations8 Pace8 overall8 "},{"Title":"Not a very good Eon Production","Date":"18 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" 'Goldeneye', as you know was the name of Flemings retreat in ...Jamaca. It is a great shame that such efforts to make what appears to be a classic 'Bond' does not even feature the twanging guitar in the opening scene. Oh yes of course this was to be something new and therefore a change from the past ways but the entire sound track excluded this vital element. Must I wait for 'Casino Royale' to the final credits. Pierce's hair is way too long and his stature is a a far cry from the six foot thump your head Bond or the novels. Certainly anyone fooled by the tank bashing scene and cool Stalinesk train bit have been seduced by the wish wash music and should rewind to the post gun barrel opening to realize that the DB5 is G-O-L-D-Fi need I go on. BMW paid for the DB7 not to be shot and this is written on Goerge Lazenbys Grave Stone. "},{"Title":"Rejuvinates the series; a shame they destroyed the rest of Brosnan's work.","Date":"8 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Definitely one of the best Bond films. The story is fresh and vibrant, albeit it does have the basic Bond structure that every one has. The performances are some of the best in the franchise, and the action is fantastic. The final fight between Bond and Alec is one of the best of the entire franchise. The film manages to be exciting and full of action, while not becoming too over the top or straying too far from the actual plot. That's the mistake they made with the rest of Brosnan's endeavor into the franchise. They made it all about the action. It's a shame that this is the only Brosnan that was any good, seeing as it's one of the five best of the franchise. He had some real potential, but his other three ended up being the worst of the entire franchise. Oh, and Izabella Scorupco definitely gave one of the best performances for a Bond girl. "}{"Title":"A good debut for Pierce Brosnan as Bond, but not perfect.","Date":"20 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Goldeneye was a better Bond outing - the opening scenes of the film certainly deliver on the epic scale and action, even if the dialogue between Alec and Bond was dull at best and cr*p at worst. But who wasn't overwhelmed when Bond leaped off that dam? I sure was - it felt like one of those Sky adverts we get in cinemas nowadays. But despite the fact this film was a financial success, it is far from perfect. The script isn't great - certain scenes feel more important than the plot as a whole, and though the tank chase through the Russian city was good, it had no real use in the plot. Even though the film has a nice dark side and it is improved by a shocking revelation and betrayal, the plot is ultimately derived and the Goldeneye isn't exactly a very original idea. And the quality of the outer space shots of Earth wasn't hot. The film's most beautiful lady, Xenia Onatopp, was an interesting character but not a complex one - merely eye candy and nothing else. I may be an avid hater of romance in any form, but Elektra King's seductive torture of Bond in The World Is Not Enough was far more effective than Onatopp's constant grunting and groaning in dark settings. It makes for a laugh, but also a pointless femme fatale character. And the villains aren't great either. I hardly even knew who Colonel Ourumov was, and Boris must be one of the least menacing villains either - he defines the word geek in every way. His death may be interesting and his character is somewhat amusing, but he is no Bond villain. This film managed to bring Bond out of the Cold War well and proved that the ending of this long, hard conflict didn't mean the end for 007 - the action scenes are great and won't be feeling dated for years now. Bits of paper flying through the air in the indoor battle before the tank chase show great attention to detail which all films should strive for. And the stunts are also good. Abandoning cr*p CG for great real action is what makes the Bond films great - and Goldeneye is no exception. But it comes with its problems as well. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Best Bond ever. EVER!!!","Date":"13 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Of all the Bonds, granted I haven't seen the latest one, GoldenEye is my favorite, and my vote for best of the series. After a 6 year absence, Bond returned in 1995 with a vengeance. Pierce Brosnan made the most of his first effort as Bond, a role which he should have taken over as early as 1987. He had the eye of Bond producers even before that, and he fit the role better than anyone other than Connery. The rest of the cast is superb, especially Famke Janssen, my favorite actress ever. EVER!!! This was the role that introduced her to me, and is also one of the best Bond girls. The rest of the cast includes Sean Bean, Isabella Scorupo, Judi Dench, Tcheky Karyo, and Alan Cumming, and is one of the best ensembles they've ever done. Memorable dialogue, excellent plot, and stunning action. Add it all up, and you get the best Bond ever. EVER!!! "},{"Title":"James Bond Through Generations...","Date":"7 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" When I was 10, after a long day at school, I came home to find that we had rented the newest James Bond to video. Goldeneye. Until then I didn't even know who James Bond was or how my family and those around me at the time were able to state fact after fact about him. All I knew was that this film had to be something special.After I watched this film, I fell in love. It became one of my favorites, and still is today. The action, adventure and the fact that it was rated (PG), allowing me to watch made it great. Throughout the next year or two I had made it my mission to watch every Bond flick ever made, and I did. Even Her Majesty's Secret Service.The James Bond series are an excellent example of how the film industry has developed over the last forty or so years and how a series, if utilized in the right way, can continue to entertain generation after generation.When I have children they will also experience the pleasure of watching the James Bond series and maybe explain to me the new plots being created in the new films of their time. "},{"Title":"The Modern Day Bond","Date":"11 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Bond returns in this thriller of a movie. After a 6 year hiatus of big problems about ownership and rights we finally get another Bond film. Pierce Brosnan finally gets his chance to play Bond and he delivers after all the hype. Brosnan making his debut as Bond and gives some fans (like me) a fresh breath of air from the lackluster Moore and the good yet little known Dalton. Brosnan has everything down from those classic Bond lines to his slight resemblance to the previous bonds. It is a shame Brosnan couldn't play Bond earlier because he could have started a bit younger. His hair is his only problem in wardrobe but he fixes that in TWINE. Sean Bean plays an excellent villain including being able to fight Bond instead of sending a henchman. We get to take in the beautiful sights of the islands making it a perfect setting. The plot is actually pretty interesting as I feel it is new and pretty straight forward. This marks the first of many new trends of Bond films like CGI and I believe Dolby Surround was also in this one as well. This takes Bond from the 60's and we get the modern day bond. Bond tackles more challenging missions while having bigger action sequences in movies to come. I enjoyed this one. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Bond retain again incarnated by Pierce Brosnan as legendary British agent 007","Date":"10 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" World security is in danger,Janus, a terrorist organization has robbed the Goldeneye an ultra secret weapon system-a spy satellite- and menaced to use it for destroying a city if doesn't pay and cause a sabotage global financial markets.MI6-Judi Dench as M- assigns to James Bond the mission to retrieve it. Of course there's the usual breathtaking opening scenes developed in a chemist arms factory located in Siberia.There Bond and agent 006 Alec Trevelyan-Sean Bean- will have to confront against Russian military but Alec is imprisoned by General Ourumov-Gottfried John-. The film has a sensational and spectacularly difficult set pieces action as the tank pursuit in the city Saint Petesburg or the taking on of the armored train .Action is well shot and groundbreaking final confrontation developed in Janus headquarter located on jungle Island Cuba. As always appears Q as gadget man who teaches to Bond various tools as a bomb pencil that will have special importance posteriorly,besides a fast car-BMW- equipped with rockets launchers.As Bond girls are Famke Janssen as Xena in a sensationalistic and crazed interpretation as the orgasmic to whom all risk is a emotion.Thus she steals a super-helicopter Tiger and facing off opponents.Izabella Scorupco as Natalya Simanova, a computer specialist,she is marvelous and enticing with a similar countenance to Ingrid Bergman. Plus appears unbilled Minnie Driver.Tina Turner sings stunningly the main title and atmospheric score is by Eric Serra. The film is fine directed by Martin Campbell. Rating, good and entertained. "},{"Title":"The name is Brosnan...","Date":"4 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Pierce Brosnan had born to be Bond. Since he enters in the screen (and I mean into the Russian bathroom) we know this guy is the real James Bond, the Bond we were waiting for. Taking the role of the other three great actors (I do not count George Lazenby) Brosnan makes a good and modern action movie, pre-matrix, very typical and right to the face. Not taking any stupid acrobatic fights, but fights with fists and kicks, chase sequences with Tanks VS Cars, Statues and Buildings, and sexy women (Famke Janssen, that's a woman!) The way of shooting and presenting the movie to the new audience (between 13 and 25) is very well done, but the plot is not a masterpiece, really. Looks like there is another evil satellite menacing the world, this time freezing clocks and provoking malfunctions on electronic devices. The writer didn't get bold for that plot, really. Exciting parts? The Tank scene of course, and that meeting between the not so dead friend of the past, and the hero. The final act in the antenna is also exciting, and doesn't look like a model because that antenna is really real!!! And well, the appearance of Robbie Coltrane is another jackpot for this movie, thanks to that it doesn't has a 6. "},{"Title":"Brosnan's Best","Date":"2 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Pierce Brosnan fits Golden Eye like glove. I guess that each Bond has their own thing and while Brosnan's were quite colorless the man definitely has the right qualities to play 007. I like just about everything in this film. The plot, the characters, the settings. I always find a reference to the Cold War adds a bizarre element of nostalgia, no matter when the movie was made.Action-scenes are excellent and fortunately not too repetitive.While Brosnan is not the dark Bond I like, he does seem to simultaneously carry qualities of Connery, Moore and Dalton. The soundtrack is also one of my favorites and though I am a little more than an occasional listener of Tina Turner I think the theme is one of her best works. "},{"Title":"Goldeneye Comment","Date":"24 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This movie rocked! The way Bond says No.......... For me. At the end is CLASSIC! I guess Nintendo and Rareware liked it so much they made a game out of it. That game (Goldeneye 007) was second in the N64 Shooter era only to its follow-up (Perfect Dark). I own that game, and placed an order for PD. I recommend those who liked the movie to play the game. It may seem like Oh, I already know the damn plot, why play a game? but you are wrong. It is just so cool, because they added new ideas, such as, on the train, you have to battle all the way through instead of dropping in to the final car. Play the game, I promise you'll love it.--Steven "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"28 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This movie is my favorite bond movie of all time. I liked sean connery though as my favorite bond, but pierce brosnan definitely did a great job. The acting was great, but i think the factor that made this movie very good was the fact that they created a movie that is not similar to old James bond classics. They also took out a lot of cheesy bond one liners (like roger moore) and did a more real down to earth James bond. I still have a problem with the classic cheesy love story, bond girl elements the director threw in here,( which is not a lot, but still it's there) but still the action was a awesome (especially a huge improvement in hand to hand combat) then the classic bond films. The story line was also refreshing, having the villain be a agent of england itself was very clever as well as entertaining. If you want to see a new modern day James bond then this is a must see and buy movie. If your still into classic bond format, structure and story then stick to the originals, otherwise go and see this movie "},{"Title":"GoldenEye...most realistic, plausible, and buy able","Date":"6 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" QUite right...Goldeneye may be one of the best Bond films because it appeals to 007 fans without much cheeziness. In a way, the movie is almost believable. Particularly the tension between the new Russian government (post-Sovient) and the lack of absurd gadgets makes this Bond better. Now, I'm not saying I'm not a fan of Bond gadgets, but any movie where Bond goes to space or SURFS onto North Korean beaches is a little far fetched (same with an Invisible car). Let him stick to his good shot and high tech computers. The whole deal with the politburo and the Russian gov't made me feel, as a viewer, that this type of scenario could actually happen. Also...GOldeney satellite...BRILLIANT...EMP really exists and could be used as a weapon! In the future, I hope Bond makers deal with real international issues for James rather than dealing with a lone maniacal billionaire villain. The whole single evil doer is bulls***. This isn't the 70's; audience don't want be fed lame BS and crappy story lines. Better stick to a plot like THe Living Daylights where the balance of national powers and state to state relations is at risk. Maybe 007 could confront the threat of international terror while saving the world. All in all, Goldeneye is the most realistic and cutting-edge 007 film. "}{"Title":"Pretty good return","Date":"14 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I have a friend who honestly believes this to be the greatest Bond movie ever made. And for the most part, i agree with him.The problem with bringing a literature character such as James Bond into the '90s is that he is a Cold War figure. With the collapse of communism, it seemed that the Bond franchise had collapsed as well.However this is where the similarities begin. The writers of 'GoldenEye' seem to have borrowed heavily from the Cold War itself. Thisproves to be a winning formula. The subtle mix of Cold War fears and the new-age fears of global terrorism are brilliantly combined to create a great storyline.Pierce Brosnan looks confident to begin with, and after a few shaky moments manages to make the character his own. Famke Janssenn is a wonderful femme fatal, while on the side of good, Issabella Scoripcuo is extremely talented, though not the most attractive of Bond girls.Good comic relief came from Robbie Coltrane, Alan Cumming ('I am invincible!') and Joe Don Baker.However, being a dedicated Bond fan, i always have to find something wrong with one of the areas. For this film the music stinks. Apart from the wicked opening theme song, with Tina Turner sounding like a new-age Shirley Bassey, Eric Serra's score is disappointing and lacking of any memorable tune.It's not the best Bond film ever, but it's a pretty good try!  "},{"Title":"Excellent movie","Date":"8 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This was a perfect Bond film. It contains all the elements of the classic Bond-action, suspense, humor, romance, evil villains, and an excellent plot. Sean Bean plays an excellent villain as Alec Trevelyan. What made this one special is that the bad guy was from Bond's past and was a former friend. I can't help but praise this movie! After a six year hiatus Bond makes his triumphant return to the big screen. This movie is much better than Tomorrow Never Dies in which 007 is a little too trigger-happy. The World is not Enough lacks a good plot. Die Another Day lacks a good villain. This movie has everything the other films lack. My friend told me they were going to make a second Goldeneye video game. The only way I see this possible is because one Goldeneye satellite still exists. The one that fired on Servanya is still out there somewhere. That is the only con with this movie. They don't destroy both satellites. Other than that, this is a great movie!I give it a 10/10. "},{"Title":"The series recovers after 'After Licence To Kill'","Date":"16 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After the artistic and only relative commercial failure of Licence To Kill,which basically tried and failed to make a Bond movie as a typical American action movie,and didn't even succeed much as that,the filmmakers waited seven years until the next Bond film,and gathered what was mostly a new crew. Therefore,while Goldeneye has many of the tried and true Bond elements,it also has a fresh feel. There is an ironic slant to the film,slightly making fun of Bond while celebrating him. Particularly enjoyable in this regard are the exchanges between Bond and the new female M.Pierce Brosnan makes a very confident debut as 007,mixing the edge of Connery,the lightness of Moore and his own Irish charm. The plot fairly successfully combines typical villain-with-deadly-plot stuff with cold war shenanigans,and creates an interesting Bond/villain relationship in the film. Unfortunately the pre-credits scene,which begins with Bond jumping down a dam and climaxes with Bond freefalling into a plane,is so spectacular and exciting the rest of the film's action fails to live up to it,although a destructive tank chase through St Petersberg,Bond's rather brutal encounters with Xenia Onatopp who kills men with her thighsand end fight on a satellite dish are very well staged.Generally the pace is surprisingly leisurely,and some promising elements are not used to their full advantage,but considering they were almost starting from scratch it's a good effort overall. Be warned,the UK version is slightly cut,removing a headbut aren't the BBFC great? "},{"Title":"For A Bond Film, It's Pure Gold And Frankly, One Of The Most Stunning Films Ever. * * * * (Out Of Four)","Date":"1 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  'GoldenEye' is the perfect Bond film, and in doing so, should be the example of what a Bond film is. After a seven year hiatus from the screen, the series renewed itself in many ways with a new plot, a new beginning, and a new, and better Bond played by Pierce Brosnan. The film shouldn't be looked at as just a Bond film because it holds emotion and an essence not found in other Bond films. Looking at it feels like a sense of seeing it shot in the 50's or 60's and makes it dazzling. While this is supposed to be noticed or not is not the question, because seeing it that way makes the film experience much more accepted. The idea's and characters are so vivid in the film, you feel their pain. There is with no doubt that you will feel emotion surge through you more then once in this film. The hiatus was a good idea for the series, because being away so long built up a stronger return. The film is worth being the example of what a Bond film should be because of what it possess mainly, everything. The Bond is Pierce Brosnan, which gives Sean a run for his money. The Bond girl is the beautiful Natalia Simonova (Played wonderfully by Izabella Scorupco), a smart, gorgeous, and talented woman. The Bond villain's are evil and unique, including Xenia Onatopp (Famke Janssen) and Alec Trevelyan (Sean Bean) who both have their naughty wicked sides to them. The action scenes are first rate, including sky diving to catch an airplane, fights above a satellite, and a car chase through Russia. The dialogue is topnotch, edgy, and fast (How could you be like this? How could you be so cold? It's what keeps me alive.) GoldenEye is truly the most polished and creative of the series, and the title of 'Gold' is a perfect fit. For any person of film, 'GoldenEye' is a must-have.* * * * (Out Of Four)A+ (A+ Being The Highest, F Being The Lowest)10 (On The IMDB's Ratings Scale) "},{"Title":"A necessary injection into the Bond series","Date":"29 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  GOLDENEYE (1995) Rating - 8/10 - Possible spoilersAfter a number of years in the wilderness due to company disagreements, Bond came back with vengeance in the eagerly anticipated Goldeneye.  Next up was Pierce Brosnan with his dashing looks and who seemed to have the ingredients for the role, but would he be able to captivate the audience and be believable as Fleming's super spy?  The answer was in the affirmative.  Goldeneye blends together a competent plot, some intriguing characters and of course the courtesy Bond villains and Bond girls (who I've discovered are manufactured and put on a Bond conveyor belt on an island off Key Largo)  The movie comes together quite nicely and Brosnan is perfectly believable.  The movie centres around the premise that the Cold War is over and so the countries involved have initiated a period of friendly negotiation.  The opening sequences see Bond lose his partner on a job, and a Russian satellite key called Goldeneye taken by a Russian general.  From there we are given an hour and a half or so of all out action, with obviously a lot of thought going into collaborating all of the material for the audience to indulge.  Bond must retrieve this key in order to stabilise the world order again, but it is far more difficult than he expected. Teaming up with a computer programmer who escaped a satellite station and witnessed who took the Goldeneye, Bond must hunt down the villains whilst also showing a love for the women, a love for cars, and engaging in conversations that lead to pun heaven.  It's a very good movie.  Brosnan is stylish, and whilst we probably know the outline of the movie way in advance it still managed to make me sit up and take notice.  Speeding through the Russian streets in an armoured tank, gliding through the air and boarding a plane that is in full descent and ejecting out of a helicopter seconds before two missiles threaten to end the Bond series are such highlights..  It's an exciting movie and surpassed my expectation level. The movie also highlighted a number of new additions in the intelligence personnel, with the no-nonsense female M (Judi Dench) making a lasting impression.  All the characters did their job, but only one or two left a lasting impression.  Instead I focused primarily on whether or not I enjoyed the movie and whether Bond deserved to go on doing what he does best.  I did enjoy the movie, and with Brosnan in control it seems it hasn't lost its appeal to the action buffs and has given a very healthy push toward a new super cool, modern Bond. "},{"Title":"Best of the new Bond movies.","Date":"26 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Goldeneye is the first of the Pierce Brosnan Bond movies and in my opinion the best. It has all the elements that made the first few Bond films as great as they were. Action, Danger, and Sexy excitement are cram into this movie with such vengence, and it really brought Bond into the twenty first century.A definite movie to own by all Bond fans.  "},{"Title":"Best of the new Bond movies.","Date":"26 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Goldeneye is the first of the Pierce Brosnan Bond movies and in my opinion the best. It has all the elements that made the first few Bond films as great as they were. Action, Danger, and Sexy excitement are cram into this movie with such vengence, and it really brought Bond into the twenty first century.A definite movie to own by all Bond fans.  "},{"Title":"Connery-esque Bond films work in the modern era","Date":"4 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  May contain spoilersGOLDENEYE was the 17th production in the 007 series. Following the release of LICENCE TO KILL, MGM and United Artists became involved with legal issues that would last until 1992 and prevent another Bond film from being made for six years. During that time, Timothy Dalton, in my opinion the best actor to play James Bond, resigned. An actor who had originally been chosen to play the role in 1987 before being called back to REMINGTON STEELE, Pierce Brosnan, was selected. The stakes were high for this Bond adventure; the Cold War was over and conventional Hollywood wisdom stated James Bond was dead and that action films suffer when released in the winter. Both were defied, and GOLDENEYE remains the most successful Bond film in terms of generating revenue.The film replaces the Fleming-style dark Bond with a more Connery-esque style, harkening back to DR. NO and GOLDFINGER. Pierce Brosnan's Bond combines elements from all the previous actors; Connery's womanizing and overall style, Lazenby's compassion, Moore's reliance on gadgets and humor, and Dalton's vunerability; but it is largely Connery's style that is used. Brosnan carries the film successfully and plays a great Bond. I personally would've prefered them staying with a Fleming-esque style; in scenes where Dalton would've been nervous, tense, and anxious, Bronsan remains to calm, and for a man who lost his wife, he seems far to compassionate towards his ladies; but it works all the same. His portayl of Bond relfects that this character is from an era long since over, but finds his place in the world today. This film plays a twist on the villain. He plans to make millions, but isn't rich to start with. His main motivation is the British betraying his parents in WWII. And he is a former ally and close personal friend to 007; Alec Trevelyan, alias 006. The British felt he was too young to remember the events of WWII and Bond's changing their plan at the beginning of the film in Bond's final mission in the Cold War era results in the right half of his face scarred, hence his new name; Janus, the two-faced Roman god. Sean Bean plays the role magnificently and is completely believable. Bond's woman in this film is more a liberated woman of the 90s, but surprisingly, is less Bond's equal and less heroic then four of her predecessors; Pam Bouvier of LICENCE TO KILL, Melina Havelock of FOR YOUR EYES ONLY, Pussy Galore of GOLDFINGER, and last but certainly not least, Teresa di Vicenzo of ON HER MAJESTY'S SECRET SERVICE (a brief, indirect reference to her is made by Alec). The villainess are Xenia Onatopp, played by X-MEN's Famke Janssen. She looks different in this film, but still is great for the role. Alan Cumming, also from X-MEN, appeares as the double-crossing computer geek Boris, a humorous character. The Russian general, the other villain, I found to be over-the-top and too one dimensional. Desmond Llewelyn returns as Q, but is the only veteran Bond actor; Robert Brown and Caroline Bliss resigned from their roles as M and Moneypenny. The latter is now played by Samantha Bond, in a much more modern and enjoyable style then her predecessors while still retaining Lois Maxwell's grace and charm. The M in this film is not Sir Miles Messervy, but a new superior, a woman. She is as tough as her predecessor, and Judi Dench helps return to the M/Bond scenes what was lost when Bernard Lee died. Despite her skill in the role, Nobody Does it Better then Lee. Joe Don Baker, who previously played the villainous Brad Whitaker in THE LIVING DAYLIGHTS, returns as Felix Leiter's CIA replacement Jack Wade. He is another comedic character and one the audience enjoys. Rounding out the cast is Robbie Coltrane as Valentine Zukovsky, an enemy-turned ally of Bond's from the Cold War.The film has more faults then has been stated, however. At times, the special effects look rather fake, including the use of bluescreen CGI in sequences where models and miniatures would've been far more effective. The film's music is pleasant to listen to but not Bond enough and often works against the scenes. As I said before, the heroine isn't tough enough and one of the villains is over the top. And sometimes Janssen's accent is too shaky.The film's faults don't give a lot of damage and it is a very good match-up with GOLDFINGER. I give it an 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"26 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was fantastic. I thought the plot to this story was great because it has many different scenes and sequences that makes the movie the way it is. This is one of the best James Bond movies of all time because the game makes it even funner. Very few movies have games come after the movie. This was so accurate and I thought it was great. This movie had great acting by James Bond and 006 because without the good acting, you would not be able to see the relationship of the two top agents in the world. I thought the movie was great and I recommend it to all viewers who like James Bond movies and like action-adventure movies.  "},{"Title":"Return to Form","Date":"14 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The James Bond series is never about clever plots or inventive dialogue.  They cannot be considered either high art for obvious reasons or inventive due to their lack of developement.  Yet we are consistently reminded of them because of their time-tested formula that, until lately, seemed invincible.GoldenEye brought agent OO7 into the post-Cold War and brought the best production values to the series ever.  The plot itself acts like a cross between John Badham's WarGames and Blue Thunder with the typical Bond hook.  Throw in some political correctness and rather brutal gunfights and voila!  Instant blockbuster in a can.  While some of the set-piece battles seemed absurd to the point of criminal insanity, I couldn't help but marvel at how the producers make us buy it all with a smile.  Thankfully, the movie contains decent effects, but doesn't let the effects overwhelm the attempt at storytelling unlike Tomorrow Never Dies and Die Another Day.  This was when the studio still had to fret about their budget.While on the technical level everything feels fine, the acting is surprisingly good.  Not great and certainly nowhere near the level of, say, Silence of the Lambs, but it is better than Weekend at Bernie's.  Brosnan proves he has the Bond wit and charm, so sad that the rest of his films are all downhill from here.  While it does run rather long, you can be assured that GoldenEye can provide some thrills every few minutes to hold your attention without relying on the MTV effect of the later films.  I dig the darker nature of this film, much in the same vein as Batman Returns, but not as gothic.Overall, enjoyable, yet dense, entertainment that ranks in my Top 5 Bond movies.  3 out of 5 stars. "}{"Title":"Best Bond movie of the Pierce Brosnan era","Date":"8 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  *Some mild character spoiler info*While not the best Bond movie ever, it is certainly the best one staring Pierce Brosnan.  This one has a certain style and coolness to it that the latest three are completely lacking.Sean Bean works reasonably well as the agent turned villain.  I also like the fact that Sean Bean is one of the few villains that has a computer programmer working for him instead of a muscle bound oaf henchman. Gottfried John also plays the part of General Ourumov very wellThe two main female roles were well cast, another advantage over the newest three movies.  Izabella Scorupco is actually slightly believable as another computer programmer, while still being rather attractive (I can't look at Denise Richards anymore without thinking she was supposed to be a nuclear physicist?).  Famke Jansen's character was a little over the top, but she still pulled it off nicely.This movie has a very sharp sense of humor, again blowing the latest three out of the water.  The brief scene where we meet Valentin still makes me laugh (interesting cameo by Minnie Driver).  Brosnan has many funny and well timed one liners throughout the movie. "},{"Title":"A Fitting Re-Start To The Bond Franchise","Date":"6 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  As hard to believe as it is, there was a time when we thought Bond would never return despite what the end of his films always said. In 1989, screenwriter Michael Wilson (With help from Richard Maibum) decided to bring Bond back down to life with a much grittier, realistic movie which was 'Licence to Kill'. Although it did make money, it was only a small amount by Bond standards. Audiences didn't want to see Bond bleed and be in pain while fighting sadistic drug dealers in Mexico, they wanted to see him in exotic locations with sexy girls and, as good as 'Licence to Kill' is, audiences were not satisfied and wanted the Bond they know and love. It would be a six year wait.In 1995, audiences finally got a glimpse of not only a new Bond movie, but a new Bond. Pierce Brosnan slips on the tuxedo and he couldn't be a better choice. Although not as good as Dalton, who is my favorite by far, he suits the role perfectly and knowing we have a good Bond is enough to make a good Bond film but the filmmakers were determined to give us something good and they do!To try and discuss the plot to a Bond film is like trying to convince people Shakespeare was an alien who secretly lived in California. The plots help but no matter how good, they don't matter. In this film, a main gimmick is the fact that 007 had been away so long and times had changed which this film weaves into it's story perfectly. No more cold war and, believe it or not, Bond is being bossed around by a WOMAN. Yes, times have changed. Having a woman as M bossing 007 around in 1962 would have been unheard of. Judi Dench fits into the role perfectly and has some brilliant scenes with Brosnan proving she is every bit the former M's equal despite being a woman. Cast as Moneypenny is Bond, Samantha Bond who teases Bond just as he teases her and tries to prove she has no interest in him at all. Of course, you have to have at least one friendly face and it's lovable old Q played by Desmond Llewelyn. His scenes with Brosnan are very funny although Q is once again just a cameo despite having a large part in the plot in 'Licence to Kill'.Now that you've got the MI6 team out of the way, there's the ever so famous role of the Bond girl, this time it's Izabella Scorupco playing the beautiful and intelligent Natalya Simonova. With a good Bond girl, you need a good Bond villain and this film is definitely no exception. Sean Bean plays the good-turned-bad Alec Trevelyan aka 006 (Cue dramatic theme) who Bond believed to be dead after an incident during the cold war. Sean Bean is an excellent villain and is quite good because he could be James Bond which makes it believable that he's 006 and he and Brosnan have some excellent chemistry in the pre-credits sequence. Famke Janssen plays bad girl Xenia Onatopp who has a very unique way of killing people. Cast as a slightly inferior henchman is Alan Cumming as Boris. This role is often criticised but I quite liked him and, for once, a non-Russian puts on a good Russian accent.The script by Jeffrey Caine and Bruce Feirstein is a great piece of work but it is slightly over complicated sometimes which means you get detatched from the film once in a while but Martin Campbell's direction brings you back in.Overall, a flawed Bond film (Russians speaking and writing in English is a noticeable mistake) but it re-starts the Bond franchise after an agonizing 6 year wait and everything here is nearly spot on making an enjoyable experience for Bond fans and casual viewers alike. "},{"Title":"The best Bond film in 30 years! Sean Connery cannot even compare to Brosnan in the slightest bit","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This was a true classic. It had everything desired in a Bond film and more. Great scenery, awesome action scenes and special effects, great characters and beautiful women. The stunts in this film were some of the best I have ever seen, probably the best one being when Bond bungee-jumps off of a dam in the beginning in order to break into a Soviet military facility. This is no doubt the best 007 film ever made and is without a question ten times as exciting as Brosnan's other James Bond films. The scenery is truly beautiful as it takes place mostly in Russia during wintertime but near the end Bond and his girl are breaking into a terrorist-base that is hidden under a lake in the middle of Cuba, where they have to recover a stolen military weapon, the Golden-Eye satellite receiver that was taken from Russia. Watch this movie and you will thank me. Feel free to email me with any questions or comments. "},{"Title":"A Great Movie","Date":"2 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Goldeneye has Bond returning. Many thought Bond would be dead,after the cold war ended. Goldeneye proves them very wrong. From the great opening scene,it pulls you into a wonderful ride. A great Bond movie has to have a great villain. Goldeneye has it with Sean Bean as Alec 00 Trevelyan. He is downright evil. Pierce Brosnan steals the screen,he is perfect as Bond. He has all the things a great Bond needs.Great musical score too,we have all your classical Bond music,but we also have a new theme which is pretty great. This pumped much life into the Bond series. Great stunts as well. Fun!3.5/4 "},{"Title":"An interesting break from the Bond formula, an excellent film","Date":"2 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Even though Goldeneye lacks the many, many gadgets of the previous films, it makes up in every other department. It's well written, the acting is good, and the action sequences are amazing. This is probably Pierce Brosnman's best run as 007, his second best would be Die Another Day. This film is also very original, some of the plot details have never before been seen in a Bond film. The character development is well done, each of the characters are fully realized and written. Sean Bean defintely stands out as Agent 006, and has more of a role in the movie then one would think. Instead of having the classic car chase, this film has a Tank chase in Russia, which is both a sign of originality and smart action sequence thinking. However, this film isn't without it's flaws. The pacing gets too slow occasionally, so the film lags a bit. Even though a car chase scene was well replaced, I still missed the car. This is probably the best Brosnman run as bond, as well as one of the best bond films. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Great first entry for Bronson.","Date":"24 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  It wasn't as good when I first saw it, but as time passed this one got better as I got more used to seeing Pierce in the role as James Bond.  This one has lots of action and lots of good characters.  Sean Bean is great as the Bond villain in this one and so is Famke Jannsen also a baddie.  The story revolves around a Russian weapon called goldeneye, which has the ability to knock out anything with an electrical circuit in a 30-mile radius.  Bond has to do a lot to get this weapon back including infiltrating the base of the Bond bad guy.  There is also a great scene where Bond uses a tank to chase the bad guys and demolishes downtown Moscow in the process.  This one has good humor and Pierce is a better Bond than Dalton in that he is a bit more humorous than was Dalton who was way to serious.  One complaint though was the fact Bond got a cool car from Q that had a bunch of gadgets and he never uses it. "},{"Title":"8 on a scale of 10","Date":"9 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I just saw this movie on TV. All the way through it from the first moment to the last, I was 100% sure I had never seen it. Then I went to review it and I realize I had already given it an 8 - presumably in 1995. That's only 8 years ago. That's scary is what that is! If you are under 50, take a good look at your future. It isn't a pretty sight! I always wondered how Ronald Reagan could have been telling a story from a movie as though it had really happened. Now, I understand the process.I have to say that I really liked this movie quite a bit. I had just seen the latest Bond installment and it compares favorably. I had also forgotten that it had been 6 years between Dalton's last effort and Brosnan's first. You would think I would remember the first Brosnan movie since I have always liked him - even back to his TV days. And, as a Bond fan, you would think the first Brosnan Bond would be quite memorable. But, nooo. I can't blame the movie though.Everything you want in a Bond movie was here. Romance, suspense, action, stunts, danger. The villans were better than average, Brosnan is excellent, and it is always nice to see the battle take place between the west and east - even if the east is a renegade general. If you haven't seen it, OR if you are >50 (seen it or not), rent it out. It's worth it. "},{"Title":"There's a new M in town","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  After a six year absence, Pierce Brosnan picks up the role of James Bond in 1995's Goldeneye.  Judy Dench also becomes the new M. The series is updated as noticed by talk about sexual harassment. Also, the cold war is over and M lets James Bond know that by calling him a relic of the cold war and a dinosaur.  She's also quick to criticize his cavalier attitude towards life.  Over the next few Bond films, M warms up a lot more to Bond.Goldeneye had a good cast of characters playing the bad guys. Sean Bean did an excellent job playing a former British agent joining a crime syndicate. The female character of Onatopp was both good and original. She likes to squeeze her victims to death in a body scissors.  Each character's personality in Goldeneye was well scripted.  Goldeneye is actually one of my favorite all time Bond films because of the cast of characters. "},{"Title":"Solid return to form for Bond","Date":"21 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  With the recent Bond film Die Another Day currently on general release in the UK, and with rumours abounding that Pierce Brosnan's next Bond flick will be his last, it seems a good time to go back and review his first effort as the suave superspy.Following on from a six-year break after Timothy Dalton's last stand as Bond in License To Kill, the series returned in 1995 with a new look and a new Bond.  After the rather overt seriousness displayed in the last film, Goldeneye returns Bond to the slick, stylish escapism that made Sean Connery such hit back in the 1960's.Brosnan looks alot younger and brasher in the role then as he does now but shows us here for the first time the traits he would develop in the later movies silky-smooth voice, subtle and flippant comic timing, and just a little humanity to balance out Bond's innate cruelty.  Brosnan gives a very good interpretation of Bond and is quick to make the role his own.The pre-credits sequence establishes the tongue-in-cheek mood of the film very quickly.  Bond and a fellow agent, Trevalyan (Sean Bean) make a raid on a Russian air-base.  The raid goes awry and 006 is apparently shot dead.  Bond escapes and the action moves on eight years later.Bond is assigned by his new boss, M (Judi Dench) to investigate the destruction of a Soviet satellite station that may have held the key to space-based weapons system called Goldeneye.  Bond goes to Russia, and finds himself on the trail of something far more sinister....Asides from Brosnan, there is some solid acting in this film.  Of the ladies Izabella Scorupco makes a good foil for Bond and a beach scene in which she confronts Bond about his cold, murderous nature is a unique Bond moment.  Famke Jannsen has some good moments has some good moments as a sadistic Russian agent who likes squeezing men to death with her legs during sex.There is a solid array of British talent on display here.  Sean Bean makes an effectively treachourous 006, a very physical adversary for Bond.  Alan Cumming is on good comic form as a nerdish computer programmer, and Robbie Coltrane is enjoyable as a Russian gangster with a grudge against Bond.  Judi Dench has a good debut as M, and Desmond Llewellyn's single scene as Q is very well done.Special effects and action scenes are excellent, with little use of the now commonplace CGI, instead dependent on models and some gloriously ludicrous stunt-work.  However, Bond's liberal use of a machine gun in far too many scenes means alot of the action becomes numbing and repetitive after a while.The script is also very good, balancing out all the elements required for a Bond movie.  The one-liners Brosnan utters in this movie are genuinely funny in places, as opposed to the crassness they would assume later on.A solid Bond debut for Pierce Brosnan, and an excellent Bond film over all.   "},{"Title":"A good bit of fun. . .","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Brosnan is still learning in this film, but he brings back the humorof Bond that Dalton didn't have. Not as silly as Moore, either. Thevillain is played excellently by Sean Bean, though the character of006 has some stupid motives for  his evil deeds. . . his parents. . .peh! There are some good Bond girls. . . Xenia Onatopp, played byFamke Janssen, is quite a good henchwoman. Great stunts,gadgets and the funniest scene with the great Desmond Llewelynas Q. A good Bond. . . 7/10. "}{"Title":"Bond had returned","Date":"8 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Before 'Die another day' stepped up to blow some fresh competition away this was the best of the Brosnan Bonds.Before this film came out, I must admit  that I had been surprised that a new Bond film was going to be made. At that point I had seen bits of several Bonds(though Goldfinger had been the only one I'd seem all the way through) and I'll admit - I wasn't sure why they were doing a new Bond.In this film M describes Bond as 'a relic of the Cold War' - and I did feel that Bond had been created for the Cold War and now it was over - what was there for Bond to do?The short-term answer turned out to be, clear up the Cold War's mess - in the form of a reactivated Soviet satellite that's being controlled by an ex-partner of Bond.It was the first Bond film I'd caught at the cinema and it was definately worth it!Highlights include1. The tank scene - looked absolutely wicked back in '95 and still looks pretty cool today.2. I am invincible! Boris was the first thing I'd heard about from this movie - and even now he's a good laugh - without the cornyness of some of the earlier henchmen!In short, I came out of the cinema thinking If this is the new Bond - then I definately like it. "},{"Title":"The End","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This movie marks the end of Bond era. Such lack of imagination and dignity is abusive for the most famous serial in motion-picture history. Only high budget, M, Q, Moneypenny, dry Martini and Walter PPK keep the movie Bondlike. Pierce Brosnan does not have Connery charisma, Moore aristocratic charm or Dalton suggestiveness. This is bad sign. Bond has to protect our civilization and he became one of its symbols himself. This Bond is unreliable. Tank scene in St Petersburg is disgusting. (Who really thinks Russians are so so stupid?) Bond has to have comic elements but not the grotesque ones. Brosnan takes everything seriously without ironical distance where Moore was the best. You cannot play Bond seriously because it is not serious itself - it is serial made for fun! Like an old fan I am sad. Maybe I am old-fashioned, maybe this Bond is OK and just follows spirit of 90's. Something is wrong here Bond or time. Maybe I just hate 90's too much or I have too good intuition. "},{"Title":"Pretty Good","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I must admit that although I liked Pierce Brosnan as Remington Steele I was not sure he could make the transition from that character to James Bond. Well I was wrong he does a pretty decent job on his first outing. I was not impressed with the bond girl Izabella Scorupoco.  I really do not think she was that good.  She could have been better.  I grew up watching Roger Moore portray Bond so I am a little biased.  I like Roger and Sean equally. They were more suave and charming than Pierce but he is 100% improvement over Timothy Dalton.  Timothy was just dry as Bond he is not a bad looking guy he just did not have that charm and no humour.  The storyline was pretty good. I would rate this movie 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Casting And Other Mistakes","Date":"25 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Remington Steele Brosnan is too fancy in the role of Bond - Bean was the obvious choice according to many at the time. Polish-born Swedish bred Scorupco plays an unusually three-dimensional Bond babe with great determination. Mythology of computers and how they work was never worse. Biggest mistake was abandoning the original premise and deliberately following the recipe of True Lies. Yes, Barbara could make more money, but this is not Bond. It's not even close. This is just a very dumb, very expensive action movie with absolutely no character depth (save in Scorupco's role), no plot, only a bunch of junk and stuff that goes boom. If you like this sort of thing, go see Monster Trucks. If you like elegance and intellectually challenging movie making (and despise movies for the terminally empty-headed), rent or buy one of the first five in the series. "},{"Title":"Great stuff","Date":"25 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  A fantastic return for Mr. Bond after 6 years and how delighted we all were that he did come back. GoldenEye is an excellent film with a superb cast and some awesome performances by the likes of the brilliant Sean Bean (Alec Trevelyan), the very sexy Famke Janssen (Xenia) and Gottfried John (General Ouromov) who has immense screen presence and also Pierce Brosnan taking over the role of James Bond nicely. The storyline is good and back to the basics of the series with Bond being the only man who can save the world from the megalomaniac. The pre-credits sequence is possibly the best of them all with the record breaking bungee jump kicking off a film which grossed almost twice the previous highest grossing Bond film. The film is never boring which is the case with some of the others and the people are beautiful. The only drawback is the music during the scenes - the music and the film never match.  Apart from this, the beautiful people, the diverse locations (Cuba, Arkangel, St Petersburg, Monte Carlo and London in the same film), the excellent direction, the fresh MI6 headquarters and the refreshing return of 007 to the cinema screen make this one of the best James Bond films. "},{"Title":"The best James Bond movie ever!","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  No other Bond film can compete against GOLDENEYE, as it is the greatest one of them all. There is no contest. Pierce Brosnan's first appearance as James Bond made audiences realize that he WAS James Bond. The acting is great. Sean Bean, Izabella Scorupco, Alan Cumming, Famke Janssen, Joe Don Baker and Judi Dench are all wonderful. This is indeed one of the greatest action films ever made, other than being just the greatest Bond film.The action sequences are intense and it follows the later Nintendo 64 game pretty closely (or the game follows the movie rather). There are some notable and memorable quotes and comebacks. I love how Bond takes the numerous enemies in this film and slowly justifies their wrongs, one by one. The film is filled with narrow escapes, close calls and tons of gun violence. But, hey, that's what spy movies are all about. This is a total must-see for every Bond fan and for every action fan. Especially fans of espionage movies. This one's a real winner!GOLDENEYE gets 5/5! "},{"Title":"recommended, with some reservations","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  GoldenEye will always be known as the film that brought new life to EON Productions' James Bond film franchise. For Bond fans, that alone makes it worth watching. On its own merits, despite some flaws, it's a decent entry in the Bond series.The opening sequence and credits provide a somber set-up for the ensuing mood of crumbled Cold War ideology and the corruption that filled the vacuum. The first glimpse of Pierce Brosnan is vampiric (perhaps in a nod to Batman) and less satisfying than the viewer's introduction to Sean Connery, George Lazenby, or Timothy Dalton. But Brosnan quickly makes clear that he is a dynamic Bond actor who brings together the best elements of all his predecessors. The ensuing plot is serviceable but convoluted.One major flaw of the film is the character exposition on Janus. What little back story there is to explain his treasonous villainy is glossed over with trite contrivance. In a non-Bond film, there might have been sufficient time and space to explore the nuances necessary to describe Janus' complex motivations. In GoldenEye, the character is stuck between emotional resonance and the need to plausibly anchor and advance the plot, ultimately serving neither goal well. It's difficult to buy into either of the two aspects of Janus that appear in the film.Izabella Scorupco plays the most spirited, fiery Bond heroine ever. She's a fine actress for any action film, and her part in GoldenEye is well written. She also lends plenty of dramatic weight to her role, particularly when her character confronts men (including Bond) who demonstrate the dark side of masculine behavior. The film's reflection upon masculinity in general and as it relates to the Bond phenomenon is admirable and handled quite well.Several instances of foolishness or absurdity mar the otherwise dangerous tone of the story. The bicyclists' pratfall is childish. The tank sequence is over the top without the statue, but this element pushes the scene into ridiculousness. The evilly craven character of Boris is buffoonish right down to his bitter cold end. These scenes are obtrusive compared to the otherwise brooding tone of the film. More successful humor stems from the Valentin Zukovsky and Jack Wade characters, and the film ends on a genuinely positive note that blows away any somber clouds that might remain.  "},{"Title":"One of the best","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Goldeneye is probably one of my favorite Bond movies, and anyone who doesn't like it has probably only seen the TV version, which edits out half the fighting, half the shooting and half the sex. The full version when shown on TV is 3 hours. The edited version is 2 hours 20 minutes!!!This movie has great action, a great plot and great performances. Incredibly underrated. 9/10. "},{"Title":"oh james....       6/10","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Ok, let's settle a couple of things right up front.  Tim Dalton blew donkeys as 007.  Connery and the earlier Moore were the best.  No further discussion necessary.  While Brosnan looks the part, his deliveries as Bond are all variations of plywood.  Plot, jeesh, what are you people thinking?   We don't need no stinkin plot!  This is a product placement Bond film.  All we need is a bunch of over-the-top action scenes, a couple of cool spy toys, reasonably witty double entendre dialogue stuffed with sexual innuendo, and a couple of hot Bondchix to complete the multi-variate commercial.  Goldeneye gives us that, so it gets a full score of 6/10.   Not 10/10.....not 2/10.  These are decent video rentals, that's all.  U don't even need to rent, they get shown so often on tv.  Scorupco is a flat-out babe, Famke is hot also.  Done. "},{"Title":"One of the best Bond films","Date":"23 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This one had it all, a top-notch Bond, great locations, sets, action, and best of all, one of the best Bond women, Izabella Scorupco.  Wow, what a beauty, what an attractive character, makes me proud to be Polish (Izabella's Polish too)!  That's two straight movies I've seen with knockout Polish female leads, check out Dagmara (last name escapes me) in The Count of Monte Cristo.  I've always thought Polish women are some of the most beautiful and sexy.  What's cool, I didn't know anything about either of them till after I'd seen the movies.  It's always nice when your notions are validated that way. "}{"Title":"The Best Of The Brosnan Bonds","Date":"23 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Goldeneye returned James Bond to film theaters after a six-year hiatus, and Pierce Brosnan takes over the role of the world's most famous secret agent.  Brosnan successfully combines the suaveness of Sean Connery with the hard-nosed cynicism of Timothy Dalton.Officially this is the first post-Cold War Bond film (and the first to be shot in Russia itself), but in reality it is the second, with Dalton's License To Kill being the true first such.  Though the Cold War is over, the risks from it are still in existence, as the Russian mafia jockeys for position to control as much as it can.  Bond must tail an ex-Red Air Force jet jockey, Xenia Onatopp, who is having a torrid affair with the test pilot of a new high-technology gunship - an affair that proves deadly and which leads to an even bigger threat to the West.  The new head of Her Majesty's Secret Service is an obtuse bean-counter, and neither she nor the ticked-off HMSS bureaucrats she commands get along well, but at least she is willing to send Bond to correct a mistake she has made, the mistake in underestimating the importance of the chopper theft.It leads to James' encounter with an old friend, and one of the few instances in the entire Bond series of a truly gripping encounter with what turns out to be an adversary.  That it is so effective can be put to the strength of Sean Bean's performance as well as that of Brosnan. The inevitable fireworks erupt, beginning with the destruction of the gunship and a terrific firefight in a Red Army base, before James tracks down his power-mad adversary and learns the full extent of his plan for vengeance. "},{"Title":"One of the weaker Bond flicks","Date":"15 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Pierce Brosnan has the essence of a 007 for the 90s, but GoldenEye lacks that special zing that makes a Bond film good.  GoldenEye's technoish sounding high-pitched music is more an element for a cheesy video game and a lot of the action is unbelievable and messy, even for Bond standards. Also, the Bond girls are some of the more anemic Famke Jansen looks good but over-acts to the point of absurdity (I did like her keen interest in pain equals passion - look at her face when she finds out Bond is going to derail her train).  The good girl, played by Isabella Scorupco, is whiny and small (she looks like she could break too easily besides Ursala Andress or Michelle Yeoh).  Some of the stunts and action scenes are first-rate, such when Bond drives a tank through the streets of Russia.  Then some are insufficient and uninvolving (the destruction of a Russian factory where the Scorupco girl works).  GoldenEye is a big disappointment compaired to the superiority of the Timothy Dalton 007 vehicles, especially the terrific Living Daylights (1987).  Though Pierce looks good and the locations are nice enough.  The series would be recharged with Tomorrow Never Dies, the best Bond film of the 90s.  And let's face it Brosnan is no Connery, or even Moore. "},{"Title":"Simply invincible!","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  As far as I'm most definitely concerned, this has got to be a James Bond classic. After playing the game for a while, I decided to check this out again(I had seen it three or four years ago). I loved it! It was great to watch it. Although I pretty much knew and liked most of the things in this show because of my fondness and knowledge of the game, it is very well perfect in its own right. For one, it has a cast that is spectacular. Pierce Brosnan is the best Bond ever, Judy Dench is a much better M than all of the others, and Sean Bean and Desmond Llewelyn did a good job themselves. The lady who played Natalya was terrific too. Famke Jansen was acceptable at times, but her character(Xenia Onatopp)is a little freaky. It has a very good plot too. Janus, an evil corporation that is lead by Bond's former friend and MI6 partner Alec Trevelyan, has stolen the Goldeneye satellite and plans to use it to destroy major cities. A plan to destroy the world is nothing new when it comes to James Bond, but this is the kind of pressure and danger James Bond was created to live for. It is a movie that has a nice flow and a good combination of sequences to make it a classic. And who could forget Boris? Too funny! Another big reason I am fond of this movie is that it was the show that launched me into James Bond. I give this 4 and a half out of 5. "},{"Title":"Bond for a new generation.","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The Bond franchise looked dead.  All of Ian Fleming's original novels had long since been transferred to the silver screen.  The last two efforts with Timothy Dalton were abject failures of both execution and popularity.  Add to that the legal wrangling over the rights and a slew of other would-be action franchises, and it seemed as though Bond's days in the sun were long gone.Enter 'Goldeneye' and Pierce Brosnan.  Everything changed, as the old suave and debonair secret agent was given a 90's update, brought into the new age of action, and giving birth to a resurgence in the appeal of Fleming's timeless hero.  The success of 'Goldeneye' was key.  If it flopped, Bond really was finished, and the whole franchise was cooked.  If it succeeded, another batch of sequels would be ready to go, and the franchise would breathe new life.  It was all or nothing.  And it delivered the goods.Brosnan had been the original choice to take over as James Bond when Roger Moore retired from the role, but was contractually obligated to TV's 'Remington Steele', so Dalton got the role instead.  Eight years later, he was still the natural fit, and that helped ease the transition. Other changes needed to be made.  Samantha Bond came on board as the new, 90's-friendly Moneypenny, who could hold her own with James on the innuendo scale, and serves as the eternal foil to the randy secret agent.  The best change, however, was the addition of Dame Judi Dench as the new, hard-nosed M, a female authority figure to temper Bond's 'boys will be boys' mentality.  She's gruff, she's decisive, and she's got attitude to spare.  One link to the past was Desmond Llewellyn as Q, back again for another round as the master of the spy gear.So there are the changes, how how is the film?  Excellent, and on par with the standards set by the older, beloved Bond films.  There are four key elements to any Bond film  the villain, the plot, the stunts and the women.  'Goldeneye' hits solidly on at least three of the four. Sean Bean is a twisted shadow of the hero as 006 - Alec Trevelyan, a former associate of Bond believed killed in Russia, but secretly behind the theft of Goldeneye - a Russian orbital weapon capable of delivering a massive electromagnetic pulse to anywhere on the globe, causing catastrophe and mayhem in its wake.  As an ex-agent, he's an equal of Bond and knows all his tricks.For the women, there is one deadly and one sultry, both appealing in their own way.  Xenia Onatopp (Famke Janssen) is an assassin who specializes in 'intimate' kills, and has a psychotic delight in physical confrontations.  Natalya Simonova (Izabella Scorupco) is a programmer who had worked on Goldeneye and falls in with James Bond - she's everything feminine that appeals to the agent, as well as bringing something to the table - she knows the computer systems that can stop the weapon.The stunts work, for the most part.  There are the daring dives (bungee-jumping off the side of a dam), the vehicle chases (a tank in the streets of a small Russian town), and the climactic struggles (atop a satellite hundreds of feet off the ground).  It's well-filmed, nicely paced, and offers enough thrills without completely crossing the lines of believability (with one or two minor exceptions).The plot is the only really thin part - there's no real rationale given behind 006's plots, other than he's the Villain.  At the end, some mention is given about a theft scheme and revenge on the English for atrocities committed on the Cossacks after World War II, but there isn't the world-spanning, power-mad, fiendishly over-the-top scheme that is almost always found in a Bond film.  Alec Trevelyan is dangerous, yes, but he's not quite in the same league as Goldfinger or Dr. No.'Goldeneye' did what it set out to do - it revitalized an old franchise to the point where Brosnan's fourth go-round as Bond is about to be released, and there appears to be no slowing down.  In an ever-changing world, it's always nice to know that one thing is always constant.  Bond. James Bond. "},{"Title":"Bond is Back","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Capturing the spirit of the early Bond movies, Pierce Brosnan cuts a dashing figure as the new 007 before the franchise takes a deep dive into low-brow, crass commercialism and now competes with George Lazenby as the worst 'Bond'.  (Who really wants to watch a two hour BMW/Avis/Ericsson commercial?)The tongue-in-cheek portrayal of the worlds best secret agent man with cracking good exchangesDimitri Mishkin So, how shall we execute you, Mr. Bond?James Bond What, no small talk? No chit-chat? You know, that's the problem these days. No one bothers to take the time to give a really sinister interrogation.The movie often falls into self-parody, perhaps it's only weak point (you have to be a fan to get all the jokes) For instance, In the tradition of 'Pussy Galore' comes Xenia Onatopp, the excitable Russian assassin/bad girl,A very stern Judi Dench plays 'M' competently, with the cameos by Robbie Coltrane and Joe Don Baker worth watching out for, and Bond would not be Bond without the usual bevy of attractive Bond girls.Is it an intellectually challenging movie?  Hell, no!  But it's certainly two hours of mindless fun, and one of the great Bond Movies.  "},{"Title":"This one Tops it for me","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This one made me just outrightly say, Sorry Connery, you made the role and did well but Brosnan was born to play it.  Brosnan is everything I pictured James Bond to be, and this had all the right action scenes and role playing to make it my favorite.  It had the most interesting spin in giving us a villain, a former colleague/close friend of Bond and the tension was appropriately applied.  It just all clicked! "},{"Title":"Change Bond Forever.........","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Ok. after realizing Timothy Dalton sux as james bond, the casting made up for it with Pierce Brosnon, and what a great choice. There is no Bond better then Brosnon. Even though he is becoming slightly old for the part, give the man some Rogaine or Just for Men and he is great for the part again and again. I can not think of any better people to have played the characters in this movie. Natalya, Boris, Xienia, the general, they all rocked. They finally found the best bond and have put him in the BIG BOYS CHAIR for what i think is the best bond plot ever. Somewhat unrealistic it may be but it still rocks.  "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This movie gets better with each viewing. The opening scene is one of my personal favorites and is arguably the most memorable of all Bond opening scenes. Pierce Brosnan is a great new age Bond, although his next two Bond movie really blow and The world is not enough is probably the worst 007 movie ever. The downside to this movie is definitely the music which is really bad, a kind of early 80's crappy beat that really spoils the car chase in the early part of the movie. And don't get me started on that whole BMW thing. Are we supposed to watch a different BMW model in every upcoming Bond Movie? Looks like it. Cheap propaganda. Well, al least the women are gorgeous, especially Famke Janssen who played her character to the max. The villain was a disappointing and so was the ending. But altogether the movie is a nice step forward, actually it was the only step forward,because the next two sucked.Hope the 20th Bond adventure is at least as good as this one. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Excellent Bond film","Date":"1 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  After the loss of Dalton to the role of James Bond,  Pierce Brosnan took over the role and did a commendable job.  To me, Brosnan represents the best qualities of many former actors who played Bond.  He has the style and charisma of Connery, the wit of Moore but more appropriately used and the viciousness of Dalton.While the story is not as strong as License To Kill, Bond really enters the world of *modern* movie with a bang.  Great action and appealing cast from top to bottom.  "},{"Title":"Availability","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is the starting point for the definitive actor who should have been 007 James Bond right after Roger Moore.  He's the best looking and the coolest.  It's the only Bond movie that is not available on DVD.  Why is that? I've been trying to find it everywhere with no luck and I don't want a used copy or pay $100 dollars for a movie that should range from 20 to 25 dollars. "}{"Title":"A good return for the Bond franchise","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  After a six year hiatus, the James Bond bandwagon started rolling again with this slick, funny and highly entertaining movie. In Pierce Brosnan, the producers have found a perfect Bond, at least for the time being. He looks - and plays - the part almost to perfection. Now I have to admit that I've liked everyone of the actors playing James Bond in one way or another. They all brought something different to the role, and it worked (most of the time). Brosnan certainly doesn't disappoint in his first outing as the famous British agent. The movie itself is definitively one of the better Bond movies - it contains almost all the required elements, and then some. The locations are wonderful - Monaco, St. Petersburg and the Caribbean, to mention some of them - and the action is certainly up to today's standards. There is also quite a bit of humour here, which I definitively think every Bond-movie should contain. After all, what would Bond be without those clever one-liners?The villains are very good in this film - particularly Famke Janssen as the evil Xenia Onatopp, whose speciality is killing her victims by crushing them between her legs during intercourse (you simply have to love the Bond series just for coming up with such incredible characters...). Sean Bean is also very credible - for once, it is interesting to have a villain of Bond's own age and physique, not some old fuddy-duddy with a white cat on his lap. Power-hungry Russian general Ourumov impressively completes a strong villain triangle. The downside to the movie is, first and foremost, the musical score. Maybe not a major point to all of you, but it certainly sets a mood to the film - or in this case, it doesn't. The fabulous James Bond theme is played to a minimum, and the rest of the time there's some heavy drum-beat which sounds like it's made on oil cans or something. The wonderful, tantalizing John Barry-themes from most of the Bond-movies is sorely missed here. Second, I didn't quite warm up to Judi Dench as M. She somehow reminded me too much of my grandmother...but this may improve in the coming Bond movies.All in all, it's a strong return for James Bond, and it makes you look forward to the next movies. I'll rate this a 5 out of 6 on my dice.  "},{"Title":"I must have been a fool...","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  A long time ago I gave this movie a bad review.  A couple years later I bought it and watched it again.  I must say that I was entirely wrong in my review.  It has every Bond element that has made the others so wonderful.  Pierce Brosnan is excellent in his first outing as Bond, while Sean Bean is equally as good as his former ally Alec.  The action never flags; the only fault in the movie is Eric Serra's very poor music score. "},{"Title":"Brosnan is a worthy Bond","Date":"23 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This review may contain spoliers.After two films starring the wooden Timothy Dalton and a six-year hiatus, 007 is back and on top form.  Regardless of the fact that Roger Moore is my favourite Bond, Brosnan plays Bond with considerable facility and sophistication.  This film seems welcomingly fresh, with a new Miss Moneypenny and M, who is brilliantly played by Judi Dench.  Even 007's HQ has been altered to fit in with the times.  The title sequence and song are both dynamic and reflect the high-octane action and theme of the film.  The plot is relatively convoluted for a Bond film but this adds to the movie's plausibility.  007 is sent after a high-tech helicopter which has been hijacked.  This leads him to investigate the theft of the Goldeneye satellite, which simulates a nuclear blast in outer space, from which an electromagnetic pulse emanates, destroying all computers. The locations are diverse as Bond travels from the South of France to St Petersburg to Cuba.  On a critical point, the film does have a tendency to use the Soviets as the enemy even though the Cold War has ended.  The high points of this film include a car chase which succeeds the title sequence and a fight scene on a train.  The coup de grace involves a battle atop a satellite antenna in Cuba.  A highly entertaining film which must be watched by movie fans worldwide. "},{"Title":"Brosnan Makes A Great Bond, But . . .","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Dmitri Mishkin How shall we kill you?  Bond What - no small talk? No chit-chat? That's the problem with the world these days - no one takes the time to conduct the proper sinister interrogation.This exchange in `Goldeneye' probably best sums up the Pierce Brosnan era of 007 &#150; this isn't your father's 007 anymore.  Sure, `Goldeneye' features a lot of the obligatory trappings of every James Bond movie made since 1963's `Goldfinger' elaborate chase scenes, gadgets, a bad girl with a name laced with sexual innuendo, and a megalomaniacal villain obsessed with taking over the world.  However, there's also a new attempt to bring 007 into the modern world.  As played by Pierce Brosnan, James Bond is still the cold, calculating, womanizing spy he's always been, but the arrogance has been tempered with a bit of self-awareness . . . and even a little remorse.  Brosnan is also the first Bond to even slightly recognize how absurd some of the situations he's involved in really are &#150; hey, he couldn't chastise the villain for failing to reveal his grandiose plan for world domination if he didn't recognize this. Brosnan's Bond is a more adult, somber hero than his predecessors &#150; while this makes for a more well-rounded, three dimensional, believable character, it's debatable as to whether or not this makes for better Bond.  More on that in a second.But as for the film `Goldeneye' &#150; pretty darn good, if not great.  Wisely avoiding the `Thunderball' template that so many Bond films seem to blindly follow (submarines and nuclear missiles), `Goldeneye' instead starts with a vacationing James Bond (Brosnan), who meets the lovely but deadly Xenia Onatopp (Famke Janssen, in one of the best Bond `bad girl' performances of all time).  Xenia is part of a Russian mafia team trying to steal an experimental helicopter that is insulated against all forms of electronic jamming &#150; Bond, of course, tries to stop her, but not before getting a little frisky with her first.  Xenia succeeds, leading Bond to investigate why she would want to steal that specific helicopter &#150; and he uncovers a plot involving the space satellite `Goldeneye', capable of unleashing electromagnetic pulses that can completely disrupt all electronic transmissions and functions anywhere in the world.  Xenia is just part of a larger plan, one involving some rogue Russian military officers &#150; and a rogue, evil ex-British Secret Service agent, 006 (Sean Bean).  Whoever controls the Goldeneye satellite can conceivably control the world, so once again, it's up to James Bond to save the world . . .The action contained in `Goldeneye' is admittedly spectacular.  (In fact, the action sequences of all the Brosnan Bond movies are impressive.)  The opening sequence involving a free-fall off a perilously high cliff without a parachute is simply awesome, and later segments get the adrenaline racing as well.  The story is also pretty darn good &#150; while not exactly Shakespeare, it covers all the standard Bond elements fairly well. There's a lot of razor-sharp dialogue between the characters, the plot is fairly original, the story crackles along at a good pace, and the ludicrous plot holes are kept to a bare minimum.  The main (and only) gripe with both the story and the action . . . well, it just doesn't have the feel of a 007 film.  Take out Pierce Brosnan and the references to the British Secret Service, insert Bruce Willis, and `Goldeneye' could be a generic action film.  There's small touches missing from both action and story that keep `Goldeneye' from having the true feel of a Bond film &#150; it's missing things like the hilarious golfing scene from `Goldfinger', or the final confrontation of `Man With the Golden Gun'.  It's not a major gripe, but `Goldeneye' is simply too generic, as if someone took a standard action screenplay, inserted a few names like 007, M, and Q, and thought that was enough to make a classic Bond movie.  It's enough to make a pretty good Bond movie, I guess, but the formula falls short of being great &#150; or being a classic.As for the cast &#150; first rate, for the most part.  As mentioned before, Famke Janssen practically steals the film as Xenia Onatopp, a sadomasochistic sex kitten from hell.  Equal parts camp and vicious brutality, Janssen makes Xenia one of the most memorable Bond characters in quite a long time.  The `good girl' of the film &#150; Natalya Simonova (played by Izabella Scorupco) is excellent as well &#150; while not exactly believable as one of the world's best computer programmers, she shows enough charm, wit and style to be more than simple arm candy for 007.  Sean Bean is pretty good as the rogue agent 006, but the character is so quiet and deadly serious that he almost fades into the background at times.  A little more over-the-top outrage would've made 006 a better Bond villain.  Special mention must be made of Desmond Llewelyn, who never, ever disappointed as Q, and Dame Judi Dench as the `new' M . . . it's definitely a guilty pleasure to see an actress of her esteemed caliber slumming in a Bond flick and loving every minute of it.  And Pierce Brosnan &#150; well, he's one of the best Bonds ever (second only to Sean Connery).  Debonair, cold, and confident, Brosnan effortlessly exudes a lot of the qualities that make 007 great . . . and have been missing for quite a while.  The only issue I have with Brosnan as Bond is the change towards the introspective, fallible, `21st century' Bond &#150; but that's not Brosnan's fault.  Still, part of the `charm' of 007 is his complete ruthlessness (and if don't think Bond is ruthless, watch the first few Sean Connery 007 films again), and the introduction of self-introspection and doubt takes away from the established character.  Change can be good at times, but this one isn't.  A minor quibble, to be sure . . . but it's there nonetheless, and it's held Brosnan back from possibly being the best 007 of all time.Overall, `Goldeneye' is a quality film that's packed with action and is also a lot of fun.  If you're a die-hard Bond fan (like myself), you'll probably walk away from it a wee bit disappointed, but for the most part, it's still undeniably entertaining.  One of the better Bond films, and to date, possibly Pierce Brosnan's best Bond film.  Grade B+  "},{"Title":"A very enjoyable film which every Bond fan will love","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  James Bond has returned!  Goldeneye stars Pierce Brosnon as James Bond, everyone's favourite spy.  The movie contains everything needed for a great Bond film Gadgets, Babes, Action and Guns!  A must see for any Bond fan! "},{"Title":"By far the best Bond of the past 20 years","Date":"18 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  WARNING, THIS REVIEW MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS! READ AT YOUR OWN RISK!Ever since the past two James Bond films (The Living Daylights and License To Kill) I had been getting pretty skeptical about where Bond was going to be in the future. With all due respect Timothy Dalton was not a smart choice as playing James Bond for those two movies. He's not good looking or charming and he also can't act for the life of him. Maybe the producers noticed that they had made a mistake because GoldenEye certainly leaves those past Bonds in the dust. First of all, they ditched Dalton and replaced him with Pierce Brosnan who's a lot better looking than Dalton. He certainly can't act too great though but in fairness Bond is not about acting but about looks and style. You feel that when you watch Brosnan speak the world famous Bondian quote, The names Bond, James Bond. Another reason that GoldenEye has changed a lot is that the previous Bonds were made back when Russia was still the U.S.S.R. So there was no Berlin wall, no menacing Soviets and no Cold War anymore in this film. Is that a good thing? Eh, I don't know. This movie does contain some Russian roots throughout it though. At times there's the red star of the Soviets on the screen or the notable Hammer and Sickle spliced within this film. There still there, but not enough as to jade this movie from being new and different from the rest. So now what you have to realize is that in the Bonds of today and the future were not going to be dealing with outrageous baddies with metal teeth or metal Bowler hats who are bent on revenge. Or guys who want to make Fort Knox's gold go nuclear or blow up major cities with laser satellites filled with diamonds. In todays world these bad guys are laughable. The kind of enemies that we are dealing with in a world like todays are corporate jerks. People who want to steal millions through white-collar crime. Is this good or bad? Is this swaying to far from the originals? I don't know nor do I care to much. Frankly this is an enjoyable movie whether or not your a Bond fan. I don't want to get to deep into the plot of this film because it would be long and annoying because it's a simple plot, but any plot concerning James Bond requires more than the 1,000 words that they let you have for these things. So, the plot. 007's partner and friend 006 (played smarmingly by Sean Bean) dies (or so Bond thinks) on a awry secret mission at a dam in someplace cold and snowy. Skip ahead some months after 006's death and we find out that 006 is infact alive (GASP!) and has a maniacal plan full of devience to steal all the money from the National Bank of England. How he does this? It involves a satellite (named the GoldenEye) and E.M.P.'s. If you haven't guessed it yet than watch the movie. As usual in this movie as in all Bond movies there's over the top action madness that occurs as Bond tries to foil 006's plans. Such action madness includes an awesome tank chase through the streets of Russia and the grand finale on-top of a big satellite. All this action is very breath taking and gives you a headache on how much of a pain it must have been to pull something like that off. Also another thing worth noting is the great death scenes in this film! From the tight squeeze in the trees, to the final fall in the end (which would've killed him! But didn't....) and the awesome demise to the computer nerd brought about by the sweet sweet Liq. Nitro. Good, good stuff. And for all you fans of the originals you do get a dose of some over the top bad guys (and girls). Such as the lady who enjoys breaking mens back during intercourse with her legs. That's a new one! Plus the nerdiest bad guy I've seen named Boris (with a name like that you know he's got to mean trouble) played by Alan Cumming. All these characters plus the classic Q and the new M played by Dame Judi Dench make this cast unforgettable and at times hilarious. Add to that the panache of Pierce Brosnan playing a role I know he must of had fun with and you get a superb action movie and a new chapter to the great book of Bond. 8/10   "},{"Title":"The one to watch if you weren't impressed with the previous 007 outings...","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" They had something like a 6 year gap between making Licence to Kill and this, and it shows - in a positive way. This is Bond modernised, serious, as he should be, but not without the odd moment of levity to lighten the mood. Perhaps the reason I disliked Bond before I came to this was that by the time I'd gotten old enough to properly appreciate the series it had disappeared. The Living Daylights was the first Bond film I saw that I thought was halfway decent and I haven't seen Licence to Kill to this day.I really liked Dalton as Bond, and can't understand all the flak he received. Perhaps it was because he had the temerity to try and 'act' the role after the shameless mugging of Roger Moore and his eyebrows. This was Bond as Ian Fleming supposedly WANTED him played, why was everybody complaining? I have to say that in my opinion all those people who would rank Moore above Dalton are nothing more than philistines...So; Goldeneye gets rid of the bad taste that Moore's 80's outings left in the mouth without making things so dark as to turn audiences away. I have never seen a Connery Bond film (I know shameful) but in all the short clips and photographs I've seen he looks like he makes the definitive James Bond. Brosnan must surely tie with Dalton though; not QUITE as good an actor but definitely looks the part. Ironically, this is the film in which he looks most comfortable in the role, despite it being his first installment. Perhaps it's because the script is the best of the 3, despite TND being marginally the more entertaining film.The rest of the cast all fit perfectly into their roles as well. Sean Bean makes the best Bond villain in ages, rivaled only by Sophie Marceau's Elektra King in T.W.I.N.E. The whole 'vengeance' plot isn't the most originally conceptualised or written, but Brosnan and Bean perform it with gusto. Isabella Scorupco is unremarkable as Natalya (apart from the fact that she's given a bit to do - shock!) while Robbie Coltrane and Alan Cumming are both superb in two very different comic tinged roles.I saved Famke Janssen till last for us guys. She pulls off gorgeous and evil effortlessly. I do believe (although I haven't seen it in awhile) that as Bond brings her to justice he quips What a waste!. I for one would heartily echo that sentiment. Also look out for a Minnie Driver cameo.(POSSIBLE SPOILERS)Director Campbell is to be applauded for not approaching this as a 'conventional' Bond film, but instead as a slick thriller that happens to have Bond in it. This film contributed a number of classic scenes to the Bond canon, including the 'jump' at the beginning, the tank sequence and the rendezvous in the sauna. If, like me, you abhorred the cheesy air of Moore's outings, this is the one to prove that it can be done with the sort of elan and charm that Bond himself would approve of. As 'M' might say Welcome back, 007. "},{"Title":"Truly A Memorable Bond Film","Date":"13 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  GoldenEye is a hit on my Bond list. The best in the Brosnan era, GoldenEye contains great action, great characters, theme song and a whole lot more. I give it an A-. GoldenEye had great action sequences. I loved the opening. The bungee jump and the motorcycle jump into the cockpit of the plane was cool. The theme song had wonderful mucical icons, Tina Turner, The Edge and Bono. Tina sung the theme with such power and beauty. The Edge andBono wrote a truly beautiful song.The characters were the highlight of the film for me. Pierce Brosnan made a very impressive debut as James Bond. Brosnan plays Bond with charm, style, wit and humor. The four main qualities that Bond should have. Sean Bean is a great villian. It's great to see a villian that Bond truly respected and cared for in the past that turned into his worst enemy. Famke Janssen makes it into my Bond girl hall of fame with her wild and enjoyable preformence as Xenia Onnatop. What shedoes with those thighs during sex should make her the poster girl for the thighmaster. For the first time I am able to find a henchmenthat I truly enjoyed.Goldeneye is my ideal Bond film. It's truly a memorable Bond film.  "},{"Title":"OK, but its just not the same anymore...","Date":"17 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Let me just start by saying that most people agree, myself included, that Pierce Brosnan was an exeptional choice for the new James Bond. But I feel that they just cannot make Bond films now that are as entertaining and original as the older ones were. 'GoldenEye' starts well, like most Bond films, with an attention grabbing pre-credits stunt that will make you want to watch more. But while the the first and last 20 minutes or so of the film are exciting and action packed, the film tends to become a bit boring at times as it tries to let a story develop. I don't know about you, but I'm a Bond fan mainly for the stunts, chases, one-liners and gadgets - basicaly because they are just fun to watch. Whilst 'GoldenEye' does have some fantastic 90's technology action sequences and stunts unique to the Bond film genre, they seem to be sperated few and far between by too many long boring bits. Although it's definately not Brosnans fault, 'GoldenEye' just seems to be too serious for a Bond film. To me, 'GoldenEye' lacks the charm of the classic Bond films of the 60's and 70's, both with their light hearted humour, innovative gadgets and props and special effects with stunts that were even more entertaining because of the era in which they were made. Perhaps the best of the latter Bond films, say, from the 80's onwards, was 'The Living Daylights', whilst some would argure 'Octopussy'.'GoldenEye' is all right, but not as fun to watch as the earlier Bond films. It's just not the same anymore. "},{"Title":"Special effects technology finally catches up with the Bond franchise...","Date":"19 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  These comments might contain heavy biases and plot spoilers.Aside from On Her Majesty's Secret Service, GoldenEye is my favourite Bond film of all time. The reasons can all be summed up in one word believability. In the pre-credit sequence, we are shown James Bond riding a motorbike off a cliff and skydiving into a plane. This stunt simply wouldn't have been possible to simulate even in the most recent Bond film at the time, Licence To Kill. Instead of having to make compromises in the story to fit the limits of special effects technology, the Bond franchise was finally able to pull out all the stops and make a film where the action was as outrageous as the story promised.Then there's Pierce Brosnan. Many hold Sean Connery to be the best actor to ever play James Bond, but Brosnan's acting is far more consistent with the behaviour of a government-trained killer. I should know, I've met enough professional assassins to know when an actor plays the part right, and Brosnan is the only actor who is completely consistent. The only other Bond actor to come close was George Lazenby, and that was only when his newly-wed wife was killed. Granted, these also have a lot to do with the script, but they also depend a lot on the actor's interpretation of the script, without which even the most well-crafted character will fall flat.Then there's the theme song. Tina Turner's vocalisations on the GoldenEye theme had me green with envy at the strength of her voice, which is saying something considering that I am a bass vocalist in a band with similar techniques and trademarks to Type O Negative and David Bowie. If my voice is that strong when I am fifty-six years old, I'll be able to die a happy man. GoldenEye is the best theme song the Bond franchise has ever had, even compared to the haunting instrumental of On Her Majesty's Secret Service. It's no wonder Tomorrow Never Dies sank like the Bismark, coming out so early after this film. A two-note comparison between the theme songs is like a two millilitre comparison between urine and champagne.The plot is first-class, as well. One of Bond's equals and rivals in the espionage field steals an electromagnetic pulse weapon with the intent of destroying every electric circuit in England. He is ably assisted by the most annoying computer nerd in cinematic history... and the best Bond Girl since Bond's own late wife, played so excellently by Diana Rigg. Indeed, Famke Janssen reminded me so much of a girlfriend of mine who died in circumstances I won't repeat here that she instantly became a favourite of mine regardless of all else. Any woman who gets that much of a kick out of violence is alright with me!Don't let what those of us who would rather transport us back to age where domestic violence and child abuse was okay would tell you put you off this film. This is the best Bond film since before the Roger Moore (I always found it amazing that the Nobody Does It Better song is used in one of these episodes... nobody played Bond any worse!) era, hands down. Sure, the series was seriously derailed again by the next film, but things look like they're in good shape with The World Is Not Enough, and even if they're not, we'll always have GoldenEye, the best thing to happen to the Bond franchise since Roger Moore left. "}{"Title":"Brosnan was okay, but how about Moneypenny!","Date":"18 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Many people talk about the new Bond, but I'm more into how good-looking Samantha Bond looks...The former Moneypenny's seemed to be average, but...anyway, I thought Goldeneye could have been better, music more upbeat... ...The Eric Serra song at the end was cool...5 out of 10... "},{"Title":"One of the worst Bond films","Date":"23 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  GoldenEye marked the return of Bond, this time played by the newcomer Pierce Brosnan. While he seemed to be a promising new person to fit the Bond character, the film itself left much to be desired.The new Bond film is more like any other action film, thus less interesting. Brosnan is still very stiff in his role (though in the two next films he's getting better). The sexist misogynist dinosaur talk between him and M are embarassing, the Bond series is NOT the place for such quasi-feminist lines, particularly when delivered seriously. The right way to criticize Bond's sexism is via humour and witty remarks (as in Thunderball and The Spy Who Loved Me) instead of laughably stone-faced dialogue as in GoldenEye.Sean Bean is one of the unthreatening, worst villains, with simply stupid lines, again laughable in their serious presentation, especially the one about how do you silence the screams of those you have killed or something like that. Just plain awful.The action sequences are the ones that work the best, with a good teaser in the beginning and the memorable tank ride, though the sight of Natalia running around the exploding Severnaya radar station with obviously made-up stains on her face and mussed-up hair is unintentionally funny.I know that logic is not one of the most important features in Bond films, but how exactly did that tank driven by Bond manage to get ahead the speeding train? It was distracting.What really sinks this film is one of the most important elements of any film but which in GoldenEye does great harm the awful, awful, awful score by Eric Serra. Despite a nice title song, GoldenEye is better left unseen.  "},{"Title":"Good, could have been great","Date":"18 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I was very excited about this when the previews came out.  Pierce Brosnan was born to be Bond, the action looked great, the gals looked great, and everything seemed in place.As to the movie itself, it starts off very well.  Brosnan's got charm and charisma up the wazoo. The pre-credit sequence is intense and I loved Judi Dench's M giving Bond hell about his sexist dinosaur ways.  Brosnan's early scenes with Joe Don Baker and especially Robbie Coltrane are slyly funny and mucho fun.  And Alan Cumming is a treat in any role; here he's a perverted Russian computer geek.Unfortunately, once the plot kicks in, the post-modern edge fades and then it's exactly like every other Bond film.  (SPOILERS)  Alec Trevelyan could have been a perfect adversary for Bond; someone who knows all of 007's tricks and has had most of the same experiences.  Too bad he quickly degenerates into yet another Bond supervillain with an inept private army, easily-destroyed secret headquarters, and a goofy plan to take over the world.  And he makes every mistake that he should have known to avoid.  As soon as he put Bond in the soon-to-self-destruct helicopter instead of just shooting him, I knew the story was in trouble.  Sean Bean acquits himself nicely, and at least he gets to hang around with Famke Jensen, who's clearly having a ball (her bathhouse duet with 007 is a highlight).The action scenes are cool, although I didn't think we needed to see Bond kill dozens of Russian soldiers in the Ministry building, and the tank chase seemed a bit too silly, a bit Roger Moore-esque.  The climax is nothing we haven't seen twenty times, but Bond and Trevelyan's mano-e-mano is quite well done. "},{"Title":"Premium Bond","Date":"12 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  *Possible spoilers*When ITV decided to show all the Bond films last year, for some reason they missed out the best one.GoldenEye marked the first time Pierce Brosnan would appear in the long running series and was something of Bond's greatest challenge.          Could a 'sexist, misogynistic dinosaur' (as M describes him) survive in the politically correct Nineties?          The answer was yes and the movie proved to be one of the most lucrative in the series, grossing over           $350million worldwide. Combine that with the earnings from Brosnan's other two Bond outings,           Tomorrow Never Dies and The World is Not Enough, and those three films have made over $1billion.          Not bad for an ageing British agent who has been tackling nefarious villains on the big screen since 1962.          Unlike the last two 007 movies which ranged from the patchy to the yawnsome, GoldenEye is a tense,           rollercoaster ride from the word go.          Directed by Martin Campbell, who gave the world Edge of Darkness - one of the greatest dramas ever to           grace the small screen - it pitches Bond against old colleague 006 (Sean Bean).          Boasting some fantastic sets by series veteran Peter Lamont, great special effects by Derek Meddings - in           the final movie before his untimely death, and an atmospheric, offbeat score by Leon's Eric Serra, this is           priceless entertainment.           However, a word of advice Turn the sound off at the end credits as Serra's closing love theme almost           wrecks a perfect movie. The French composer is a genius when it comes to writing soundtracks for           blockbusters like The Fifth Element, but does insist on lending his vocal talents to the project. Not a wise           move.          Now back to the story.          James Bond is called into action when the eponymous device goes missing; a weapon capable of           projecting an electro magnetic pulse at any target. Once computers are disabled by the blast, 006 and his           cohorts wipe out all credit cards and reduce Blighty to the stone age.          Or something.          He's soon involved with a kingpin of the Russian Mafia (Robbie Coltrane), a gorgeous computer           programmer (Isabella Scorupco) and an egotistical hacker (Alan Cumming).          Old favourite Q (the late Desmond Llewellyn) is on hand along with a new M (Judi Dench) and           Moneypenny (Samntha Bond).          The plot may be nothing new, but it scarcely matters.          The dialogue is witty, the action scenes nail-biting and as the suave spy, nobody does it better than Pierce           Brosnan in a role he was born to play.          Now pay attention, because here are some trivia points to wow your family and friends.          The Ferrari featured in the opening chase was actually rented and after it collided with Bond's Aston           Martin had to be repaired over night at a cost of $80,000.          Worth remembering the next time you get a dent in the old motor.          When 007 arrives at the Casino in Monte Carlo, the first few scenes are shot on location and then it cuts to           a perfect replica reproduced in London. Take a bow Peter Lamont and his crew of technicians as the join is           impossible to spot.          Taking the crown as queen of all Bond villains is X-Men's Famke Janssen as the deliciously evil Xenia           Onatopp. She loves nothing more than crushing men to death with her thighs and wiping out control           rooms with her trusty machine gun.          The fight between her and Bond in a sauna ranks among the best ever scene on film.          From the stunning pre-credits scene in which Bond bungee jumps off a dam to the explosive finale on a           satellite dish, GoldenEye is more than your average 007 adventure.          This is the Rolls Royce of action movies which has lost little of its lustre in the five years since its release.           The tank chase through St Petersburgh is a masterpiece - despite the obvious product placement for a           brand of mineral water - while cast and crew pull out all the stops to make this a premium Bond. "},{"Title":"Brosnan's brash Bond","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Pierce Brosnan finally gets to become James Bond after several years of delay and its a doozie..With the Cold War over that doesnt mean the end for Bond's adventures with the Russians or the ladies..  When an international incident occurs in one of the former soviet republics Bond is called to find out why. While looking he encounters those who do not wish him to find out the answers.. While not up to the level of the Connery Bond flicks..Brosnan looks very comfortable in his 007 role and hopefully he will stay with it for a while..with the usual eye popping stunts and unbelievable escapes along with the gorgeous ladies (Famke Janssen in a definitely bad girl role...meow!) Bond jumps back in the drivers seat...let's hope he can stay there on a scale of one to ten..6 "},{"Title":"A good, but not great reintroduction to Bond.","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  After six years of waiting, Bond fans would go to see anything with the character of Bond, and they did. As my summary states, this film is passable as a Bond film(definately better then TND)but gets bogged down in the middle during the theft of the Goldeneye. Brosnan's performance is servicable, but we really wouldnt see his take on the character until the recent TWINE. With some good set pieces and interesting characters, this film barely succeeds as a Bond film. If you want to see a good Brosnan film, see the best The World is Not Enough "},{"Title":"The best Bond!","Date":"23 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I'm in a dilemma of which is better this or The World Is Not Enough. On reflection I decided this was better. Sean Bean as Alec Trevelyan is surely one of the best Bond villains in existence. Although he is far too young to have been born in the 50's as the film suggest, this is just nit-picking. The action is first rate. I prefer Natalya to Xenia (unlike most people.) This film has a brilliant balance of updating Bond for the 90's and keeping it true to old Bond style. Judi Dench is definitely the best M. This Bond film is the best! 5 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Bond, James Bond....","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Finally!  When I watched the other James Bond films, I thought to myself, These guys are wussies!. (Not Connery) Well, now that Peirce Brosnan has revitalized the role of James Bond, after the lacking performances from Timothy Dalton, and Roger Moore, maybe we can see some real butt kicking. In this adventure, 007 returns to Russia to retrieve a stolen access code for a new super weapon deemed Goldeneye.   This movie is worth watching strictly for the awesome tank chase through St. Petersburg scene.   This time around, newcomer Izabella Scorupco and Famke Janssen (X-Men) are the ever beautiful and always infamous Bond girls. It's been 6 years since the last Bond film, License to Kill, and I think it's been worth the wait.  Let's just hope that we wont have to wait that long between the next films. "},{"Title":"GoldenEye rocks!","Date":"29 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Six years after License to Kill(1989),James Bond returned with a bang! this one is about 007 fighting Russians(again!)and being in the company of a lovely lady.Brosnan does a good job & this is his best Bond film to date.Sean Bean is malevolent.The action scenes kick serious asphalt.Rating**** (out of five) "},{"Title":"This one holds a special place in my heart...","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I grew up on a steady diet of James Bond (always during the summertime, with ABC and TBS re-running the movies over and over). I HATED what the franchise had degenerated into with License To Kill (not only because of the grotesque, over-the-top violence, but also the unexplainable ways that tanker truck defied the laws of physics in ways no tanker truck I know of can) and I thought that that was the end of Bond. Not so, thank God. I finally rented Goldeneye and was hooked from the first words out of Brosnan's mouth (Beg your pardon. Forgot to knock. SMACK!).It is really an unusual entry in the James Bond series in many respects. First there's the main villain, Alec Trevelyan. This marks the first and, as far as I know, only time that I've seen Bond face an opponent who happened to be a former friend and colleague. Both hero and villain are alike in one respect the world around them has changed, but never of them have (Bond with his loyalty and duty to England, Trevelyan with his hatred toward England for his family's massacre). Secondly, this is probably the first Bond film that I've seen that acknowledges the fact that Bond has a past (as shown with his dealings with Zuchovsky). Then there's the change in genders as far as Bond's boss, M, which actually goes back to the origins of Fleming's conception of the name (it was the nickname he gave to his mother). Finally, I doubt that there's ever been as vicious a bad Bond girl as Xenia Onnatop in all of the film series' history. She gives a whole new meaning to the term killer thighs.Brosnan handles himself well as Bond (not great, but I'm willing to overlook deficiencies as he becomes more comfortable with the role). In fact, though I still hail and revere Connery as the quintessential James Bond, I must say that I think that Brosnan actually looks like James Bond SHOULD charming, suave, urbane, highly intelligent, but the last thing one would expect from looking at him is that he can kill and has on many occasions. Two factors that work toward his favor is his sensuality (watching him get it on with the ladies is perhaps the most believable of all previous Bonds) and his facial expressions (no words necessary in a lot of scenes, you can read them like a phone book on his face). Watching him get physical is a lot of fun, probably the high point being his knockdown, dragout fight with Treveleyan or maybe it's the St. Petersburg tank and car chase. I can safely say that the moment he won me over was on the missile train, standing over TrevelyanTrevelyan Why can't you just be a good boy and DIE?Bond You first. (Looking over at Onnatop) You second. UP!In short, Goldeneye (named for Ian Fleming's Jamaica estate) is everything a Bond film should be outrageous but borderline realistic, humorous but not too, serious but not stony, and a lot of fun. "}{"Title":"You Know The Name, You Know The Number....","Date":"24 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Pierce Brosnan begins what I hope will be a very long association with James Bond in Martin Campbell's Goldeneye. However, its good but not great. The movie is shamelessly commercial (something that increases in subsequent movies) product placement is far too high on the agenda! The pre-title sequence is spectacular but perhaps too far fetched even for a Bond movie! Brosnan combines the many great attributes of Connery with the wit and charm of Moore. Here he interprets Bond with a characterisation that is both commanding and refreshing after the Dalton era. The trouble with the film is that it promised so much but delivered very little. Alright, there are some of the most stunning action scenes yet to be filmed in a Bond to be found here. Nevertheless, it lacks a certain something. In many ways it reminds me greatly of Dr No the first Bond film made in 1962. Goldeneye is the rebirth of the Bond franchise. Not since the sixties had 007 caused quite a stir. I think one of the biggest reasons I don't get that Bond feeling from Goldeneye is largely due to Eric Serra's woefully poor soundtrack. It's simply awful. Electronic sounds substitute the classy brass sound given to Bond by John Barry.  Tina Turner provides an adequate title track, but not since A View To A Kill have we heard a truly great Bond song. Sean Bean dumps his heavy Yorkshire burr in favour of a typical English upper class accent in order to play baddie Alec Trevelyan. Scottish born Robbie Coltrane does likewise in order to play the Russian, Valentin. In fact I'm pretty sure there's not one native Russian in the film. A pity really since the Russians hadn't been the enemy for a number of films prior to this one. For me its difficult to accept such well known British actors with accents other then their own. Brosnan returns two years later in the superior Tomorrow Never Dies - 1997.  "},{"Title":"Pierce Brosnan IS James Bond","Date":"21 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I remember when I first saw Pierce Brosnan in Remington Steele. The first thought that came to mind He looks like James Bond.  There was something about him that struck me as the ideal actor to play 007.  So, I was thoroughly disappointed that the show that made him famous also prevented him from playing the ultimate movie spy.  But as they say, good things come to those who wait.  My dad got me hooked into James Bond. In the early 80s, HBO played a James Bond movie every month in order until For Your Eyes Only.  He relived his youth, and I was lucky enough to see the ultimate in action movies. He loved Sean Connery and tolerated Roger Moore.  I loved them all. But it was always the idea that James Bond movies were the ultimate form of escapism.  You get to travel to exotic locales, have a huge expense account, drive the latest cars, use the latest gadgets and bed the most beautiful women.  What guy could refuse that kind of life?After six years of nothing, Goldeneye comes along with my preferred actor to play James Bond.  And Brosnan didn't disappoint!  It helped that he had an excellent supporting cast and a very formidable enemy in Sean Bean.  Admittedly, it was formulaic, but who cares?  The action was literally non-stop, and Brosnan looked very much the part of the super spy. Goldeneye definitely had a lot of pressure placed on it.  The James Bond franchise was never more in jeopardy, particularly after such a long layoff.  Yet, everything that made all the previous Bond films enjoyable also worked in Goldeneye but with a 90s update.  The Cold War is over, but the prejudices still remain.  We have old enemies becoming cautious allies, and Bond finds himself answering to a woman!    This was a great introduction for Brosnan to fit into the role.  Each Bond film he has done since has only shown how much he compliments and adds to the further mystique of James Bond. Hopefully, Brosnan will be happy to stick around for a few more.     "},{"Title":"One of the most underrated films of the Series","Date":"13 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Goldeneye was Bond at its truly edgiest.  Not because the movie has a revenge scheme to it, but because so much was riding on it.  MGM, United Artists, and everyone involved in the Bond series save Connery himself was at risk of going under.  In the words of many a secret agent, failure is not an option.  So comes probably the one of the greatest efforts of the studio in quite awhile.  Brosnan didn't act like the smug, I am Bond attitude, but did everything he could to do the job right.  And so he did.  The movie was fun, exciting.  The action sequences were bone-jarring, the characters interesting, and please, ladies and gentlemen, the plot wasn't as complicated than at first glance.  It may have been an act of desperation but it was a great one. "},{"Title":"One of the best of all the rest...","Date":"7 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This flick was awesome..it was very original, with actor Pierce Brosnan, Izabella Scoruppco, and Famke Janssen.  They all did a great job.  It had spectacular special effects and stunts, including the original score.  It got better as the film went on, with the James Bond Theme. "},{"Title":"Brosnan tries","Date":"7 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  James Bond is bigger than any one man -- bigger than Ian Fleming, bigger than cubby, bigger than a single actor.  Connery, Moore, and Dalton all brought out different facets in Bond's character, but  they need not be inconsistent.  Brosnan adds his talents to the impressive line of Bonds.  All four men were destined for the part.  Moore was considered for Dr. No, and Fleming approved of him;  but Connery got the part.  When Connery left, Dalton was earnestly considered for On Her Majesty's Secret Service, and was courted thereafter.  Dalton got the point after Brosnan had to withdraw for contractual obligations.In Goldeneye he hasn't quite worked out exactly who he is as Bond.  He has a ridiculous scene on a beach that doesn't help (only an actor of Dalton's calibre should attempt an emotional Bond;  Brosnan comes off dysfunctional).For the rest, the acting is about as over-the-top as one anticipates.  Alan Cumming's computer geek Boris is an amazing performance, although he's not a very threatening henchman;  Famke Janssen provides the typical Bondian twelve-year-old's fantasy;  and Robby Coltrane is a welcome addition to the Bond family.Still, as Bonds go, although Brosnan is a drop in quality from Timothy Dalton's knife-edge Bond, he seems to have the makings of a fine James Bond, and when he finds his sea legs he will be quite an adequate choice, and perhaps even a notch above Roger Moore's charming eye-roller.  It's a thrill when any of these gentlemen say Bond, James Bond, however, and will be when future Bonds are cast.Bond is bigger than any actor, as long as the writing holds up. "},{"Title":"My favourite Bond film","Date":"29 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  From reading many other reviews, I have noticed how it is generally considered that this was a bad Bond movie, and certainly the worst of the Brosnan films. Having now seen the The World Is Not Enough, I feel the need to argue this point.  This was the first Bond movie that I saw at the cinema, and I loved it.  I consider myself a Bond fan, but when I first began to go to the movies by myself (between say 1990 and 1995), no Bond films came into the cinema and so I watched the TV movies.  These would be shown in random order, so I never had one man as Bond imprinted in my mind. The reality is, Bond has to move with the times, and this film made him do that.  Wheather the fans want it to or not, the series has to change, and I think this film does that job greatly, as well as giving us a terrific action film in the process.  Watch this, and the excellant Tomorrow Never Dies, but be careful of The World is not enough. "},{"Title":"Go ahead. Destroy it. It means nothing to me.","Date":"20 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is absolute trash!!! Every Bond film was great until this piece of s*** came along. I refuse to even look at this movie again!! Not that Pierce Brosnan's a bad Bond. He's great. His first movie should have been Tomorrow Never Dies. This movie shouldn't have been made. "},{"Title":"THE BEST BOND FILM EVER!","Date":"1 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is the greatest James Bond film ever in my opinion. With Pierce Brosnan as bond, this film deserves a 10/10. We haven't had a great James Bond since Sean Conery (sp), Pierce Brosnan fits the role of Bond extremley well in GoldenEye. Other then a few flaws in the movie, this movie was a classic Bond film. Involving the Russians. Unlike Tomorrow Never Dies which is more like a 90's bond movie, unlike GoldenEye which looked as though the entire thing had taken place during the cold war. This movie has done wonders for Brosnan's career. A talented actor that has finally got the credit he deserves. But unfortunately, when you think of Brosnan, you think of Bond not any of his other movies. But overall a great performance out of all. Can't wait for, The World Is Not Enough! "},{"Title":"Abysmal","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Possibly the worst Bond film of the lot, and definitely the worst Bond. Brosnan's performance is inept beyond belief. The fact that this film was a big success staggers me. A triumph of marketing and merchandising over content. "},{"Title":"Bang up to date","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  1995's GOLDENEYE puts Bond back where he belongs, the top spot. Great stunts, performances and breathtaking direction from Martin Campbell in addition to Brosnan fitting the 007 role like a glove make this an unmissable cinematic treat. "}{"Title":"Way, way better than TND.","Date":"24 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  After having seen this movie again recently, three years after I first saw it in this theatre, I have finally made up my mind for sure it knocks Tomorrow Never Dies flat, not for one but for many other reasons. Number one the opening sequence. OK, so you can't do a dam-jumping/plane-catching sequence in every 007 movie, but nevertheless it is spectacular in a way that TND's opening isn't. Second the plot. Bond has always been more intense when he's personally involved, and having a former colleague as the main villain definitely helps this movie. The plot holds you more than in TND, where the premise of a man who creates incidents just so that his network will get exclusive reports is a little hard to believe, even in the era of the Murdochs and the Turners. Third the overall direction. I think Martin Campbell has awesome style, and MGM/UA should seriously consider giving him a second outing in whatever movie follows TWINE. From start to finish, the action is exciting, stylish and most importantly, looks like a Bond movie. Roger Spottiswoode's efforts in TND, while exciting in their own right, sometimes make you think that you're watching just another action flick, and not a Bond movie. Needless use of slow-motion is very distracting in a number of scenes. Now about one much-bandied about shortcoming Eric Serra's score. Personally, I feel a change from John Barry-type orchestration isn't necessarily a bad thing, provided the theme remains intact. I agree that Serra's score is a bit uneven, and maybe even slightly irritating in some parts, but in other places his pacey techno is quite exhilarating. David Arnold's score in TND is certainly a more traditional Bond score, but that doesn't mean it's better. I also object to an injudicious use of the Bond theme. No one likes that theme more than I do, but to play it when Bond is being shown his new car is a bit silly. It's almost as weird as the scene in Live And Let Die where the theme is played while Bond is cruising in a taxi, doing nothing more spectacular than looking out of the window. Overall, I thought the movie was great and Pierce Brosnan excellent as James Bond, though perhaps he was a little more self-assured in TND. I'd give it 8/10. "},{"Title":"GOOD SHOW","Date":"22 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Goldeneye is the best James Bond Movie I have ever seen so far. I can't wait till the new one comes out. But until the new one comes out, I will be watching Goldeneye as much as I can. If you like James Bond and you haven't see Goldeneye, then I suggest you do! "},{"Title":"Shaken, not stirred","Date":"2 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Finally, after a 6-year absence, James Bond comes back with a vengeance to do what he does best; save the world, kill the bad guys, drink fancy wines, and make out with beautiful women, which sounds like the perfect life ittinerary for me! The dapper Pierce Brosnan is the newest Brit to carry 007's license to kill; his mission to nab the scum who stole a deadly new weapon that shoots lasers via satellites. Can Bond find the terrorists and save the day? Is the world flat?Pierce Brosnan, in my opinion, is the best Bond because he fits the spy's image pretty well. Brosnan can look rugged and handsome at the same time. Not only does he have the looks, but he is also the meanest Bond. Brosnan litterally beats the crap out of the bad guys! Which makes him the best 007, and along with the great stunts and pyrotechniques, makes Goldeneye the best Bond film in a long time.  "},{"Title":"Well, it's about time","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Ah, James Bond is back...finally.  Pierce Brosnan takes the role of 007, in the post Cold War era.  There is a lot more action and explosions than most of the older James Bond movies had, but there is nothing wrong with that is there?  Well, I loved it.  This was the movie that got me stuck on 007, and now the walls of my room or lined with it.  This was a great action movie, as well as a James Bond installment in the longest running series in history.  The cars, women, locations, and enemies were all right on cue. It seems that Universal Pictures didn't miss a beat in four years.  I'm glad to see James Bond back on track. "},{"Title":"It was okay","Date":"1 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Goldeneye was good overall, but I was kind of disappointed with it.  I liked some of the jokes and the story was good, but the movie seemed kind of rushed.  The game went into better details with the story.  However I liked the characters and the movie overall was exciting, so I'd say this movie was pretty good. "},{"Title":"Queen's English","Date":"1 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Although Bond as played by Pierce Brosnan cuts a fine figure when it comes to performing his task as a British agent, I have doubts about his grasp of the English language.  In particular, in the last scene, we see the hero and heroine in a Cuban tobacco field.  When approached by the American agent (who we note at one point in the movie calls him Jimbo) and pop-up American Marines, Bond declares Is this your way of coming through in a *clinch* sic?.  I am sorry, James, but shouldn't that be in a PINCH? A clinch is never used as a synonym for an emergency.Maybe there was a subtle pun in the word clinch that I missed??  Is there maybe a vague reference to clenching a cigar?  Probably not.  I think English lessons from the Queen herself would be in order before Mr. Bond regales us with his next adventure, The World is Not Enough!  Neither is his English!!  "},{"Title":"Good movie, if not the best Bond","Date":"24 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  A great reintroduction of Bond every since License To Kill (1989).  The story was pretty strong and right minded to the Bond atmosphere.  Yet also Pierce Brosnan does a smashing job of portraying James Bond (but not as good as Roger Moore).  The locales of this movie was good and also the villains. Like the lovable Boris to the treacherous 006.  It seems also to be more better than Tomorrow Never Dies though...  "},{"Title":"An OK reintroduction to 007","Date":"27 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  There are better Bond movies, and more formidable Bond actors (Sean Connery, of course, and, yes, George Lazenby), but as a way to reintroduce 007 to moviegoers after a six-and-a-half year absence from the big screen, this entry is more than adequate and certainly better than any of the films from the waning days of Roger Moore or the forgettable Timothy Dalton era. Pierce Brosnan may appear a bit fluffy at first, placing him in the Moore mold, but it is clear from his performance that he emulates Connery.  The script is more intelligent than most of the previous decade's episodes, and Famke Janssen is one of the best Bad Bondgirls to date.  However, Goldeneye is an outright failure in one department  the music score by Eric Serra is dreadful, as is the title song.  Both seem to slip from memory before they start.  One misses the brassy brilliance of John Barry's 11 scores for the series.  Barry's music is more important to this series' success than any actor. "},{"Title":"shaken ....but not stirred","Date":"22 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The film Goldeneye is by far the best Bond film there is. think about it, there is a star studded cast, beautiful babes (whoops) I mean women and the best James Bond ...Pierce Brosnan. OK OK so it is not by far the best 007 film but it is the best just,Pierce Brosnan portrays agent 007 like the other 4 actors have been able to do, his face as he witnesses his friend being shot in the head (or so it seems), the way he flicks his head to the side as a bullet just misses him, and the way he comes up with those glib remarks......OK so they all done that, but goldeneye is Pierce`s best film he`s done so far, as a mental 007 fan I can safely say.......for England James????? "},{"Title":"After A Six Year Wait, What A Disappointment....","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  THE big problem with GoldenEye is that it doesn't look very nice. The entire movie is full of nasty looking people, horrible sets and the locations (Cuba aside) are places you'd never, ever want to go. A staple of the Bond series is glamorous locations, so why here do we get dingy prison cells, arctic wastelands, even more dingy weapon facilities, a freight train, endless military buildings - it's horrible. The film is so grainy and dull and so depressing - the music is awful. When it is supposed to make the action seem exciting, the music makes it seem like the brilliantly staged stunts and chases don't matter, that there's no point in being alive - who the heck decided to put that music in? The stunts are typically superb, and the action scenes are well staged and shot - pity the music, which is far too loud anyway, completely ruins them. You can't enjoy the thrills and spills when the score is trying desperately to depress you. Also, Bond shouldn't use a machine gun. I know modern action anti-heroes do, but Bond isn't a modern hero, he has class and style and standards. Can you imagine Connery or Moore with a machine gun? No, far too clumsy and thuggish. Brosnan is a great Bond. True, he's not much like the character in the novels, but why should he be? This is a film, not a book, and so has to be changed accordingly to work in a completely different medium. Dalton tried to play the character in the novels, and look what happened to him.Overall, this has potential from the director of the brilliant  Zorro movie, but it's just so appallingly horrible to look at and depressing to listen to. That the cast, characters and action is/are very good makes little difference in the end. A missed opportunity, sure, but it meant Tomorrow Never Dies could be made  - a far superior film in every way. "}{"Title":"Even action films can be improved with good acting.","Date":"20 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This was one of the best 007 films in years, and one of my favorites.  The opening scenes- diving off a cliff to catch a pilotless plane, followed by the crude seduction of 007's evaluator- made me squirm, but it improved dramatically from there.  The tank chase through St. Petersburg (?) was terrific, and nearly believeable.I particularly liked the new supporting cast; Samantha Bond as a snappy Miss Moneypenny, Joe Don Baker, recycled from a villian in an earlier 007 film (The Living Daylights) as the smart-alec CIA liaison, and Judi Dench as a brass-balled (or something) M.  And they kept the best one of all, Desmond Llewelyn as the acerbic Q.  Izabella Scorupco, the female lead, almost convinced me she was Russian, and I liked the strong character she played. As for Pierce Brosnan, I think he struck about the right note as an essentially honorable and charming man who was nonetheless capable of ruthlessness, and who reveled in his political incorrectness.I like films in which the director spends as much care on the supporting actors as on the lead, and it improves even an action film no end.  Here's hoping it sets a trend for future 007 films. "},{"Title":"Good or Bad?","Date":"12 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Ok, this is an OK movie.  Good points  Pierce Brosnan does a pretty good at James Bond (although he's not the best).  The action sequences were done well and most of the acting was great.Bad points (beware)  The plot stunk.  Xenia stunk.  (Especially the death-sex scene.  ugh!Overall, a 7 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"MY Goldeneye Review","Date":"25 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was by far the best Bond film yet. The first time I saw it I was on the edge of my seat the whole time! I also think Pierce Brosnan is the best all-around Bond of all time. This movie is a lot like another fav Bond film of mine, Goldfinger because they both have HEAPS of edge of your seat action.  "},{"Title":"Plotless fun!","Date":"19 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, so it wasn't exactly *plotless* but there were holes big enough to drive that tank through.  I've seen this movie a number of times, and I did enjoy it immensely, but that could just be because I'm a huge fan of Sean Bean.  But to return to my point, I think the original reason I saw this film so often was to figure out what *why* people did what they did--namely the villain, Alec Trevelyan (Sean Bean).  Someone else already pointed out that while the writers did give *some* explanations as to his motivation, they gave both too many and contradicting ones.  And I'm very glad that someone else pointed out that while Bond, as a movie genre, is supposed to be ageless, and presumably all the agents would be, Alec Trevelyan would be in his sixties when the movie opened if he meant what he said about his parents being Cossacks being sent back to Russia.  To return to this villainy, it would also have been swell if someone had finally decided whether Trevelyan was 'evil' before or after the explosion at Arkangel in the opening of the film.  There are conflicting clues to the answer to this, and some definitive answer would be nice. (Even the novelization, which wasn't particularly good, never bothered to answer this.)However, with all those caveats, it was still a good movie.  It was a lot of fun, Natalya made a refreshing love interest, far more interesting than Teri Hatcher in Tomorrow Never Dies, and Xenia, while a bit absurd, was at least interesting enough to poke fun at.  And who could forget the computer nerd played by Alan Cumming?  As for Bond himself, Pierce Brosnan's performance was, to my mind, far more interesting and enjoyable than Timothy Dalton's two movies, or any of Roger Moore's.  All in all, a fun movie, and there is no one who can tell me that the tank ride *through* the horse statue wasn't cool.  (And is it just me and my companions, but didn't the satellite dish coming out of the water look like a giant flushing toilet?) "},{"Title":"Who is Bond?","Date":"24 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  As Bond films go, I liked GoldenEye but I wish that the character of James Bond had half as much personality as Remington Steele.  Take away Bond's martinis and his flip remarks and he could be anybody.  I think the reason there is so much debate over who the best Bond actor is, is that the actor IS Bond.Oddly enough, everyone in GoldenEye was psychoanalyzing Bond M, Valentin, Alec, Natalya.  But Bond didn't have an answer for any of them, except to tell Natalya, It's what keeps me alive. She then says, No, it's what keeps you alone.  Bond, of course, is never alone, he's simply between women.  If he weren't, he wouldn't have been free to sleep with Natalya.  I thought M's remarks were particularly disturbing.  You're a sexist, misogynistic, dinosaur, a relic of the Cold War.  If that's true, then why did we make this movie?  If Bond is passe, then all those people out there in the theater have wasted their money.I thought Joe Don Baker was very funny and I liked the way Bond interacted with him.  I didn't like the villain, Alec Treyelyan.  I'm not sure what his problem was but I think he was just jealous that 007 got all the movies instead of 006.  Xenia Onatopp, or as I call her, Miss Nutcracker Legs, was strange and interesting, although she reminded me of a demented monkey when she tried to kill someone.I think Pierce Brosnan made a fine James Bond.  At least he looked good and he didn't act like a jerk, which I can't say about his other movies. "},{"Title":"good","Date":"11 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  i think golden eye is the best bond movie it is shooting on it and action is like a good movie the tank scene is good and the bath scene with xanina is cool   and special effects like a good movie i give it 10/10 "},{"Title":"Fantastic bond movie","Date":"10 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" As I am watching these In order, when you finally get used to someone play bond at the end of the last StintIt took me a least one and half movies to get used to Timothy Dalton Thankfully it was not the same for Pierce Brosnan in this movie , as I thought it fitted the role perfectly!This movie was even better then last ,what a great opening scene , I was clued to the screen , I before I knew I was hour into , which I thought was just 30mins.The movie was really fast past , there was not one moment where I was bored at all.Great plot , great action scenes and great actors in this movieThe only bad thing I can say , I wanted to see a longer show downI don't think i wanted the movie to endThis is getting a 9 out of 10 from me "},{"Title":"Part 17 is better then the first 16","Date":"11 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is part 17 to James Bond movies. It is better then all the James Bond movies that came before it. There are better James Bond movies that came after. Tomorrow never dies is better. The world is not enough is better. Die another day is also better. But still this is great movie. It has great acting. Sean Connery and Daniel Greg are great as James Bond. But Pierce B.r.o.s.n.a.n is the best James Bond. Sean Bean is one of the scariest Bond villains. This as a great story line. All the Bond girls are good actresses. I.z.a.b.e.l.l.a S.c.o.r.u.p.c.o is one of the prettiest Bond girls. All the real James Bond movies are good. See all the real James Bonds there are some of the beast action movie ever. "},{"Title":"I was never impressed","Date":"8 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" A lot people would claim that the Daniel Craig era Bond movies are the most hyped, especially Casino Royale and Skyfall, but back in November 1995, as a 15-year-old, I felt more hype and anticipation building around the release of GoldenEye. It was the first Bond movie in 6 years, the longest gap in the series, after audiences were turned off by the dark, angry License to Kill (still my favorite Bond movie). The old crew was gone, and a new star, M, Moneypenny, headquarters, and director were brought on board.While many of the people in the cinema that Saturday evening were thrilled by GoldenEye, I wasn't so smitten. After a summer of Die Hard 3, Waterworld, and Under Siege 2 the poor effects and model-work of this Bond movie failed to impress. But not only that, the script is also poor, the villain is weak, and there are grating contrivances. 17 years on, the mid-90s tech on show and exposition that a 5-year-old could now follow date the film badly.It begins in 1986 with 007 and 006 (an unconvincing Sean Bean, then 35, playing a 50-year-old for the most part) infiltrating a Russian base. Mr. Bean doesn't make it. Nine years later Bond is on leave, with a psychiatrist evaluating if he's still fit for the job. Meanwhile the Ruskie General he crossed years earlier is now in cahoots with Mr. Bean (you didn't really think they'd hire an actor of that caliber to be killed in the first scene did you?) and plans to rob the Bank of England and reset the balance with the help of a special satellite. You see 006 is actually a Cossack descended from blah...blah...blah. Yeah, that's the villain's motivation.The harsh, realistic tone of LTK is gone. The annoying fantasy of Moore-era 007 is back. Why the producers thought this was the way to go is beyond me. Thankfully, Tomorrow Never Dies was better. But GoldenEye is quite overrated and I can't find any justification for its popularity. "},{"Title":"One of the best Bond films with one of the best Bond's,","Date":"3 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I'm slowly working my way through all the Bond films, I've seen a fair few now and I was really impressed by Goldeneye. The acting was brilliant. Pierce Brosnan is by far my favourite Bond. He has it all, the witty character, the smooth-talking act that would seduce any woman, good at the action scenes and my favourite part of his role is he has good charisma. I really like his cheeky smile. The chemistry between Bond and Natayla was excellent, one of the best chemistry''s I've seen. My fav scene was where he picks her up in his arms and says Darling, what could possibly go wrong?. As well as the good acting from Bond and Natayla, Sean Bean was brilliant of course. All the other actors were great. I love the flirting between Moneypenny and Bond, makes me laugh every time. As action goes it was full of it. The tank scene was just awesome. No other word could describe such a scene (Lots of things got smashed). Cinematography was good, some really great scenes. It's a shame that Brosnan didn't get better Bond films after this one. The other's just weren't as good. Plus his cars are awful until Die Another Day.I think he would be far more respected as a Bond if he'd got better films after Goldeneye. But for the 90s this wasn't too jam-packed with cheesy lines or cheesy moments, it was actually an incredibly good movie and probably my favourite Bond film (so far)...Mind you saying that, Skyfall was amazing. They're level at the moment! But anyway, he's the best Bond because he pulls off all parts of Bond's role superbly from being the lovable ladies man, to cold hard killer trying to save the world from Villains with ridiculous ideas that would never work. Pure brilliance! (Or Brosilliance.... yup there's your 90s cheese for you). I love the Bond films, all the Bonds (especially Brosnan,gorgeous hunk that he is) and I've started reading the books too and Pierce fitted the description too! Anyway, brilliant film, loved it and have re-watched MANY times. "}{"Title":"Trying to bring Bond into the 90s","Date":"3 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is the first James Bond movie starring Pierce Brosnan as James Bond. Brosnan is a little better than was Timothy Dalton (he plays a much better bad guy) but I don't think he can equal the excellence that were the original Bonds. They have returned to nasty Russians, but with the end of the Cold War it is not as good as it previously was. Bond is a character from the Cold War and he doesn't seem to work as well in the post Cold War era. In fact this idea is brought forth numerous times. In the Cold War such ideas that exist today cold have been suppressed by claiming them to be communist, but now it has changed. Without such an enemy we cannot suppress them anymore (though it still happens). The movie describes Bond as being a relic from the Cold War that holds onto attitudes that are no longer relevant. This theme runs through the movie but the fact is that he is still needed because the bad guys are still around; Russia is now open but it still has the army and the government that was dominant through the communist era.Bond's life has gone and he is not really needed anymore and this flaw is dragged out. Further things are emphasised with his Vodka Martini's shown to drown out the cries of those he has killed and the women that he embraces to throw away the betrayals that he has made. He is a man seeking forgiveness, yet this does not seem to come out of his character. The bad guy in this movie makes some awesome points about the character of James Bond but this is not drawn out in the character. If they were then the character of Bond would be far better. The flaws are also emphasized with Bond entering the 90's with the new M as a woman who is described as the evil queen of numbers.What pulls the movie down are a number of stupid things. The first stunt I just cannot believe. He leaps off a cliff after an airplane that is diving into a chasm, climbs aboard and pulls up just in time. It is supposed to be a spectacular stunt but seriously does not impress me. Also in this movie, Bond uses a lot of Machine Guns, which I feel that is inappropriate for his character. Then there is the tank chase through the streets of St. Petersburg and even more so with the marines hiding in Cuba. If US marines entered Cuba then there would be very big trouble. The movie tries to return from the old Bond but the old Bond is gone with the close of the Cold War and is now basically obsolete. "},{"Title":"Goldeneye will satisfy you if you're a Bond fan, but also if you're a fan of good cinema.","Date":"22 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" 9.1Bond films have always had a special place in my heart. There's something about that mix of British accents, suit wearing and wine drinking combined with secret agent espionage, ass kicking and world saving that calls for a response in me. At the end of a Bond film, I always want to change my career to become a 00 Agent. I sit down and realistically brain storm as to how I can achieve this. I might start a military career, then join the FBI or CIA, and then sit down with some of the higher ups and say to them, look, I know you guys have a 00 Agent like position, and I would really like to try out for it, if I can't make it, well, then you can kill me, since this is my dream anyway. And then I snap out of it, of course, as the movie's charm fades away. But Bond films are always special to me, and when they get it right, everything just seems that much less silly.Goldeneye is one of the ones that got it right. It brought us both Martin Campbell's debut as a director for the Bond series, and Pierce Brosnan as Bond himself. Both are respectively great for the Bond films. Martin Campbell shows us that he knows how to direct a movie. Pierce Brosnan is who I think of when I think of James Bond. The character Bond, in my opinion, should be a tactful, yet wild fellow. A man who is soft spoken, but his actions weigh heavily on those around him. He is a man who gets the job done quietly, and when he speaks, he says a lot. Yeah, OK, maybe the guy (Bond) is kind of like my role model, but I think Brosnan did a great job in portraying him, and it's clear that he was a good choice.Bond films have always had a major problem with them They are essentially B movies. The villains are silly, the dialogue can be cheesy, the plot is usually goofy and over the top. Goldeneye has all of these problems, but also gives us a bit more. Goldeneye offers more in the departments of direction and cinematography than you would expect out of a Bond film. There are scenes in the movie, such as a character's face being obscured by shadows just before he steps out into the light, revealing his identity. And a close-up shot where a door opens, revealing Bond's face behind it which makes it seem like a scene transitioned from side to side. For all its problems, Goldeneye more than makes up for them. In the intro scene where Bond jumps off a dam while the film's signature music is playing, you will be convinced that this Bond film seems promising.After Goldeneye, Bond films became milked and were essentially all about what we look for in Bond films on a sub-intelligent level. Women used as pornography, luxurious cars, witty gadgets, and gunfire with explosions. Bond was transformed from a one man team to a one man army. What I love about Goldeneye is that it doesn't suffer from this. It's a Bond film where the filmmakers wanted to make a good film, not just a Bond film for the sake of being one. Goldeneye will satisfy you if you're a Bond fan, but also if you're a fan of good cinema as well. "},{"Title":"Goldeneye - Superb","Date":"3 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" James Bond (Pierce Brosnan) makes his stunning comeback in Goldeneye. From the previous James Bond films this would be one I would recommend over all of the rest. For one, it stars my personal favorite Bond actor Pierce Brosnan, which I think is the best there has been since Sean Connery up to this point. The story line is rather well played out as Bond returns to prevent an old friend from taking revenge upon England in a scandal to send it back to the stone age for what they have done to his family years ago. 007 must keep a clear head and treat it as a mission like any other and prevent it from being personal, which would most likely end him up as KIA. (Killed In Action) With this in mind, it makes it an interesting film with two partners, turned enemies with the same training and skill to keep you on the edge of your seat. "},{"Title":"Let's all face it, you played the game before you saw the movie.","Date":"29 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Bond is by far one of the greatest heroes of our time. he's saved the world time and time over, killed several baddies, and had so much sex he ought to be infected with AIDs.And every few years, he comes back to save the world. again.Goldeneye is where bond goes to ice cold Russia to save the world from a satellite that uses electromagnetic power surges to destroy anything with an electric charge, therefore, the user of the satellites can erase bank accounts, credit scores, transaction records, therefore sending London into the stone age of technology. who's in charge of that satellite? Thats James bond's Job to find out.Now before concluding this review, i have to say, this movie is probably as popular as it is thanks to the Nintendo 64 game. Discuss the goldeneye movie, and you're sure to hear about the game sometime during the conversation.bottom line, a fun bond film, introducing pierce brosnan, whether you love him or hate him, he's my favourite bond, and you're sure to have a fun time with this film. "},{"Title":"Sorry My Friend, I Didn't Like It !","Date":"23 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Back in the late 1990s, when I watched it for the first time, I didn't like it at all. Then when my buddy (crazy video addict like me, and great fan of this movie) knew about that, he just became so furious, to goggle at me saying in scary voice  watch it again, you're mistaken ! So I watched it again. It's tasteless. Even though some good points; it's the only bond movie with (Brosnan) that had him sensitive a bit, or more expressing when it comes to feeling of anger, sarcasm, etc. The 2 Bond girls this time are fabulous, whether the evil one (Famke Janssen) as the unforgettable (Xenia Onatopp) which's a character I think Ian Fleming himself would've been so proud of !, and the good one (Izabella Scorupco) as (Natalya Simonova) with the sexy accent, haircut, eyes, and mole. Actually (Scorupco) was gold because she mastered her role to be one of the most memorable Bond girls and a good 'actress' through a Bond movie in the same rare time (Too bad that her career after was cursed!). I loved some ideas  the evil team this time got British one, a revenge story in Bond movie, Bond vs. an old friend as enemy, and the running theme of Bond as a cold war relic. It was the first time that we hear something like sexist, misogynist dinosaur in a Bond movie, not out of it. Plus the Russian ridicule of the marked marks of the character. Well, at 1995, after the end of the eastern bloc and 34 years of the first movie, it was about time to some self-mockery I believe.But look at the other side; the script was so detached, the plot was confusing, the thrilling moments weren't too many, the action wasn't that great, the music (especially the deep sonic beats) was provocatively boring, Gottfried John as General Ourumov looked both dumb and un-charismatic (one of the least interesting baddies in the franchise), Alan Cumming as The Invincible Boris was just unbearable, and the fact that the sexual appetites became lower and lower to the extent of being nonexistent ! (They made M as a woman ?! So, go figure !). Hence Bond movies became finally feminist.. R.I.P Mr. Fleming ! Regarding that Bond movies are just some pure goods, more than action classics, so this one didn't entertain me much. What really did was the scene of (Desmond Llewelyn) as Q; it was the best, most funny, one for him in the whole series, and the only perfect thing here that I want to re-watch again. (Llewelyn) said at the documentary (Now Pay Attention 007) that he got along with (Brosnan) so well more than any previous Bond, and it shows with touch of appreciation by Martin Campbell. I always thought that (Campbell) is distinctive Action goldsmith, if only he works with the right script. This one was no gem. Strange that nearly all of this movie didn't and doesn't impassion me at all. But it happens.I got all of this association of ideas, feelings, memories when I watched it, for the third time already, in 2008. So I remember when my friend, at the moment, asked me How about the second watching? I answered YEAH, I liked Golden Eye a lot, and while he was smiling in content like I finally became a believer and followed the right way, he didn't know that I was referring secretly to Tina Turner's theme song ! "},{"Title":"One of the best bond films of the older style. Should have been more popular","Date":"16 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Pierce Brosnans debut as bond with goldeneye took off with a bang for me. Goldeneye is by far the best bond film of the older generation, exluding casino royale and quantum of solace. The first reason i say this is the story line is one of the best that a bond film has been, integrating betrayal with world domination.Brosnan plays bond really well, portraying him being slightly cocky as bond should be, but also with a deep sense of morality in parts. However the star of the show for me has to be sean bean, possibly with the best performance of a bond villain i have ever seen. Bean plays not just a megalomaniac who wants to take over the world, but plays his villain with more depth, someone who was deeply scarred in his childhood. The on screen chemistry between brosnan and bean is unbelievable, suggesting that they do indeed not only hate each other, but were also friends in the past. Watch out for the final confrontation between bond and bean on the cradle, best finale in a movie for a long timeLasty credit needs to go to the director martin campbell, who i think is a brilliant director (did zorro and casino royale)Its a shame brosnans other bond films could not keep up to this standard "},{"Title":"No Bond movie does it better","Date":"8 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After being out of action for over five years with his future uncertain Bond, James Bond, leaped back into action with this exciting spy thriller. In his first outing as the famous spy (oxymoron?) Pierce Brosnan flawlessly captures the suave, cool, and handsome secret agent. He is arguably the best since Sean Connery. Main reason being that this Bond is not afraid to get down and dirty with our hero taking more than a convincing beating during the course of his mission. Yet, despite this edge, the boyish factor of unreality that Bond has come to portray is still here. The opening sequence ranks as one of the best of the series with a bungee jump, infiltration, shootout and finally a jump off of a huge cliff to get into a falling empty plane. No kidding. It's not just the open scene though. The rest of the movie has spectacular action sequences including a breakneck tank/car chase through St. Petersburg that's packed with fireworks and grade-A vehicular destruction.The plot is also a nice update. It keeps much of the series Cold War based roots, but brings them into a new and fresh field. For once the Russians aren't just simply bad and end of story. There is a little more intricately designed plot with betrayals and some interesting revelations. The old cat stroking millionaire villain with his own private army was fun at first, but it was growing stale. With this reworked formula there is serious room for espionage. The plot is more reminiscent of a Robert Ludlum novel than the previous Bond plots. It is more rooted in our real world. Looking back at previous Bond films, you can see that slowly manifesting itself such as the Silicon Valley plot in A View to a Kill and the drug-lord villain in Licence to Kill. Now with with Goldeneye Bond hasn't necessarily made himself more believable, that would ridiculous, but certainly more credible. His goals seem more real than before. The danger seems more real. There also isn't a heavy use of gadgetry with only a few relatively basic devices - a detonator in a watch, a laser in a watch, an explosive pen and a handy belt. That is ultimately the movies only letdown, but given that also makes Bond rely on his own brain and brawn and not some computer.Last year's Casino Royale tried to take Bond even a step further with its grittiness, but that was simply overkill. Bond is not and cannot be gritty to be enjoyed. Brosnan played the part perfectly while Craig made him a macho tough guy that hits harder than he thinks. Surprisingly Martin Campbell directed both Goldeneye and Casino Royale so maybe it was he he took it that unnecessary step further. Either way, he is forgiven for delivering Goldeneye - the best Bond movie thus far and probably ever. --- 9/10Rated PG-13 for violence and intense action. Ages 13+ "},{"Title":"airplane info","Date":"4 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The info on the airplane in the trivia section is incorrect. Both airplanes were made by Cessna but the one in License to Kill is a Cessna 150 or 152. The one used in Goldeneye was a Cessna 182. The 150/152 are very similar and differ primarily by the 152 having a 110 Hp engine and 30 degrees of flaps and the 150 has a 100 hp engine and 40 degrees of flaps. These aircraft are both trainers and have two seats. The 182 is a 4 place airplane that can carry four people and luggage. The 182 has a 235 hp engine and a controllable pitch propeller. The 182 has higher cruising speed higher fuel consumption that the 150/152. The 150/142 cruise at about 115 mph. The 182 can cruise at about 140 mph "},{"Title":"The best of the Bonds","Date":"12 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" In his first appearance as 007 Pierce Brosnan gives the best ever performance of James Bond. Brosnan strikes the right balance, in my opinion, between comedy and killing machine.Away from Brosnan's excellent performance Goldeneye has a lot else going from it. The opening sequence is spot on and features the best stunt of the whole series - the bungee jump of the dam.The villains are excellent too, as are the relationships between them, excellent twists ensue as the 006 emerges as the central villain who shows he has no qualms about dispatching his hench men - ensuring tension remains right through the film as you're never quite certain how 006 will react, the scene on the armoured train with Ouromov being a prime example.The quality of the supporting cast is above the usual standard for a Bond film too. Judi Dench is particularly good as the new M - the evil queen of numbers as she's so brilliantly described.Bond meanwhile seems more like a man-on-a-mission than he does in Brosnan's later efforts, i.e. there's none of that we're going to finish this together business.Special effects wise Goldeneye is no stunner although it's not really about the gadgets here, the battle between 007 and 006 is the backbone of the film and this is for the best as the intense rivalry between the two 00 agents makes Goldeneye the best of the Bonds "},{"Title":"Very enjoyable Bond film","Date":"5 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Goldeneye was the first James Bond movie I've ever seen almost ten years ago. Having rewatched it after Casino Royale had re-ignited my interest in the Britain's most famous spy, I found that the film holds up remarkably well and is heaps of fun.There are really only two things - a small one and a big one - that let this film down for me. Small one is the awful tinny score that plays during the otherwise fantastic cliff race near the beginning. Bleh, bleh, bleh. The second, I'm sorry to say, is James Bond himself. Now, I like Pierce Brosnan; he has charm and sophistication about him, looks heavenly in a dinner jacket and is smooth with quips and one-liners. But his Bond is just way too self-consciously smarmy and smug for my liking. And I feel that whenever the script tries to go beyond the polished surface and give the character some dramatic weight, Brosnan is completely lifeless and the scenes themselves are rendered emotionally flat. Mind you, I'm not sure whether it's the fault of the actor himself or whether it's just that the film tries to have it both ways and those character moments simply don't gel with the overall silly-ish, glossy vibe of the film.Thankfully, this movie also possesses a hugely entertaining ensemble of secondary characters, not the least of which is Famke Janssen's sexy and demented Xenia Onatopp, a truly outrageous, over-the-top bad Bond girl who revels in being a sensual, bloodthirsty monster. Alan Cumming is also fun in the cartoonish yet enjoyable role of Boris Grishenko, an evil uber-geek. Sean Bean is cold and ruthless as a former 00 agent turned traitor; he's also pretty much the only reason why his character's scenes with Bond have at least some measure of the intensity to them. Izabella Scorupco makes a charming and endearing good Bond girl who's actually got a brain and is relevant to the plot. Robbie Coltrane and the inimitable Dame Judi Dench have brief but memorable appearances as the former KGB agent turned crook and M, Bond's formidable boss who openly dislikes her charge.The opening scene involving a dam and a bungee jump is still pretty spectacular, as is the tank chase through the streets of St Petersburg, one of my most favourite cities in the whole world. It gives me a giggle to see Bond cheerfully destroying public property and driving with a big bronze horse on the top of the tank, ) So yeah, I still like this flick a lot and it's one of the only two Bond films I've really enjoyed. "}{"Title":"Thank you, Pierce!","Date":"9 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The first James Bond film that I had ever seen in theaters was The Spy Who Loved Me. I use to think that Roger Moore was cool.Then I noticed things.Moore's portrayal of 007 became laughable, a joke.Then he left, only to be replaced by Timothy Dalton, who turned Bond into a very cold individual.I became rather disappointed when the series seemed to have died, believing that it was completely gone.Then came Pierce Brosnan.My faith is now restored, thanks to GoldenEye, the first of the Brosnan 007 films.007 is sent on a mission by the new M (Judi Dench) to find out why a top-secret weapon known as GoldenEye was stolen and by whom. His mission leads him to Russia and to his supposedly dead friend (And fellow agent) Alec Trevelyan (Sean Bean), who has stolen the device, which is capable of wiping out all electronic equipment. And Alec is going to use it on London.Sure, the old formula is still there the villain(or villainies)with the interesting name and gimmick. In this case, you have Xenia Onatopp (Famke Janssen), who has (literally)killer legs. And you have the Bond Girl. In this case, Natalya (Izabella Scorupco), who is the lone survivor of the GoldenEye theft (And in which you see Xenia REALLY enjoy her job as she's wiping out Natalya's team members). Q(Desmond Llewelyn)is giving Bond his new gadgets, telling him to bring them back (Which never happens), and Miss. Moneypenny (Now played by Samantha Bond), trading innuendos with Bond.But the difference is that even though the formula is still old, there's new life in it. Bond is suave, but he has human frailties as well His friendship with Alec becomes a bit of a hindrance and he is at odds with the fact that he will have to kill him in order to save the world.It was nice that Mr. Brosnan brought 007 back to life, and to make Bond a human being. "},{"Title":"best villain","Date":"16 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is probably my favorite of Brosnan's Bond work, and one of the best of the series. While it still follows the formula it is faster paced than most of the Moore films and returns Bond to a harder edge while maintaining the humor. What really makes this film, however, is the presence of Judi Dench as M, giving a whole dynamic to Bond's relationship to his superiors, and of Sean Bean, easily one of the best Bond villains. I read once that a hero is defined by the quality of his opponent, and Bean was one of the best in the series, behind only Blofeld and Goldfinger. If I have one complaint of this, or any of Brosnan's work, it's that his bond tends to be in Rambo mode a bit to often. Bond, to me, works with a pistol and his brains, not with an endless supply of machine guns. "},{"Title":"One of the best","Date":"12 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is a great debut for Pierce Brosnan as James Bond,It has everything a good Bond film should have in it. Although some people might agree that this is not one of the very best Bond films ever made, it is certainly one of my favorites. Great cast too Izabella Scorupco is very well cast as Natalya Sean Bean makes an excellent Bond villain, Joe Don Baker, Famke Jassen, Robbie Coltrane and Alan Cumming are just some of the supporting cast, It is a shame that Robbie Coltrane isn't given more screen time as he gives a very good portrayal of ex-KGB agent Valantin Zukovsky. It was an interesting choice to choose Judi Dench as the new M, but it works very well in the film. Judi Dench plays M up until and including Die Another Day. Don't forget Desmond Llewelyn as Q, as we see inside his new workshop. (this is one of the more amusing scenes in the film) This film also contains one of my favorite action scenes, the tank chase in the streets of St. Petersburg. This action piece is well filmed and excellently directed by Martin Campbell. This film also contains a modern soundtrack by Eric Serra which work's well in thee film. In fact, I liked the soundtrack so much; I went out and bought a copy of it!Overall, in my opinion, this is a great Bond film and a great debut for Pierce Brosnan as 007, and defiantly one of the best James Bond films. I would rate this film 9 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Classic Bond","Date":"23 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is the best of the recent Bond films. Pierce Brosnan is the sophisticated Bond. You know exactly what you're going to get with Bond, since virtually the entire series has followed the same plot. In this we have the exotic locations, the cars, corny lines, the women and of course the baddies. This is all very nice on the eye and it has a decent story. It's not going to tax you too much and a trip to the loo will mean that you're more likely to miss a couple of explosions rather than a couple of plot twists. But it's a Bond so sit back and enjoy.  "},{"Title":"The best modern bond film.","Date":"7 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Goldeneye had a great story line with a great new bond.  Pierce Brosnan was a great for his first time and he looked like he had been doing it for years.  This was Brosnan's best since he started.  If you don't own it you should because it might be out of print one day.  This movie also had the best girls villains and henchmen.  This would make a great addition to your bond collection and you won't be sorry for getting it.  "},{"Title":"Bring back Martin Campbell","Date":"9 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  After a hiatus of six years, and with a new Bond and all-round change in personnel, &#145;Goldeneye' needed to be good. Fortunately, it succeeds brilliantly, and is far and away and without a shadow of doubt the best Bond film of the Brosnan era. I'm not really a fan of Brosnan &#150; his facial expressions belong to an actor who seems to permanently revel in his own handsomeness, and this would later develop into his style of alternating jaw-clenching over-earnestness with smarmy, glib self-satisfaction &#150; but, unusually given that it's his first outing, it's also his best. Everything else is top notch, too. There's a satisfactory balance between plot development, character development and action; indeed &#145;Goldeneye' crackles with sparky, absorbing dialogue, before the sorry deterioration into innuendo overdose seen in later Bond entries &#150; as an example, the legendary `sexist, misogynist dinosaur' interchange between M and Bond is a highlight of the series. Brosnan enjoys good chemistry with Scorupco, the best Bond girl since Barbara Bach way back in '77; Sean Bean is a commendable villain as 006, and the final fight between him and 007 is superbly directed, one of the best fight scenes in the entire series, in which you can really sense the mutual contempt between Bond and his adversary. Ourumov and Onatopp are entertaining henchmen, but Alan Cummings misfires as the computer programmer Boris. Speaking of whom, &#145;Goldeneye' is also noteworthy because it marks a measured return to the humour of the 1970s and &#145;80s Bond films after the austere Dalton outings, but &#150; thankfully - on the whole it works well. On the minus side, Bond uses the word `yo!' &#150; and really shouldn't. And Eric Serra's soundtrack is inconsistent, and, at times, quite appalling, although the worst is over after the first twenty minutes. All told, though, &#145;Goldeneye' is terrific, easily the most enjoyable Bond film for donkey's years. A shame this standard could not be maintained. "},{"Title":"One of the Finest of 007's Career!","Date":"10 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"   I am still trying to figure out why some Bond fans dislike this movie. I think it's nearly perfect. It has everything terrific about the franchise -- some real espionage (the plot isn't handed to Bond all at once, as in some of the inferior entries), it hangs together (no real dangling set pieces), it's great to look at, it has some dynamite explosions, some really sinister villains,  an amusing ally, and very sexy women. Underneath it all, in this first post-Cold War Bond, is an examination of what the post-Soviet world of espionage and crime might really constitute, as all of the characters struggle to find their place in it. One telling scene takes place in what amounts to a Soviet graveyard -- a junkyard of old statues of Lenin and other Soviet icons.  The female lead, Izabella Scorupco, is especially notable. As computer analyst Natalya, she witnesses the mass murder of all her co-workers in a blaze of mayhem. Unlike the spy smoothies we're used to, Natalya weeps, screams, and mourns, before showing the steel she needs to rescue herself and eventually team up with our hero. I very much like how, in those early scenes, she's dressed as a computer analyst and not as a glamour girl. Her beauty shines through and later she gets a bikini.  The great cast includes Judi Dench, Robbie Coltraine, Sean Bean, Alan Cummings, Famke Jansen, and Joe Don Baker. 10/10  "},{"Title":"Bond's Greatest Adventure to Date","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  What a Bond film!  This combines fast cars, sexy women, superb villains and a great Bond.  Pierce Brosnan's first outing as the Agent is spot on.  He slides into the role and smoothly struts his stuff through the picture. Sorry Connery, you were good, but Brosnan's better.  The story line is excellent and the feeling of the East vs West gives an impression that the cold war returns.  It carries an amazing blend of superb ingredients from previous Bond outings which is why the film works.***  SPOILER ALERT START  ***Alec Trevelyan, Bonds friend and co-agent 006, fits into the villain role perfectly as a two-faced traitor.  Sean Bean is superb and although he hasn't got a metal arm or a bowler hat he feels more real than most villains.  The ending is fantastic and it literally goes down to the wire. Agent vs Agent - Spy vs Spy - 006 vs 007.  The ultimate battle.***  SPOILER ALERT FINISHED  ***One other good thing about this movie was that it inspired a game to appear on the N64 and it is just fantastic.  This game has caused a chain reaction of more Bond games and it's all down to one film and one number - GOLDENEYE - 007.Superbly Brilliant.  10/10. "},{"Title":"One of the best Bonds","Date":"29 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  After a six year hiatus, Goldeneye was the perfect return to the screen for 007. With all the women, the chases, the action and the gadgets, Bond proved he could hang with the action oriented films of the 90's.Pierce Brosnan may be the perfect Bond. He has the coolness of Connery, the smugness of Moore, and even a dash of the harshness of Dalton. He puts it all together to make what Fleming probably had in mind as far as the look of the secret agent. Goldeneye is smart, high tech, and more slick than most of it's predecessors. It doesn't rely on the camp of the later Moore outings nor the completly cold emotionless Dalton films. It updates itself enough for the Clancy era of spy tech, while still holding on to the old fashioned sleuthing we are used to. Also the femme fatales are wonderful, especially Famke Jansen as Onatopp. Overall, Goldeneye is high on my list of Bond films, top three behind Thunderball and Diamonds Are Forever "},{"Title":"JAMES BOND IS BACK","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Pierce Brosnan is in my opinion the second best James Bond after Roger Moore and just like Roger did in Live and Let Die, Pierce slips comfortably into the role of 007.Goldeneye has the perfect recipe-stunning women,superb villains,gadgets and some of the greatest stunts ever. The pre credits sequence really gets your adrenaline going.Judi Dench makes her debut as the new 'M' and Samantha Bond as Moneypenny and they too slip comfortably into their roles.The main concern for me was whether I would still enjoy Bond after a six year absence-I was not disappointed. I think a lot of people believed this film to be make it or break it for Bond. Well, Pierce brought Bond into the 90's with style.No serious fan of the world's top secret agent will be disappointed with this classic Bond movie. I hope Pierce does many many more films. "}{"Title":"Looks better second time around","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I was in a stressful mood, while watching this film.  It may affect my review, but I found the movie not that bad.  Bronson's performance was much better then Daltons, and creates a upward movement for Jame Bond.  M is a women now, and the series shows signs of change with out being too politically correct.  Bond is called a dinasor by the new M, but is a likable one.  The story jells well, and the action scene with the tank is interesting, but I believe they had to retake the ending of this film because its ending was to simular to True Lies.  I could see this with the ending, and it took away from the film.  One we do not see if the Russian generial was killed,(a bad guy) and M showed the stinger missiles in his car which is never used.  Bond movies never leave these holes in them.  Well a good first start out. "},{"Title":"Not Hollywood blockbuster levels but enjoyable and fun","Date":"7 May 2012","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" It had been quite a few years since the previous Bond and in the meantime Hollywood had been delivering big spy adventure/action movies that really put the pressure on the Bond franchise to come back with something good to justify coming back at all. It had also been about fifteen years since I has saw this film when I sat to watch it on a typically wet and grey Bank Holiday Monday, and I did wonder if my memory of it being good were perhaps faded and optimistic. The film wastes no time in showing the viewer that it came to play, opening with a tremendous piece of stunt work (the dam jump) and following with a dramatic opening sequence full of bravado and spectacle which is only slightly marred by the rather obvious model work employed.The rest of the film cannot quite reach the impact of this opening sequence but it does try hard. Coming in at pretty much two hours (as opposed to the longer running times of recent Bonds), the film has a lot of pace to the telling and it seems there are action set-pieces and plot twists on a regular basis. The plot is enjoyable with decent villains and the typical excess that one expects from the franchise and it is done with a certain amount of humour without detracting from the action. Unfortunately this isn't always true and Martin Campbell doesn't always make the most of the sequences as the camera at times feels a little flat, like ti doesn't want to help the stunt-work with editing so much as it is happy just to watch the stunts; a decent approach but not one that always works. Likewise some of the incidental music is frankly terrible &#x96; distracting from the scene where it should have been adding to the atmosphere.While this is a problem you cannot fault the film for the set-pieces it delivers; the opening sequence is great but for me the most fun part is the tank chase, complete with typical Bond humour (straightening his tie with great comic timing). OK the use of models holds it back from really competing with the biggest Hollywood blockbusters, and the camera could have helped some of the action (at times it does feel a little like The A-Team, in that bullets always hit the ground behind characters) but it is more than satisfying. The cast is roundly good. Brosnan was in his first turn as Bond here and he mostly gets the mix of action and humour just right for the films &#x96; he has good time and seems smooth even if at times the material leaves him with nowhere to go (there are dark references but no path for him). Bean is a good villain despite the feeling of him working hard to maintain his crisp accent. Scorupco is a decent Bond girl but Janssen sticks in the mind most for her performance mixing sexual thrills with violence. Cumming is amusing while Dench gives a good account of herself and Llewelyn is funny in his sequence (although I'd rather he had not enjoyed it quite as much as he did, his final line about the sandwich is brilliantly timed).Overall Goldeneye is an enjoyable Bond movie that does well to capture the formula well with its cheeky humour, enjoyable set-pieces and typical world-threatening plot. Some of the model work dates it a bit, while Campbell's safe hands direction perhaps doesn't help the action as much as he could have, but it still works and was good enough to bring the franchise back to life. "},{"Title":"THIS is how you reboot a franchise!","Date":"6 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After the (justified) flop of Timothy Dalton's License To Kill, the Bond franchise seemed to be nearing its end. Bond had become just another action hero, but people looking for generic action and personal revenge plots were sticking to the Arnold, Bronson, Seagal, etc. films. So the producers wisely decided to make Bond a sophisticated spy again, and the result was a brilliant film that stands near the top of the series. The best thing about this reboot is that it looks into the future but, unlike the recent Casino Royale, also respects the past. Therefore, the film can be enjoyed equally by longtime Bond fans AND by newcomers. Pierce Brosnan makes a remarkable debut as Bond, the women - both good and bad - are very sexy, and the villains are terrific. The film is funny, exciting, romantic, glamorous, fast-paced, over-the-top and down-to-earth at the same time. In short, it's everything a Bond film needs to be. "},{"Title":"Golden Eye Candy","Date":"21 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Not bad for a James Bond film The gadgets and gizmos are here, courtesy of 'Q' (God, the actor's 'teeth' are down to his knees!); the ladies are coiffed-then-mussed from all the fights and near-death explosions; the obligatory Monte Carlo Casino (or wherever else they speak lame-sounding French) wherein Bond orders his shaken-not-stirred martini; and..oh, of course... the prolonged opening sequence somewhere in a snowy country, in a remote area where our immortal hero can jump off a cliff (in this case, a 722-foot bungee-jump off a huge dam).The verbal sparring between Bond and 'M' (ably played by Judi Dench) is memorable, an eloquently funny set piece if ever there was one. ...oh, and 'Q' telling Bond to set down his Sandwich.Although I am an occasional 007 fan, I found myself getting my movie franchises a bit mixed-up. I expected Tina Turner to come out of a submarine, with poofed-up hair, stroking her diamond-stud-collared white cat... but that was another 007 sequel, and Turner only sings the 'Goldeneye' theme song. Anyway, MGM-UA should make 'Mad Max vs James Bond.' Why not?--20th Century Fox made 'Alien vs Predator! Anyway, I'm sure Die-Hard Bond fans will enjoy this outing immensely.I also thought Terry Hatcher was in this one (instead, it's Scorupco... or Sciroco, or whatever her name is--has she done much else since this 1995 film?) "},{"Title":"Psycho-Bond","Date":"14 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Psych 101!  Sean Bean's Alex is hugely over-analyzed and comes with (mildly contradictory) motives to spare.  Geez, did we need to know in this kind of detail (for instance) _why_ Goldfinger lusts after gold, or why Kananga and Sanchez are trying to make money through drugs, or why Scaramanga likes killing people?  But everybody gets into the psychoanalysis garbage in this one  Alex and Bond exchange witty psychoanalytic bon mots (ooh), Natalya decides to take her own look at Bond's psyche - sheesh, if this is Bond for the 90's spare us.  As for Xenia and the rudimentary violence=sex psych motive, ehh.  They do remember to throw in an impressive action sequence occasionally, though, and there's a plot of sorts.  Another lacking element is the locale  sorry, but Siberia, St. Petersburg and outdoor Cuba (I forget - why does Alex have a secret base in Cuba?!?) are not the exotic locales of a Tokyo, or San Monique, or Bangkok, or even Kentucky.  As for Pierce Brosnan, he tries his best but saddled with the psychology script from hell, he seems to be confused exactly what he's supposed to be doing on those couches.  There are some nice performances all around, really (except for Joe Don Baker - great, his character from the movie Mitchell becomes a CIA agent *sigh*).  Overall, though, it adds up to a below-average entry into the series. "},{"Title":"The Ultimate Letdowns","Date":"19 December 2009","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I bought this movie because of its cover which looked colorful and the title was nice.What ever this is pathetic.Worst from Pierce Brosnan who has given us great movies like Robinson Crusoe,Mrs. Doubtfire ,Mamma Mia!,Dilwale Dulhania Li Jayenge,The Lawnmower Man etc.The kids were cute but has overacted.Cinematography is dull.Everything else is quite bad.Script is bad,Dialogs are ridiculous,Screenplay is utterly predictable,Songs are forgettable,Direction is as usual plain bad .Brosnan gives a disastrous performance in an unusual character.Famke Janssen is so sexy but she could not save this movie from being the worst movie she gives an annoying performance as Xenia Onatopp and Terrible performance as Lila.Izabella Scorupco who is talented gives her worst acting to date.Bobby is useless.Judi Dench is irritating and unfunny.The others are mediocre at best.The cinematography is eye pleasing with beautiful locales of London,Waterloo station and East Berlin or Russia and not to forget hotel Ritz and many more.Song picturisaations of Kiss of Love,Ticket to Hollywood,JbJ(Not the Bachan one) are extremely eye pleasing.Costumes are smashing.Desmond Llewelyn just plays a stupid joker coming 5 times without no reason and poviding Bond with a lame cache of gadgetry.Everything else is bad.Script is Awful,Screenplay is Awful,Songs are forgettable.Direction is usual plain bad.Avoid at all costs(even the soundtrack also avoid it) "},{"Title":"just horrible","Date":"1 September 1998","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  GoldenEye is by far the worst Bond movie ever. The villain is weak, his henchmen are silly, and the supporting characters are irritating or ridiculous. The plot is basically a poorly written cross between A View to a Kill and Diamonds are Forever.  Both of those were good, but put their plots together in the same movie and you don't have much.  Don't waste your time with this one. "},{"Title":"The Bond film that got me into the Bond films","Date":"11 February 2016","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is my personal most nostalgic Bond movie in the franchise. Mainly because this is the film that got me interested in the Bond franchise. And because of the N64 video game which was a huge hit at the time. Martin Campbell the director of this film, really has got it down when it comes to directing 007 films. When this film first came out, it just had the right balance of everything when it comes to a Bond film. Honestly, I really don't get why some viewers of this franchise or even fans don't particularly give that much credit to Pierce Brosnan as 007. Some even rank him pretty low when it comes to ranking their favorite Bonds. To be very honest, Pierce Brosnan to me is the iconic Bond. Sure Daniel Craig portrayed it more closer to how Bond is in the novels. But Brosnan just seems to have the Bond look all around. Follow that with the Bond like charisma that is shown in the 007 films. And you got yourself a very entertaining and badass Bond to watch on screen. He really has that aura of confidence and alpha male type vibe that makes you pay attention when he is on screen. I personally think he is probably the best James Bond to hit the screen so far. Seriously, his screen presence is terrific as James Bond. GoldenEye is also the film that introduced the new female M played by Judi Dench. Who is portrayed as an M that doesn't take any crap from Bond and is tough, professional and likable. Mix that in with a pretty entertaining plot with a good build up and characters such as the villains that are memorable and stand out. I think they made a smart decision at the time making computers and hacking a big part of the story. Since when this film came out it was a point in time where computers were becoming necessities. Overall with everything together you got yourself a top class Bond film. This isn't just a great Bond film, but it's a excellent action movie that I would recommend checking out. Also play the game if you haven't yet, it's a true classic as well.8.5/10 "},{"Title":"Betrayal","Date":"31 October 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" If the Timothy Dalton films weren't convincing enough, the tongue and cheek tone is seemingly gone from the franchise, and that's probably for the best. But GoldenEye suffers at times because of it's lack of fun at all. Pierce Brosnan finally gets his chance at playing 007 after two separate close encounters previously. This was also the longest gap in between Bond films, 1989-1995, to date. GoldenEye attempts to modernize and boost the stakes to the series after two very serious films with Dalton.Brosnan brings charm but surprisingly not a ton of charisma, or at least not compared to Connery or Moore. But then again, not many do. We also have performances from Famke Janssen, Sean Bean, and the newcomer to the series Judi Dench. Out of everyone, Dench is by far the most notable in that she's the first 'M' to really put Bond in his place. She's the only 'M' that I actually believed was his boss. You can't pull one over on the dame herself. But although I like Janssen in most roles, I was kind of annoyed by her for most of the film. She didn't seem to fit in with the tone of the rest of the film so therefore not a very good villain. Her killing technique is one of the strangest things I have ever seen. It's a shame because the potential was all there.Sean Bean on the other-hand, is always fun to watch. His turn from being 006 and Bond's friend to the leader of a nuclear space weapon seemed both original and familiar. I liked that a villain came from somewhere personal to Bond, but I also feel like it could have had more build up within their friendship instead of hiding him for half the film. That way, the gut punch will hurt more if we would have cared about these two working together. Plus, how many times have we seen a nuclear motivated villain in this series anyway? I also don't believe the 9 year time jump was in any way necessary. Considering that both of these two are MI6 agents, I would have liked more than a few minutes of hand to hand combat.This film is beloved by many people, but I hardly believe it's one of the best Bond films. It's action is marvelous though so unrealistic at times i.e. the spectacular pre-credits sequence. The acting with exception of Janssen is very good. There's just a few too many mishaps with the pacing and lack of interesting female characters (with the exception of Dench of course) among other things. it's a formidable spy film, it's just nothing special, especially among the greatness of this franchise.+Dench brings needed gravitas+Bean is so fun to watch+Personal villain+Action-Janssen is out of place-Story never takes the next step into greatness-Some unbelievable moments6.1/10 "},{"Title":"**1/2","Date":"21 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Our Bond films always work under the theme that there is someone or some organization seeking to create a catastrophe in the world and this film falls right into that traditional way of thinking.We get a chance to meet 006 here and would never imagine that a colleague and friend of 007 is such a villain.I just love the slick dialogue in this film and all other Bond flicks. When the female villain in dead on a tree, James states that she always loved a tight squeeze, and Moneypenny's thought that while Bond is in his usual comfort position with the opposite sex, that he is on top of the situation.There are endless crises scenes of explosions and other mayhem, but we've come to expect that in these kinds of films. "}{"Title":"Brosnan's best Bond movie","Date":"29 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" (66%) A fine rebirth after a 6 year hiatus between 89's Licence to kill featuring the very charismatic Brosnan, some great action set pieces, and a more grown-up feel. Scourupco's character is quite unique in that she has a decent level of screen time without Bond present, and she's also given important things to do rather than just looking pretty and helping out in quite minor ways, which is quite refreshing. Bean is great, and Janssen plays sadistic beauty very well. And although the movie was an update, it still subtlety looked back on both the series and on history in general. This is a good Bond movie, that also can boast the all-time greatest video game tie-ins ever. "},{"Title":"A really good N64 video game-also this movie","Date":"16 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" My favorite part of the game is Donkey Kong mode where all the players' characters have big heads and over sized arms, in the movie there is no Donkey Kong mode unfortunately. The movie is basically the cut scenes from the video game except with the movie you never get to play the game. Also in the game you could change your character's outfit, but in the movie you are stuck with whatever costume the actors are wearing. Also in the game you could unlock new characters, guns, levels and outfits, but in the movie you cant unlock anything. Also the movie doesn't have any cheat codes so don't even try to waste your time, trust me I know. I will say this for the movie, it has better graphics than the N64. "},{"Title":"Brosnan's first is firmly good","Date":"12 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Rating-7/10Goldeneye is a Bond that see's Pierce Brosnan take the reigns, and my does he ride it well. With a great build up and a film that wasn't afraid to lack action to make the plot much more mysterious and good, Goldeneye really is one of the higher rated Bonds in the entire series. It took off where Dalton left off with it's dark tones and a more realistic special agent, I felt that the film was a firmly good movie, and here is why.The story as said lacks maybe the whole action element we so often see with Bond although still manages to have big car chases and villains who are just plain evil to fill that hole. The plot intertwines together nicely and with some shocks we haven't seen the like of for quite a while In Bond, it really does make a good job of it all. One more good thing about this story Is that it makes it more of a drama here and doesn't just go full throttle with fighting and chases, some personal conversations take place.Brosnan in his first role does very well indeed to say this is the start, he has the charm of previous but also with a little side of skills in fighting and driving etc and this is what Bond is all about. The rest of the cast who I won't mention or it could ruin it for the reader of this are fine well on the villain side I mean, Judi Dench's debut as M is done well and she gives off a much more aggressive M than we have seen before meaning we know she will have much more major roles than M ever has.Martin Campbell directs very well and truly casts the blanket the past Bond directors have had with a firm piece that he manages to see through very well, I imagine he had a hand in coordinating the car chases. The script is stronger than usual and you actually focus possibly more on what they are saying for the first time in years as previous Bond's have occasionally had very weak dialogue. I loved the explosions, this movie has so many massive explosions and if you catch on early you will just think why are so many things blowing up, good fun though.As a criticism you could say this film lacks the thrills and action we usually see and instead just talks a lot and safely drops Brosnan in on the role, I disagree but I would understand if someone said that. They don't do away with the ridiculous stunts we so often see, fun to see happening but to some watching it could hit a nerve that you thought had gone away when Moore left the role. Not much else wrong, a bit of a mixed story really but it works out well in the end.Bond fans should really like this and I wouldn't b surprised if this were there favourite or in the top 10 because this is what Bond is all about and actually is a good special agent. For those who aren't such big fans of Bond well you may like it too as it contains all the elements that an action movie needs and brings them all to the forefront making for fun action which also seems serious enough.Overall I give this a 7/10, it is Firmly a Good movie and although not near to being Very Good, it is also much better than just being Kind of Good. Many people will tell you to savour this if your watching Bond in order because Brosnan never quite lived up to this again, I could agree but Goldeneye is one to savour as one of the better Bonds around, and to be fair it most probably is Brosnans best. Look out for the explosions as I said and enjoy them, this doesn't have a lot of humour but it's a great plot and makes for a good film. "},{"Title":"Piercing guy","Date":"26 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Enter Brosnan. I remember having my doubts at the time regarding the latest new Bond, not imagining how TV's rather effete Remington Steele could transform into the all-conquering 007. But fair play to Irishman Brosnan, he does an excellent job, he has the looks, charm and devil-meant the character needs and is clearly up to the physical challenges (in more ways than one) of the job.Judi Dench also makes her first appearance as M, but I'm less keen on her. I get the modernising gender-busting update of her character but it feels contrived to me and I don't sense her engagement with the role. Sean Bean, probably a candidate at the time for the lead, obviously harbours no grudge at coming up 001 short with a strong performance as rogue agent Alex Trevelyan. Robbie Coltrane delivers a nice cameo as an old rival Russian agent.The action sequences are suitably over-the-top, Bond's bungee jump at the start getting there long before Tom Cruise's M. I. team, plus there are lots of boy's toys for James to indulge himself with, including a gravity-defying plane manoeuvre, a hair-raising race outside Monaco and of course he gets to cause mayhem in of all things a tank in yet another death-defying escape. Yes, product placement is everywhere you look, but that's the name of the game these days, I suppose.Both Bond-girls are Russian too, with the sex scenes now more adult and rougher than before, indeed an aged American admiral is literally squeezed to death between the legs of his seductress although James naturally extricates himself from a similar fate later in the film. The wise-cracks could have been better and as usual with Bond, the movie runs on too long but with first- class special effects not to mention one of the better theme tunes, as U2's Bono and Edge do a Shirley Bassey make-over on Tina Turner, this was a strong re-entry by the franchise, just when it needed it most. "},{"Title":"A brilliant debut and a return to form.","Date":"3 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After a long gap, Bond returned in Goldeneye and Pierce Brosnan finally got to play the role he was meant to play. Brosnan lost out on the role in Living Daylights when NBC, which had essentially canceled Remington Steele, decided they were going to hold him to his contract, after the attention Brosnan received as the next Bond. The series limped along with a few more episodes then was canceled for good. meanwhile, Timothy Dalton took over as Bond. While his first outing was great, apart from a weak villain and shaky middle section; his second outing was a very mixed bag. Ensuing legal issues and various rejected scripts kept the series in limbo. Dalton moved on and Brosnan finally got his chance.The film sets the tone right away, putting Brosnan in some Connery-era situations, as we take a trip into the past, with Bond and 006 infiltrating a Soviet nerve gas factory. Things smash right along and Brosnan proves he was meant to be Bond. next, we move back to the present, where we are introduced to a new generation of assassins in Famke Janssen as Xenia Onatopp (a very Flemingesque name). We also get Alan Cumming as a Russian computer expert, in a memorable character part. And we meet our love interest. Well, two out of three ain't bad. Along the way, we are introduced to new supporting characters, all filled with outstanding actors, including Judi Dench as the new M, Samantha Bond as Moneypenny, Colin Salmon, Robbie Coltrane, Tcheky Karyo, and Sean Bean as 006 and out villain. By this point, Bean had made a name for himself in the Sharpe series and in Patriot Games and he is well suited as a turncoat 00. This adds a nice touch to the series, as we always wondered about Bond going up against an equal. meanwhile, we have a real global threat, something missing from the series for quite a while. We even get the return of Joe Don Bake, in a more suitable role. Everything is firing here.The stunts are great here, with the tank chase through the city a memorable set piece, as well as our teaser scenes and our climactic battle. We get plenty of exotic scenery, including Russia. The characters are good and the plot chugs right along. This is a Bond film in the classic mold, while updating things for a new generation. Tina Turner gives us a memorable theme song, and we have titles that harken back to Maurice Binder, if even more sexually charged. With everything working, it becomes a shame that this is Brosnan's highpoint, as his series would begin to suffer from the problems that plagued late era Moore and Dalton Bonds (convoluted plots, weak villains, committee scripts). This is one to savor, though. "},{"Title":"when will they let you pick different outcomes","Date":"22 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Golden Eye was not bad for a Bond film. I rate movies relative to the pretensions of the work so lets give it 5 stars. All Bond movies for me are fun for about the first hour and terribly boring and anticlimactic during the final 20 minutes when the bad guy is routed by battling armies of scuba divers or whatever and the timer on the bomb stopped at 1 second. I guess I secretly like the bad guys! Gee I wonder how many people there are like me? Probably millions. It seems to me that the technology is already here where by you could have multiple endings to the same movie&#x85;now there is a good idea. I could then select the ending where SPECTER wins.This Bond movie is good for the realistic props...the tank scene is too long. And the evil woman was too rough..I prefer them to use poisonous needles rather than slug it out physically "},{"Title":"An action packed one","Date":"14 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" If you are looking for a bond film with lot of action, then Golden eye is a must watch bond film.The story follows Bond trying to stop an unknown enemy in Russia from using a satellite weapon called Golden eye to destroy England.The storyline is good, the action sequences are plenty, Bond style is remarkable. The locales are also cool, and the dam scene in the beginning is too good.The bad is some vulgarity but it is not too explicit, and can be ignored. The ladies are useless.This film is worth watching "},{"Title":"Lots of Energy, but.....","Date":"13 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I believe I was generous giving a 6 to this film. I gave it because it certainly has a lot of energy and well let's face it a Bond girl who gets her kicks killing by simulating sex with her victim well it was the ultimate OTT (over the top).The plot? Well it is just a the same tired old plot lifted from Our Man Flint, earlier Bond flicks or Austin Powers - evil genius wants to make boatloads of money by blowing up the world, New York, or in this case London and Bond (Powers, Flint) saves the day. Substitute Dr. Evil for Alex Trevelyan and well, you get the picture.But it did have lots of energy even if it was OTT and quite often lacked any sense of credibility (plot, action - you name it). "},{"Title":"The first ten minutes were stunning; after that it didn't pick up for a full hour.","Date":"8 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" While I was very happy with Pierce Brosnan as James Bond, I didn't particularly like this one. It was a decent popcorn flick, but it could have been so much better.The first ten minutes were full of charged, tense, dynamic action sequences and brilliant stunts. But after Bond escaped the first dangerous scenario, the plot seemed to just amble along for the next hour. By the time it finally picked up again, it was too late for it to really be a really outstanding action movie.I would recommend seeing it if you are either a Bond fan, or a really big action movie fan, but otherwise, you will probably not enjoy it all that much. "},{"Title":"Good film with flaws","Date":"20 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" A good film with a couple of minor flaws. The storyline was good and remotely realistic. The woman who tries to kill people in peculiar ways to say the least really needs to be portrayed better. She could be up there in with bad guy fame along with Jaws, DR NO, and Blofeld. Anyway, to cut it short, the BMW was apparently, according to Q, filled with loads of exciting and imaginative gadgets. BUT NOT A SINGLE ONE WAS USED IN THE FILM. Shocking news and a waste of a BMW. This film should be remade with much improvement to be done. This could be a great film. But things really need changing. Next, the video game. The video game was good. No doubt about it. But seriously, it should have been kept the same. There were loads of flaws and problems. Firstly, HOW THE HECK IN DUBAI THE NEW MONACO. The produces of the game should have been fired on the spot for that. There is nothing more to say about this film with a good storyline and scenes and an extremely disappointing video game to go with it. "}{"Title":"New Face, Old Formula","Date":"28 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The 17th entry in the series hands the license to kill to Brosnan, replacing Dalton, whose Bond was rather serious. Brosnan's Bond is more along the lines of Connery and Moore, which is a good thing. However, the script is nothing but the same old Bond formula of super villain with a mean laser. What this one has going for it is a couple of fine looking Bond babes Scorupco is the good girl while Janssen is the evil one. Campbell, directing his first Bond film, has little feel for how to tell a good story. He's mainly interested in explosions and silly stunts, with inane secret agent talk filling the gaps between action scenes. Dench is a welcome addition as M. "},{"Title":"The Rolex Oyster is dead - long live the Omega Seamaster!","Date":"5 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Best not considered as a Bond movie at all,Goldeneyemust live or die on its own merits which are considerable.Mr P.Brosnan is a breath of fresh air after the petulance of Timothy Dalton and the self - conscious camp of Roger Moore.He is more recognisably a dangerous killer rather than a character laden with the baggage of a long series of bloated lethargic beanfeasts.He is a man,one feels,who could take on Bruce,Arnie and Sly in succession without pausing for breath. There is an air of excitement and movement about the whole production,the limo ride through London with M being a case in point with its air of cinema verite and slightly washed colours.The camera work is mobile and occasionally in your face,you won't sleep while Goldeneye is on,I promise . Mr S.Bean radiates his usual Northern grittiness as a turncoat former agent,his inner - city cockiness is a thousand miles away from any villain imagined by Ian Fleming and none the worse for it. Miss J.Dench is a quite splendid M,scathing yet reluctantly admiring at the same time.In my opinion she is better here than in many of her more lauded costume roles.With her in charge the Secret Service seems rather less of an Old Boys club,more a focused organisation with a clearly defined role. So you can see that with a few name changes,Goldeneye could be presented as a fine spy adventure movie with no connection to the franchise.The Rolex Oyster Perpetual is dead - long live the Omega Seamaster! "},{"Title":"A Little Silly","Date":"14 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I watched this film with my Dad when I was on vacation back in 1997. In some ways, it had all the makings of a trademark James Bond movie, but it started to lose me after awhile. For one thing, it got PC on us and made M a woman. I found that a little hard to take. She seemed too much like someone with an ax to grind. She had no sense of humor at all, and her hair was so tight, I could hear her brain screaming.Another way this movie strained credibility was the tank chase scene in Moscow. I could be wrong, but I don't think Russian tanks can go eighty miles an hour. Dad and I both thought that was a little ridiculous. There were a lot of good chase scenes that are typical Bond fare, but I think they started to slip with this one. 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Typical fare","Date":"25 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  If you've even seen one James Bond movie, then nothing here will surprise you. Imaginative villians (Famke Janssen having sexual experiences during her murder scenes!), a beautiful sidekick, bad guys who can't shoot straight and an evil mastermind hell bent on world destruction make for typical enjoyable Bond Fare. Pierce Brosnan proves himself a worthy successor to Connery and Moore, extremely dashing and debonair, always more concerned with style over substance. Funny scenes with Robbie Coltrane and Joe Don Baker (AKA Sheriff Buford Pusser, but that's another review!)and Judi Densch kicks butt as the new M who is very underwhelmed with the legendary 007. Park your brain outside and snicker while you think about Dr Evil's words to Austin Powers-an easily escapable situation involving an overly elaborate and exotic death....   "},{"Title":"Best Bond Ever","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Goldeneye was amazing. Pierce Brosnan is very cool. James Bond is a legacy that was created by Sean Connery. The Gadgets in this are sweet. Q is always coming up with incredible things for Bond to use against his enemies. The story was unbelievable and the graphics will blow your mind away. Nintendo did a great job in making the video game as close as to the movie as they could. The actors in this movie dil well and the scenery was nice. This opened up a whole new line for the Bond Collection. It will be hard to replace Brosnan after his time is over because he has done such a good job. If you do get a chance, buy the special edition DVD that has cool behind the scenes footage on how Bond did his stunts. I wholeheartly recommend this for anyone interested in adventure, mystery and comedy. "},{"Title":"BEST BOND FILM SINCE DIAMONDS ARE FOREVER","Date":"24 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Life-long (SINCE AGE 3) fan of the franchise, GREAT story! INCREDIBLE action! EVERYTHING about Goldeneye was CLASSIC BOND, including the homage to Shirley Bassey by Tina Turner. Incredible cast of Sean Bean, Alan Cumming, Robbie Coltrane and Famke Janssen, four actors I love in anything they've done since. Pierce Brosnan IS the 2ND best Bond, behind Connery. (by the way, GEORGE LAZENBY is 3rd(HE NEVER GETS PROPS), then TIMOTHY DALTON, and finally ROGER MOORE.) Brosnan brought the franchise back from the brink of death!  "},{"Title":"One of the Finest of 007's Career!","Date":"10 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"   I am still trying to figure out why some Bond fans dislike this movie. I think it's nearly perfect. It has everything terrific about the franchise -- some real espionage (the plot isn't handed to Bond all at once, as in some of the inferior entries), it hangs together (no real dangling set pieces), it's great to look at, it has some dynamite explosions, some really sinister villains,  an amusing ally, and very sexy women. Underneath it all, in this first post-Cold War Bond, is an examination of what the post-Soviet world of espionage and crime might really constitute, as all of the characters struggle to find their place in it. One telling scene takes place in what amounts to a Soviet graveyard -- a junkyard of old statues of Lenin and other Soviet icons.  The female lead, Izabella Scorupco, is especially notable. As computer analyst Natalya, she witnesses the mass murder of all her co-workers in a blaze of mayhem. Unlike the spy smoothies we're used to, Natalya weeps, screams, and mourns, before showing the steel she needs to rescue herself and eventually team up with our hero. I very much like how, in those early scenes, she's dressed as a computer analyst and not as a glamour girl. Her beauty shines through and later she gets a bikini.  The great cast includes Judi Dench, Robbie Coltraine, Sean Bean, Alan Cummings, Famke Jansen, and Joe Don Baker. 10/10  "},{"Title":"CONNERY'S SUCCESSOR HAS ARRIVED!!!!","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Dimitri Mishkin So, how shall we execute you, Mr. Bond?James Bond What, no small talk? No chit-chat? You know, that's the problem these days. No one bothers to take the time to give a really sinister interrogation.This movie is awesome! It's one of the best in the series. Plus it's Pierce Brosnan's first Bond picture and he's the best Bond next to Sean Connery!!!! This is the first Bond picture since License to Kill in 1989 and after a six-year hiatus the series came back with a whole new look.-A female M-Moneypenny talks to James about sexual harrassment.-Jack Wade replaces Felix-No P-word, just OnatoppThe changes are not bad and it was probably the best thing to do.***1/2 out of **** StarsA little side note I hope they bring back director Martin Campbell because he's the best Bond director next to Terence Young, Lewis Gilbert, and probably Guy Hamilton who has the honor of directing both the best and worst movie in the series.    "},{"Title":"Okay Film","Date":"14 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I really enjoyed seeing this film. I'm not tht much of a Bond fan, but this movie was certainly as good as all the earlier ones. It definitely holds its own against those other action films on the screen. For me though, I'll aways remember that this was the inspiration for THE COOLEST FPS Game ever made (Rare's 007 Goldeneye on N64)!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  "},{"Title":"Probably the best James bond ever...","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Goldeneye in my opinion is the best James bond ever. Although it's not the kind of movie I would watch often as I would get bored. But still, It knocked me out when I first saw it. Pierce Brosman then became my favorite James Bond. The plot dosen't let the film down and the film deserved more publicity then it got. Good twist to the story also, so go out and buy it if you really love your bond films.82% "}{"Title":"*drool*  My favourite movie, tie with Ben Hur","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Well this movie is tie for my favourite movie spot with Ben Hur in my opinion.  That's probably weird to people who know lots about the movie industry.  On well.I can't possibly write as much about this movie as the previous poster did unless I wrote out the whole movie, scene by scene.The game for nintendo 64 is also one of my favourite games of all time.I think this movie shows a serious James Bond who can get hurt, which is my type of James bond.  Timothy Dalton was my favourite bond because I most enjoy seeing him (Bond) portrayed as a man, not as some entity who is possessing a human body which gives the body unexplained abilities to do everything perfect pretty much.  That's a wacky way of putting it I know, but I have read some of Fleming's Bond books and it's really more of just a regular guy who works for MI6 and does his job and succeeds, but it's an adventure.  Like in Goldeneye.Some parts of this movie are a little unrealistic but it's fun. Music is awesome.  The soundtrack is the first CD I ever owned.  If you like action, this is a good movie.  It has a good length, and is filled with characters to remember Xenia, Boris, 006, Valentin, and Jack Wade.Rent or buy it, or if you own it, watch it now! "},{"Title":"A mildly above average Bond movie, yet good as a movie in general...","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is the 19th of 22 James Bond movies (2 being unofficial Bond movies and one currently and still in production).  This was the first Bond movie that Pierce Brosnan was in as the 5th actor to play James Bond. This movie rates, for me, as a slightly above average Bond movie and I gave it a 6 out of 10 overall.  Special effects were good but the plot dragged alot throughout the movie.  The Polish female lead actress, Izabella Scorupco, plays a Russian computer programmer.  She is a good actress but her character was developed very little.  There are some long and slow pauses throughout the movie that could have been edited better.  Action was not creative alot of times and consisted of just firing alot of bullets from machine guns.  There is a terrific army tank chase in the movie, however. Some of the scenery was fantastic like the huge dam at the beginning of the movie.  The villain was good but also not developed very much and repeated his life history several times in the movie.  The movie was a bit too slow for a Bond film.  Brosnan did a great job as Bond.  Action is a 3.75, Female lead is a 4, plot is a 5, music is a 6, scenery is an 8, overall suspense is a 6.  Female villain accomplice is a 9. The teaser has Bond and agent 006 break into a Russian chemical facility which is part of a huge dam.  They blow the facility up and kill alot of Russian soldiers and 007 gets away on an aircraft that he chases off a mountain and dives to get inside of, this after throwing the pilot and himself off the aircraft earlier while it is taking off and chasing it on a motorcycle.  It is believed that 006 is killed during the teaser.The movie itself involves Bond tracking down people who stole a special helicopter and Goldeneye which is a special optic device used to fire off Soviet era Electromagnetic Pulse satellites which disable an entire city's electrical systems, electronics, and computers.  Bond must stop this from happening.  A modestly above average movie.  Kind of boring at times.  "},{"Title":"Good opening sequence... that's about it.","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is not a patch on its predecessors.  It's the first Bond movie I've seen that couldn't hold my interest throughout.  Pierce Brosnan makes an alright Bond, but doesn't quite have the weight to his presence of Sean Connery, Timothy Dalton, or even George Lazenby.  And he's a little too soft-spoken and sensitive.There are some good action scenes, but on the whole it lacks the easy, effective simplicity that characterized the early Bond movies - that was what made them so likeable.Perhaps what I disliked the most about this movie was the females in it. Judi Dench as M - what a haughty, humourless character.  I'd be handing in my resignation for sure if I had to take orders from someone as unpleasant as that!  This new breed of Bond woman first appeared with the highly irritating Pam Bouvier in License to Kill, and unfortunately has continued in Goldeneye and beyond.  These women are cynical, serious and almost totally lacking in feminine charm.  It's also frustrating to see them getting some of the fighting action that I'd prefer to see Bond performing.Good to see a fist fight, albeit a short one, between Bond and the former 006 near the end.  Was beginning to fear that the classic fist fight was becoming a thing of the past, lost amid the clatter of machine guns and explosions.What a pity - Pierce could possibly make a good Bond if he toughened up a little, perhaps could rank third behind Connery and Dalton, but I don't somehow think the movies themselves will ever return to their glory days.And by the way, what was the point of introducing us to that beautiful BMW when we scarcely got to see it in action?!    "},{"Title":"Yeah, Pierce!!","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  With the excellent performance that Pierce Brosnan puts into this excellent, excellent Bond film, it comes as a shock that he followed it up with two consecutive 007 crapfests. GoldenEye starts off with one of the best opening sequences of the entire Bond series. Who cares that the plane that he skydived after was way beyond saving, or that there was no possible way that he could have held himself at the bottom of that bungee cord? This impossibility is standard with James Bond, and in my opinion, it always makes the movies impossible to take seriously at all, but there was something about all of GoldenEye that made it more fun than usual and also much better than many of the other Bond films. The opening theme song is just awful (as usual), but it's probably one of the best bad ones of the series (I'm not sure if the excellent theme song for The World Is Not Enough will ever be surpassed, by the way).GoldenEye also has some great action, particularly the chases. We almost immediately get a great car chase on mountain roads, although every red-blooded male (the film's target audience) who sees this film will groan in almost physical pain when he sees how they mistreated a Ferrari Testarossa in that chase. I almost couldn't watch. And then later there is a spectacular chase through the streets in which Bond pilots a TANK! HELL yeah. This chase, by the way, was just awesome, although there was a dubious portion of it in which Bond drives the tank through some sort of parking garage beneath a building, literally tearing out the first floor, and not only does the poor building not collapse, but he is followed by a squadron of jeeps that are magically able to climb right over all of the huge chunks of fallen concrete left by the destruction of the tank. And I won't even mention the way that this chase was almost rendered completely ineffective by the way completely moronic things were thrown in, like this tank's unique ability to spin its tracks like a race car. Have you ever seen the skid marks left by a tank as it accelerates too fast for the tracks to grip the road? You haven't? You know why, right?Oh yeah, the GoldenEye. That's some weapon located on an orbiting satellite that is able to shoot a laser to the surface of the earth and disable every electronic device within a radius of like, 30 miles or something. So there's the traditional super villain threat (evidently operated by the Russians), now back to the interesting stuff.  Judi Dench gives the Bond series probably more of a boost than Brosnan's excellent performance as the latest Bond (at least in comparison to the sorry performances from Timothy Dalton and Roger Moore). She is the new M, and her scene in which she calls Bond a `sexist misogynist dinosaur' is some of the best stuff ever uttered in a Bond film. Q's traditional scene where he introduces all of Bond's newest gadgets has made a tremendous leap from License To Kill, even though the vast majority of those gadgets were hardly, if ever, used in the film, and that includes the BMW (which effectively turned this and the next two Bond films into two-hour BMW commercials).(spoilers) And how about those villains? Not only do we get to actually meet another double-O, but it turns out that he becomes the main villain in this installment in the 007 series. His reasons for rebelling against her majesty's secret service were not exactly very creative, though. They should have just had him say, `Who ever heard of 006?!' That would have been funnier AND better. And then there was the laughable female villain, Xenia Onatopp (nyuk nyuk), who is into some seriously rough sex and also seems to have orgasmic episodes when cutting dozens of people in half with a machine gun. Oh yeah, she likes to get people into scissor locks and squeeze them to death after sex, although I didn't even have any sympathy when she did that to Bond, because in my opinion, even the most rib-shattering scissor lock is nothing that a good punch in the head couldn't solve right quick. She did have a pretty good death scene, though, followed by Bond's usual one-liner (`She always did enjoy a good squeeze&#133;'). Speaking of one-liners, they went a little overboard with them in GoldenEye, even more than usual. Even the villains had these goofy one-liners, and I still can't figure out why they keep putting them in these movies, because maybe every fifteenth one is anything but ridiculous.And, of course, how could I leave out the usual easily escapable near death-scenes for our hero 007? The scene where he is tied and unconscious in a helicopter in which the missiles are programmed to fire and then return to blow it up was actually a pretty good scene, but the intelligence of the villains is effectively illustrated by the fact that they didn't bother to disable the ejection seat. If they were REALLY smart, they would have disabled the parachutes and then purposely tied Bond so that he could just reach the ejection button. Evidently those boneheads don't realize that that would be an almost funny way to kill Bond. At any rate, even though the villains were a little overly obnoxious and unintelligent in this installment, the movie comes off way above average for a 007 film. The ending is excellent (despite the ridiculous notion that 006 could have survived a fall like that), and that gigantic underwater satellite was a cool idea, too. The Bond girl is definitely one of the most beautiful of the entire series, and there is even a hint of meaningful direction (which is unheard of in a Bond film), after the plane crash. Despite many of the usual weaknesses, GoldenEye is definitely one of the top Bond films. "},{"Title":"Inconsqential plot, but damned good action yarn.","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Six years had passed since Dalton made Licence to Kill, and by that time the series was hanging by a thread - people didn't like the tough, serious, down-to-earth character that Dalton played in Licence to Kill (which is a shame really because he played it like Fleming wanted, which made a fresh change from the comic book bond we all know today), they wanted the Moore/Connery style, and that's what they got with Brosnan.This film, released during the time when action films were all the rage in Hollywood, meant it had to compete with the die hards, the arnies, the stallones of this world and STILL bring a product that was worth watching.  The director wisely chose the action path to draw the viewers back.  From the jaw-dropping stunts at the start to the end was one rollercoaster of an action film.But fortuently for us it wasn't just an action film, it was meant to be a refresh on Bond - to show younger viewers who Bond was.Anyway the film, I felt, was more action than story.  The plot of a spy turning bad and using a satellite to rob the Bank of England was pretty inconsequential.  Okay, it sounded a little like the novel of MoonRaker - but that didn't matter - what mattered was the action.  And there was plenty of it to satisfy the hardened action lover.So okay, the fall-after-a-plane looked physically impossible - actually it is possible to fall after a plane, catch up to it, and climb inside (the parts with the stunt man are actually real, its just the close-ups on Brosnan climbing inside the plane made you THINK it wasn't possible).  The plane turning from one angle to another in a matter of seconds, however, isn't possible.So, okay enough of the physics and the action, what about the story, the bad guy, and all that?  Yes, yes, they were great, Sean Bean puts in a good, but pretty unmemorable appearance as 006 - its a shame the ending wasn't better - or perhaps a team of 00 agents verses 007 would have been a better plot.Anyway this is a good, reintroduction to bond, if you can mind the action, the moore-styled plot and script then you'll enjoy it.  But if you preferred the style of Dalton and Connery or the novels - you won't enjoy it. "},{"Title":"A no brainer","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I would Like to point out the biggest movie mistake I've ever seen in all my years of being an avid movie buff.  So if you if you don't want me to spoil it for you other nit-pickers and film buffs don't read on.This movie opens with our hero Bond bunjee jumping off of a DAM into a GULLY and entering a restroom in the Dam's power house.  So Bond shoots his way from one room to the other, and so on.  When he finally leaves the building we see he is now at a snowy MOUNTAIN TOP air strip.  At this point you would expect Bond to look around and say What the *@#^! at the shock of entering a DAM POWER HOUSE and exiting to a MOUNTAIN TOP air strip.  But neither Bond nor the people, who liked this movies enough to think it was the best Bond ever, even notice the problem.  This movie is just one action seen after another with very little plot.  Film markers, please stop picking on the Russian, find away to bring back SPECTOR because those were the best Bond's, and let our action hero's do some actual detective work to stop the bad guy, instead of everything just falling in their laps. "},{"Title":"A fine entry of Brosnan","Date":"25 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Not better then the golden sixties area, but still refreshing and different from other action movies. This picture sees the arrival of Brosnan. In my humble view Connery is still the one who did the best job. Brosnan isn't doing it bad either. All though he can't compete with the performance of lovely but lethal Xenia Onatopp, who enjoys with great almost erotic pleasure, gunning people down or - her specialty - crushing men with her thighs. In the pre-sequence (teaser) we see Bond on a mission with oo6, who gets killed when Bond escapes. This is the start of a great action packed movie, with some sharp dialogues and some incredible stunts, without getting grotesque. In the middle we see an interesting twist, when Bond is finding out that his former partner and friend isn't really dead and now is operating under the name Janus. Making it more a personal vendetta than a mission for queen and country. Bonds is being assisted by the charming intelligent Russian multi media expert Natalya Simonova, who's also hurt by Janus and his people. Memorable are the scenes in historic St. Petersburg - giving it a taste of nostalgia - where Bond is chasing a villain by Tank in the center of the city and crushing everything which comes his way. Also the final clash between Bond and janus on a satellite dish in the Caribean is breathtaking. In between we see some fine acting by Judi Dench as M and the re-entree of Joe Don Baker in a small role making this a joy to watch.   "},{"Title":"Bond is back, with a vengeance!","Date":"11 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Pierce Brosnan was born to play James Bond. He is the best 007 since Sean Connery. The action and special effects have never been better. Dame Judi Dench makes a great M. Also, she is the perfect match for Bond's carefree, boyish charms. Joe Don Baker and Robbie Coltrain give solid performances, and the Bond women have never been better! Goldeneye puts Bond movies back where they belong--on top! "},{"Title":"One of the best (and the soundtrack too)","Date":"12 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I think this is one of the best Bonds. There are weak points, but no Bond movie is perfect. It's a general weakness of the series that the dialogue can jar (like Moneypenny's lines and about half of what Sean Bean says), not specific to this film. The underuse of the BMW is mystifying (perhaps they ran out of time), and Boris is irritating (but nothing on Jar Jar Binks). Against this, the action sequences are fluid, coherent, and original; the main characterisations are excellent; the plot hardly has any holes at all.And the soundtrack is rather good too many people seem to regard the original Monty Norman Bond theme as sacrosanct, but change can be good. "},{"Title":"Stupid movie","Date":"21 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Personally, I hated this movie.  It was one of my least favorite movies I have seen.  But, I don't like the Bond movies either, so I guess my judgement isn't totally fair.However, the annoying one-liners and the total unrealism of this movie gets on my nerves.  James Bond isn't supposed to be realistic, but how about that ending?  That's just plain ridiculous. "}{"Title":"Bond Is Back!","Date":"10 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  For me, the EON Bond's hit a high-water mark in Octopussy, which was Roger Moore's best outing as 007.  Then, Roger stuck around for one film too many in A View To A Kill, which was not so good, and then we got stuck with Timothy Dalton's two movies which culminated with the worst Bond movie ever made (Licence To Kill) and the near-destruction of the entire Bond movie franchise.It was therefore a joy when I saw Goldeneye to realize that at last, Bond was back in a new exciting era of films.  Pierce Brosnan does a fine job his first time out, playing Bond in the Connery mold with enough touches of Moore's style and charm to elevate him light years ahead of Dalton.  Add to that, a great supporting cast, the best Bond girl in two decades in Izabella Scorupco and an entertaining story and you have the best Bond film since Octopussy and one of the best overall.  I loved it from beginning to end, with the only blemish being Eric Serra's absolutely awful score (the title song was okay though).  Unfortunately, the high quality of this film wasn't followed up in Tomorrow Never Dies (save for an improvement in the music). I'm hoping that The World Is Not Enough will emulate Goldeneye more, and indeed with Robbie Coltrane's character from this film slated as the upcoming villain, that may well turn out to be the case.But no matter what happens, Pierce Brosnan has at least done one Bond film I will always return to and enjoy again and again. "},{"Title":"One, if not the BEST, of Bonds","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Famke Janssen was my favorite character over Bond. Natalya even gave a sort of 'innocent girl' scenario, but kicked ass when the mission called for it. Brosnan is an ok Bond for his first Bond movie. Martin Campbell did a great directing job, but it still lacked in a few ways.A great pro and con goes for the writers good for giving Bond more of a heart (beach scene) and giving a reason why the enemy keeps Bond alive instead of killing him like we all scream at the screen, but bad in not doing anything with his car (which practically saved Tomorrow Never Dies, which I thought could've been better).Sean Bean as Trevelyan was a good Bond villain to remember.   It wasn't the best, but it wasn't near the worst of any list for me. And playing the video game for Nintendo 64 reminds me of it and makes me watch the movie again from time to time. It will always be remembered as a pretty good Bond. Not great, but pretty good. "},{"Title":"golden-eye,awunga ba dunga!","Date":"10 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  hey,hey,hey!stop knocking goldeneye,it is by far the second best bond film,and the performance by brosnan is the best i have ever seen, i loved boris grishenko,xenia,well,i'd like to get her drunk let me tell you!(nudge,nudge,wink wink!)the computer game is brilliant,although the people look like they've had an accident with a cheap razor,their faces are too angular you see,but anyway!a marvellous film that you see right now!it's name's plum,juicy plum.  "},{"Title":"Dench has Bond walking out with his tail between his legs -)","Date":"30 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Along with the Star Trek films series, Bond films are ones that I look forward to. I saw Goldeneye when it came out in the cinema and had mixed feelings because I couldn't stand Pierce B. at the time (after seeing him in Mrs. Doubtfire and interviewed). But after getting used to him in seeing him in more films, I decided he wasn't such a bad action hero, so I rented Goldeneye again.Before expressing my general feelings about the film, here's what I didn't likeMany of the films these days make use of quirky comedy - not only in the dialogue but in the characters and some people love them and some don't. For example, the Chris Tucker drag queen dj in The Fifth Element - I never laughed so much in a movie. But others couldn't stand him. Or, when Data acquired his emotions chip in Generations some people couldn't stand his humour, while I had a blast with it. But in Goldeneye, I finally found myself on the disliking the clown character side - I absolutely couldn't stand the Boris character.I also didn't like the fight at the end of the film. I hate it when all the great special effects are used up and the final scene of a film is a fist fight between the hero and the villain - it is so anti-climactic.A third element I disliked was the stealing of a group of lines from Die Hard. Bond insults the villain by telling him that he's nothing but a common thief - this was stolen from the film Die Hard when John McClaine's wife says the same thing to Hans Gruber.I wish that Russians would stop being portrayed as the villains in just about every movie, as if they were inherently evil. Why don't the British do something with other countries, like the U.S. or China or something?Finally, I was turned off by some of the escapes that Bond made. After seeing Austin Powers in which Dr. Evil has the argument with his son about killing Powers, I have developed a bad taste for easy escapes. (Why don't I just bump him off with right now, dad? You can't set up an elaborate trap for him, you know he'll just escape. / Nonsense, son.)Well, even after all those criticisms, I liked Goldeneye a lot; in fact, I thought it was one of the better Bond films. Lots of non-stop action. I also loved the introduction of Judi Dench as M and the scene where Bond walks out of her office with his tail between his legs. The female Russian villain was great too. (8 out of 10 - Good) "},{"Title":"Bond is back and better than ever.","Date":"25 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Pierce is going to do great justice as Bond. This is the punch the Bond series desperately needed. Good pacing, great sound, and Famke Jannsen is the hottest Bond villainess ever! Solid 9 "},{"Title":"One of the better Bonds","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Hey! Why's everybody picking on GoldenEye?? Don't care about plot holes or factual errors. It's entertainment!! This is a good movie and definitely one of the best Bonds. Brosnan looks cool, Xenia is eye-popping, the music is great and -IMPORTANT -the action sequences are something new ! In TOMORROW there's just standard Hollywood action (the whole movie is American) , but the tank ride through Leningrad, the jump into the plane in the opening sequence (it ain't realistic but, hey, it's a Bond movie!!) are something I've never seen before. And that's what the Bond films make so special (respectively, TOMORROW so bad). And GOLDENEYE's got great directing. I mean, just lean back and enjoy the pictures. Things like that are worth an Oscar (and not standard work like The Sinking Giant Ship) --> 8/10 for GoldenEye plus an extra bonus point for Xenia!  "},{"Title":"The Best Bond!!!","Date":"12 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I have seen all of the Bond films, and this one by far is the best. Goldeneye had all of the elements that made the original Bonds such compelling movies, and than a million times more action. Next to Connery, Pierce Brosnan is the best actor to have stepped into this role, and in my opinion he may even be better than Connery's Bond. Pierce Brosnan single handedly rejuvenated this franchise. The Bond girls were sexy (as they should have been), although Xenia Onnatop may have been a bit over the top. Nonetheless great action movie, my favourite Bond movie of all time, and its sad that Brosnan was unable to top his debut in any of his other Bond performances. "},{"Title":"Soviet collapses.......MI-6 Rules !!","Date":"11 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Well.....I think more than enough has been written so my contribution would be nothing but a mere piece of waste. But there's one thing which none (seem to ) have added to.......the Aston Martin DB5 - my dream car. So polished, grand and royal it looks that it really makes me view this movie's chase with Ferrari spider over and over again! The car does not look ancient and awkward at all when it rides near a Ferrari. And what a stunning beauty Isabella Scorupco is !This is a great movie indeed after 6 years of debacle of 007 character. The music scored when Bond visits the Monte Carlo casino is really and Europeally beautiful. Equally good is the title song by Tina Turner. The gadgets shown by Q are breathtaking - really gave me a desire to possess at least one of them(including the BMW of course).This movie studded 007 as my favorite character outclassing even the Jedi Knights of STAR WARS. What a hero Bond is ! If only Bond movies lacked the sexually ugly deeds of him, I'm sure one of his movies would be ranked as one the 10 top movies of Bond ever. The 007 movies following this viz. TND, TWINE and DAD do not match this masterpiece by Pierce Brosnan.Improvements could have been made on the special effects when the aircraft falls from the weapons station, and the satellite blasting scenes. 9/10 for GOLDENEYE....not to be missed. "},{"Title":"Bond... only Bond... and Bond at his very best too!","Date":"30 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After a rather lengthy leave of absence, after what was widely considered to be a less than favourable run from Timothy Dalton in the late 80s, everyone's favourite martini sipping secret agent was given a glorious revival in 1995 with the addition of new Bond Pierce Brosnan. And after such a wonderfully satisfying debut, one starts to wonder what's been keeping him so long - Brosnan seems born to play Bond, effortlessly mastering the panache and charisma that truly make 007 who he is, and he is without a doubt the second best Bond ever, other than Sean Connery. And what gives Brosnan a slight edge is that even though Connery was nothing less than class personified, one always sees him as Sean Connery playing James Bond... whereas we see Brosnan simply as James Bond, he inhabits the role so fully. But Goldeneye is a wonderful film for so many more reasons other than its new lead - a clever and intelligent script most Bond movies simply lacked, with a few genuine surprises and plot twists thrown in later. This intelligent screenplay helps to counterbalance the necessary frequent action sequences, again, not only among the best ever seen in a Bond movie, but among the best in the 90s at all. There are sequences here of the kind that stick with one forever, such as the car/tank chase through St. Petersburg, and Bond leaping from the top of a Russian dam (with his stuntman breaking the world record for highest bungee jump at the same time) and one of the most energetic and satisfying fight scenes of recent movie history at the end. The entire movie is also beautifully shot, with wonderful cinematography which is also mostly unseen in the Bond movies. Even performance-wise, Goldeneye stands far above the average Bond film, with Izabella Scorupco making an intelligent and capable Bond girl, as well as Famke Janssen (soon to be Jean Grey in the X-Men movies) as a truly creepy femme-fatale style dominatrix assassin, specialising in asphyxiating men between her thighs. Hmm... Sean Bean is also a genuinely believable and menacing villain, with none of the camp the average Bond villain displays, and it comes as a genuine surprise when he turns out to be not only back from the dead but also a traitor to MI6 and his country, despite the fact that logically, we know that his role was far too short early on to be completely inconsequential. Judi Dench also makes a strong impression as the new M, Bond's boss, who will take none of his nonsense and has no compunctions with sending him to his death. But she won't do it on a whim. There's also some highly enjoyable little roles from Robbie Coltrane as Russian mobster Valentin Zukovski, a welcome and particularly entertaining scene with Desmond Llewelyn as Q, the MI6 gadgets guru, and Alan Cumming who comes close to stealing the show as incredibly enjoyable computer nerd Boris Grishenko. Overall, Goldeneye is not only essentially the strongest and best made Bond movie since Goldfinger, but a very strong and ridiculously enjoyable and entertaining movie in its own right, surpassing most other 90s action movies in terms of quality and enjoyment factor. Even if you aren't exactly a fan of 007 movies, Goldeneye would be worth checking out - if only to get a sense of Bond at his very best.-10/10 "},{"Title":"Excellent Bond film (spoilers)","Date":"19 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" GoldenEye still marks the highpoint in Bond's post-Dalton comeback. None of the subsequent films have been as fun, as well written or as memorable. In fact, they've all been disappointingly bland. The franchise has regressed rather than moved forward.But GoldenEye was a welcome return to form in 1995 (although I like the previous film Licence to Kill) and it still stands up. The action scenes are superb, the dialogue is pithy and it has quite a few memorable characters, which makes the film stand out even more considering how forgettable most of the characters have been in subsequent films. I mean, who can forget that blonde bloke from Tomorrow Never Dies? Or the nuclear physicist with the large rack in The World is Not Enough? Or the bald geezer out of Die Another Day? They were characters for the ages&#133; But like I say, GoldenEye is stocked with great characters. Just take Xenia Onatopp. How can you not like a woman who crushes men between her thighs? Plus she also has a penchant for fascistic leather military uniforms and a desire to shoot people while moaning like a whore. I dig that. Then there's Alec Trevelyan &#150; a plumy, lecherous, traitorous former MI6 agent who says things like, You know, James&#133;I was always better. I dig that too. And there's Zukovsky, computer geek Boris and General Ourumov. Out of these, Ourumov has to be my favourite, largely because he has a hip flask and a huge nose. Always a good combination. (I also have to mention that I love how camp his stance is when he 'executes' 006. All I'll say is, I'm a little teapot.) And Jack Wade is good too. Sure he's a concession to American audiences, but he represents them well &#150; he's an overweight loudmouth.Even the token totty stand up well. Izabella Scorupco is a fine looking woman, but, get this, she can actually act. And the fact that she can act makes it easy to overlook the fact that she's far too attractive to be a computer programmer. The same can't be said of Denise Richards in The World is Not Enough. Worst&#133;casting&#133;ever! And Judi Dench is a great M and Samantha Bond is a fantastic Moneypenny. Although I have to say that I'm always distracted by Samantha Bond's nose. Its got a life of its own. Take a look when you watch it next. (I've seen this film too many times&#133;) The only negative is that Desmond Llewelyn seems to be reading his dialogue from cue cards. He seems to be looking beyond Bond in their scene. I guess he must have had trouble remembering the jargon-heavy lines. But I still find it rather distracting. (Again, I've seen this film far too many times&#133;) But I guess what most people judge Bond films by, is the action. Well, in that regard, it's more than adequate. The opening stunt has to be the highlight. Stunts are so much more impressive when you're allowed to believe your eyes, when they're actually done for real. And the dam jump is possibly the best stunt I've seen.After that you have the plane sequence. This bit is silly as hell. Bond rides off a cliff, catches up to a free-falling plane &#150; despite it falling under both the force of gravity and its engines &#150; and pulls it out of its descent into a mountain. It's ridiculous, but hey, that's Bond. Since when have the laws of physics and plausibility bound this immortal? Better, though, is the tank sequence. It's a novel spin on the obligatory car chase and it's well done &#150; although whoever was responsible for the Perrier product placement should hang their head in shame. But my favourite piece of action, aside from the dam jump, is the fight between Bond and Trevelyan. It's just a good no-frills, no-holds-barred piece of fighting between the two main characters &#150; usually, at the end of a Bond film, Bond has to stop some bomb or some device, or kill loads of faceless henchman or some effete villain. Therefore it's nice just to have a straight up fight end a Bond film. Sure you have a bit of extraneous detail to tie up the plot, but, as ever, it doesn't matter. It's just background noise. But although I like the fight, there's still more silliness. After falling a few hundred feet, Trevelyan is not only still alive but only has a slightly bloody nose. I'm sure it was a concession to the censors, but it's quite amazing how indestructible movie folk are.But watching the film back I was quite impressed at how intelligent the film is, certainly compared to subsequent Bond films. There's some good stuff about the end of the Cold War and Russia's transition from communism to capitalism. And the scene between Bond and M intelligently addresses the fears that Bond, as a character, is too dated. Quite rightly the film ensures that it's only the world that changes &#150; Bond remains the same. And there are references to Stalin, the Second Word War and Roman mythology. It may just be a Bond film, but at least it doesn't insult the audience's intelligence. (It's also a nice detail that Bond and Alec meet up in a Soviet graveyard full of communist relics.) But the film also has an excellent sense of humour. There are some real corkers How do you take it? Straight up&#133;with a twist, I like a woman who enjoys pulling rank and She always did enjoy a good squeeze. Add all of this to a fantastic score (which I'm unusual among Bond fans in liking), some excellent miniature work (always better than bad CGI&#133;I'm pointing at you Die Another Day) and a superb Bond in Pierce Brosnan, and you have one of the best films in the series. "}{"Title":"Best Bond movie of em all","Date":"26 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Why is the best Bond movie ever?For starters, Brosnan is a welcome relief from the uptight and intense Timothy Dalton (not to say Dalton was bad, want bad, try Connery), but he delivered his funny lines with about as much charisma as a cooking oil frying, there was mess everywhere and it wasn't neat or pretty to look at, Brosnan takes it a different way, he is intense during scenes that are meant to be intense, and hes relatively funny during relatively funny scenes, and very uptight when confronting the new M about the Servenaya crisis. In a movie that goes away from the standard Bond fair of evil communists that Brtain must destroy, he delivers perfectly. He also meshes perfectly and funnily with Q in the gadget room scene, Bond touching Q's lunch always makes me laugh. His confrontation with M is also good (Judi Dench makes a very welcome entrance to the world of 007 as well, good thing to, i couldn't stand another minute of Robert Brown) the way she calls him a sexist masoginist dinosaur is brilliant, it goes in perfectly to the Bond franchise, with the Bond character use to bowling over women with his charms, its like he gets a football to his head and she knocks some sense into him. unfortunately, Samantha Bond is a poor substitute for Lois Maxwell, she is far too silly to be a Miss Moneypenny, Moneypenny is supposed to have feelings for Bond, secret feelings, the new Moneypenny shows no sign of this. Sean Bean however is the BEST bond villain ever. I don't know where i saw this comment, but my congrats go out to whoever said it, it summarises his performance perfectly  You can feel the hatred for Bond flowing through 006 at every second and indeed you can, he purpose in the movie is put forward perfectly, there is no way you can be confused, and after you've seen the movie a couple of times, the lines he delivers starts making more and more sense, Ouromov is good also, the way he attacks his role is brilliant, he is evil, the first scene shows this yet everything in his mind is perfectly worked out. Famke Janseen is brilliant also, in her role, noone else could have played it so eveily sexyly.To more important Bond points such as the action scenes, they are absolutely top notch, with the Tank scene and the first scene making you laugh at their outrageousness, yet you love them every minute, the last scene on the antenna cradle is also an 'edge of your seat' scene, with the music playing perfectly, and everything happening around him at once, it is hard to believe Bond an Natalya make it off alive. It is a weird Bond movie, because it gives you reason to like the villain, in other Bond movies, you plain hate the bad guy, or like him because hes so dumb, in this one, Trevelyan has a motive, and it makes you feel as if Bond should die, because he betrayed his best friend.All in all the best Bond movie ever, for the acting, the music, and the story.  "},{"Title":"Good, Bond is better than ever!","Date":"21 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Pierce Brosnan was great as Bond, but since it was his first Bond movie, he could be better. This movie was good too. GOLDENEYE had a pretty good plot. I was very entertained to watch this, being the Bond fan that I am. I liked how his old partner became his arch enemy. There were a couple of unrealistic parts, and some of the characters could have been a little better. But this is still a good Bond film. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Video Game fair -- Take a pass","Date":"11 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Legendary film director Howard Hawks once said that, A good movie is three good scenes and no bad scenes. Well the James Bond film Goldeneye has two good scenes and plenty of bad scenes. The first good scene takes place at what appears to be the Soviet version of the Hoover Damn, where James Bond (Pierce Brosnan) miraculous jumps off a cliff, lands in a plane and flies off to safety. A second good scene is Bond's encounter with Russian mafioso Valentin Zukovsky (Robbie Coltrane). But the rest of the picture was dull. Goldeneye fails to work as a film for two reasons. To begin with, Pierce Brosnan's lacks the physical presence and the charisma to make for a good James Bond, even though he was certainly an improvement over Roger Moore in the same role. The fact of the matter is that Sean Connery set the standard for how to play Bond and no one since then has come close to his performance. The second reason was that Goldeneye is that it provides lots of program fair, but hardly no plot. Since Pierce Brosnan is not very interesting, he has to be rescued by the special effects and the villains. But the special effects and stunt work, except for the scene mentioned above, are nothing special. The scene with the exploding helicopter is dull. The shooting scene in the Moscow archives made me yawn. The scene with the tank destroying most of Moscow is as boring as they come. The train scene cured my insomnia. The big fight scene at the end would have been anti-climactic, except that the movie was so boring that I was not aware that there was any climax. The villains are nothing special in this picture either. Sean Bean probably would have done better playing James Bond than the villain Alex Trevelyan. As for Famke Janssen as Xenia Onatopp, she is a stock character. All in all, a big disappointment.4/10 "},{"Title":"A golden start for Pierce Brosnan!","Date":"2 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" GoldenEye is often reputed to be the best of Pierce Brosnan's outings as Bond, and one of the best of the series period. There is a reason for this. Brosnan and director Martin Campbell had a big job on their hands - reinventing Bond for the nineties while still retaining that classic Bond atmosphere can't be easy, but it's safe to say that they achieved this aim admirably. Brosnan would actually go on to become one of my least favourite Bonds with subsequent outings, but here he fits the lead role like a glove. The plot is typically overblown, but I'm sure nobody would want it any other way. The plot focuses on a rumoured nuclear weapon named 'GoldenEye', and, as always, it is up to James Bond to sort it out. He teams up with a female survivor of an attack on a Russian research centre by Russian agent Xenia Onatopp, under the orders of General Ourumov. Together Bond and the girl discover the location of the nuclear device, but it soon becomes apparent that there's more than just a terrorist plot at work as the man behind the plot wants revenge on Great Britain.The thing that sets GoldenEye apart from later Brosnan Bonds is that it features a plot line that is interesting throughout, and one that doesn't ever become silly. Director Martin Campbell excellently fuses this plot with a barrage of special effect sequences, the majority of which are spectacular and engaging. The support characters on display are strong this time round, with Alan Cumming providing entertainment as a Russian researcher, while fellow Brits Sean Bean, Judi Dench and Robbie Coltrane jump on the Bond bandwagon with gusto. The female talent comes in the form of the lovelies Famke Janssen and Izabella Scorupco, both of which provide enough in the way of eye-candy. The way that most of the Russian roles have been cast with British actors works better than you would think too, as all the talented performers do well in their respective roles. The plot of GoldenEye may not hold much weight in terms of substance or emotion, but the Bond series isn't meant to - and Martin Campbell has successfully captured that fun, over the top and entertaining style that James Bond needs, and made it work for a nineties audience. "},{"Title":"Great Comedy","Date":"23 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  A really good comedy, I had a lot of fun really , and most importantly it was not pretentious and obtrusive, as most Hollywood movies. Just one thing though - why should there be so much shooting and blood in a soap comedy like this? I found it quite distracting at times. "},{"Title":"Pierce Brosnan IS James Bond!","Date":"10 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  GOLDENEYE (1995) ***1/2 Pierce Brosnan, Sean Bean, Isabella Scorupco, Famke Janssen, Dame Judi Dench, Joe Don Baker, Robbie Coltrane.  Pierce Brosnan is James Bond!!  Brosnan, in his first outing and the fifth actor as debonair 007, is out to save the world from Russian global terrorists out to destroy, via satellite, international communications and facing the ghost of 006 (Bean) seeking personal vengeance.  Scorupco and Janssen sizzzzzle as, respectively, Bond Babe and Bond baddie particularly statuesque Janssen as Xenia Onatopp who crushes her victims with her thighs (!)  What a way to go.  Brosnan is up to the task as the devestatingly handsome, rakish and charming British hero.  Fine production values and one helluva opening teaser sequence with a plane, a motorcycle and a parachuteless Bond.  Look for Minnie Driver as a Russian karaoke singer in a brief sequence. "},{"Title":"Ridiculous","Date":"8 January 2012","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is by far the worst Bond film to date. The amount of bullets Bond manages to dodge throughout the film is mind blowing, especially in the library scene. There must be at least 20 Russian guards shooting a full round of ammo at Bond and he still dodges them. when Bond finally has cover he shoots a couple of bullets at the guards and they die. Also it cant be the gun's fault for its inaccuracy and recoil as Bond and the Russian guards both have an AK47 (gun).Also, the scene in which Bond manages to get in front of a fast travelling train is simply inexplicable, how he manges to get in front of the train is pathetic. The only way Bond could get in front of this train is if the train was going round in circles and it wasn't!The only real positive in this film is the action scenes; they are great, but sadly within these action scenes there are a couple of blundering and annoying moments.Lastly, if you were a villain in a Bond film and you had captured 007, you would kill him at any given chance. But no, they have to give him a few minutes or moments to try and let Bond escape and within in these scenes Q's inventions are perfect for the situation in which Bond encounters, for example a exploding pen or a watch with a built in laser.I feel slightly contradictive writing this review on how ridiculous this film is as I am a 'huge' 007 fan, but this film has ruined the Bond series and it's reputation, but of course this is my opinion. "},{"Title":"Not just one of the best Bond's but also one of the best action movies of all time.","Date":"22 May 2005","Score":"8 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I absolutely adore this movie. What a comeback for Bond, after the Timothy Dalton Bond's the franchise had been officially declared death by many and no one expected another Bond movie. This movie perfectly sets the mood for the future Bond movies for the 90's and this decade. The action is what makes this movie in a way more of this time. In a way the Bond franchise matured and became a competitor at the box office's again. Still all the 'old' Bond elements are all present once more in this movie and it still stays loyal to the franchise so many grew up with watching.The villains are the best ever in a Bond movie since Goldfinger. Funny because this movie is also the in my opinion the best Bond movie since Goldfinger. I think that tells something about how important the Bond villains always are for Bond movies. Sean Bean is a memorable and worthy nemesis for Bond and Alan Cumming is an excellent and fun 'villain'. But most memorable is Famke Janssen with literally the most deathliest hips to hit the screen. The movie really launched the career for those three actors, which is no coincidence I think...Pierce Brosnan simply is Bond, from the moment you first see him. He's got the charms and humor, the two most important elements for the Bond character to me.The movie introduces some nice new characters that would later return in other Bond movies. Judi Dench plays the new M, Joe Don Baker plays the fun character Jack Wade and Robbie Coltrane plays the highly enjoyable 'villain' Valentin Zukovsky. Izabella Scorupco isn't exactly the most memorable Bond girl or actress but still she is likable in this movie.I now it is criticized a lot but I really like Eric Serra's musical score. I wouldn't had mind him scoring more Bond movie.The pace is action-movie like high and features some extremely good action sequence's. From the spectacular opening to the just as spectacular ending, this movie provides non-stop entertainment, action and a great story that never gets complex but still is compelling and exciting. A typical fun, entertaining, action packed Martin Campbell movie.10/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Brosnan's first is his best","Date":"15 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Pierce Brosnan steps into the role of James Bond 007 in this 17th adventure for the MI6's finest agent. And at times, the film's great old-style cinematography and lighting reminds us of Bond's finest hours the early Connery Bond films. This is far and away the best Bond film that Brosnan stared in. The plot is actually well done, the action is some of the best of the series, and even the acting is surprisingly great. The only complaint I have is the villains, or rather too many of them. At the end Bond goes up against an ex-agent, an assassin, a Russian general, and a computer hacker. Yeah, not all at the same time, but I just felt like maybe one of the characters could have been removed or eliminated before they start the last act. Nonetheless, I enjoyed this Bond film more than a lot of Bond films, and that's saying something. "},{"Title":"The Name's Bond... James Bond.","Date":"7 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" As a kid I was always asked that if I was a big action movie lover than how Come I never have seen any James Bond films. Well after watching Goldeneye I can say why. The plots were too confusing for a seven year old kid and they would always be boring and be the same thing every movie but I can't say that about this one.The film is about James Bond played by Pierce Brosnan who is on his latest mission to retrieve back an American satellite from Soviet Russia. And thats basically all there is to it.The films story is confusing but Pierce Brosnan while not the best is still a great choice to play Bond(Daniel Craig in my opinion is the best) and the action is quite nice. But some of the characters are not very fun to watch like for example the love interest and the film is too long by a half hour. But all in all if you're an action movie lover I recommend it.Rated PG-13 For A Number Of Sequences Of Action/Violence, And For Some Sexualiy.2hrs 10min/130min.***/**** "}{"Title":"Good production but ....","Date":"25 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" James Bond movies have jumped the shark several times before coming to this point, and this is just a pat James Bond formula done with people going through the formalities of making a movie look like a James Bond movie.The usual Bond and Q's quibble over the new gadget, the utterly characterless antagonists (except Xenia was an interesting character but bit over the edge), Bond's over involvement with the chic, and a story that has no focus all marks the woe of newer Bond movies. You can tell that the movie is lavishly produced, and no efforts are spared, but if that's not enough to make an exceptional movie, then this movie is the prime example. Characters are weak (again except Xenia), and that's what annoying about the entire movie. Since there's at least one actress who's carrying her presence through the movie, I'd have to put the blame squarely on the cast. We have a series of B list actors in position where you need better actors and supporting characters in the role. Even Brosnan just mumbles his way through the entire movie.Stronger cast would have made a better movie, and better directing would have made a difference. The same problem exists with more recent Bond movies, so maybe it's with the producers. "},{"Title":"Goldeneye, possible or impossible?","Date":"18 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Another James Bond movie, with all his charm and intelligence. This is probably one of two of my favorites James Bonds movie and usually I don't like James Bond movies. Goldeneye has a unique story to it, with a villain that's either insane or just driven by the need for revenge. Bronsan does a good job as Bond, pulling the charm and calmness of this 007 agent. The actress who played his love interest (am sorry for the actress thing but for the love of god I can't figure out of to spell her name) was a good character. Spunky. Famke Jensen was good as Xena, the beautiful but deadly assassin. Alan Cumming was good as the little worm, completely full of himself. Bean also pulled of a wonderful job, as the villain Alec a.k.a 006, the former agent. It was a good movie, though some of it's impossible plot twists. The thing I loved most about this movie was the song at the beginning Goldeneye by Tina Turner. What a cool song. "},{"Title":"The best Bond film period","Date":"18 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I remember seeing this in the theater, I was about 9 years old, and being absolutely enthralled. I have always been a Bond fan, but no matter how many times I see all of the films, this one is still my favorite. It also spawned the greatest video game ever made! I don't know if it's because of the newer cinema tics, or maybe because this is the first Bond film of my generation. (The living daylights and License to Kill were made after I was born, but Goldeneye was the first one I went to see at the theater) or maybe it's because any Bond film after Goldeneye is forgettable. But Goldeneye will be one of the best Bond films, on par with Goldfinger, and The Man With The Golden Gun (Hey! is it just me? or do all the best Bond films have something to do with Gold?) "},{"Title":"The Worst Bond - What went wrong?","Date":"3 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Pierce Brosnan, Izabella Scorupco, Judi Dench, Desmond Llewelyn, great stunts, fantastic special effects by Derek Meddings. This film's got everything it needs to score 9 or 10 out of ten. So why did I only give it 6?The main trouble with Goldeneye isn't that it's lacking anything, but the fact that everything good about it has been ruined by the film being ridiculously over politically correct, and by containing some dreadful characterizations in a failed attempt at humour.Why did they have to put in the line where 'M' calls Bond a 'mysoginistic dinosaur'? We can all see that 'M' is now a lady (magnificently portrayed by Judi Dench), so why add that line? Do we really have to have those Russian girls singing 'Stand by your man' in the most irritating way possible? We all know that the cold war's over, most of us do watch the news as well as James Bond films. Why does the bad lady, Xenia Onnatopp, have to crush people to death with her thighs in the most unconvincing manner after having sex? Surely her character could have been more conventional without compromising her credibility as a genuine threat to Bond. Every scene she is in is annoying from start to finish. Even Robbie Coltrane's character, Zukovsky, isn't that convincing in this film, although, remarkably, his later portrayal of the same character in 'The World Is Not Enough' was distinctively better.Probably the most irritating character however is the ridiculous Boris, who has probably been put in in an attempt to make the film funny and to try and make men look inferior to women, but it doesn't work. He lacks credibility and again distracts the viewer from the positive side of the film.Finally the score by Eric Serra doesn't suit the film at all. Whilst no-one can top John Barry for Bond themes, other composers (Marvin Hamlisch, David Arnold, etc.) have at least managed to write scores that keep pace with the film. Serra's attempt seems to slow the movie down, and that isn't good for a Bond film.This is all very disappointing, because without all the above, what is left would actually have made a great debut for Pierce Brosnan (my second favourite Bond). Judi Dench's performance as 'M', Desmond Llewelyn's performance as 'Q' and Samantha Bond's as 'Miss Moneypenny' are all faultless. The basic storyline is sound, and the stunts and special effects are breathtaking. However, this film has been spoilt by someone trying to be too clever by adding something to it that didn't work.I was very concerned that the first nail was in the coffin for Bond films when this one came out, but fortunately the next three films Brosnan made as were far superior, and not ruined in the way that this one was. 6/10.  "},{"Title":"Okay, but nothing Dalton couldn't have done.","Date":"1 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Brosnan has no defining feature as Bond. He tries to camp it up like Roger Moore, be serious and human like Dalton and be unrealistically tough like Connery, who never got a scratch on him. The result is ok for Goldeneye, where anything would have been welcome after a 6 year gap from Licence to Kill, but Brosnan gets boring quickly. This should have been Timothy Dalton's ticket to being recognised as the best Bond with a wider audience.  "},{"Title":"bad bond film!","Date":"29 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  What a terrible bond film,overrated by far,i think the plot is nothing,and the script needs alot of work,actually calling this bad is an understatement,i think it's terrible.Trust me dont waste your money,die another day is 100 times better. "},{"Title":"New Labour-style re-boot","Date":"21 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" By the time GoldenEye was released in Britain the New Labour machine was preparing its majority-appeal makeover. The production team of the Bond franchise were ahead of that game though with a new incumbent in the title role and some significant new names (Tarantino, Danny Boyle, Richard Curtis) giving cinema a real shot in the arm, 007 needed to be in the game.Consequently, this new era plays all its cards cannily. Not one but two major stunts and a dramatic shock in the pre-title become a jokily aggregated inventory of the canon immediately afterwards (DB5, Bollinger, wise cracks, the girl). But in the apparently formulaic film that follows rules are being broken. We expect product placement, but not necessarily for BMW, Omega or even Perrier - the latter's brazen truck smash being superseded by the incongruity of a chase in which Bond drives a tank in an urban street. Cunning.Brosnan is a fine Bond, playing it straight but giving the one-liners the sort of space and chuckle that eluded Dalton. The women are well- written and much better acted across the board than in twenty years. Sean Bean is not a great casting decision in my opinion and, in fact, characterises a weakness for casting British baddies throughout the whole of Brosnan's tenure.The final coup seems to have been a mistake. Eric Serra's extraordinary, unusual score is unloved by many a purist - but it was perfect for the video game spin off, the first really substantial gaming released tied directly to the release of the film. Just like the political shift in the UK, so this player in entertainment industry was making all the right moves, whatever one thinks of the (not terribly exciting) film. 5/10 "},{"Title":"An unfortunate debut for Brosnan.","Date":"12 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Upon reading the screenplay for this movie, Timothy Dalton backed out of the Bond series, and for good reason. Pierce Brosnan takes over as Bond in this one which, like the Roger Moore Bond films, totally drowns the character in high-tech gadgets, leaving no heart or soul to the character. This movie takes Bond immediately back to the drab Thunderball and You Only Live Twice days, highly produced but totally lifeless. That said, the movie does have some entertaining moments, but scenes like the sky dive into the airplane, and the tank chase scene are more disgraceful images in the Bond franchise. However, the relentlessly grouchy Izabella Scorupco does take over as the most beautiful woman ever to set foot on the set of a Bond movie. Even though she is dressed mostly in cute secretary clothes, and once in semi-army fatigue, she is a gorgeous sight throughout the movie.  "},{"Title":"No thanks!","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Sorry, but I think this is about the worst one yet.  Goldeneye is the only Bond film that actually annoyed me.  They could have done without a lot of stuff.  The one-liners were sad, and all that crap about Boris and the internet was far-fetched.  Oooh, I know how to get 007... I'll send him some spam email!  The next Bond film was much better, though. "},{"Title":"The game is better","Date":"6 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I've played the game about 500 h (especially in the multiplayer mode). It's one of my favourite games, so I had very high expectations of  the movie but I was a little bit disappointed. The acting is poor (Brosnan is obviously only able to portray two facial expressions), the story is quite unbelievable (the motives of Traveylean are implausible), the quality of the special effects, for example the aero crash of the the MiG's in Serjenawa, is very bad. Altogether, GoldenEye is not so bad, but I suppose it would have been better, if they had first made the game and then created the movie.Evaluation 6/10 "}{"Title":"The game is better than this!","Date":"6 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I played the game goldeneye about 5,000 times, and it's way better than this. I think when a game is better than the movie it's based on something is wrong.  The movie-6/10 game-10/10. "},{"Title":"I Bet it's a Better Bond","Date":"30 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I think that anyone who writes a script for a 007 movie must be extremely familiar with the last nineteen movies (yes, even Roger Moore), if only for the benefit of those crazy people who own all of them (I myself only own a modest eight -- I had an employee discount).First there was Sean Connery (Scottish, not British), who will always be considered the TRUE James Bond.  Then there was George Lazenby (Australian) in On Her Majesty's Secret Service, which has strong and weak points.  Then there was Roger Moore (American) who might not have been in so many, but the standards seemed to have dropped in the 70's.  Then there was Timothy Dalton (Welsh) who was a little darker than the rest.When I found out that Pierce Brosnan would play the part, I said, it's about time the role was taken by an Irishman!  He's been a good Bond.I normally hate to see a movie series get upgraded to a more modern look, but I have to take exception in this case.  I even think that the (shudder) Techno music seems to work with the movie well, even though I like John Barry, who composed the music for From Russia With Love, On Her Majesty's Secret Service, You Only Live Twice, The Living Daylights, and seven others.I would normally give this movie a 7 out of 10, but because of the part with the tank and the statue of the horse, I give it an 8.  Another highlight is Money Penny, because she is the only nice pretty woman that Bond will never shag.I do have one bad thing to say about it.  I think the sexual innuendo went overboard.  I don't say this because I disapprove, but because I don't think it fits well in the Bond formula.  The movies should be glossy, not realistic, and ultimately should be rated PG, just like the classics.  Just as long as you don't get rid of the women. "},{"Title":"My, how things have changed in six years!","Date":"8 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Although GoldenEye is a decent movie, it deserves no special Bond  recognition.  It becomes easy to forget that Bond is Licensed to Kill, and  although there is some thigh combat (a la Diamonds Are Forever) many  Bondesque moments are simply missing.  It may be important to note, however,  that after the death of 006, Bond and 008 would be the only surviving agents.   It still amazes me, however, that the writers assigned an active number to  the traitor agent, indicating that they may have done a bit of research  into the other Bond films. (002, for example, has been killed twice.)  The  film does serve as a fair example of the Bond series converting the  formerly 80s agent into a 90s kind of guy.  But only one question  The  plot of the movie revolved around silicon chips' vulnerability to  electromagnetic pulse; in A View to a Kill, an invulnerable chip was  invented.  Why not use those?  "},{"Title":"They make us wait 6-and-a-half years and what do we get?","Date":"9 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Remington Steele vs Sharpe, that's what!Worse still, we get a dumb opening that hints at the kind of horrors still to come (Bond free-falling faster than a plane almost rivalling Die Another Day's wave-riding and invisible car for stupidity), a lifeless rendition of the 007 theme, Bond swapping his Aston Martin for a BMW (and a crap one at that), a bland Bond woman in the form of Isabella Scorupco, shocking product placement (Perrier anyone?), Bond blowing away innocent Russians left, right and centre; and an ending even more daft than the beginning, Bond's survival resting on the click of a pen by one of the series' most irritating characters, computer nerd Boris Grishenko (Alan Cumming).There are a few compensations&#x97;a truly breath-taking 700+ft bungee jump from a dam kicks proceedings off in fine style; Famke Janssen is awesome as Xenia Onatopp, a sexy killer with thighs to die for; and the film's action highlight, a tank chase scene through the streets (and buildings) of St.Petersburg, is a brilliantly orchestrated orgy of destruction&#x97;but overall I can't but feel terribly underwhelmed and more than a bit disappointed by Goldeneye. "},{"Title":"Not only the best Brosnan as Bond, but one of the top 5!","Date":"28 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I grew up watching the Roger Moore Bond movies in the 70s and 80s, and watched the Sean Connery ones in repeats. While Connery's Bond was dashing, cheeky, and pompous, Moore's Bond was lusty, quick-witted, and funny, but I still like both actor's interpretations. I do understand why most fans prefer Connery, since he was the first Bond and overall in the better Bond films, but I don't think Moore should be fully persecuted for being stuck in a sequence of rather campy, light 70s flicks that are more attributable to the filmmakers and times. Moore was simply acting with the movie style. All this said, I don't think even all the Connery movies are classics (From Russia with Love and Goldfinger are the best, with the rest being so-so); and Moore starred in one of my all-time favorite Bond movies (The Spy Who Loved Me, with my all-time favorite Bond girl Barbara Bach!); so I feel like Connery and Moore are closer than people think. Sorry for the long rant, but this is actually the FIRST Bond movie that I'm reviewing on this site, so I wanted to provide some perspective! While for differing reasons, I liked both Connery and Moore as Bond, I also really like Pierce Brosnan as well. I actually think (unlike some) that Brosnan got better in each of the 4 Bond movies he starred in. Yet many fans seem to think that Brosnan peaked with this movie, Goldeneye (1995). I think that's partially true. Definitely the best Bond film starring Brosnan, I still think Brosnan was solid Bond in the other 3 as well, successfully carrying on the Bond mantle. I just think Brosnan's later films were grounded somewhat with either dull villains (e.g., Jonathan Pryce in Tomorrow Never Dies, a title which I always manage to forget), unsexy Bond girls (e.g., Michelle Yeoh in, ironically, Tomorrow Never Dies), terrible actresses (e.g., Denise Richards in The World is Not Enough, an actual good Bond movie in spite of her; Halle Berry in Die Another Day, yeah I know Berry has an Oscar, but other than the movie she won for, she's been terrible in every OTHER movie she's been in),or weak/retreaded/overused plots and set pieces (2 of the later Bond movie finales take place in a freakin submarine!).Thankfully, Brosnan's first Bond exercise Goldeneye avoids all the problems with the future ones he starred in. Brosnan himself makes for a great casting choice. He was supposed to be Moore's immediate successor in the late 80s, but he was still starring in the NBC series Remington Steele, which obligated him to finish out the floundering series with a 5-ep finale arc due to the cult fanbase that wanted a proper conclusion to the show. Timothy Dalton stepped in to do 2 Bond movies in the late 80s that weren't very successful and although Dalton performed well for certain circles, the universal desire to see what Brosnan could do with the role won out and eventually, he got his chance with this movie.Brosnan imbibes Bond with a solid mix of dashing, cool, machismo, but has a serious, professional attitude and approach that were kind of lacking in many an earlier Bond flick. While earlier Bond films were a bit too focused on parading hot new actresses in skimpy outfits and the plots were so convoluted to be laughable at times, Goldeneye is the first Bond in an eternity where the main villain's plan made some sense and had a cohesive plot.Sean Bean is exceptional as the main villain, giving a strong acting performance and giving his Bond villain a depth, complexity, and panache that frankly many lacked even in the older, more classic Bond films. Most of the villains in the early Bonds look very silly and comical in retrospect and it's hard to be captivated by such nonsense. Also, Judi Dench (before she became an Oscar-winning Dame) is rock solid as Bond's superior M (upgraded to female for the 90s), delivering a dignified, convincing performance as the head of MI-6. Now, even though I complained previously about the sexism in earlier Bond movies, a Bond Movie wouldn't be that without beautiful Bond girls! The ones in this are pretty hot and I dare say the sexiest of any of the Bond women that Brosnan had the fortune to work with. Famke Janssen is luscious as the sexy and lethal bad Bond lady Xenio Onatopp (hilarious name) and Izabella Scorupco is subtle as the genius computer hacker good Bond lady Natalya Simonova. Although both actresses were fashion models in real life at the time and this was their first big break, both are really excellent in their respective roles and deliver convincing performances and don't just seem like cookie-cutter Bond bimbos as many a previous Bond girl. Their characters just happen to be gorgeous women with true smarts and ability, but the model-actresses really sell their roles.The rest of the cast is great, too, a big reason this is one of the best Bond films ever. Then-newcomer Alan Cumming is infectiously appealing as cocky Russian hacker Boris; Robbie Coltrane is deftly good as Bond frenemy Valentin; and the now-iconic Joe Don Baker (star of all those campy, crappy, so-bad-they're good 70s-80s low-budget action movies) is used to great effect as Bond's CIA ally. Also, even with the 2 gorgeous women above, Samanth Bond (yeah, I know) is no slouch in the sex appeal department as the new Moneypenny.Also, not only is this a great Bond flick, but one of the better action flicks of the 90s. It's a rare Bond movie that's actually a GOOD movie! Goldeneye moves at a brisk pace, with snappy, humorous, tongue-in-cheek dialog, and has great action scenes. A very fluid action-adventure film from the 90s that happens to be a Bond movie. "},{"Title":"I think you are a sexist, misogynist dinosaur, a relic of the Cold War","Date":"18 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" One of my favourite quotes from this film you know. As for GoldenEye, I consider it the best of the Pierce Brosnan Bond films. Pierce Brosnan makes for a great and likable title character, and Judi Dench is rock-solid as always as M. Izabella Scorupco is a splendid Natalya and I loved feisty Xenia, marvellously played by Famke Janssen, who kills her victims by crushing them between her thighs, while Janus is wonderfully mysterious as a villain. Technically, GoldenEye can't be faulted either. The cinematography is beautiful, while the locations are superb and the stunts perfectly done especially the car chase through the streets of St Petersburg. The music and theme song are very memorable too, the pacing is brisk and the script and plot are well intact. GoldenEye mayn't be the best Bond film ever, but it is for me one of the more enjoyable ones. 9/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"All that glitters...","Date":"30 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" GoldenEye is a bit like kissing your beautiful teenage second cousin - exciting but you're not sure it was right and wonder if you'll be vilified in the future for enjoying it. The first and most important thing to say about Brosnan's debut and the first Bond in 6 years is that its the first Postmodern/Revisonist Bond adventure- that is to say its the first film in the series to consciously appropriate its predecessors for commercial reasons as opposed to the laziness of those behind the camera. This is very much a reflection of the time it was made because the 90's was officially the decade that it became impossible to enjoy anything without in jokes, self-referential asides and the spectre of a lot of tired eyes from winking at the audience ad nauseam. This is a clever way of doing something new without doing something new. Who needs original ideas when you can appropriate old ones with an enlightened sense of irony? With so many clever, media literate people out there we should be enjoying a Golden age for cinema and T.V but strangely this isn't the case. Could GoldenEye offer a clue as what's gone wrong? Timothy Dalton had taken the brave decision to take the character back to its literary roots but Bond's legions of fans didn't like it, not that many SAW it of course, after all when you bring back any popular character after a long absence the last people you worry about are the core fan base. They're great at telling you all the Bond girls in alphabetical order or which University Bond went to but there aren't enough of them to make box office gravy. For that Bond's producers had to appeal to a wide audience who would have a very general idea of how Bond should look and sound. These people keep Eon's producers in lunches so if they think that Bond films are about girls, guns and puns then that's what they'll get. Substance would be wasted on them and its with this idea firmly entrenched in the minds of all concerned that GoldenEye made it to the screen. Though it became tired thereafter one of the things the producers got right was the casting of Brosnan who manages to come across as relaxed (if a little smug) and gets to reel off some fairly descent one-liners. His presence certainly helps the thing move along engagingly as does the highly kinetic direction from Martin Campbell who certainly is a tonic coming after the point and click era of John Glen. Campbell imbues the film with energy and keeps the pace and the camera moving along nicely. The combination of good director and a lead throwing his all in push GoldenEye up a notch or two and almost papers over the cracks but there's a few rotten elements here which undo some of their good work. First and foremost the script The whole Russian Mafia plot minus the cold war setting feels a little forced and any attempt to get under Bond's skin falls flat. Sean Bean's fallen 00 as lead villain is dreadful and spends the moving looking like he's sucking a boiled sweet while spouting lines that wouldn't have been out of place in the original Casino Royale. Also the budgetary constraints are highly conspicuous and a little embarrassing for all concerned. Bond's budgets had been eye wateringly tight for a little while and more money was pumped into this revival after Cameron's True Lies (1994) showed what was possible with the format in your injected it with a lot of hard cash. However, GoldenEye looks positively cheap in some places. Derek Meddings may have been a miniatures genius of old but his effects have always looked to me staggeringly unrealistic - like something I'd piece together using an old Hornby train set. In a big-budget action movie it jolts you out of the illusion completely leaving you with shots that look instantly dated. As a result GoldenEye has scenes that look as though they were shot in the Seventies. Not the kind of nostalgia they were looking for, though it was nice to see that a villains enormous industrial complex can still be destroyed by a pen and a bit of pipe. The budget limitations also mean that the film feels unfinished. You're introduced to Bond's new car and protocol suggests you'll see it in use at some stage but the promised set-piece never materialises. I've also never been able to get over the feeling that those gunships should have fired on the ship as they took off either. I'm not alone there surely? Then there's Eric Serra's score - a metallic sounding, electronic effort that I originally hated but now sounds refreshing offset against David Arnold's sub-Barry efforts. So on balance its a watchable entry in the series but the death knell for anybody who hoped that Brosnan's era would deepen and challenge the existing formula. GoldenEye had to be a hit and for that reason it was always going to be safe, well trodden territory. The inhibited approach characterises all of Brosnan's entries culminating in Die Another Day which is nothing more than a highlights package. GoldenEye at least isn't a complete waste of time but its not exactly Bond Mecca either. "},{"Title":"Brosnan was born for the part","Date":"20 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  After six years stuck in the legal wilderness Pierce Brosnan arrived, slipped on the familiar tuxedo, slung himself off a dam on a bungee rope and looked as if he was born to be Bond.Probably one of the best Bond's ever, here he has a well written and carefully crafted story which although gets a little silly at times (hey this is Bond we are talking about!) certainly entertains.Strong performances all round, one of the best ever Q Branch scenes with excellent chemistry between newcomer Brosnan and old favourite Desmond Llewlyn, well crafted action sequences and an excellent script make this certainly one of the best, if not the best of all the Bond movies and miles better than much of the Moore era output that is for certain.There are just a couple of weak points, Eric Serra's terrible music score (the tank chase sequence had to be rewritten by another composer as the producers felt rightly that there was virtually no traditional Bond cues in the soundtrack) whilst having the odd nicely crafted moment, just is not a Bond soundtrack by any stretch of the imagination.The other weak points are two of the supporting baddies, Onatopp and the irritating IT geek Boris don't really work but the rest of the ensemble and their material more than compensate for these weaker areas.After this it went downhill sadly, Brosnan continued to be a strong performer, but while Tomorrow Never Dies was pretty good, The World is Not Enough to an extent and Die Another Day in particular landed him with ever more poorly scripted and produced codswallop. "},{"Title":"Most disappointing Bond movie in all series...","Date":"10 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  After six years without any Bond movie, I was expecting Bond's return to be sensational. And it could have been Brosnan is great as the new 007, the plot and cast are fine, direction is good... But there are so many flaws! GOLDENEYE is a very good film, but it's hard to say it's a Bond movie !It is far too evident that the filmmakers wanted a refreshing approach of the character, which in fact was useless because Brosnan's presence would have been enough. To make M a woman was a good idea; but too many private jokes were included that made me laugh at Bond, not with Bond.Then, the look. GOLDENEYE does not look like a Bond movie. It's strange to say, because the production was designed by Bond veteran Peter Lamont. Apparently the filmmakers wanted the film to look modern, but it was a mistake. The film is impressive visually, but not like Bond movies usually are.Finally, the music. The song sung by Tina Turner is really great; but the score by Eric Serra is awful and simply does not work. It's by far the worst score for a Bond movie in the entire series.Moreover, there are other minor flaws Sean Bean is not a good baddie, and the character of Boris Grishenko has not his place in a Bond movie. Besides, the plane stunt in the precredits sequence is outlandish.What a disappointment! It's sad to say, because there are numerous good scenes... TOMORROW NEVER DIES was a far better Bond movie. "},{"Title":"Great Opening Sequence, The Rest Goes Downhill","Date":"17 September 2012","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" GoldenEye (1995) ** 1/2 (out of 4) James Bond (Pierce Brosnan) teams up with a Russian computer programmer (Izabella Scorupco) to try and stop a madman from getting a nuclear space weapon that of course could mean the end of the world. I think this was the very first Bond movie I ever watched back when I was 15. I wasn't too impressed with it then but going back over the film as I watch the series in order, I think I'm even less impressed with it. There's no question that it's a decent movie with some amazing stunts but I think there are just a few too many weak spots that keep it from really being good. I think the biggest problem were the villains themselves. Not for a second did I really enjoy any of them as they just felt like weak copies of a mixture of villains we had seen previously in the series. The terrorist Xenia Onatopp has a great name, an interesting way to kill people but the entire character was just too silly and unbelievable for me. I think Brosnan did a good job in his role as Bond as he plays it a bit more seriously than some in the past. I thought his one-liners were rather good and there's no question that the actor could handle the action and sexuality. I also enjoyed Scorupco in her role as she was charming and really mixed it up well with the lead. Joe Don Baker and Judi Dench were good in their parts but the scene stealer is without question Desmond Llewelyn returning as Q in a very memorable sequence. The action scenes start off with a great bang and get even better as we see Bond falling from a cliff and trying to catch up with a running airplane that has fallen from the same cliff. Could this ever happen? No but it was fun to watch. The rest of the action scenes looked good but I still think they were just missing a certain something. As with a lot of the films in the series, a 131-minute running time was way too long but GOLDENEYE at least got the series restarted. "}{"Title":"Shaken","Date":"18 December 2002","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Spoilers herein.The formula is simple girls, stunts, sets, wrapped in a comically absurd, self-aware notion of style.The girls are a hard part, and except for the template Ursala Andress, they've had troubles with this. Usually, it is glossed under the formula of the wicked and good girls fighting it out.The stunts are also hard, in that mere money doesn't cut it already by the time of this film. Real imagination and skill is required.This edition of the franchise may be the best so far as these two criteria. I haven't reseen all of them (17?) but Isabella Scorupco seems to have been born just for this (and little else to judge from the rest of her career). Here, she is made into a brainy dark redhead actually believable -- can you imagine Denise Richards as the world's top nuclear physicist? She moves in a way that seems more natural (and east European) than most Bond pinups, and so endears.I remember the stunts of this film and cannot remember much of any of the others the bungee jump followed by the dive after a crashing plane, and the quite ordinary fight on the extraordinary antenna at the end. The only other stunt that registers is the balloonist assassin in London that opened was it `The World is not Enough'?Where the post-Connery Bonds seem to have trouble is in the sets. It was the problems with the ice palace in `Never Say Die' that got me looking back. It lacked imagination. In the early days, all you had to do was skip from one interesting place to another, but that's been thoroughly worn out. Now, you need exciting constructed sets. The tower at the end impresses, but because it is unusual rather than exciting. The rest is ordinary, worthy of say Chuck Norris.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 4 Has some interesting elements.  "},{"Title":"Milking the Franchises of Legends....,","Date":"14 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" GoldenEye is a franchise-killer. It's not even good enough to be as bad as a straight-to-video teen slasher such as, I'll Always Know What You Did Last Summer. To those just looking for some fun action and gore -- look somewhere else. Most of the kills in GoldenEye are ultra-fast or off-screen. A few tiny snips and the film could have been a PG-13. Even Paul Anderson's PG-13 Mortal Kombat abomination left the greatest martial arts characters in video game history with a little bit of dignity intact.Martin Campbell, with his inability to properly stage or direct an action or suspense scene, has made James Bond look like a B-grade INSPECTOR GADGET that should be hidden in a closet somewhere. The baddies aren't kept in the dark to create a mood -- they're kept there to hide their low-budget appearance and their director's inability to direct. Bond walks around like a WWE wrestler, grunting at everyone and using quips in an attempt to cover his tracks (but, at the same time, he skins other people alive and leaves them hanging from trees). Next time M Branch decide to send only 1 of their peeps to represent, they may want to reconsider sending the mentally handicapped guy in the bunch. Or was this the James Bond's version of the Special Olympics? As for the story? Who cares? Obviously not the filmmakers. There's no believable human character to follow, identify or empathize with. It's just some 25 year old actors playing teenagers with a few older characters thrown in to attract the adult demographic who watched Bond movies when they were still good. The best thing anyone could get out of GoldenEye is a refund. If you have any respect left these franchises or simply value your free time stay far, far away from this movie. Hopefully Martin Campbell will stay just as far away from a camera, before taking it upon himself to defecate all over another beloved film franchise. "},{"Title":"a return to mindless but spectacular action after the 2 great films with Timothy Dalton.","Date":"11 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Golden Eye sure is great to watch on the big screen, but it lacks something the previous 2 films with Timothy Dalton gave me The feeling that the main characters actually meant something to me, and that I cared about their lives and their relationship.Golden Eye is back to the roots. Nobody really cares who dies and who ends up in bed with our hero.What do we get besides stunning unbelievable stunts? A stupid Disneyland hacker because the audience is considered too stupid to know about how real hacking works. A female Secret Service chief that makes you wanna scream or throw your remote out of the window. A disgusting Russian domina killer - at least she had a fitting death.Overall an OK film to kill some time, but certainly not a DVD that I would be too sad about if it got scratched. I'd prefer if they brought back Tim Dalton. "},{"Title":"Along with Goldfinger, the most overrated Bond film (SPOILERS)","Date":"12 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" With 1989's Licence To Kill, Albert R. Broccoli showed that he could make a dark and gritty film while keeping the necessary elements of a James Bond adventure. The audience at that time showed him that they didn't care, and LTK did not do as well as previous outings in the franchise, causing a 6 year gap between the next one, which eventually turned out to be GoldenEye, a weak venture that only proves how excellent Licence To Kill actually was in comparison.I know, I know But GoldenEye is great! It saved the series! Pierce Brosnan is the best James Bond! Blah, blah, blah. We're all entitled to our own opinion and while I appreciate what GE did to the future of James Bond, the film doesn't compare to earlier classics and doesn't know a cliché that goes unused. The entire affair is like a greatest hits package without the spark of The Spy Who Loved Me or the class of Thunderball.The main failing of the film is that all it does is seek to remind audiences that this is a Bond film, and while this was necessary at the time, watching it now, it's a huge distraction. Within 30 minutes, every possible trademark has been checked off a casino scene, the Aston Martin, Bond, James Bond, vodka martini, a femme fatale, a big stunt, evil Russians, and on and on and on. There might as well be a neon sign pointing everything out. At least something like Moonraker is content with the fact that it's a Bond film and doesn't need to remind anyone.The movie opens with a sequence that shows Bond in action with a fellow agent and sets up the character of Alec Trevelyan AKA 006 (Sean Bean), who's supposedly killed by Colonel Ourumov. The beginning could've been much better had it not contained so many continuity errors and a stunt at the end that is so incredibly lame and unbelievable you'll wonder if Bond has bent the laws of physics. Basically the serious tone of the Dalton era is ignored in favour of the same old Roger Moore-type nonsense.The movie continues with a good title song from Tina Turner, even though it tries to blatantly copy Goldfinger (which has, for some reason, become THE film to borrow from when one wants to be Bond-ish). After the main credits, though, we get an absolutely terrible car chase between Bond and Xenia Onatopp (Famke Janssen) that has the worst musical cue in the series, consisting of some random beeps and honks. The movie plods along and basically everything until Russia is dull, filled with atrocious dialogue, and introduces nothing new to the Bond caper.When we do find out who the villain, Janus, is and what he's planning, the movie picks up and we get the action in a wild shoot-out, an exciting tank chase, a tense stand-off in a train, and an explosive finale in Cuba that's even more interesting than most because the relationship between Bond and Trevelyan was sufficiently developed to the point that we're rooting for the both of them to win. But to get there is not worth your time, and it's ironic that these set pieces are the highlight of the film, instead of it's drama or story.Then we get some bizarre attempts to make Bond relevant to the '90's by having the new female M (Judi Dench, who is better in every other Bond film after this) and Miss Monneypenny emasculate him to the point where I wanted to puke. Not only that, Monneypenny downright rejects Bond's advances and he stands there taking everything without comment. These few scenes, along with a score that sounds like it belongs in a B-grade '80's action film, immediately makes the flick lose 2 stars.What almost makes up for all this lacklustre material is the cast. Almost. Sean Bean gives a forceful interpretation of 006, providing a match for Bond at every turn and also getting some of the best lines in the movie, if not the series. Gottfried John as Ourumov is an imposing figure and completely believable, while the Bond Girl this time around, Natalya, is attractive and smart, while holding her own. She's probably the best out of the Brosnan era and can actually act. And Robbie Coltrane shows up as Valentin Zukovsky, one of the most inspired characters in years.Unfortunately, the other two leads, Janssen and even James Bond #5, Pierce Brosnan himself, don't stack up to the other actors. Xenia is just way to over-the-top and ruins any scene she's in. And the all-to-obvious fake accent doesn't help. The complete opposite is Brosnan, who is uneasy in the role and doesn't grab our attention. Plus, his haircut is too jokey to be taken seriously.And while the film's only 2 hours and 10 minutes long, it drags and feels longer, killing any replay value. So, even with some good acting, other elements work against the movie, and the useless updating does nothing but show that James Bond is a timeless character and shouldn't be placed in any specific era. The end result is definitely a mixed bag. 6.5/10 "},{"Title":"You can always count on Agent 007!","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Not to be taken lightly, Pierce Brosnan in his debut as the British Agent with the license to kill. Bond has his work cut out for him this time as he tries stopping Russian rebels from destroying London's financial economy. More great sets, stunts, beautiful women and death defying situations. More than ample support from Famke Janssen, Sean Bean, Izabella Scorupco and Joe Don Baker. "},{"Title":"The best bond movie, with the worst bond.","Date":"15 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The year 1991 Timothy Dalton was making a return for his third venture as 007 for The property of a lady, but copyright issue's declined the make of property of lady. The issue lasted for 5 years, Dalton was about to return for this time, but he didn't the reason United Artist disturbed him a lot by making stupid excuses that he would return as soon possible before his contract expires. At last it ended after 5 years but Timothy's contract expired, & yet it was in the news that his contract would be renewed due to copyright issues lasted tooooo long. But Dalton was totally frustrated this time & he finally announced that he wont return as 007. Many fans were upset with his decision & even me. Pierce Brosnan try's to fit into his shoes in Goldeneye, but he doesn't.In my opinion this the best bond venture till date, strong script, best action sequences. bond girl, gadgets & most important the director Martin Campbell. The writers wrote this movie's script with Timothy Dalton as 007 in their mind, his dark, strong & deadliest part as James Bond, which Pierce toke fully advantage. Hate it!!!!!!! The movie has been directed outstandingly from the opening scene at the dam till the climax. This time 006 as villain gosh what a script, i remember i was just 8 years old when i first saw this movie in theater's actually my first bond movie in theater, didn't understood but i completely enjoyed it. The movie has the best score which is conducted by Eric Serra which many people dislikes it. Strange. Eric Serra brings the modern music with the basic touch of bond theme, specially in the opening sequence when bond is in the Russian chemical factory, the back ground score played that time grips the movie firmly & the plane jump totally thrills me till today. Pierce Brosnan gets the full advantage from the script which was Timothy's originally. It can been seen clearly the image of Timothy as 007 in this movie. The way Pierce walks his looks, the way he dresses up totally shows dark side of Timothy Dalton. If this movie would have done by Timothy Dalton i can bet that he would have done another bond venture & he would have declared the best bond which many people underrated him. The role of leading bond girl Natalya Simonova one of the best bond girls in the bond series, & Miss Onatopp play's her role wonderfully. Sean Bean as 006 does his job perfectly. General Ourumov probably the best Russian general in the entire bond series.Goldeneye was the movie which the fans were waiting for since 5 years. If we look at all the adventures of Pierce Brosnan as James bond leaving Goldeneye aside, Tomorrow never dies didn't stand upto the mark & also the movie was completely nowhere when the rival Titanic was released same time TND was released. Next The world is not enough is said the worst bond movie, lastly Die another day which was totally a remake of Moonraker & mostly Diamonds are forever, which wasn't that good movie too. So only Goldeneye kept Pierce as 007 for the next 3 movies, in which he made a complete mess. A film which belonged to Timothy Dalton will always be his but played by another one.Goldeneye bring back the real bond without the real bond, in fact the worst bond. I wanted to rate this movie 10/10 but i wont, because Timothy Dalton didn't played 007 for this movie as it was his.MY RATING 9/10 "},{"Title":"Negotiable Bond","Date":"24 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Let's see. Pierce Brosnan plays James Bond, a debonair wisecracking secret agent. He's trying to destroy a group of renegade Cossacks who are out to destroy the electronic world by means of a satellite weapon called Goldeneye. Along the way he picks up a young Russian woman of flawless if conventional good looks. They go through various adventures, usually with Bond pulling the babe behind him. He has a car that's full of high-tech tricks, and ditto for his watch and his pen and his belt. Action. (Lot's of action here.) A satellite receiver dish is demolished while the girl, Scoripco, runs toward the camera in slow motion and then dives headlong over it, with the fireball exploding behind her. Later, she and Brosnan get to do the same thing -- together. There are fist fights in small cast-iron rooms where people are pummeled and smashed against the metal without even a bloody nose. Foreheads are used as weapons against other foreheads, and to hell with Newton. A man survives a fall of several hundred feet, only in order to look up and see a cascade of junk metal falling on him. Expensive special effects. A car chase through the crowded streets of St. Petersberg. Well -- a car and tank chase, anyway. A collision between a hurtling armored locomotive already in flames and the implacable tank. An exploding helicopter. A light plane shot with a missile crash landing in the water and skidding ashore in a complete wreck -- which both passengers survive. The crack of fist against jaw. The thump of heel against face. Bond, armed only with his Walther P38 pistol, is chased through a warehouse by a hundred cossacks, all of them firing at him.He is not hit. Every time he fires a shot, a cossack falls. (I keep saying cossacks but we all know whom we're talking about here. And if you still don't get it, the Cuban army is thrown in later on.) A comic villain is frozen to comic death during an ecstatic display of the sort found among penguins during the mating season. Brosnan and Scorpicpo escape from a self-destructing train and lunge behind a protective stone wall. In thirty seconds they are flirting. In forty they are making love. (Is that how it work? You have to blow things up first?)What I'd like to know is why this is a James Bond movie and not, say, a Sylvester Stallone movie or a Bruce Willis movie or an Arnold Schwarzenegger movie or a Dolph Lundgren movie.I admit not having kept up with the literature, but it seems to me that these action movies have become pretty much interchangeable, along with their stars, the plots, the expensive F/X, the whole magilla. The Bond movies had a certain cache when they first appeared, some forty years ago. A lot of college students had been reading Ian Fleming's novels, not to mention President Kennedy, and they flocked to theaters to see Dr. No. The villains were interesting oddballs. Goldfinger, Rosa Klebb, Odd Job, Jaws. Who do we have now? A hemi-scarred Sean Bean. Brosnan asks him, Do you expect me to feel sorry for you? Bean replies No, James, I expect you to die for me. (A direct ripoff from the most famous exchange in Goldfinger.) Above all, the first Bond movies had Sean Connery with that cartoon handsomeness and built-in mockery of himself. Brosnan isn't bad, but he seems to be enacting a role when he wisecracks. And although Scoripco is lovely, it was more engaging to see Britt Ekland, Ursula Andress, and Kim Basinger running around in skimpy clothes.Still, the movie is thought provoking. The thought it provokes is How long can this franchise continue to make money? "},{"Title":"Bond takes too much nonsense!","Date":"10 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  If I was Bond I wouldn't put up with any rubbish from Dame Judi Dench. If she started getting rude with me about being a dinosaur I'd tell her boss that she was &#145;sexually harassing me' or &#145;forcing me to work in a hostile environment'. She'd get fired and I'd get thousands of pounds for having my life ruined, which I spend on a new DVD player and a GameBoy Advance. That's what one of the girls did in my office, just before I got fired.The other thing I'd do if I was Bond would be to marry Famke Janssen as she's really hot. The girls in Tomorrow Never Dies, The World is Not Enough and Die Another weren't as nice and I'd still be thinking about Famke even if I was making love to them. I'd get married on the cheap though and use the money I saved to buy a widescreen TV and a Sony surround sound system.That stupid whale in &#145;Free Willy' annoys the hell out of me, especially when he starts making annoying squeaky noises as he &#145;speaks'. If I started squeaking like that I'd get put in a home for people with mental problems, but that dullard of an orca gets love and respect! Where's my love and respect? What have I got to do to get some love? Paint myself like a cow and live in a fish tank? If I did that people would think I was a retard, but not Willy! Oh no! He gets love by the bucket load and then swims off into the sunset, making everybody cry. But the lazy orca (who seemingly never likes to take responsibility for anything he does) returns in the sequel moaning about oil tankers and expecting humans to sort it all out! What more does that dullard want from us? We let you go Willy, so bog off and leave us alone!In summary, I think that GoldenEye was a very good Bond film and had some enjoyable moments, particularly the tank chase and Famke Janssen being naughty. The only improvements I could think of would be an underground helicopter chase and hat that shot lasers, but these are only a minor points. "},{"Title":"By this time, the franchise had overstayed its welcome mat.","Date":"16 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" If you ask me, they should have just stopped making the James Bond movies after Sean Connery left. None of the other people who played Bond were ever able to equal Connery's appeal. Pierce Brosnan has done many good roles (namely Mars Attacks!), and he's clearly a good guy in real life, but in my opinion, he's just not the right person to play Bond; no one except Sean Connery ever was.Anyway, the plot - or whatever it is - in GoldenEye involves Bond trying to stop a renegade Russian general from using nukes to attack England. That's the official story, but it's really an excuse for a series of gimmicks. There's the whole opening sequence, plus the whole end sequence. These sorts of things would work in a Jackie Chan movie, but here they look ridiculous.Are there any redeeming qualities? Well, the women are pretty hot (as the Bond girls always are). Here, there's Natalya Semyonova (Izabella Scorupco) and Xenia Onatopp (Famke Janssen, aka Jean Grey in X Men). Judi Dench gets her first spin as M, and she's really the most interesting character in the whole movie. Desmond Llewellyn returns as Q. As for the rest of the cast, they're what we expect the Russians are suspicion-inducing, the Brits are hoity-toity, and the Americans are dimwits. I guess that the world is always going to believe that.Anyway, my advice is to avoid this abomination and stick with the early Bond flicks. I can't understand why they're now remaking Casino Royale; John Huston's version was very well done. But avoid GoldenEye. Also starring Sean Bean, Joe Don Baker, Robbie Coltrane (aka Hagrid in the Harry Potter movies), Alan Cumming and Tcheky Karyo. "},{"Title":"The Irony Is Enjoyable","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"9 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Say what you like about the Bond franchise ( And in my opinion I don`t have a lot of good things to say ) but the series never came out with the old cliche of having those nasty pinko commies as the bad guys . Bond`s enemies where always the fictional SPECTRE or mad scientist types , not that this was always successful of course . But I did enjoy the ironic fact that this new Bond starts his first filmed mission with an attack on a secret USSR base . Even better in this respect is the title sequence where we see the demise of communist icons and as the story progresses we find out the bad guys are ex-communists turned quasi mafia , and the motivation of the main baddie involves a cold war betrayal . All this gives GOLDENEYE a sense of time and place , something that can`t be said for most - If any - Bond films.GOLDENEYE is a very good Bond film even if it`s not up to classics like DR NO or GOLDFINGER . The production values are certainly a million times better than what we saw in the 80s . Brosnan is fairly good but lacks that serious touch that Dalton and Connery had . The only other complaint I have is that tank sequence which is very silly and interferes with the pace of the film . The one thing that puzzled me though is the main villain . He`s played by an actor far too young to have born in the 1940s . I know Anthony Hopkins was to have been originally cast in this role but if that was the case would he have been required to have a really brutal punch up with Bond at the climax ? "}{"Title":"GoldenEye","Date":"4 March 2005","Score":"7 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The last time we saw James Bond was 1989 with Timothy Dalton. Six years later 007 finally returned with another new face, the great Irishman Pierce Brosnan. Bond is out of the cold war and now lives in the real 20th century and faces today's world filled with terrorism, tanks, bombs and missiles. He faces the nasty and well played villain Sean Bean as Alec Travalian, the big twist that he used to be his partner, hence the name Janis. Travalian has stolen a weapon called the GoldenEye (which was the name of Ian Fleming's house), capable of destructing a whole country. Bond later meets the gorgeous Natalya Fyodorovna Simonova (Polish actress Izabella Scorupco) who assists him in finding this weapon. Also starring Famke Janssen as Xenia Onatopp, Joe Don Baker as Jack Wade (who returned in Tomorrow Never Dies), Robbie Coltrane as Valentin Zukovsky (who returned in The World Is Not Enough), Alan Cumming as Boris Grishenko, Desmond Llewelyn as Q, Samantha Bond as the new Miss Moneypenny, Michael Kitchen as Bill Tanner and Dame Judi Dench as the new female M. Filled with marvellous stunts, the Aston Martin DB5, and very good action sequences this is a very good start for the new Bond. It was nominated the BAFTAs for Best Special Effects and Best Sound. James Bond was number 3 on 100 Years, 100 Heroes & Villains, he was number 21 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols, and he was number 21 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons, Dame Judi Dench was number 1 on The 50 Greatest British Actresses, she was number 1 on Britain's Finest Actresses, and she was number 8 on The World's Greatest Actor, and the film was number 11 on James Bond's Greatest Hits for Tina Turner's (written by Bono and The Edge) title song. Very good! "},{"Title":"This Movie is Racist!!!","Date":"15 January 2007","Score":"11 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Martin Campbell is the most racist redneck I have seen in recent film-making history! This film is so blatantly racially stereotypical it makes me quite sick. Look no further than the cover of the film- the white big sign 007 on top of the black background clearly represents the white supremacy over all other races, especially the Black one. All the main characters, I mean, every single one of them is an Anglo-Saxon white Protestant. Not a single Asian, Black, Latino, Aborigen, or Arab. Besides that, all Russians are stereotyped as stupid, cowardly , and weak, as Bond kills hundreds of them with just a shot of his little gun, while whole Russian divisions (dressed in old Soviet uniforms, by the way)shoot at him from 5 feet away with grenade launchers and machine guns, and miss. This film is the most racial cinema picture I have seen in recent history. "}]