[{"Title":"Seriously Underrated Drama, Two Outstanding Performances!","Date":"7 June 2007","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a love story, of sorts, which conflicts the viewer in that it tenderly presents this tragic heroine and then shocks the audience by eloquently demonstrating the ins and outs of the moderate-to-severe bi-polar disorder, with which the heroine attempts to live. (The mother states her daughter suffers from depression, but Drew's depiction does NOT indicate depression alone. There are extreme highs and bottom-dipping lows, which would be more indicative of manic depression or bi-polar disorder than depression alone. Not to minimize the life-changing effects of clinical or chemical depression, because I'm not.) Drew generates a stellar performance here, and fully sells the range of emotions her character experiences. Her portrayal is dead on perfect; in not just the disease itself, but her depth and range here is nothing short of phenomenal.Chris O'Donnell is not as lacking as some would make one believe. He contributes an adequate performance as a young man without a clue; therefore, his character is vastly disliked because he comes off as clueless, and movie-goers associated him with the character. Go figure.This work is seriously underrated, primarily due to the unsatisfactorily heart-wrenching ending, but also due to the audiences inability to conceive of Drew as anything but bubbly and intelligent. She customarily takes parts in which her character is put in a sweet (if rose-colored) light, whereas her role herein is quite edgy and tragic. The screenplay itself is not solid. The flux is very fluid within this story. The only solid thing here are the performances by Drew and Chris, and the profound sadness and sense of loss experienced by its viewers via the execution of the story line.I actually enjoyed this, though the ending IS unsettling and fails to satisfy.It rates an 8.4/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"...by any other name","Date":"30 June 2003","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It seems like the title of this movie was chosen at the last minute by the guy in the business suit. So it's about a coupla teenagers, let's say they're 'in love', and one of them has mental problems, let's call her crazy... The film itself though, I think, resists cliches, especially the fact that the four letter word (love) was avoided, which has a tendency to suck dry any useful plot content that might be found in a movie, opting for some different ways of illustrating their relationship. The two main characters are well portrayed, and believable. I think Barrymore and O'Donnell hold together something that may not have great elements like soundtrack, plot originality etc, because despite the fact that Drew's eyebrows really annoyed me, they both did a good job. "},{"Title":"Mad Love - An Interesting Drama/Romance","Date":"16 November 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Chris O'Donnell heats up the screen and Drew Barrymore is at her sensual best in this motion picture about two teens who take an adventure together against parental wishes. I admit the first time I saw this movie last summer I didn't like it at all. But when I gave it a second try, I actually found it was really good. Because the movie isn't packed with laughs or memorable quotes, I had missed a lot of what made the movie such a good one in it's subtle, yet charming way (the first time I saw it). When I watched it a second time, however, I payed a lot more attention to the movie itself and saw that it did have delight, great acting talent and other positive notes. As well as this, the directing was fine and there were some really good shots through the characters' road trip in the movie. This is one interesting picture. A must-see! Rating Three out of Five stars. "},{"Title":"Bad movie, excellent acting...","Date":"15 May 2003","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Like many other reviewers, I feel this is a poor movie (screenplay), but Drew really captures the feeling of mental illness.  I've known some people who are manic depressive (and a few schizophrenics) and I have to say that Drew must have some personal knowledge of severe depression to be able to pull off a performance like this.  She really elevates the movie from a 2-bit teen romance and makes it worth watching.  I'm not generally a fan (*hated* Donnie Darko) and I usually find her childish damaged goods image rather irritating even though it may be her real personality, but in this one she just embodies the part.  6/10. "},{"Title":"My favorite bad movie","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Mad Love isn't one of the all time great films, however it is my favorite bad movie. I think that Drew Barrymore is charming and this movie allows her to be a little crazy and very beautiful. Chris O'Donnell is definately eye candy in this little gem.  The filmmakers tried to use colour and imagery in an artistic manner. Watch the blue and whites of the film, and check out the symbolic use of butterflies. Although the usage isn't necessarily intellectual, there is a valient stab at being artistic. I think that another interesting aspect of this film is in comparing it to Scent of a Woman. I feel that these two films are essentially the same, with the notable exception of Al Pacino vs. Drew Barrymore. Really though, Scent of A Woman has Chris as a good boy who goes on the lam with Al. Al does all sorts of crazy things, such as driving despite being blind, and eventually holds a gun to Chris. In Mad Love, Chris is a good boy who goes on the lam with Drew. Drew does all sorts of crazy things, such as covering Chris' eyes while he is driving, and eventually holds a gun to Chris. Coincidence?? "},{"Title":"I can relate...","Date":"10 November 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Well, I have to say I really did like this movie. I went in expecting to hate it. I really tried hard to hate it. Normally I hate the romantic mush type films, but... this movie actually transcended that. Instead of focusing mainly on the love, they focused on the mental illness. Heh, I have some issues myself, so I was able to relate quite a bit to her character. I'm severely agoraphobic, so I'd never run away, lol. I love Drew Barrymore. I think she's sexy through and through, absolutely adorable to boot. I will give any movie with her in it a chance. Some I loathe, some I like, some I love. NEVER BEEN KISSED is one that I loathe... But oh my, she was so cute! - I say everyone should give this movie a chance. Ignore the violent behavior and the irrational behavior, because you can't properly portray such a mental illness without it. I also don't think a movie dealing with mental illness to this depth should be rated R. I love that this film showed that those of us with mental illness are people too. We too have feelings. I wish I'd watched it sooner rather than just assuming I'd probably not like it. "},{"Title":"Not BAD, but...","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This wasn't necessarily a bad movie, but it wasn't that good either. It desperately tried to cash in on the teen audience, with a hip cast and soundtrack, but as a teenager I couldn't really relate. Chris O'Donnell's performance was pretty bland, but Drew spiced it up a bit. It started to get better towards the end when we finally got to see the extent of Drew's depression, but the first 3/4 of the movie was such a paint by numbers approach to a romance that I'm not sure that it was worth the wait. Leaves little to criticize, but even less to praise.  "},{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"11 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Mad Love stars Chris O Donnell, who sets his sights on high school love, Drew Barrymore.Unfortunately, the girl he dates does not come across as the average teenager. She suffers from severe depression and this becomes progressive. The outbursts and mental problems threaten to break up the otherwise close relationship but to his credit, O Donnell sticks by her and his love for her becomes clear.The pair are real opposites but carry a unique love for each other. Leland is the caring, hard-working, clever, shy and conscientious type whilst Roberts is the outgoing, partying and slacking girl, always out for a bit of fun.Its hard for the guy to begin with but he fits the bill perfectly, low-key and probably slightly shy in reality, really does translate well to the big screen. His tentative first steps to love are shown and arguably, there is not really a better talent out there to slip on the shoes of Leland.The relationship becomes frustrating but as with any other romantic drama, there are always strains on the relationship. One tends to feel sorry for O Donnell but at the same time, holds much respect for the guy. This could be a very real situation, minus some of the slightly overblown depressive outbursts from Barrymore. There is also the added say from both parents whilst Donnell tries to keep his feet on the ground with his SAT's and everything but ends up giving way to the girl he loves so much. At the end of the day, there is really no substitute.So, to conclude, O Donnell excels in a masterful albeit low-key role with a half-decent Barrymore to throw in some light-hearted and serious, sad scenes.Not a bad movie at all. 7/10. "},{"Title":"lesser 90s teen melodrama","Date":"4 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Matt Leland (Chris O'Donnell) has talkative best friend Eric (Matthew Lillard). Matt is taken with new girl Casey Roberts (Drew Barrymore). They begin a wild relationship. She gets suspended and her parents put her away. He helps her escape the psych ward and they go on a road trip. However, her manic depressive state gets more volatile and beyond his ability to help.I never bought Chris O'Donnell as a romantic lead. He's too white bread and doesn't have the passion. This is love at first sight and who can blame him. Drew can do that to many men but I don't see them as Romeo and Juliet. Drew is convincing with mental illness but it is a little overwrought. I'm not really that invested in this relationship. This is a lesser 90s teen melodrama. "},{"Title":"Mad Overdrive","Date":"17 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Shirtless in Seattle, handsome blue-eyed Chris O'Donnell (as Matt Leland) has his telescope trained on jiggling blonde Drew Barrymore (as Casey Roberts). Later, the sexy high school seniors go to a concert by themselves, which is strange, and do some head-banging. They skip school and have fun driving her yellow Volkswagen around town. These two are attractive, affluent and in love. However, something seems wrong. To be with Mr. O'Donnell during a test, Ms. Barrymore pulls the school fire alarm. What are you, nuts? asks O'Donnell. Yeah, she replies. This turns out to be true...Director Antonia Bird gets all her spark plugs in line for a fine sequence involving traveling salesman Liev Schreiber...Barrymore seems emotionally disturbed, with a confidential diagnosis. After a suicide attempt, she is committed. O'Donnell helps her bust out of the mental hospital and they go on a joyride to Mexico. Barrymore's road games are so obviously over the top, it's a stretch to believe O'Donnell doesn't catch on faster. Possibly, it would have worked better if writer Paula Milne gave him some substance abuse; the character seems too level-headed. Barrymore and O'Donnell look great together, but are unconvincing as an amateur Bonnie and Clyde. Besides, it looks like car theft is legal in the southwest.***** Mad Love (5/26/95) Antonia Bird ~ Chris O'Donnell, Drew Barrymore, Kevin Dunn, Liev Schreiber "}{"Title":"Bad Love","Date":"9 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I love Drew Barrymore and I've never seen her look more desirable than in this movie. She has short blonde hair and a beautiful smile.Drew is a chick with some kind of mental problem. She soon meets Chris O'Donnell, who decides it would be a good idea to shirk all responsibility to his family in favor of kidnapping Drew and hitting the road as a fugitive. Chris is so dumb, he doesn't leave Seattle for Canada, which is only a few miles north. No, Chris is smarter than that. He heads for Mexico! What a dweeb.The unlikely duo stumbles into a restaurant in Salinas (California) where Drew misses out on the shrimp she ordered so she can go to the toilet, take off the ugly dress Chris bought for her, and crawl around on the floor while checking for a secret door behind the commode. These adventures continue for awhile until Drew comes to her senses and dumps O'Dumbbell.OK for teenyboppers. Others may be bored out of their freaking minds. "},{"Title":"Excellent Example of Borderline Personality Disorder","Date":"15 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Although in the movie she is diagnosed with clinical depression that is not what the character has. Drew Barrymore's character displays the perfect diagnostic criteria for a Borderline. She is reactive to certain situations and rapidly changes moods with overwhelming emotions, she is exactly like me.*Contains Spoilers* A pattern of unstable and intense interpersonal relationships characterized by alternating between extremes of idealization and devaluation. In the beginning Drew Barrymore is exciting, interesting, wild, and intense. She falls completely in love with Chis O'Donnell's character and obsessed with him. When he refuses to leave class after she pulls the alarm she doesn't talk to him for days. Their relationship becomes very intense and leads to concern from their parents. Chris really shines in this movie because he plays the perfect responsible and care-giving individual that would be attracted to and give care to Drew. He is innocent and naive which is the type of person a borderline would desire.Impulsiveness in at least two areas that are potentially self-damaging (e.g., promiscuous sex, eating disorders, binge eating, substance abuse, reckless driving). This is the most obvious in the movie. She pulls the fire alarm, she takes a trip with Chris to a waterfall during school hours. She jumps into the lake after she and her parents have a fight. She runs away from home with O'Donnell in fear that their parents will send her away and have her leave Chris. She drives recklessly while turning the last minute only to wreck the car. She attacks the driver that picks her up and steals his car. Drives off after she catches Chris talking to her mother in fear that he is trying to abandon her. Smokes cigarettes. I believe because it was a PG rated movie they did not have her do drugs or have sex with many partners.Recurrent suicidal behavior, gestures, threats or self-injuring behavior such as cutting, interfering with the healing of scars (excoriation) or picking at oneself. She pulls a gun to both of their heads, and attempts suicide. She talks about her parents and her father which makes her upset and she goes into the bathroom and starts crying and having an anxiety attack. Threatens to kill herself and holds a gun to her head. I believe they didn't make her a cutter because of the PG rating.Affective instability due to a marked reactivity of mood (e.g., intense episodic dysphoria, irritability or anxiety usually lasting a few hours and only rarely more than a few days). She pastes pictures of dozens of faces from magazines in an insane sort of of way. The episode in the bathroom also.Chronic feelings of emptiness Her behavior is an example of her feelings of emptiness. When she calls late at night because she just needed to hear from him. It's hard to explain this but as a borderline myself i did the same thing. It's like you fear the person doesn't love you anymore and you need reassurance constantly.Inappropriate anger or difficulty controlling anger (e.g., frequent displays of temper, constant anger, recurrent physical fights). She burns the guy in the car with her cigarette.Transient, stress-related paranoid idealization, delusions or severe dissociative symptoms. When Chris is selling his telescope for cash she spaces out and experiences a dissociative moment as if she is seeing the world out of herself. This is a good example because of the camera work and score. She believes he doesn't want her anymore just because he calls her parents.Identity disturbance markedly and persistently unstable self-image or sense of self. This as with feelings of emptiness, is seen throughout the movie by her behavior in general. I think an example of this is when she posts all of the pictures of women from magazines so they can 'look at her' makes her feel a sense of identity.Over all this movie perfectly shows the personality of a Borderline Personality Disorder sufferer. Medications can't really help other than treating symptoms like depression or anxiety. The affect on the family and boyfriend also show how real life families struggle with a loved one suffers from it. Chris is often walking on eggshells to avoid offending or hurting her.What makes this movie so good is the perfect example of a mental illness. This is a rare thing to seen in movies, usually they mix disorder u p and get them all wrong. I recommend this movie to anyone that suffers from or know someone that suffers from Borderline Personality Disorder. I suffer from it myself and set my first boyfriend through the ringer like she did. Once I found out what it was, well now I know what i have and am getting the right treatment for it. "},{"Title":"Did I see a different movie then most?","Date":"13 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I can't fathom why so many people have called this a romantic comedy. It is in no way a comedy and while there is a romance that carries along with it, the plot isn't about the romance. It's about mental illness and how it affects the person and those around them.It felt like the ending as intended was when the doors closed behind Drew's character as she entered the hospital. The narrated ending seems tacked on, probably had too many people at the screenings that didn't care for whatever was the original ending. The studio perhaps felt pressure to make it a bit more upbeat and hopeful. I didn't mind an upbeat ending too much though, I'm generally a sucker for Hollywood endings. Plus it didn't seem to take away anything from her suffering. She's doing better with the help of doctors, not magically cured.As for Chris O'Donnell's performance, I thought it was fine. He didn't stand out and I don't think he was supposed to. His character was supposed to be a bit shy and geeky. This was obvious from the scenes leading up to him talking to Drew's character.As a disclaimer I like Drew Barrymore in everything I've seen her in, not necessarily the movie, but her performance at least. This has to be not only one of her best performances but one of the best performances in a film period. Yes, a lot of people would disagree with me but for anyone who has known someone suffering from depression and especially bi-polar disorder I think they'd agree she portrayed it amazingly well. "},{"Title":"Classic story, GREAT soundtrack!","Date":"11 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is the classic tale of young love gone all wrong. Bad girl, Casey (Drew Barrymore) good guy (Chris ODonnell) fall MADLY in love with one another. She's got problems(oppressive parents, emotionally disturbed). Naturally, after she creates a series of events that screw up Matt's plans for the future & both sets of parents forbid their relationship, they RUN away together. All is going well & good until Casey completely loses it.....But the END of the movie is what satisfies. It's not your usual tragic tale with a happy ending that you're always hoping for & expecting. & as always...a great soundtrack does a lot for a movie. If you're into the early 90's grunge movement/alternative rock deal, you'll love the music & the scene with the band, Seven Year Bitch. They rock! "},{"Title":"Madly In Love","Date":"27 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Mad Love success is formally down to the leads Drew Barrymore and Chris O' Donnell. Their chemistry together, their development, twists and turns make you genuinely care about the characters.If that's the only reason you see the film then go right ahead.The subject of Bi-Polar is sensitively approached under the direction of Antonia Bird and I can honestly say that this is one of my favourite coming - of age dramas and made me fall in love with both Barrymore and O'Donnell and follow along on their incredible journey together.Some may guffaw at the cinematography, it is a fairly old film but the most important thing is the story and the acting which remain strong throughout. "},{"Title":"'Romantic' adventure","Date":"25 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Drew Barrymore is committed temporarily to a mental ward and everything is fine for awhile until her idiot boyfriend Chris O'Donnell gets the bright idea to 'rescue' her and take her on the lam with him.The two fugitives begin their journey in Seattle and decide to head for Mexico. (Note to Chris the Canadien border is only a few miles to the north - never mind).During this time, our 'heroes' drive blindfolded on a dangerous cliff, Chris steals a man's truck, and Drew gets the urge to play Russian roulette in the desert. Before long, Drew is in the ward again and Chris goes back to being A GUY DREW WOULD NEVER WASTE HER TIME ON.Aimless and stupid, but Drew is totally cute. "},{"Title":"For those who enjoy dreamy romantic dramas. (spoilers)","Date":"27 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Mad Love probably generated as much of a viewer ship as it did because of the likability of the two principal, Drew Barrymore and Chris O'Donnell. I never thought of the movie as anything special, and figured that this would probably survive obscurity by fans of the cast or those who appreciate a decent dreamy romantic drama every now again, for which it is quite abundant.O'Donnell, though never a spectacular lead, carries well himself well as the good-natured, soft-spoken high school teen, Matt Leland. Upon meeting flamboyant, rule-breaker Casey Roberts (Drew Barrymore, working with the type of characters that always seem to suit her), Leland falls in love with the rather tragic character and goes through one of those earmarked defiances and coming-of-age experiences. That is because Casey is an emotionally unstable character because she is bipolar.As their relationship furthers, free-spirited Casey grows rather obsessive in the relationship and a bit too detached from reality. After a few minor incidents, or at least what you might consider relatively minor while the characters in the story might not, Casey's parents want to commit her to a mental institution to undergo therapy. Destined not to let his first true love being lobotomized and unnecessarily drugged, Matt and Casey hit the road like fugitives in love. The material is very routine, but there is something at least, from the principal actors' ability to carry it out well and, for the most part, believably (save some of Barrymore's poor delivery at points) and with minimal corniness. Best of all, it does a good job with getting you to stay connected to the characters. You feel a bit free-spirited yourselves when (if you're enjoying the movie, of course) Matt and Casey endure their hijinks. You get that connection when Casey is forced into the hospital; the uneasiness that Matt feels when he runs away with Casey; and the pressure that he faces throughout. At least they had effectively done that much.Not an impressive or all to memorable movie, though, as I said before, you should be pleased if you generally enjoy O'Donnell and Barrymore, or, if you're just a sucker for dreamy romantic dramas. "},{"Title":"'Mad Love'","Date":"22 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Story about a high-school senior, Matt Leland (Chris O'Donnell), who draws like a moth to a flame to maniac-depressive Casey Roberts (Drew Barrymore). Together they go on a road trip against parental wishes after Matt heard Casey was brought to a psychiatric hospital due to her problems and helped her escape - him not seeing what was wrong with her at the time. Though this little film might not sound interesting enough to watch, which it really isn't at certain points in the story, you will find that if you pay enough attention to its subtle charm and unique script and direction, especially through the first half of picture, you can fully appreciate what makes it worth watching. The extent of this appreciation will most likely only go so far, however. The film's first hour is good, as well as the last six minutes, but the remaining half hour is uninteresting. Even though 'Mad Love' brought something a bit different to the table, if the star duo weren't in this project, it wouldn't be worth watching. See Barrymore at her sensual best in this one. Rating Two out of Five Stars (Fair). "},{"Title":"I can relate...","Date":"10 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Well, I have to say I really did like this movie. I went in expecting to hate it. I really tried hard to hate it. Normally I hate the romantic mush type films, but... this movie actually transcended that. Instead of focusing mainly on the love, they focused on the mental illness. Heh, I have some issues myself, so I was able to relate quite a bit to her character. I'm severely agoraphobic, so I'd never run away, lol. I love Drew Barrymore. I think she's sexy through and through, absolutely adorable to boot. I will give any movie with her in it a chance. Some I loathe, some I like, some I love. NEVER BEEN KISSED is one that I loathe... But oh my, she was so cute! - I say everyone should give this movie a chance. Ignore the violent behavior and the irrational behavior, because you can't properly portray such a mental illness without it. I also don't think a movie dealing with mental illness to this depth should be rated R. I love that this film showed that those of us with mental illness are people too. We too have feelings. I wish I'd watched it sooner rather than just assuming I'd probably not like it. "},{"Title":"Could have been much better, but I still love Drew!","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was initially drawn to this movie for two reasons - Drew Barrymore & seeing her play a kind, but mentally disturbed woman.  The story was disappointing and the editing was choppy & lousy.  I thought that Drew gave a very heartfelt performance, but it wasn't enough to carry the movie. The movie had little impact on me, & I would only recommend to die-hard Drew fans. "}{"Title":"Interesting characters, simple but touching story.","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Well, I watched this movie 3 or 4 years ago because of the Cable guide comment, which told something like a story about an emotionally unstable girl, and I saw it because I was actually living such a story, with a girl that had much the same symptoms. Now I saw it again on the cable, and liked a little more. I guess Drew Barrymore obviously wasn't randomly picked to make this character. I don't know much of her publicized past, but it seems she might have been quite close to Casey's (her character) personality. Maybe that explains the accuracy of her performance, noticed in Casey's head/hands/body movements, speaking, etc. The last restaurant dinner scene is really good. The anxiety is played perfectly. The way she can't sit still, the hurry in her talking... I lived that very closely and it is absolutely accurate. She can almost transmit her desperation.I think the best part of the movie, is Casey's character, and Barrymore's performance. I don't follow her career, but I liked this one.Well, that's all I can tell, hope you liked it.Excuse my simple vocabulary, but I am from Buenos Aires, Argentina, that's Latin America, and don't have much time to exercise my English.Bye. "},{"Title":"drew barrymore is fantastic but.....","Date":"18 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  drew barrymore is a brilliant actress and i think without her this film wouldnt have been so successfull.  there were alot of issues in the film, relationships between parents and kids (and absense of matts mum), the relationship between matt and casey, caseys manic depression and how her parents and herself are affected by that and i think the film would of needed to be alot longer to of portrayed these things fully.  but of course the main storyline is the romance between matt and casey which is the only thing we really did see to any full extent which is fine i think chris and drew worked well together. i think drews manic depressive act was pretty impressive and i am one, the ending was a complete let down with drews voice saying how shes nicely recovering in chicago,  however i do love the film after all that and im trying to find it in a shop to buy and i give it a 10 probably because drew got the manic depression thing so right and i found it so moving  "},{"Title":"A coming of age story played starring Drew","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Okay, I'm a big Drew Barrymore fan.  This is in my video collection, and I am proud to own it.  The theme is teen love, and we've all been there. Chris O'Donnell is in love with Drew, and Drew has issues.  It's a tear jerker, but Drew is cute throughout.  Similar to GUN CRAZY, this film helped get Drew the exposure she wants.  See it.  gb "},{"Title":"truly great romantic comedy","Date":"15 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Drew Barrymore and Chris O'Donnell light up the screen in this romantic comedy about teenage love.  I have never seen a movie that makes you think about the relationship that you're in until I saw this one.  Barrymore and O'Donnell act amazingly together in this film.  their chemistry is one of a kind.  No matter what the critics say, this is truly a magnificint film and a definate top 10 in my books for a romantic movie. "},{"Title":"Great!!!","Date":"21 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A movie about passion, parental problems, and mostly love. Drew Barrymore's acting is just incredible, perhaps her best performance ever. The film makes the view wonder what it would be like to fall in love so deeply that you don't feel guilty about leaving your family, or jeopardize your future.  "},{"Title":"Beautifully done!","Date":"5 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Mad Love is a complex and intriguing story about teenage love and crisis.Barrymore is a convincing Casey Roberts, a girl with a wild streak a mile wide, a problem, and an overbearing father that does nothing to help the problem. O'Donnell plays Matt Leland, the classic clean-cut guy that falls for a less-than-perfect girl - Casey.It's truly a moving storyline paired with an awesome soundtrack. Definitely a movie to buy. "},{"Title":"Love Conquers All","Date":"1 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is about two teenagers who are passionately in love but there parents are against it. They do whatever they have to do to stay together. After all, Love counquers all. If you love Drew Barrymore or Chris O'Donnell you have gotta watch this movie. "},{"Title":"A story of being in LOVE; Truly, Madly, Deeply in Love.","Date":"28 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Casting Drew Barrymore in this role as Casey Roberts is perhaps at least half the reason that this story turned out so successfully in my eyes. Her sweet talent of being able to capture your heart in her joys and sadness, not to mention every action, certainly is the one most touching and captivating aspect of her. The impulsiveness of true love in this film on the part of both Casey/Drew and Matt/Chris has to be the most wonderfully portrayed and supported side of romance. Through every moment of the story, one cannot help but feel heartbroken at the thought of eminent separation. Even for every tamper tantrum that Casey threw, there was no distain for her felt, just empathy. One cannot help but fall in love with her soul once more. "},{"Title":"OK movie, but not above average....","Date":"10 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie about a couple of teenagers is better than I thought it would be before I saw it. Chris O`Donnell plays his part well, he is the guy who keeps his family together, and always does what he is told to do..and more. But Casey, played by Drew Barrymore, really turns his life around. She couldn`t care less about school and is a babe in every way, and becomes his first love. The relationship between the two of them is pictured well, but the relationship between them and their parents are not described so well in this movie. The ending is also a little too typical Hollywood for my liking... I didn`t like the music either, but the actors in the main parts are good, and I guess this movie is as good as any other way of spending a night home alone....  "},{"Title":"A very good movie, worth seeing","Date":"13 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was very good. Drew was good at portraying Casey. It was very triggering though at the end, but I'd would still watch it again. "}{"Title":"IT'S WAY COOL!","Date":"18 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought it was a great movie. It told a great story about love, relationships, and most of all teenage parental problems. The beautifully talented Drew Barrymore gave off a heavenly light when she was happy, a sympathetic feeling when she was sad that made you want to help her. She was a little scary towards the end but all in all it was a great show with a moderately happy ending. She has a great co-star Chris O'Donnal and it has a really cool soundtrack. If you're a Drew fan I'm sure you've seen it, and if you haven't you definitely should. "},{"Title":"Teen rubbish","Date":"18 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Just when you thought movies in the 1990s couldn't get any worse, along comes this lumpy stew of a teen romance. I wasn't sure the picture could actually sink any lower from the ludicrous opening sequence (scored with an abominable rock song); unfortunately, it does. Boy meets girl at school, they flirt, they date, they run off together. The conceit here is that she's mentally unbalanced. It isn't a fresh spin, although the filmmakers and the cast proceed like they're doing something new, and who knows? Maybe the young audience targeted for the picture actually believe in its sentiments. To all of us over 30 it's pretty excruciating, not to mention terribly irresponsible, and not quite the wild and sexy adventure advertised. NO STARS from **** "},{"Title":"A great love story about two emotionally different teens.","Date":"14 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I loved this movie! It really touched me to see two young people so in love. A lot of people are saying how awful it is but if your unable to put yourself in the shoes of the character Drew Berrymore played, your not gonna get it. Chris O'Donell comes off believable as a young guy trying to help out with his family after being abandoned by his mother. Drew Barrymore plays the role that she does best, the wild and crazy free spirit. Chris and Drew have great chemistry together in this film. The only thing I didn't like was the end. Why did she just go back to Chicago? There must have been a better way to end it. It was still really good. "},{"Title":"So its not a best picture nominee, but its got a big performance.","Date":"29 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Drew Barrymore's performance in this movie is amazing. The movie is lacking a solid storyline. In fact, this movie would be terrible without Drew's incredible personality. Drew really became her character in this film and comes off as quite genuine. Bottom line....A must see for Drew Barrymore fans, a good one to pass on if you're not. Who knows though, her performance in this film might just change your mind. Check it out especially if you are into psychology, despite the movie's over dramatization of the subject matter. "},{"Title":"mad love","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  good movie,loved it.Drew and chris give good performances.But I wonder,they ran away together with hardly any money, so how the hell they get all those damn candles??Well besides that,its good i give it a 9/10.You may like it or not,but its one of those were weather or not u like it,You gotta see it. "},{"Title":"I Love this movie!","Date":"22 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  As a Drew Barrymore fan, I rented this movie. I had no idea what to expect or really what the movie was about. But to this day when I watch it, I get chills. My spine does a number every time I see Casey (Drew) pasting eyes to the walls around her with toothpaste. If anyone ever has doubt that Drew Barrymore is anything short than an amazing actress, you haven't seen this movie.  "},{"Title":"Unfocused","Date":"8 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film feels like an indie set-up but the mainstream stars (Chris O'Donnel and Drew Barrymore) give it a false sense of Hollywood glamour. Donnel's character is as bland as a blancmange, leaving Barrymore to seize centre stage in an even yet watchable performance as a depressed young woman. The problem with the film is we never know why she suffers. Not much is revealed about her parents or her upbringing. The film seems to have lost its way. what should have been a quirky indie film is spoiled by an obtrusive rock soundtrack that mocks the serious subject at hand. The cinematography is pretty poor too. All in all, a wasted opportunity for all concerned. "},{"Title":"Wow - movie made me emotional!","Date":"14 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Wow - this movie brought out a lot of emotion in me, as it was a very real treatment of clinical depression.  Those who have never experienced it may not see it as believeable, but it's the closest I've seen in a movie since Leaving Las Vegas (which was more about depression linked to addiction). Drew Barrymore character Casey is beautifully troubled.....beautiful and troubled.  Chris O'Donnell's character Matt is caring and nurturing, yet spontaneous and confident.  The scary moments in this movie are also real, as I found myself wincing at the prospects of the build-up in some scenes. In particular, I was holding my breath during the blind driving scene and very uncertain what would come of the gun scene in the desert.  All thumbs up! "},{"Title":"A couple of nice touches","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  But hardly a great movie. The ending is satisfying in a way that is not normally the case with a Hollywood film, and O'Donnell's realization that Barrymore is indeed wacko is nicely handled. Still, if you wanna see a film about mental illness among the teen set, watch GIRL INTERRUPTED. As for the director, Antonia Bird, she can do no wrong in my book. A few years later, she made RAVENOUS.  "},{"Title":"The Worst Movie EVER.","Date":"26 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I worked in a video store for 2.5 years. In that time, I was able to rent many many movies for free. Hence, I have seen many movies. None - with the exception of Empire Records - come to the level of disdain I got from this movie. I thought this was the worst movie ever because of poor acting, poor plot, and poor cinematography. In roughly the two hours that this movie span, I had no desire to see what ended up happening to the two stars of the movie - for all I care they could have died and I would have cheered. I have never walked out of a movie before, but if I had to see this one again I definitely would. "}{"Title":"Best Movie?","Date":"22 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Although this might not be everyone's favorite Chris O' Donnell movie, I believe that this is one of his bests.  It is a story when a High School Senior, (Chris O' Donnell) falls in love with another Senior, (Drew Barrymore) who is a little crazy.  This movie ends in a questionable ending. This is a movie you should see if you are a Chris O' Donnell fan. "},{"Title":"An Interesting Drama-romance","Date":"11 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" MAD LOVE ** An interesting drama/romance. Story of a high school senior (Chris O'Donnell) who takes to the road with new-found love Drew Barrymore when they are faced with permanent separation. O'Donnell eventually realizes Barrymore's maniac-depressive and is faced with an ultimate decision in the film's ending. 'Mad Love' doesn't know what it wants to be when it grows up a teen romance or a tale of mental disorder. Clearly, this film cannot orchestrate the two together without leaving us with a bad after-taste. Viewers see believable chemistry between the two leads, but after the first hour things shape into an unenlightening twist of fate. The star-duo makes the film worth viewing but nothing else does.Rating System***** Excellent **** Good *** Fair ** Poor * Bad "},{"Title":"Drew shines in her performance","Date":"30 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Drew shines in her performance as Casey, and her portrayal of this type of mental illness is brilliant (coming from someone who suffers from it) , she is particularly moving in the restaurant scene. The whole movie is just about wanting to be free and getting away from the rules of society. Chris o' Donnell's role in the movie is more like the audiences - trying to understand Drew (Casey) and what she's going through while being madly in love with her. As with mental illness not a lot of people got this movie - and thats a shame, because this is one of Drews better films. I prefer her playing these parts than the goody two shoes family style films she started to do. Bring back the wild child! "},{"Title":"The bird that should have flown away","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Ever since Chris O'Donnell appeared in `Scent of a Woman' with Al Pacino in one of his best rôles, I have been looking forward to seeing this young actor in more good parts. Am still waiting &#133;&#133;&#133;&#133;&#133;&#133; An old saying of mine says that where a lot of noise comes out, not much goes in; this would seem to be the case with most 18-20 year-olds today, if what we see (and hear) in this film and many others of like ilk are anything to go by.`Mad Love' is obviously aimed at noisy 18-20 year-olds who do not have much stuffing inside their craniums, and so are easily worked up into all kinds of fathomless feelings, usually caused by lack of any emotional stability, either within or without their families.The fact that Drew Barrymore leaves me as cold as a haddock on the fishmonger's counter is a good point to start from she has not done anything to draw my attention (on the screen) and off it she has shown herself to be rather subject to some rather stupid behaviour; I presume this `whacks' with uncountable teenagers in innumerable towns and cities across the wide continent of North America, as well as in places dotted all over Europe. Despite more than 60 films in her curriculum, she has yet to show that she has the intelligence to be an actress of any standing. I suppose any actress has only to feel or seem to feel any emotions the director may require of her, and that these feelings must appear to be sincere in this respect Ms. Barrymore cannot be reproached too much. However in this film you rather fancy that she has learnt a couple of things from watching other actresses in other films. There were moments in which I suddenly thought of `Thelma and Louise' &#150; That is a real drama to be going on with.The soundtrack should be called the noisetrack basically made up of rock of doubtful parentage and a perfect lack of any criteria of selection. Very briefly interrupted by a soprano singing a fragment of an aria, which meant going south-west to Mexico. Now, if it had been `In The Ghetto' they may well have gone to Chicago &#150; so much sense all this makes. However, not even a great big enormous truck loaded with 500 tons of timber can put and end to their/our misery, unfortunately.Without a doubt, Antonia Bird and her writer Paula Milne tried to tell us something with this film, but if their intention was to make another of those folklore road-movies, they were derailed from the outset.This film can only be of any interest to all those who write praising it with all kinds of grammatical, syntactical and orthographical faults evidently, to pursue the point, the film has the same intellectual level &#150; or lack of it.Would you be so kind as to put a zero on the voting scale, please? No, O'Donnell's tears at the end must make the film worth 2 out of 10; but don't nark me in case I take them off. Who cares &#133;&#133;..?  "},{"Title":"I didn't love it, and it made me mad","Date":"8 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I will say now that I love Drew Barrymore. I think she's gorgeous, talented and a wonderful example for others. It's now as though I don't want to like her films. I do want to like them, and usually I do. But I will also say now that I hate her movie 'Mad Love'. I think it's idiotic, pointless and boring. I have given this movie a 3- the lowest score I've ever given so far. There are others that got a 4 that were equally bad as far as plot or character development or what have you. They, however, had something going for them- a standout performance by one actor, great visuals, or maybe they were just dumb fun. 'Mad Love' has none of those things to recommend it. Chris O'Donnell is far from my favorite actor, and his performances seem permanently set to 'bland'. This is no exception. And much as I love Drew- and I do- her performance here is, as some far more distinguished reviewer than I put it, little more than an annoying twitch. The soundtrack is as self-conciously hip as the movie tries to be. Why this movie proved to be so popular among some of my young female peers, I don't know. Maybe it just spoke to them in a way that it did not to me. A disappointment and a waste of it's lead actress' time.     "},{"Title":"Nice movie, great music","Date":"8 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Nice movie about 2 teenagers in love. The girl has a depression what her boyfriend doesn't know, and when her parents have taken her to a psychiatric hospital, they run away together. On the road it gets clearer every time that this decision was a mistake, 'cause her behavior is getting out of hand.... Nice acting by both Chris O'Donnell and Drew Barrymore, and the music in it was great!  "},{"Title":"Drew Barrymore and Chris O'Donnell Make A Great Team,In This Romantic Comedy!","Date":"31 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Drew Barrymore is one of my favourite actress' and she never fails to disappoint me in her films,this one was no exception.The same goes for Chris O'Donnell,who was a great co-star and both of them,were brilliant playing the troubled couple.This film,has a couple of good laughs and a very sweet story-line,which i enjoyed alot.Go see it now!  "},{"Title":"Mad Love Review (1995)","Date":"2 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Drew Barrymore stars as a free-spirited young teen with a deep dark secret. Chris O'Donnell plays the enchanted boyfriend.  Mad Love is a movie that promises not to disappoint.  An interesting character study of a girl who slowly looses her mind and the boy that ends up saving her.  Overall an emotional tear-jerker that needs to be viewed as an excellent story of love at all costs.  Recommended Viewing, an 8. "},{"Title":"Disappointing teen-age drama marred by mental illness cliches","Date":"27 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of cinema's most tired storylines, the young lovers on the run chestnut, gets another formula workout in Mad Love, director Antonia Bird's unusual choice for a follow-up to her interesting and controversial Priest.  Drew Barrymore's Casey, a butterfly-loving free spirit given to cutting class in favor of joyrides in her Volkswagen Beetle, turns the head of good boy Matt (Chris O'Donnell) so quickly he nearly gets whiplash.  Storm clouds, however, darken the lovers' picnic as revelations of Casey's mental illness threaten the nascent relationship.  The film spends a great deal of time going absolutely nowhere, with all of the expected plot points falling in line one after another.  What should have been a thoughtful treatment of a real problem is buried by Paula Milne's tepid screenplay, which offers further argument that mental illness is too complex a subject for an hour and a half at the cineplex.   "},{"Title":"I love this movie!!!","Date":"28 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I love this movie.  I felt touched by the feeling Casey had about Matt and her parents.  I was irritated by her crazy attitude and behavior to Matt, a nice boy at first.  But I later found out that it was all she was able to do to show her affection...  Anyway, I love this movie and I wish I were as handsome as Chris O'Donnell...    "}{"Title":"Not Bad...Not Good","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is one of those sickeningly mediocre films. It goes by really fast without ever showing much of a plot. We see the two fall in love within a couple of days and then for some reason Drew goes crazy. Okay??? That's the whole story. The ending doesn't make a lot of sense and all in all the movie just has nothing special to set it apart from the rest of the junk out there. 4/10 "},{"Title":"Useless, Simply Useless (Sorry To Say, But It Is That Bad)","Date":"24 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Even though my comment might not be like everyone else, this comment of mine is purely justify. I just not, not like this movie, I Hate it. It is my most pointless movie I have ever seen. A high school couple run away from home after her parents put her into the mental hospital for clinical depression and trying to commit suicide.Sorry to say but the movie suck big time. It have no plod (at all), it took over one third (or more) before they start run away and even on the road trip, it is damn boring. I see no chemistry between the two characters and the acting is dragging on and on. And the worst is definitely the ending, it seem the writer is tired of writing so that it, he put it to an end. Reason To Watch 1. Drew look great.Reason Not To 1. The movie has nothing (I really meant it). 2. Every thing about the movie is slow. 3. It simply suck. 4. One of the worst pointless movie, I have ever see.------ ------ ------ ------ ----- ------ ------ ------ ------- ------ --Rating 2/10 (Grade F) "},{"Title":"Um Well.............................","Date":"11 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers Alert****************** I really thought this movie wasn't good enough for me. It had bad things in it some aren't for dicussing and I really think this movie should have been R rated to the fact that the girl is clinically deppressed and their is some what a littlee of rage and violence in this movie. Some people think it was great. I am a big fan of her movvies and this was the only one I have hated out of her millenium of movies. I mean come on here people she is deppressed and they run away to Mexico to help her. No adalts were their and how is that helping her. It was a very pitiful movie. I thought I would never watch it again. I gave it one more shot by watching it one more time and it didn't work.  This movie is an outrage to me and some of the society.1/10 "},{"Title":"This movie makes you wonder...","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" ...how do some people get careers in this industry?  This almost seems textbook take two currently popular stars, put them in a standard plot device with a typical beginning, middle, and end; market it directly towards teenagers, and BINGO!  You've got a movie that has no soul, yet is wildly popular.Mad Love is an ineffectual, hopeless, counterproductive piece of movie making.  My hopes and dreams for the future of Hollywood have been dashed... I guess 1995 just wasn't a banner year for some pictures.A waste of film, time, and oxygen.0.0/5.0 stars. "}]