[{"Title":"Important science fiction","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"186 out of 199 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" Ghost in the Shell is a visually stunning animated masterpiece. Japanese animation has always been in a class of its own, so I won't even attempt to describe the incredible attention to detail and beautiful imagery in this movie. In this case the animation is merely icing for what is one of the most important works of science fiction in recent years.Every generation has had books and movies that have contributed to our collective understanding of reality. Prior to World War II this included books like Yevgeny Zamyatin's We and Huxley's Brave New World, and later Orwell's 1984. Today most warnings about the future fall into the category of science fiction. Science fiction began to fill this role when Arthur C. Clarke's 2001 warned us of the potential for humanity to create intelligent, even sentient computers that could murder their human creators. 2001 envisioned computer intelligence imprisoned in the physical body of a computer. Where 2001 left off, Ghost in the Shell begins.Ghost in the Shell tells the story of a future in which a computer program, Project 2501, becomes self-aware and begins a quest to fill basic needs it feels are qualifiers of being alive by controlling computers and people to achieve its ultimate goals. Whereas the HAL-9000 computer was relatively harmless, owing to its confinement in the Odyssey space ship, Project 2501 is a recognition that the global internet could have dire consequences for all of us. By comparison, this new villain is virtually invincible. But is Project 2501 a villain?Most people who have told me that they didn't like this move said that they didn't understand it. Indeed, the story and concepts are very complicated. I have watched it several times and still get new things out of it every time. Roger Ebert called Ghost in the Shell, Unusually intelligent and challenging science fiction, aimed at smart audiences.Ghost in the Shell is full of fascinating dialog, such as this diatribe about the cycle of life and death by Project 2501. A copy is just an identical image. There is the possibility that a single virus could destroy an entire set of systems, and copies do not give rise to variety and originality. Life perpetuates itself through diversity, and this includes the ability to sacrifice itself when necessary. Cells repeat the process of degeneration and regeneration until one day they die, obliterating an entire set of memory and information. Only genes remain. Why continually repeat this cycle? Simply to survive by avoiding the weaknesses of an unchanging system.Thus Ghost in the Shell goes beyond simply a prediction or warning for the future it attempts to contribute to our understanding of reality by breaking existence down into biological terms and making us question, along with the characters in the movie, whether or not any of us has a soul. The characters in Ghost in the Shell are unusually deep and are a refreshing change from the one-dimensional stereotypes we've become numbed by in modern media. Ghost in the Shell would be required reading in many high school and university courses if it weren't for the fortuitous fact that it can be enjoyed in this beautifully animated feature film. This is one of the few movies ever made that everyone should watch at least once. "},{"Title":"A stunning and complex cinematic warning","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"166 out of 184 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  Ghost in the Shell is a masterpiece.  I would go so far as to say that it's the second best science fiction film I've ever seen (behind 2001, of course), but no one knows about it.  I find it terribly unfortunate that the only American viewers familiar with Ghost in the Shell are anime fans, many of whom overlook the film's complexity and see only its nudity and violence.  The movie kind of gets in its own way-- within the first five minutes we see the heroine's nude body as well as a very messy head-exploding scene, and many of the viewers who would otherwise end up enthralled by the film's abundant style and intelligence immediately dismiss it as exploitative anime trash.  Every time I show this movie to non-anime fans I have to explain beforehand that Ghost in the Shell is a serious work of science fiction and that everything in it, including the adult content, is part of the point the movie makes about where our society is headed.The film is stylish, artistic, and beautiful.  Masamune Shirow's stunningly believable vision of the future makes the jump from manga to anime remarkably well.  As brilliant as the comics are, I really prefer the film version, which eliminates the nearly pornographic T&A (the film has nudity but it's clearly not meant to be titillating) and all of the exaggerated comic relief which only detracted from the manga in my opinion.  The film's action sequences are strikingly different from the overly stylized symphonies of destruction seen in most action films.  Gunfire, martial arts combat, and car chases are depicted exactly as they would occur in the real world-- without fast music or Armageddon-style hyper-editing or any of the needless cinematic baggage we've come to expect.  But it's the movie's ideas that make it great, particularly in the last half hour, when thoughtful viewers learn what this story is all about-- the emergence of a new kind of life form, an intelligent and self-aware intelligence that can live indefinitely without ever inhabiting a physical body.  The film argues that this will occur within the next thirty years, and the superbly ambiguous ending inspires us to come up with our own ideas of what will happen to humanity once this new life form begins to reproduce.  This is filmmaking that should be seen and discussed.And now the disclaimer.  All of the above comments refer to the subtitled Japanese version of the film, NOT the English dub.  Simply put, the dub ruins everything.  A good example is Kusanagi's wry comment at the very beginning of the film.  An officer who is communicating with Kusanagi through a kind of electronic telepathy tells her there's a lot of static in her brain.  In the original Japanese version (as well as in the manga) she replies that It's that time of the month, but in the dub her comment is inexplicably changed to Must be a loose wire.  It's completely insane-- do they think that, in a film with considerable nudity and graphic violence, people are going to be offended by a PMS innuendo?  The whole movie is filled with such intelligence-insulting changes; please do yourself a favor and watch the subtitled version.  "},{"Title":"The manga for the masses.","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"109 out of 128 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  This is the most beautiful film i've ever seen.There, i've said it. Watch it and be awed at how amazingly detailed and fluid the whole film is. Never does it falter in the art department. The colours are just right, the peoples movements are so real its scary, and sometimes the strong story of the film cant fit all this beauty in and so it releases it entirely in a magical scene in the middle of the film with no dialogue and no plot progression, just marvellous panoramic followed by marvellous panoramic shot. This is my favourite segment of the movie. It shows the nameless city in which the protagonists exist as a cluttered, enclosed, claustrophobic world, yet terrifyingly familiar. This film is full of such themes which subtly make their way into your mind and you dont even realise they're there until afterwards.So lets talk about the story. Its an amazing monster of a tale, squeezing it all in barely in its short running time. It does sometimes feel a little rushed, a little convoluted so that it bears repeat viewings to get the whole thing, but it is still a strong story none the less. In fact it is a very mature story. The creators could have so easily gone the typical manga route and thrown in some invading demons or mega-destructive internet monsters. But no, the whole thing restrains intself to a realistic view of an extra-ordinary situation. it all feels like this is exactly how it would happen in real life, and that is what makes it so engaging, and so scary.This film deserves to be seen, not just because the heavenly beauty warrants it, but because the deep issues it raises needs to be questioned. If you want to be entertained without thinking, watch Wicked City or the countless millions of other mediocre mangas out there. You want to be entertained and be made to think and question the film? See this.You wont regret it. "},{"Title":"A masterpiece of Art, Technology and Culture...","Date":"22 December 1998","Score":"105 out of 130 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  I would highly recommend this cyber-political-industrial thriller that envisions our future in a hyper realistic (idealistic?) way. The plot is excellent, though I did not get it the first time. The quality of the graphics surpasses any anime available on the market and the soundtrack is beautiful. The creative team did an amazing job providing the movie with fine details, harmony in this very descriptive world of high technology (AI) and traditional Japan. I thoroughly believe it is a masterpiece, a unique audio-visual experience. (cf. Blade Runner, Akira) "},{"Title":"It found a voice... and a following","Date":"5 August 2004","Score":"67 out of 73 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" Ghost in the Shell is an intricate masterpiece of cyber-punk fiction and storytelling, successfully melding intriguing philosophical ideas with a coherent, well thought-out (albeit) confusing plot.Even more, it's a nightmarish vision of a society that's dominated by cyberspace and looking back now, is eerily prescient of today's computerized times. Many of the characters in the film are enhanced, someway or another by machines, to help them get the advantage in a vastly changing society.I'll avoid going real deep into the plot simply because there's a whole lot to grasp and even I got more than a little confused trying to follow it. The story is that a team of high-level government operatives are hot on the trail of a notorious computer hacker called the Puppet Master, who is wanted for various crimes in cyberspace and has taken a particularly fond interest in the team's tough, female cyborg leader.Not surprisingly, as with the stigmas surrounding Anime', Ghost in the Shell is not short of nudity and graphic violence. But it's far from being gratuitous, and does not slow down the movie at all.Ghost in the Shell was one of the first Anime' films to skillfully blend traditional drawn animation with computerized imagery. This helps to give the film a surreal, yet beautiful look. And the dialogue helps sometimes too, with helping to sort out the confusing plot and many of its mythical ideas about personal identity and human evolution.This film is also even more revered today, in 2004, since some of this film's core themes helped to develop the plot basis of the insanely popular Matrix films, and some scenes from Ghost in the Shell were even homaged to in the first Matrix movie. The Wachowski Brothers certainly do owe a lot to this movie for the success of their work in America.I think that to understand Ghost in the Shell, it would help to accept that Anime' is much more complex and daring than traditional American animation. Most Japanese animation films, like this one, Akira, or Mayazaki's Spirited Away, are on a level of sophistication that will never be matched in America. It has been said that the majority of American audiences would be afraid of Anime' because of the many stereotypes surrounding it, but that's why it's boundless - it's been given free reign to use those stigmas to its advantage in developing truly remarkable pieces of art that have gone largely ignored here in the U.S. Ghost in the Shell could very well be a mere reflection or a parable of a doomed society that's probably already accepted its dark fate. Most American animation would never touch up on this sort of subject matter.Ghost in the Shell is my #3 choice Anime' film (behind Spirited Away and Akira) because it's so full of ideas and is masterful in telling a dark story about our times.10/10 "},{"Title":"Excellent.","Date":"25 October 2001","Score":"54 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  I liked everything about this film.  Much has been made of the artwork, and with good reason.  Voltron, this isn't.  I am not an anime fan and haven't seen a lot of anime films.  Most plot descriptions of anime films sound boring to me.  I'm not into monsters and tentacles or cute wide eyed little girls fighting evil.  (Not that cute wide eyed little girls shouldn't fight evil, I mean, I'm all about fighting evil, aren't we all?)  Ghost in the Shell, on the other hand, represents the best of its genre and the best of any genre is worth a watch.  This movie ought to appeal to anyone who enjoys cerebral films.  It addresses interesting philosophical questions about identity, some of which we will no doubt be pondering in the not too distant future.  (I'm perhaps foolishly optimistic when it comes to AI).I should add as well that this is definitively in the cyberpunk genre.  If you liked the old Max Headroom television series or movies like Wargames, this will no doubt appeal to you.  Even the English dubbing isn't bad, even if it is a little bit fast (to keep up with Japanese).Darken the room, sink low in your chair, turn the volume up (the soundtrack is spectacular), and fall into this movie.  I wish there were more like it.  The artwork is incredible (if you don't consider animation art, you should take a look at Ghost) and the plot and dialogue are three dimensional and thought provoking.  Two thumbs up.  As I say, best of genre. "},{"Title":"Don't Listen to  koryanpiora","Date":"13 March 2005","Score":"52 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" This is single handedly one of the best animated films I've ever seen. You can definitely tell how far the animation genre has gotten in the last half-century. It's pretty much flawless in my opinion. The story, audio, and especially visuals are excellent. This is definitely one of the most pretty films i've ever seen. The philosophy really made me think too, the matrix tried this idea and failed horribly with it's sequels. This one isn't just for hipsters, if you're a sci-fi fan I couldn't recommend this more. If you liked this, I also recommend Akira, The Ghost in the Shell Stand Alone Complex series, and the upcoming Steamboy "},{"Title":"A Visually Stunning Anime for Adult Audiences","Date":"16 November 2003","Score":"36 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  Wonderfully executed anime classic.It is a darker anime tale aimed towards a more mature audience.  I enjoyed the amazing realism of this film.  The attention to detail is definitely enjoyable to see.The DVD has a rather enjoyable documentary on the making of the film.  Any fan will enjoy the structure and content of the documentary.  It is quite informative on the process of making the film.Like most Anime, there is a lot of character development and dialogue mixed with stunning visuals.I think the most captivating element that this film has to offer is its creative cinematography and attention to detail.  There are numerous memorable shots in this film.This is not an anime for everybody.  Attention to story is critical and I am guilty of rewinding certain areas just to keep up with the story.Thankfully this is not a mindless science-fiction/anime tale filled with crazy action sequences.  The Ghost in the Shell proves to be quite philosophical in nature by questioning the meaning of life.I would love to venture deeper into this story and its message but I think it is better for you interpret it on your own.  Remember to watch this movie with your heart, not with your mind.  Reflect on it later.  This is the best way to enjoy this type of film.  "},{"Title":"Unbelievable","Date":"23 January 2005","Score":"28 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" That anime could be this good. I'd thought I'd seen good anime when a friend brought me 'Akira', but this one is just awesome.It has everything that one could want. An interesting plot, deep thoughts, nice dialog, hot chicks, cool action, neat tech, and animation that puts everything to shame which has ever been produced in the western world.Now when I watch anime I usually expect (and dread) the scene which will explain something about the fundamental nature of life, the universe, or whatever. This is (the only part) where 'Akira' failed. This is where 'Final Fantasy' went down the drain. But 'Ghost in the Shell' shines here brightly. While watching it for the first time I had always this nagging feeling that some such scene would turn up and ruin the truly stunning visuals. Not so. After the '2501' monologue the story really comes together and you start to be eager for story development instead of just looking for the many details and extravagant action sequences.A word on the story No, you will probably not 'get' the story the first time around. Especially in the English version you will have to make the connection between MoFA, MF, MFA and Ministry of Foreign Affairs, that is easy to get confused over. The whole storyline might not be quite as complicated as understanding some 'Aeon Fluxx' episodes, but you have to rewatch the story to get a feel for the interconnection of the different players - especially if you are not familiar with the Ghost in the Shell literature. The story,thank god, is not dumbed down for the average viewer. This is what makes rewatching it so enjoyable. It has also some nice reflections on what it means to be human - things you may ask of yourself after the movie finishes ('Who knows what's inside our heads. Have you ever seen your own brain?').The animation is superb, and used to unusual effect. The details are exquisite - especially cloth effects and character motions. There are a few scenes that only have music or an accentuating sound effect in the background while the animators show off their full artistic talent. But it's not just show-off time, the visuals are tied in with the subject and leave the viewer time to reflect on the philosophical/sociological messages (like showing the cybernetic heroine look at tailors' dummies)In short This is a must see for anybody who likes anime. Definitely a movie for grown-ups, though, because the graphic violence may disturb kids and the philosophy will go right over their heads.10/10 "},{"Title":"At the top of its genre...","Date":"29 February 2000","Score":"31 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  I was a huge anime fan in highschool but as time progressed, my interests and focus in media have changed.  A few days ago I re-discovered my forgotten anime collection.  Behold, Ghost in the Shell.Watching this fine piece of animation again brought back the reasons why I was attracted to anime in the first place.  It is obvious that a lot of work went into Ghost in the Shell; the attention to graphic details creates some remarkably realistic animation.Though the major reason to see this film is for the animation, there are also other fine points to consider.  It has a fairly complex plot.  The science it focuses on is definitely modern though, albeit, fantastic.I recommend the subtitled version because the dubbed dialog is sometimes over wordy and odd-sounding (as are most dubbed versions).Some viewers may be turned-off by the many scenes that aren't accompanied by music, especially the action sequences.  The music, however, is outstanding. There are a couple of scenes that are basically slide shows of various themes.  These are accompanied with music and no dialog.  The animation, to say the least, is beautiful and seems to be the focus.In summary, Ghost in the Shell is very satisfying. "}{"Title":"An Animation Masterpiece","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"18 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  This is an incredible work in the science fiction category, but an absolute masterpiece in terms of animated film.Deep thematic probing and philosophical questions dot the story. Characters that are cyborg-humans question their existence... this is a true potential problem for the far future. Is something created outside of a womb without a soul? Do souls even exist? Set all this against some incredible action sequences, plenty of eye candy, and a very dark, acrid backdrop of the future of civilization. This is a summer blockbuster and more. It's ashame that most people are too close-minded to consider a film like this.Bad guys and good guys? No clue. I had to watch the film 3 times to-Understand the plot fully -Understand the motivations of the characters -Realize the depth of the film -And still I'm left with questionsIf you open your mind, Ghost in the Shell settle itself within you... it will linger far after your first viewing. You will realize that a movie can have action, incredible effects, and STILL be deep.Drama, mystique, philosophy, intrigue, going out on a limb quality, action, adventure, deep characters who don't fall into bad or good categories, beautiful imagery, mind-boggling plot... even some comedy! I just can't get over the fact that I have never before seen a more perfect mix of the elements which make a masterpiece. EVER.10/10. "},{"Title":"more philosophical claptrap","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"16 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  nice graphics, shame about the endless metaphysical claptrap. Imagine the Terminator stopping to ponder the meaning of soul and identity just after (or worse, before) the next eagerly awaited violent  confrontation. I wouldn't mind if it was *good* philosophy but the drivel spouting from their beautifully drawn mouths made me want to gag and completely ruined this anime for me. "},{"Title":"An interesting philosophical aspect ruined by a mediocre anime","Date":"29 July 2013","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" Before I start this review, remember I DID watch the subbed version, I did not watch the supposedly inferior English dub with supposedly worse dialogue and voice acting. Right off I get what is good at of the way. The action, as sparse as it was (About 4 violent scenes that last about 2 minutes each max), is amazing. The opening is one of the coolest scenes I have ever seen. The anime is incredibly well animated, and the character designs are fantastic.However, the anime has a multitude of problems in its writing. Characters are poorly written, and overly blunt. Ironically, this makes them seem almost robotic. The main character is a great example of this. She has a fitting voice actor choice, but has so poor dialogue it doesn't even matter if she is well voiced or not. It also helps that the lack of emotion in the main character (which is clearly intentional with her character design) would likely be pretty easy to voice act. Many of the scenes drag at far longer then they should, surprising in such a short movie, and fail to convey the philosophical discussion with any kind of subtly. The important scenes that drive the plot however seem to go so fast (and their not action scenes) that its like they made them last and ran out of budget right before beginning them. Then there is the random scenes with the amazing music showing stills of the cyberpunk world. While the music here was awesome, it seems the only reasons for their existence was to A. Extend the anime long enough to be considered a movie and B. Force feed you that this is an Artsy anime that's trying to be deep and meaningful, something it fails at both.The ending is the worst part in a fairly boring anime. While it ends after an extremely awesome scene, it feels like its has been setting up the anime for an interesting plot twist...only to execute it so badly and explain so little that it feels like that it wasn't even the twist and that actual twist will be reveal in 5-15 minutes...at which point the movie ends. And I am left stunned that this anime was ever considered a masterpiece. Especially since so little actually happened. I could explain the entire plot in three sentences without skimping on details. (Which I don't of course since putting spoilers in a review ruins the point of writing one)The poor writing and pacing of the story, and the way it tries to force feed the philosophical nature of the movie's themes causes the movie to be an utter disappointment and laborious experience. Its like they thought We want to make a movie with philosophical themes, but we don't want to write a good story causing it to feel like 'Babbies first philosophical movie' instead of 'Interesting and complex cyberpunk movie with philosophical undertones' like it should have been. "},{"Title":"A hollow shell of a movie","Date":"21 September 2010","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" Being both an avid Sci-fi and anime fan, I was very eager to see this movie. An animation focused on the close future, where cybernetics and androids thrive, sounds fun.However unfortunately that is exactly what this film lacked... fun. Firstly we're thrown into some disorientating scenes, of which there is barely any explanation of what is going on. When you do start to get a very slippery grasp on this film, you'll find yourself simply sliding off again, as the movie throws in terminology and conversations which you don't even know the basis of. I would've preferred to have been told what a ghost or a shell is, and a clear description of the technological world the inhabitants have created for themselves, without having to guess, and without trying to piece together the various fragments of information that are lazily and carelessly thrown out at various intervals.And, I'm guessing these action scenes are supposed to be riveting yes? Well, personally they were as interesting as watching the grass grow, no emotion, no passion, I just got the sense they were lacking in something so deeply. In all seriousness, I think Pokemon has more interesting action scenes than this.The plot of this film (plot? there was a plot to this?!), was immensely hollow, not to mention hard to follow. The emergence of an artificial entity known as the Puppet Master causes Major Kusanagi to question her existence, showing as much emotional distress and depth as a slug. At the end, she combines herself with this 'Puppet Master'(after a harrowingly dull fight scene with a tank), with no adequately explained reason. And thus ends this dreadful dreadful movie.The only good merits I can put on the film are the concepts within it, notably the advanced use of technology, such as, being able to connect with a world wide interface via implants in the brain, which with our ever growing advances in technology could be a reasonable scenario for the future.However I'm afraid this movie has almost completely destroyed my interest in Sci-fi Anime films, and it frustrates me to hell that this movie has so many positive reviews. Personally, I'd prefer something with much more consistency, than this complete garbage. "},{"Title":"Great examination of what it is to be human, but minus emotions.","Date":"1 June 2001","Score":"27 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  Ghost has some of the best animation I've ever seen, and the character designs really fit the story better than the usual big-eyed beautiful girls that typically are found in anime (Akira excepted).  Unlike most animation, the scenes where computer animation is blended with cel look right (was anyone really impressed with the magic carpet ride in Aladdin?).Also, it is very thought provoking and philosophical, even quoting from the bible (the through a glass, darkly bit, also used in a film by Ingmar Bergman).  However, it doesn't have much emotional punch unless you're one of those people who thought The Matrix wasn't just possible but likely.  Even liberals are far too conservative and unwilling for change to feel comfortable with having whole parts of their body replaced to become superhuman (there are already a lot of paranoid people at my college worried about how the government will use the human genome project to control their lives or clone them, despite the fact that there won't be any major advancements for many years).  The views of individuality are a bit strange, too.  Basically, the movie says that we are who we are because of the information stored in our minds, but gives no creedence to the individual ways people process that information (look at autistics).  Think of it this way a robot can have all the information a human can, but when given a choice between equally good things (such as which kind of ice cream to have or which of the seven urinals to use in an empty bathroom), it would prove itself incapable of this simple human trait.  Sure, the movie understands that (a ghost in this movie is a soul-like entity), but it doesn't really show this--the human and partially-human characters feel as unemotional as the computers around them.  Still, that's traditional in science fiction--in the Blade Runner director's cut, the replicants (especially Roy Batty) seem more human than Harrison Ford's character.7/10 for the subtitled version.The dubbed version is another story.  This is absolutely the worst high-budget dub there is--practically on par with the Skuld episodes from Oh My Goddess (We've--got--to--help--Belldandy! with very hard and pronounced iambs).  On top of that, the sound is so flatly recorded and mixed that you can't understand what's thought and what's spoken (which is very important in this movie).  1/10. "},{"Title":"A beautiful masterpiece of ironies","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  GITS is a storm of ironies.  First, the plot criticizes the very advanced computer technology used to create the film.  Its mature themes (nudity and violence) all have relevance, yet draw hordes of immature viewers who end up disappointed by a deeply thoughtful social critique.  And as high-tech as it is, the science it probably explores most deeply is anthropology.Cinematically, it's a masterpiece.  The alliance of Kawai's music (Blue Seed), Kawamori's mechs (Macross Plus), and Oshii's directing meld to create stunningly beautiful work transcending their Patlabor movies.  Its quality and detail make Disney's best look like laughably tasteless scribbles, even though GITS cost a scant $4 million. Oshii's political themes and still life sequences are trademark, but to those with no stomach for his tastes, I argue his creative license is a fair compromise for compiling a LONG-running manga into a gripping, self-contained movie.  Akira is a lot less successful in this aspect.Watch this movie subtitled.  The emotion-starved melancholy Tanaka tastefully infuses in Motoko's voice cannot be replaced with a third-rate American voice actress.  Anyone smart enough to understand this movie is smart enough to read, anyway.  I don't recommend this movie to everyone; only those with the open-mindedness necessary to stomach, digest and appreciate what it offers.  To those people It's GOOD.  "},{"Title":"Do Androids Dream of Electric Boobs...","Date":"19 April 2013","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" I didn't like Ghost in the Shell and found it very dry and incomprehensible. And this comes from a guy who loves Fire Walk with Me and Solaris. This film just annoyed me constantly with it's dry and boring dialog, silly philosophical lectures and borderline ridiculous visual symbolism's. I usually tend to like these art-house, style over substance films. Especially if they come from Asia, but watching Ghost in the Shell was just frustrating and unrewarding. You can call me stupid and tell me, that I don't get it, all you want. Watching characters exchanging exposition in flat, static shots isn't entertaining. And listening to heavy handed philosophy isn't either. The plot was confusing and characters just felt lifeless and completely uninteresting. We spend time watching our lead characters boobs, pretty scenery and boring characters talking about the plot. Ghost in the Shell is a poor example at visual storytelling and shoving scenes with symbolic images doesn't make it good or compelling.There were some things that I liked in it. The visuals and designs were gorgeous. The attention to detail and the fluid animation mixed with the visuals created beautiful atmosphere. I watched the original Japanese dub and it was good. But nothing of that really matters when the story is so frustrating and has so much pretentious crap in it that Terrence Malick would be proud.Go and see Ghost in the Shell and examine it for yourselves. Like all art-house films, this will create a different reaction from it's audience members. Some might hate it and others will love it. I didn't enjoy it and if you want a more straight forward science fiction anime or film for that matter, go watch Moon, Children of Men, Dark City or even Matrix. And as for me, I will stick to Blade Runner, thank you very much... "},{"Title":"I know many people will not like my comment...but","Date":"21 November 2005","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" This anime is very slow paced, mostly filled with far too much philosophical conversations between characters - which basically does not mean anything. It tries to make the animation have some depth, but looking into it, I just found it seems to be...silly and too direct to be represent any deep meaning.We have a artificial intelligence life born in the network. (which claims himself as a live thing, how original) And it merges into a female cyborg who is confused about her identity. (of course, there is absolutely no scene that actually represents her identity crisis - just some vague scenes and her self-descriptions) It is the all plot we get. The anime ends there. Just throwing us some unsolved, not-too-brand-new questions about philosophical ideas and it is over. I just cannot believe why this thing is called a masterpiece. "},{"Title":"A great try, but falls short","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"17 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  It's been said that this film is one of the great pieces of sci-fi of the 90's.  I would have to say that the movie really wants to be that, but it just doesn't make it.Mom always told me to put the nice stuff first, so...  The movie is visually amazing.  The artistry of nearly every element is stunning.  First class all the way.  The music is compelling and atmospheric.The main problem is that the writers made the script so focused on being deep and intellectual, they forgot to make it really entertaining.  There are none of the touches that make other anime films enjoyable, like comic characters or silly situations.  I'm not an anime expert, so I don't know if the dark broodiness is a common theme.  But Ghost in the Shell certainly dwells on its attempts at philosophy without a breath.  The dialog suffers from this heavy handedness.  Most of the characters are constantly babbling like a textbook reading.  Few of them come off sounding like people and this makes it hard to care about them.  It's really important in an animated film to make the characters believable in the dialog, since visually there will always be a distance.The real problem with the philosophizing of the movie is that it's not very good.  The makers have tried really, really hard to be deep and fascinating, but they just aren't.  The topics that the movie tries to deal with are only barely alluded to in a few scenes and the allusions are almost nonsensical. The thing is, people seem to hear statements like Life perpetuates itself through diversity and this includes the ability to sacrifice itself when necessary. Cells repeat the process of degeneration and regeneration until one day they die, obliterating an entire set of memory and information, only genes remain. Why continually repeat this cycle? Simply to survive by avoiding the weaknesses of an unchanging system. and think to themselves, Wow, that's really deep.  But it's not deep -- it's BS concocted by a hack writer trying to sound deep.  Or maybe there is a deep and meaningful idea there, but, if so, it's buried in bad writing.  The four sentences above seem to be trying to explain altruism, the survival instinct, and the meaning of life in a nice little nut shell.  Good luck.This part refers only to the English version.  To cap off the film's problems, the main character's voice performance is the weakest in the film. Perhaps the filmmakers were shooting for a cold, inhuman tone, but what they got was a lead character who always sounded like she was reading her laundry list.Watch this movie for a stunning visual ride.  But don't expect your life to be changed by it.  "},{"Title":"Interesting Themes Mean Nothing Without Proper Execution","Date":"20 July 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" Ghost in the Shell seems to be as lucky as Blade Runner and Akira, blindsiding its audience with novelty and a false sense of depth. Its one of those films where people love to talk what its about, but have little to say on how it portrays its themes. They say its about conscious, identity, and our dim future...but why should we care?For me, a film must have strong characters to anchor you to the story. They must be realistic and relateable, so you can understand and emphasize with their experiences. But to call GitS's characters two-dimensional is stretching the definition. The story is so focused on the case, we rarely spend any time with the cast, and thus I couldn't care about their interactions or fate. The main character is especially uninteresting when she supposedly undergoes a great change at the end of the film, she's just as wooden as before.The sacrifice of character isn't even worth the sci-fi, cyber mystery thrills. The plot is so bloated with techno-babel its almost incomprehensible. This isn't depth that requires multiple viewings to understand - this is just bad writing. With little emotion attached to the scenes, I barely maintained attention. Only a few action scenes are scattered through the film, and none are worth the wait.I will concede the animation is pretty good, especially the backgrounds. They're cartoons, but dark, detailed, and realistic. You get a decent sense of this advanced, yet dismal world. If only this quality were in a better film! Its easy to deride those against this film as people who just don't get it. I'd say there's nothing important to take away. Its world is barely explored outside of the premise, and the lone conflict between the main character and villain is so bizarre it has no bearing to reality. Imagination and presentation does not equal depth. Ghost in the Shell felt like it needed another 30 minutes to explain things and develop its themes and characters. Its easily one of the worst films I have watched in terms of writing, but at least it looks good, and is a short burn. With the large amount of sci-fi we have access to these days, I wouldn't recommend GitS to anyone. "}{"Title":"Visually stunning and incredibly deep masterpiece","Date":"13 May 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" It's not often that I see a film and straight away want to watch it again, but that's how I felt about Ghost in the Shell. As one of the most visually stunning anime movies for its time (and to date, in all honesty) and with an incredibly thought provoking story and world, this has to rank as a true masterpiece. Following the story of Motoko Kusanagi and Public Security Section 9 as they search for a criminal known as the puppet master, the film runs through a philosophical gauntlet that makes us consider what it is that actually makes us human.The superb characterisation in this film, especially of main characters Motoko, Batou, Togusa and Aramaki, makes it a real treat, as you really care about what happens to them as the movie progresses. Also, with a superbly atmospheric soundtrack that accentuates the questioning nature of the film, it is a total experience, not let down by any aspect. As I said above, the animation in this film is beautiful, and I considered it the finest blending of conventional animation with CG animation I'd ever seen, until GitS 2 Innocence and Appleseed, though Appleseed is a different style altogether. Oh, and I know I've accentuated the thought provoking nature of the film above, but it is not simply a philosophical meander, instead being a tightly paced sci-fi thriller, with several intense action sequences that are superbly choreographed.As you might guess, I absolutely adore this film, having voted it my favourite movie of all time in more than one poll. If you haven't seen it, then do as soon as possible, because I guarantee that it'll blow your mind. A definite 10 star film. "},{"Title":"A benchmark for anime","Date":"24 October 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  Movie Ghost In The Shell (OV - English subtitles), 82 minutes, 1995 Director Mamuro Oshii Writing Credits Kazunori Itô & Masamune Shirow (manga) Soundtrack Kenji Kawai Rating 9/10The year is 1995, and anime isn't very popular among film critics in the West. Sure, there was Akira in 1988, but although it got a lot of mainstream support, the critics weren't at all convinced of the merits of anime. They considered it a violent cartoon for rebellious teens, nothing more. In a way, they were right too. Wings Of Honneamise never made it to the big public, and the critics disregarded it as another violent Japanese cartoon. Things didn't look to well. Along comes Ghost In The Shell. The golden trio from Patlabor 2 is present again, who thus set out to give their view on the popular manga from Masamune Shirow.Director Mamuro Oshii, who already claimed fame with the Patlabor franchise, and was already an established director in Japan, got back together with Itô and Kawai to bring one of the most popular mangas alive. The film became immensely popular, especially outside of Japan, and convinced the brighter critics that anime for the thinking man was not a utopia. Ghost In The Shell was the first arthouse anime that made it big in the West, and it would prove to be a pretty big influence for Western cinema in the future. When, in 1999, The Matrix was unleashed unto the audience, the Wachowski brothers openly admitted they were more than just influenced by Ghost In The Shell. With the coming of the final installment in the Matrix trilogy, it's a good time to take a look at where it all started.Not to say that The Matrix and Ghost In The Shell are similar films. In fact, the approach of both films is radically different. Ghost In The Shell is a slow brooding philosophical film, with only sporadic moments of action. The movie is reassembled from scenes coming from the manga. The film does tell the same basic story as the manga, but the scenes are often put in a slightly different context, to tighten things up. Not surprisingly, Oshii and company made it their own, disappointing quite a few fans from the manga, but ultimately making it a better work.The film follows the doings of Section 9, a special clean-up team that solves political problems in not so political ways. Aramaki, Kusanagi, Batou, Togusa and Ishikawa are all present again, and set out to catch the notorious Puppet Master. As a sidetrack, the film delves into the character of Kusanagi, and her struggles with defining and accepting herself as a living creature. Very little time is devoted to fleshing out the characters, and for those wanting to know all the background story, the manga is the only place to find it. Instead of focusing on character development, Oshii chose to create a world that is vaster then the operations of Section 9. A lot of time was spend on exposing scenery and outlining the possible future society.Visually, Oshii continued to explore the techniques he used to great effect in Patlabor 2. Overlaying 3D models with traditional 2D art to get smoother background scrolling and using filters to enhance certain scenes, are used to it's fullest potential in Ghost In The Shell. The traditional artwork itself is gorgeous too, with mature and detailed character designs, beautiful cityscapes and, considering the time and the complexity of the drawings, very fluid animation. Both styles are mixed seemlessly and will set the standard for many years to come.Equally impressive is the score for Ghost In The Shell. Kenji Kawai really excelled himself, and produced, arguably, his best work to date. More than just fitting the scenes, it defines them, and often forms the base of some of the better scenes. The making of a cyborg scene, the trip through the city, the car chase with the chopper and the battle against the tank are all classic scenes that are constructed on the soft ambient rhythms of Kawai. On many occasions, it feels as if the visuals were tailored to the score, instead of the other way around.The story progresses at a typical pace, with lots of dialogues and monologues, scenic shots and scarce but involving action sequences. Once the Puppet Master is caught, the film reveals it's themes, discussing AI, cyborgization and the line between technology and human life. For those who aren't really familiar with the manga, or sci-fi in general, it might be a bit much to take, and as in many of Oshii's films, there are no answers, only questions. The ending is nice, but might leave some of the viewers disappointed, as it doesn't end with a big bang, as is expected from a film.All in all, it's a typical Oshii film. Lovely atmosphere, gorgeous visuals and soundtrack, and plenty of time dedicated to exploring the theme, instead of developing the story or the characters. It's not the best anime around, although it's a much better ambassador for anime than Akira. It's not even the best Oshii film, considering the length and the fact that the end is a bit rushed. But it remains a true classic, that immerses the viewer in lush and slightly depressing future, and serves as the ideal entry piece for those willing to explore more mature anime. A must watch. "},{"Title":"There's more than you'd expect to this flick  there's poetry alongside the action.","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  If you're looking for great sci-fi action, ideas, images and effects, you'll definitely enjoy this one.But be prepared for a convoluted plot - if you're like me you'll be rewinding and watching the film again to make sure you didn't miss anything...and it's well-worth your time to do so; the rich, soulful atmosphere of this cyberpunk world deserves to be explored for more than the film's relatively short duration (under 100 minutes, I believe).Not unlike most Manga, it's the world that these people inhabit more than the story that really stimulates the senses.  This can also be said about the other category that Ghost in the Shell fits, that of cyberpunk, which Ridley Scott's classic Blade Runner first rendered so vividly almost 20 years earlier.Like the replicants and humans in Blade Runner who ponder the meaning of life in a world where technology can do anything we can do better, our hero this time, Major Kusunagi, finds herself debating the significance of real and 'artificial' existence, in a gorgeously-drawn Hong-Kong-like city in the future.You see, she herself is neither a human nor a replicant.  As an employee of a high-profile law-enforcement agency, she's been fitted with an entirely mechanical body, or SHELL; all that remains of her human self is her soul within it - her GHOST.(SOME DISCUSSION OF THE PLOT IS COMING UP!  BE WARNED, IF YOU HAVEN'T SEEN THE MOVIE, THIS MIGHT SPOIL A LITTLE BIT OF IT!)The mysterious appearance of the PuppetMaster (who we are led to believe is a hacker who can control people's minds by hacking into their Ghosts) troubles the Major.  It triggers reminders of the conflict between technology and humanity that goes on inside of her - and she's becoming painfully aware that the technology is winning.So she goes swimming in the harbor at the mercy of her flotation devices, realizing that her metal body would sink and kill her if they failed (the look in her eye hints that she secretly wishes they would).  Heck, technology has even taken the fun out of drinking, she laments, her cyber-body can sober her up in seconds at the mere thought of it.  It's details like these that give Ghost in the Shell an eerie sense of realism and seriousness, one that plays off neatly with the high-tech action sequences that pepper the plot as it rolls along.There's a particularly dazzling scene - one of the most BEAUTIFUL scenes in any movie I've EVER seen - a montage of people going about their lives in this urban landscape.  It really drives the point home  the imagined future of the film is one that has lost its soul.  And further into the montage the images look less like an unfamiliar nightmare-future and more like a very REAL present-day.  It's a haunting warning to the viewer that the Major's world may not be too far off our own horizon.The Major meets her exact counterpart in the 'Puppetmaster' it is not a hacker, but in fact a Ghost unlike any other.  It (neither a he nor a she) was born in the sea of information.  For the first time, technology has actually created a soul - something that is alive.  It's fitting that an engraving of the Evolutionary Tree of Life on the wall is destroyed just as the PuppetMaster, an artificial soul born without a body, and the Major, a soul who gave up her body for an artificial one, finally meet.This is not just another Blood, Tits 'n' Guts cartoon for adolescent ravers.  It feels more like, Stanley-Kubrick-meets-The-Matrix.Try watching Blade Runner and Ghost in the Shell side-by-side, you'll probably find that it holds up well - which says a lot, considering that Blade Runner ranks in the 'Top-100' on this site (it ranks #67).  "},{"Title":"Has a pace that makes even the most pulse-pounding action scenes seem dreamlike.","Date":"22 August 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" Ghost In The Shell is unquestionably one of the best anime ever. It's notable for being the first anime to incorporate computer animation, thus it's also a milestone in animation. Much has been said about its look. The visuals are awe-inspiring. There are abundant details, making just about every scene worthwhile. New Port City, with its futuristic capitalism, is a well-designed combination of advanced technology and urban decay. For science-fiction, and especially for cyberpunk, fans the story will be a treat. Others may find it complicated. But the complexity only makes the story more serious, more realistic. The music score fits the film perfectly. Composed by Kenji Kawai, it was influenced by old Japanese folk music. I'm actually not a fan of director Mamoru Oshii's work, but Ghost In The Shell is certainly an admirable effort. This is his best film, and it will probably remain his best. It will be understood and enjoyed more by adults. Most anime fans are teenagers. Some of them will find the film less interesting than it actually is. While it is very much a Japanese film it still has mass appeal for non-Japanese audiences. Its ideas and its look have been influential, reaching even Hollywood. But Ghost In The Shell isn't just an excellent anime film. It's really one of the most significant science-fiction films of the past few decades. I definitely recommend seeing it. "},{"Title":"Visionary, sophisticated, realistic, TRASCENDENT","Date":"8 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" I was about to say it is the best science fiction movie. However it is not fiction. It is the most realistic vision of a near future that I've seen.Some people have prejudices with animated films, since not act on them real people, they do not take it seriously.Some of the most important troubles of the present, past and future times are displayed here corruption, political power, use of prosthetics, and above all, the power of information related to the Internet network.The boundary between the human and the cybernetic is increasingly closer due to technological improvements. The main character (Kusanagi) presents issues with an obvious existential burden. I am always struck by the fact that this is one of the few movies where the emotional relationships are in the background or does not exist. Future is portrayed since a philosophical, realistic high- raised point of view.Animation, music, plot are outstanding.10/10 "},{"Title":"If You Liked it (or couldn't understand it...)","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  Didn't do the manga justice.  Nope no way.This doesn't mean the movie is bad.  In fact it is quite spectacular.  But if you're interested in finding out even more about the ideas in the movie, I suggest you find a copy of Dark Horse Comics' translation of the manga (Japanese for comic book) version of Ghost in the Shell.  Masamune Shirow's notes on various aspects of the story are translated and included in the index.  The art itself is beautiful and deserves a look. "},{"Title":"Does all you expect it to do well but lacks a heart and humanity in the debate","Date":"9 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" I have gotten it into my head that modern Magna tends to be all about big machines, extreme violence and naked, large-chested women , so I tend not to have followed it for many, many years and instead have limited myself to those films from years ago. Watching the first few minutes of this film (where the Major strips off) had me thinking that this was going to be just what I feared. Fortunately this isn't how it played out and the sci-fi plot is well established in a future of biomechanical upgrades and cyborgs.This is mainly used well to deliver the type of strengths I expect from the genre; specifically those being action, impressive universes, cool effects and striking animation. All of these are present and I was drawn into the world of this future visually as well as narratively. The animation was superb and still stands up well over a decade later &#150; it looks fresh and if anything it is interesting to see how it has influenced mainstream sci-fi's since. The plot stands up well within the context of the sci-fi world and is full of interesting themes and ideas but for all it has in genre staples it lacks in real humanity and heart. It lacks a debate and I must confess that I was left rather cold by it at times &#150; the ideas were all well and good for food for thought but I wanted more to engage me.It doesn't help that the English dub is badly written dialogue that is poorly delivered. I made it 15 minutes into the film before bailing over to Japanese and subtitles. Of course the problems still remained in this delivery but it is hard to explain how bad the English dub is without sounding like some fanboy who has to have everything the way it was originally or all the toys come out the pram! However when you listen to the measured delivery of the original dialogue, it is hard not to wince at the childishly simple delivery of the actors who themselves aren't helped by the fact that the dialogue they are delivering is so clunky and cheap (play the subtitles at the same time and you'll see what I mean).These problems can be avoided though with the use of the alternative versions and this leaves an engaging and interesting sci-fi with all the visual and stylistic strengths you would expect from the genre. However there is a weakness in the heart of the film and it was disappointing that there was not more humanity and emotional debate delivered as part of this. "},{"Title":"Future battle of person","Date":"25 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" It is just a must-see. The action scenes matched up with the soft inner monologue gives the entire story it's own special thing that I haven'e seen elsewhere.It staked out the path for tremendously many classics. The fall-from-window scene in matrixreloaded is a tribute to this movie. That is saying something. This was one if the first (now of many) anime movies I saw, and it sold me. The Japanese have their own style, and even though i like Nemo and IceAge, this is something special. I recommend Japanese sound with subtitles (that may be just me), the English dubbing doesn't quite get into the story as much. If you love action combined with cool sci-fi and a little something to chew on, go buy the movie. It is also one of the few manga movies that isn't a part of a series. "},{"Title":"Simply stunning","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is what I have summarized it to be.  As you watch this, it makes you wonder if Descartes is rolling over in his grave.  Plot aside, this movie is worth seeing alone for philosophical value.  Ghost In The Shell is quite possibly the most philosophical animated feature of all time.  It makes you question your own existence while wondering if humanity is responsible for creating new life with the advent of computerisation.  I have watched this film several times and I am still stunned after each viewing.  Throw in a very complex plot in a very short time frame (80 min) and you have a wonderful film.  If you can tolerate loads of violence and nudity and want to watch something with a heavy philosophical and technological bent, this is for you.  As for me, 10 out of 10! "},{"Title":"Another milestone for Japanese Animation.","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  From the producers of  Akira presents the second greatest Anime Movie of all time. This 1995 animated Sci-fi Thriller is based on Masamune Shiro's Graphic Novel about a futuristic Asian City populated by Humans and Cyborgs alike, but one female Cyborg Cop named  Matoko Kusanagi goes after a deadly Hacker named  The Puppet Master who is known to hack any Cyber-system. You have to watch this movie for yourself to understand it all, but it does have amazing Animation and music to go with it.Similar movies recommended Akira, Blade Runner, Total Recall, The Fifth Element, The Professional Golgo 13, Ninja Scroll, Princess Mononoke, Jin-Roh, Perfect Blue, The Matrix, Robocop, Fist of the North Star, Wings of Honneamise, The Terminator, Terminator 2, Vampire Hunter D Bloodlust and Escape from New York.10/10 ( another must see if you like anime.) "}{"Title":"Do computers have soul?","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  Ghost in the shell expreses idea that very advanced (human-like) computers may develop soul, so leaving slavery of human... This can sound stupid, interesting and much else, but it makes think. Ghost in the shell hi-tech universe creates visions of future that can't be easily erased from memories. "},{"Title":"Overrated","Date":"18 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  I love anime, and i love intelligent sci-fi, but i must say, however, that Ghost in the Shell is the most overrated and disappointing movie i've seen in a while. the plot isn't intelligent and complex it's just so sparse that it makes you think that you're missing something. the dialogue is horrible for the most part, and the movie is extremely boring.this is the only anime that i haven't been able to sit through without getting completely bored. if you want good sci-fi anime, check out Akira. it's much better. and if you want important anime with a message, go with Princess Mononoke. it's leaps and bounds beyond this movie. "},{"Title":"At least watch the sub before you judge it...","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  The dialogue in the dubbed version is heavy-handed, wooden and pretentious-sounding. The original version is subtle, poetic and expresses emotion in a beautifully understated manner. The acting in the dub sounds like it belongs in a Die Hard or Lethal Weapon -movie and is totally out of step with the tone of the understated minimal-motion style animation and the quiet, melancholic music. The philosophical musings actually manage to sound COMPELLING in the original version. The dubbed version is like a bad parody in comparison. "},{"Title":"Good images and sound, but...","Date":"9 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  The story and setting are major letdowns for me. The story is far too Bladerunner-ish for my liking. The parts on memory implants are blatant rip offs from BladerunnerThe Hong Kong setting is also sooooo Bladerunner inspired. I read some where that Ridley Scott (director of Bladerunner) wanted the Bladerunner set to be like 'Hong Kong on a bad day'. So there you go.Why would I want watch a bladerunner anime copycat, when I can have the original?Still, there's no doubting the high production values on other areas of the film. The drawings and animations are fantastic. The soundtrack and music are fantastic too. "},{"Title":"Awful Dubbing, Julia Roberts?","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  The film was ruined by dreadful American actors, or awful direction for them. The WORST offense was the female lead, which was given all the authenticity of a high school play audition. That woman's voice had the same meter, pitch, and accent that I hear in Julia Robert's voice. (Mimi Woods doesn't exist!)Ms Roberts is not my favorite actress. Throughout the film I was cursing her for ruining the flick. I *wonder* if it was her! "},{"Title":"A great film,with a good mix of action-scenes and philosophical scenes","Date":"1 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  As I said in the summary, Ghost in the Shell is an incredible movie.  It contains a very realistic image of how the world could look like in the near future.  By using the cyborgs (and especially Motoko Kusanagi), the story gives a lot to think about.  The doubts that are placed in Motoko let you think about the use of AI (and it's consequences on the programs) and at the same time you start wondering about your own feelings.  All this because they made the cyborgs so human, that you really can identify yourself with them.  Their Ghosts look so much like our conscience, that it is hard to deny that they are not human (Or perhaps we should consider them human!). It proofs that not only movies can be great. "},{"Title":"A piece of animated art.","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  Once again Masamune Shirow shows us what great animated movies can become of his stories. The animation, the atmosphere, music and characters of the movie are great.He lets us again think about ourselves as individuals and human beings in a philosophical sense.The creators of the movie also gave the feeling of gravity as the characters pace through this film.Even if you're not into anime, animated movies or cartoons, watch this movie. "},{"Title":"It's great technically...","Date":"30 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is a technical masterpiece. The animation is excellent, the sound is ear-shattering and the use of computer graphics is integrated well into the film. This one is a little too short for my liking. I saw this movie at the first U.S. screening and when the credits came up, nobody really said anything. It's an interesting story but it's too vast to try to explain in less than an hour and a half. This one definitely requires multiple viewings and you do appreciate it more each time you watch it. Avoid the English dubbed version at all costs, especially if you'd like to understand the film at least a little bit after viewing. If you have a DVD player, this is a pretty solid purchase with loads of extras and both Japanese (preferred) and English voice acting. It's good but it could've been epic. Rating ***1/2 out of *****. "},{"Title":"What the...","Date":"30 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  I cannot understand this movie. I've watched it twice and it is agonizing to sit thru. There is a scene that is a total rip-off of Predator. Don't waste your time. The musical score is simply awful too. The animation is pioneering but the film is a stinker. "},{"Title":"A nice piece of Anime","Date":"2 February 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  I just watched GITS for the second time. The animation was spectacular, perhaps not as good as some of the recent Anime films. Another wonderful part of the film is the music. I'm not going to bore you with plot details, but in my humble opinion this film is more about Cartesian mind-body dualism than Orwellian and Huxlian philosophy. The film may not be the best example of a philosophic exploration, but it does tackle many philosophic ideas. I enjoyed it. "}{"Title":"Don't believe the hype! Visually impressive but a rather simplistic rehash of some common SF themes.","Date":"17 March 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  I have been reading science fiction for as long as I can remember, and I am also a fan of the best in contemporary comics (Alan Moore, Warren Ellis, Grant Morrison), but for the most part anime leaves me cold. 'Ghost In The Shell' is one of the most hyped anime movies of all time, but I honestly don't think it lives up to its reputation. Much like 'The Matrix' (which it undoubtedly influenced) it popularized themes and ideas more talented and original SF writers (Bester, Ellison, Dick, Silverberg, Pohl, Spinrad, Gibson, Sterling, etc.) have explored for years, simplified them into an easily digestible package, and added lots of flashy visual effects, and viola! for the mainstream it's mind-blowing. Maybe I'm being too harsh but for me the whole thing was very been there/done that. I also thought that once things really started to look promising the movie quickly raps up with a hurried and unsatisfying ending that doesn't explore any of the concepts raised in depth. A very disappointing movie that is a real letdown in my opinion. Hopefully it will encourage viewers to explore the much more inspiring and exciting work of the SF writers that it draws upon, but cynical old geezer that I am, I doubt it.  "},{"Title":"Cyberghost wants a cyberchild","Date":"13 September 2006","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" This movie has only one strong side the very idea of virtual entity dwelling in a network, moreover revolutionary because the movie was made in 1995 when the Internet had only started to evolve. The rest is simply a boring gunpacked action with futile attempts to create a kind of bladerunnerish atmosphere, futile attempts to develop a kind of cyberphilosophy and as result no character attracts our sympathy as well as any other emotion at all. Still we must thank this anime for inspiring Gabrielle Salvatores to create his truly atmospheric masterpiece Nirvana which borrows a lot of cyberworld details from the Ghost in the Shell. I must confess that I tried very hard to catch a cyberpunkish vibe in the meditative parts of the Ghost but it was barely possible, too much action around these sections totally swiped the sprout of atmosphere away. In Nirvana I got it from the first frames.Conclude mediocre script with a great core, mediocre direction, tasteless beefy characters, tons of unnecessary nudity, nice visuals and amazing soundtrack. 6 of 10. "},{"Title":"It Found A Voice... Now It Needs A Body","Date":"9 August 2006","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" ''Kôkaku kidôtai'' well known as ''Ghost in the Shell'' is a manga series created by the excellent artist Masamune Shirow that was adapted in two movies and an anime series. Even being far from the deep world from the manga, this film is a classic to people who enjoy the cyberpunk genre and who loved movies like Akira and Matrix.(''Matrix'', by the way, would be the best example of a movie who was inspired by ''Ghost in the Shell'', with their plugs at the top of the spine, the existentialist and philosophical questions the characters pass through, among other things.)The sentence that maybe fits this movie better is''Where is the boundary between human and machine when the differences between the two become more philosophical than physical?''It is interesting to notice that in Motoko's world, even humans are a little cyborgs, since everybody has mechanical parts to enhance their bodies, like an upgrade to a human's debility. And Motoko Kusanagi is the coolest cyborg I already saw in a movie, with all her tight suits and flexibility! "},{"Title":"Disappointingly lacking in content","Date":"24 February 2004","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" Having owned this movie on both DVD and VHS, I have to say it remained one of my least watched movies until I admitted to myself that I didn't want to watch it again - sell!Whilst watching this movie for the last time, I tried to link up the plot devices to make a tangible journey, and failed. On top of that, the parts of the film which are supposed to add flesh to the characters and suck you into the oppressive atmosphere just don't WORK.The visuals are gorgeous, yes, but then the same could be said for most modern console games, I wouldn't want to sit and stare at those for an hour and a half either. Talking of visuals, the film makers seem to have an obsession with disrobing the main character at every verse end. That's a pity, since it lowers the tone of the movie needlessly. The Major isn't exactly anime totty either, miserable monotone cyborg as a pin-up? Naaaah..Technology has a major part to play in this film, probably more so than any individual character. That's unfortunate, since the flat dialogue between the characters doesn't bring any of it to life. (That's a strange sentence, but it's a little difficult to put into words). Perhaps this is a better way It's like sci-fi buffs who rant on about fictional technology in series like Star Trek. At the end of the day, the technology isn't what it's about, it's the characters who make the entire thing worth watching. Worrying about what warp-factor 5 or whatever actually 'is' means that you've missed the point entirely.So with that in mind, we have all this business about what defines a human being, what defines life and what ethical problems are created by scientific advances. In this case the internet, IT and artificial intelligence are all bundled up and thrown at humanity's slow-to-adapt ethics. Great, wonderful, lovely... if you were faced with a script which can deliver that whilst getting to know the characters, keeping the film interesting and leaving you satisfied with the outcome - GITS fails quite miserably on those fronts.The conversations between the two main players delivered nothing more than a couple of minutes worth of brain-tickling. They struck me as simply being miserable as opposed to 'deep'. At these points of the film I've been sorely tempted to hit F-FWD.The action sequences are well done, but there's only a couple of them and they're short-lived. Then we're stuck with another long sequence of events which add-up to little.The ending hit the buffers rather than wound down the movie. Either an uplifting final note or something chilling would have been .. nice? Instead I found myself gawping at the credits and wondering why on earth nobody came up with something better.Most of the above thoughts have come around after actually mulling over the goings-on in the film some time after last watching it. At first I enjoyed watching the film, but after digging deeper and looking at what the message was the whole thing just unravelled. Going deeper with the anime medium is great, but it shouldn't get in the way of the film's flow. Couple that with a message which is neither original or particularly valid at this point in time, what could've been a corking film is instead boring and disjointed. Less talk about electronic gimmicks (who cares? How did it add to the film?), less monotone self-pity from the lead chara and a few more action seens would have gone a long way.More anime thrillers, horrors and sci fi like this would be most welcome. In my opinion though, this film has had too much praise nailed to it and is one to rent and enjoy a few times before the flaws begin to bug you. "},{"Title":"looks cool","Date":"28 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" It's the near future. Major Motoko Kusanagi and Batou are cyborgs and part of Section 9 fighting futuristic cyber crimes. Their case leads to an unknown Puppetmaster. There is the mysterious Project 2501. Section 6 had created a body to trap the Puppetmaster ghost. In the end, the Puppetmaster's goal is procreation itself.The animation looks really cool. Its visual style is influential. The story is short but the cinematic world is a bit overwhelming. The short running time gives a functional first glimpse into this world and enough exposition to suggest a vast compelling future. Motoko is a great character. There are solid animated action. The final reveal and conclusion is thought provoking. "},{"Title":"Strange, disturbing Japanese Animated Science Fiction film embedded with faint glimmers of philosophy.","Date":"21 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" Original Score 3.5/4, Quality **** (4/5)A few thoughts about certain scenes in the film before I begin What's with the Nudity?! When it comes to nudity or profanity, I used to be a rather sensitive boy when it comes to that particular aspect, and unless it is there for a reason, I don't know what to say. But nonetheless there are quite a number of moments involving full frontal female nudity (Some of it being out of sight because of the way the camera is positioned.) in Ghost in The Shell, which is one of the reasons that I put off watching it when I discovered it long ago. Somehow, a chance of watching it in legitimate ways arouse, and with the help of IMDb sparking my interest in the film, I saw it in my School Library where there are imported DVDs for loan and use inside the library only. There was sufficient time for me to finish it, but just so you'll notice, the clear philosophy comes at the last, important sequences in the film.The Clear Philosophy comes at the last, important sequences in the film. Means that the philosophy is still present in faint glimmers throughout the film. Not defined as a horror film, it contains a few disturbing images and some innovative, Science-Fiction themed visuals that are very cool and awesome. And the presence of philosophy is one of my keywords I have entered into my search engine when watching animated movies. I didn't focus to like it, instead focus upon the dialogue, backgrounds and trying to unlock certain things that the film is trying to tell me. It is like trying to decrypt the numerical codes embedded in a philosophical film and the result is one of the most rewarding elements ever to be obtained from a film, something philosophical, rather than enjoyment that doesn't last as long.Set in the Year 2029, A female Cyborg Cop named Motoko hunts for a hacker known only as The Puppet Master. She is a cyborg, and as I have mentioned above there were moments off full frontal female nudity, as it is because she takes off her clothes when she uses her camouflage device. Not just this, some other reason as well. But that won't be mentioned here. This was done because it is the clothes that gives the camouflage away. Some of it is hidden, but some other are clearly visible. Wondering about what is the purpose of these moments, I kept drawing blanks. As I said above, what is the purpose of putting these things here? Even though it is nudity depicted on Drawings, I don't think I can accept that at the moment, and I covered those moments with my hands at certain points to lighten myself up.There's a complex story, with a few High Tech looking science fiction visuals and concepts about life, artificial intelligence, identity and a few other of such things scattered throughout the film. However, I'm not certain if it is there or not. But since this review is from a single experience of the film, I'm not too certain of what the film has to say either. Somehow, the complexity is rather distracting, certainly not exactly enjoyable or likable, but it wants to ask you some questions in certain ways. Though I felt that there's more entertainment than philosophy here.Cyborgs, machines, robots, some with artificial intelligence, can think like we do. But they are not sentient beings. However do they, fitted with the technology of manmade intelligence, have feelings of their own? It seems that this isn't really answered in the film, what I saw was a bit of disturbance and some messages, but may I suggest that the enjoyment and learning experience that the film has given me are not on a balanced scale?Not being a fan of comic books in the past, I have grown to appreciate comics or Cool Stuff more and more, if I always go on and on looking for What I like and what I don't like, that's not gonna get me anywhere. Is all of that Cool Stuff that the critics or some people not define as Art? I don't know. But I grow to appreciate good, non-explicit things. This film is still rather cool and high tech, and a visual feast like most Studio Ghibli films.Yet the film left behind a cultural impact, parallels were drawn to a few modern science fiction films, such as The Matrix (Which I have seen. Instead of talking any further about the film now, I'm certain re-watches and more understanding of the dialogue, which is scattered with bits of philosophy throughout, will bring me to more understanding about the film itself. Certainly it asks you questions, but like most anime, many prefer to enjoy themselves more than learn something. If you wanna enjoy yourself, go ahead. But perhaps only with multiple viewings of the film that one will come to deeper understanding of the film itself, which I wondered about its depth upon its human story. "},{"Title":"Too Great For Little Minds","Date":"15 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" The first time I watched Ghost in the Shell, it was really confusing. When I watched it the second time, things became clearer.Everything in this movie is very complex, the story, characters, settings and more. Watching this movie requires the audience's full attention so that it can be understood. That complexity isn't a bad thing. It depends on the audience whether they'll appreciate this movie or not. In my case, it was pretty hard to appreciate because things happen very slow. I know it helps set the movie's tone but it is unavoidable for me to not love it.In conclusion, Ghost in the Shell is a very complex movie. Lots of science fiction and very few action this movie has. "},{"Title":"Visually impressive, muddled execution","Date":"14 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" I really thought I was going to like this one. Let's begin with the positive. The animation is stunning even 21 years later. It's masterfully done and the scene that lets us simply appreciate life in this strange new world is amazing. I loved it. As you can see, I was completely entranced by the world and concepts. So I was really disappointed when the film ended without barely exploring this amazing new world. Not only that but I was also disappointed with the plot and writing. The plot of this film is just an afterthought made to expose us to all the interesting philosophical questions poised by the characters. While I did find these questions quite interesting and the filmmaker gets across his line of thought - even if it is through clunky exposition sometimes - the film itself never stops to let us ponder what is being discussed. Besides, with all its technical future mumbo-jumbo and references to things and people we don't know it all becomes muddled and unnecessarily complex. Due to this, Ghost in a Shell appears to have a complex plot but the plot is simple. Cyborg looks for criminal and at the same time searches for answers about her own existence. I will give it another chance though if only because I unknowingly obtained a dubbed copy of it. I found the English dub quite awful, so maybe the Japanese version will do the trick instead. "},{"Title":"Great Animation but a Predictable Story","Date":"15 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" Ghost in the Shell is one of those movies that I really wanted to like more than I actually did. While I enjoyed to animation (greatly detailed and knowing no bounds but the illustrators imagination), the story itself was a bit too predictable for me. Normally that's not always a bad thing, but this story seemed to rely very heavy on the reveal of the villain and his motives (both of which I saw coming a mile away, unfortunately). But leading up to the revelation there were some interesting ideas floating around about the mind/soul of a human being. What makes us human? Do people really care about their 'souls'?That being said, my biggest gripe with Ghost in the Shell had to be the Puppet Master itself. I knew exactly 'who' it was and what his goals would be. It felt way too familiar from a cyber-heavy-narrative standpoint (but the big thing is the movie was released in 1995, so the ideas were a bit more original back then). Both how he came to be and what he wanted felt all too familiar. Again, that might be a bit unfair to say when watching this two decades after its release but the fact still remains. But if you can get past this aspect of the story, there is a lot to like.The action scenes are great, particularly the ending scene involving the spider-tank. A quick burst of action followed by a few shots of the rain falling down on their tiny battlefield really created a unique, tranquil feeling. There is something eerie yet poignant about the scene. Also, the idea of 'ghost-hacking' and the camouflage are two very interesting ideas that gave Ghost in the Shell some more memorable moments (it'll be interesting to see how the live-action version handles the camouflage idea).You can easily see the importance the movie played in the science-fiction genre, specifically involving The Matrix or any movie involving cyber-science vs the human soul. Had I seen this movie years ago, I'm sure it would have been a more enjoyable experience, but the story seemed too played out for me. And as for the age-old question that gets asked (not really that old, but often brought up), which is better Akira or Ghost in the Shell? I'm definitely team Akira. "},{"Title":"Surprising","Date":"15 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" I am new to the anime scene, but had heard good things about this movie. I decided to give it a try, and am glad I did. It grabbed my attention very early in the movie, and kept me interested throughout the entire show. Thanks to this movie, I am now going to check out some more anime.This is well worth your time, and I recommend it to those new to anime, and I strongly suspect the long-time fans will watch it more than once. The ending took me by surprise, and made me interested to see other examples similar to this. I will admit to being fairly set in my ways when it comes to movie genres, but I am glad I went outside my normal genres and gave this a try. "}{"Title":"It's OK but you would immediately get lost in this...","Date":"29 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" I decided to watch this movie because it seemed to be the only anime film that I've never seen before so I decided to watch this for entertainment. I wouldn't call this the best movie I've seen, it's not that brilliant or good but rather, confusing and has alright action. I have to say, the action wasn't that bad, it's just the film itself didn't appeal to me. I haven't a clue who the characters were because the storyline seemed to be all over the place. I didn't understand why the woman didn't normally wear any clothes? Is this a sex or a nudist movie? It seemed to be like a pornography film, maybe?I just don't even know why they had to do remakes or sequels, you nearly have to understand what's going on, I just couldn't pick up on what they were saying! "},{"Title":"Extraordinary","Date":"15 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" One of the best movies I have ever scene. The philosophical and existential dilemma the main character is going through in the movie is superbly developed. The way the whole plot unravels and the lack of inhibition shown in portraying nudity was a refreshing change. All the main characters are well developed and rounded. The things that fascinated me the most were the philosophical undertones, background score/songs and the city. The background score and songs bring in a haunted feel to the whole movie. A sort of savoury depressing, haunted feel. That gelled very well with the overall feel of the movie. It also complimented the city the movie is set in. I would say the city is one of the major characters in the movie. It's enormous, old, decaying, alive and filthy. It is a representative of the ugly face of the world, that everyone would rather ignore but it refuses to go away. The city is so overwhelming that at times you even start smelling it. I have rarely come across movies, forget anime, that have used its surrounding to this much effect.An amazing film, a must watch. "},{"Title":"The search for an identity !!!","Date":"17 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" 'Ghost in the Shell' is a Japanese animated film based on a manga of the same name. Directed by Mamoru Oshii and written by Kazunori Itō, it is based in a dystopian future where a major section of the population has been cybernised. We meet Motoko Kusanagi, a female cyborg who works for the government in Section 9 and is called upon to do their 'dirty' work along with the other cyborgs. The major plot of the film revolves around the pursuit of a powerful hacker named 'The Puppet Master' by Motoko and the other cyborg cops on the order of the government. The extent to which every human being is cybernised varies. But Motoko is almost completely artificial. But like other cyborgs, she has been provided a 'ghost' inside her which effectively is equivalent to the soul of a human being. Thematically, the film explores all the insecurities and dilemmas that Motoko faces regarding her identity. In spite of the presence of the 'ghost' inside her, at a deeper level she knows that she can never be humane. She thinks she will always remain a government product which is supposed to carry out their orders without having an identity of her own.'Ghost in the Shell' is a film that strongly belongs to the cyberpunk genre. The influence of other artistic works belonging to this particular genre like Blade Runner and Neuromancer can be easily noticed in this film. Like other Cyberpunk stories, this film's storyline also thematically revolves around identity. Motoko's psychological struggle to find a singular unique identity for herself gets conveyed through blatant verbal conversations and also through beautiful metaphoric visuals. There is a beautiful scene where Motoko dives into the sea and goes deep inside. But when she swims back up to the surface she watches a reflection on the surface of the water and gradually merges with the reflection. She later said that although diving isn't something which is advised for cyborgs, but she still does it because that makes her feel vulnerable and scared like a human when she is in the water. But when she comes up she looks at the reflection and feels like she becomes a new individual. So the diving is a way for her to feel like a human. She has an identity inside the water. Outside the water she is again a government property. There is another masterful sequence where Motoko takes a ferry ride through the grim, dark cityscape. The sequence is rich with beautiful moments where Motoko just quietly observes the city and its people. She watches the mannequins in the stores. Reflections are used very often by Mamoru Oshii. These reflections again drive home the point of questioning your own identity. Monoto looks at her reflection and thinks about what she sees. Is she looking at a living being or is she looking at a machine? Like 'Blade Runner', 'Ghost in the Shell' also explores the idea of life and what it means to be alive. 'The Puppet Master' after he arrives also questions the right of his creators to undermine him by calling him a programme containing a set of information. He argues that the DNA in the human body consists of nothing but information too, which makes them not too different from cyborgs or other forms of artificial intelligence.The themes in the plot can be interpreted in various ways. In a literal sense, the film shows a cyborg trying to find herself in a dark and menacing world. She questions herself. She wants to become something more than just a tool for the government. I see it as a metaphor for female struggle in our world. A woman always gets labelled and is expected to carry out specific duties and obligations and very few women all around the world truly have the opportunity to live the life that they want to live and pursue their own dreams. Men suffer due to similar pressures too, but maybe not as much as women do. The film ends optimistically. The character of 'The Puppet Master' is used as a god-like figure that gives Monoto the strength to become more powerful. She starts her life again both figuratively as well as literally with a new body which is of a young girl. This might well be an optimistic note to end on by using a new cyborg body that symbolises a female representing the next generation who is powerful and confident about herself.The script is good when it comes to the themes it conveys. When it comes to the plot in a literal sense, it is maybe a bit predictable and you can certainly see the influence of William Gibson's 'Neuromancer'. It is directed very well and the film looks gorgeous. Every still is ornamented by spectacular and awe-inspiring artwork with intricate details. 'Ghost in the Shell' is a very intelligent piece of work. It is thought provoking and I believe requires multiple viewings and introspective discussions. It not only is a great anime film, but also a great film period and deserves its place in the category of other masterful Sci-fi films like '2001 A Space Odyssey', 'Blade Runner', 'Gravity' etc. that evokes emotions and intriguing questions about the society as well as the individual. "},{"Title":"Landmark anime that stands the test of time","Date":"18 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" A much feted anime and in many respects it's not hard to see why. At the time of its release, in 1995, it was groundbreaking on a visual level, using cutting-edge technology to deliver animation of unparalleled depth, with a truly filmic quality. The fact that it still has the ability to impress today is testament to the painstaking work of a talented animation team. Everything from the realism of reflective surfaces and the naturalism of movement, down to the details like the different physical effect of bullets striking different materials is stunning to behold.Kenji Kawai's score is equally effective, capturing the mood of the film perfectly - its haunting, traditional sound works better than a futuristic electronic score would have done. It has a timelessness - the main theme is bordering on legendary. In terms of the story, exploring the implications of AI is not new in sci-fi, but it's easy to overlook the prescience of Oshii's vision of the net. Self-mutating digital viral strains travelling an invisible global network, the association of computer programs with DNA - these ideas are very familiar today, but the world wide web was barely in its infancy when this film was made. Despite owing a lot to Blade Runner, visually and thematically, Ghost in the Shell will rightly go down as a landmark anime. "},{"Title":"Leaves its mark","Date":"6 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" There's some chilling stuff going on in Ghost in the Shell - dark themes, terrifying dystopia, even some imagery - but I confess I like this movie mostly for its visuals. Between the gun porn and all the cool tech these characters are playing with , there's plenty to lay eyes on. There are also naked chicks, but that actually falls into the creepy column in this case.On a story level, when you compare this to Blade Runner and Akira (it's a common comparison), Ghost's story is a bit clumsy. Not hard to follow, mind you, but it lacks the impact and whacked-out thrill of the others. For me, at least. But the animation is superb, the action (occasional though it may be)is riveting, and I still can't get the opening Japanese chorus out of my head. And who can forget that left hook of a final scene? 6/10 6/10 "},{"Title":"A true classic","Date":"26 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" This film is regularly listed as an action sci-fi adventure because by Western animation standards the violence is gratuitous and the nudity is overt. However this is a huge injustice against a film that is staggeringly beautiful and brave enough to pose questions it knows that it can never answer.With the current rise of interconnected personal communication the ideas of complete identity theft, memory and record falsification and how governments monitor their citizens electronic behaviours are some of the most contentious issues facing the developed world today. Ghost in the Shell is not some dystopian nightmare but an exploration of the uncertainties that face our societies. Its genius is evident by the fact it predates many of the issues it raises.Do not watch this film expecting an action packed hour and a half of semi-clad cyborgs firing machine guns, you will be disappointed. Watch this film to be astounded and applaud a bravery that made a titan of science-fiction that never seeks to congratulate itself. The film and its creators have a permanent place in my heart, if you let it envelope you for an evening it will reward you for life.In fact I created an IMDb account just to praise it. After finding it on netflix and watching it despite promising myself I would go to bed. Although I own it on DVD and have seen it a dozen times. And I own the sequel (which is also superb), and the enthralling two season boxsets of it TV show spin off. "},{"Title":"My favourite landmark anime","Date":"16 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" I enjoy watching landmark films of certain genres - because in every single case even if I don't like them, there will be something about it that I will walk out saying I enjoyed. I haven't really seen that many landmark anime films (actually out of the genres anime is one of the ones I'm less in touch with) but hearing that this has some interesting ideas, I decided to sit down and watch it and I would recommend it.It's now the future where cyborgs now exist and can go around doing some human jobs such as police work. A major in a division of these cops, being a cyborg herself has to find the notorious hacker, The Puppet Master, an internationally wanted hacker that's spilled secrets within governments and other such things, even going so far as to trick other cyborgs by making fake memories so they can do the dirty work for him while they believe it's something else. This gets The Major to question her individuality and how life is defined when robotic life exists now.If I had any problem with it, really it's that it's too short. It clocks in at around 80 minutes and I remember the stuff the characters talked about more then the characters themselves. Maybe the manga might fare better but if they made it longer and devoted that time to the characters a bit more than they already did then I would have given this a clear 9 or 10. However, the themes and stuff they talked about is worth watching this movie for so much so that I preferred the way they talked about it here then they did in other similar movies like Blade Runner.The animation to this movie is very striking and beautiful, at least for the tone they're going for. It is worth the movie if you enjoy animation as well. It really looks good in this movie. So I would say if what you're looking for is a well done anime/sci-fi semi-action movie with something intelligent to say then I would suggest it if you can look past the near-gratuitous fan service. So if you want so see it, I would suggest checking it out. "},{"Title":"A cannibalisation of better stories, but a truly beautiful feat of animation","Date":"14 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" Ghost in the Shell lives in the shadow of better stories the 80's saw the birth of Cyberpunk with Gibson's smash hit novel Neuromancer, the spirit of which looms over Ghost in the Shell like it's a lawyer clutching a book on copyright law. It's tone, aesthetic, setting and even some plot points are almost directly lifted from the novel, although you will never hear an anime fan admit as much. It's inspiration is not just drawn solely from Neuromancer, which could be excused seeing as there has never been a film adaptation as of the time of writing a spiritual successor to an acclaimed novel would have been wonderful. But as it is, it feels like a mash up of popular 80's sci-fi, whether it be Neuromancer, Blade Runner or, a parallel more obvious for Japanese audiences, Akira. The soundtrack may have moments of brilliance, but it mostly feels out of place and wasted. The juxtaposition created by the tribal drumming and chanting with a neon dystopia may be intentional it just flat out doesn't work to my ears.That being said, it adds a few interesting dynamics to the story with regards to memory, although the characters are anything but memorable the protagonist feels like a busty love-child of a replicant and a razorgirl, whose boobs the animators can't stop cutting to for no reason other than apparently for their own pleasure. Many people who may have already condemned or downvoted this review will have come to the conclusion that I simply didn't understand it. I assure you, I understood this film fully it's just I felt throughout that I'd seen it before, that it was nothing special. The exception to this is of course the art design. While the CGI may not have aged well, the backgrounds and characters are things of beauty I may not remember the protagonists name or personality amidst a sea of similar bad-ass, moody cyborgs, yet I'll remember how she was crafted. A shame that the animators appeared to have felt most comfortable drawing her naked, as I see no other reason for the constant nudity. Problems with the dub (of which there are many) have been excluded from my review, and on the whole the characters are well written, although they do sometimes stray off into exposition, as thought- provoking as it may be. As it stands, this is a fairly well done anime, but with annoying problems. And only the most die-hard weeaboo's would contend that the story is original in any way, shape or form. "},{"Title":"Ruined by the dubbing?","Date":"7 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" Obviously, my opinion of this film is based on the U.S. voice-over version; fan-boys who watched with the Japanese original language and subtitles probably had a much better experience.I had seen this cartoon years ago, but didn't remember too much about it... which probably says a lot in itself! Anyway, it was on the other day so I thought I'd give it a viewing - man, was that a waste of time!I can understand why some users would say that The Matrix ripped this off, and if indeed, it did, it at least did so a million times better. What was wrong with this feature was that the dialogue was so damn awful! The dubbing - spoken as if everyone were a robot - added to the pain tenfold and, with so much dialogue going on to try to explain the plot and universe it all takes place in, it all soon becomes pretty unbearable.I actually turned over not long after the lead character explained why she likes to go diving even though her body is built to sink - they couldn't get drunk because their bodies breaks down the alcohol before it can affect them, but listening to their mindless spiel left me punch-drunk in the corner, reaching desperately for the controller.Verdict dull, massively over-rated and untenably so. "},{"Title":"Fast-paced, intelligent sci-fi with a philosophical bent","Date":"28 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" GHOST IN THE SHELL is the third anime I've seen now and it is definitely my favorite so far. While the animation is of course top-notch, it tackles some philosophically heady material that sets it apart from what I've seen before. The year is 2029, and in this future world technological augmentation of the human body has become a normal thing. There are also ghosts (basically disembodied consciousness, I think) which can operate independently of cyborg bodies, or shells. The plot is about the efforts of a government department trying to catch a villainous hacker known as The Puppetmaster. Like the other two anime I saw previously (AKIRA and PAPRIKA), GHOST IN THE SHELL deals with human's relationship to technology and how it can positively or negatively affect the our collective experience. In this one, however, the primary philosophical concern is the nature of consciousness and what it means to be alive. In a world where artificial intelligence can exist independent of a physical form, would you consider it to be living? That's just one of the many thought-provoking questions the film asks, and attempts to answer. From the technical side of things, I thought the hand-drawn animation was absolutely spectacular and the world-building was amazing as well. There was so much attention to detail that it made this future seem believable. I also liked the score which struck the right tone, kind of a BLADE RUNNER-esque futuristic noir. The only things I can find to complain about are really hardly complaints, though. First, a few of the voice actors in this dub were kind of awkward-sounding, and second, some of the computer animation/graphics date the film somewhat. Outside of that, however, everything here was exceptionally well-done. Overall, GHOST IN THE SHELL tells a fast-paced, intelligent story that has influenced science-fiction in so many ways (without this film, there'd be no MATRIX). If you're an anime fan, you've probably already seen it, but this would make a good entry point for those just getting into anime (like myself). "}{"Title":"Still one of the best examples of the genre","Date":"19 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" Upon Ghost in the Shell's release in 1995, the Western world was still largely unfamiliar with manga, but had already had its head turned by Katsuhiro Ohtomo's Akira (1988). Blending philosophical musings with blistering action, Ghost in the Shell captured the imagination of it's new audience, helping kick-start the Japanophilia that runs so blatantly through most modern Western cartoons and lines the bookcases of many a teenager. While it certainly has its flaws, this was the first time that casual Western audiences who were new to manga had seen a cartoon be as meditative as is explosive. And for those that didn't catch it, no doubt they would have watched The Matrix (1999) four years later, a film that arguably 'borrows' a lot more from Ghost in the Shell that it lets on.In the future, technology has become so far advanced that all aspects of life are interconnected through an electronic network. Major Motoko Kusanagi (Atsuko Tanaka), a soldier working for government agency Section 9, is a cyborg, and is able to access this network through plugs in the back of her head. She and her team are assigned to catch an elusive 'ghost-hacker' known as the Puppet Master (Iemasa Kayumi), an intelligent entity created by the government, who they lost control of when it became self-aware. When the Puppet Master surfaces in the mangled body of an artificial human shell, Kusanagi faces a crisis of identity.Disappointingly, the film begins with gratuitous nudity, showing off the fine female form (with giant breasts, of course) of Major Kusanagi just before she takes a plunge off a building to nail some bad guys. Manga caters heavily for its audience, be it sexually-frustrated, highly- stressed businessmen or horny teenagers who have no doubt been bombarded with images of giggling, short-skirted school girls throughout their young life. Thankfully, these moments are brief, and prove to be not much more than a mild distraction from the stunning animation on show. Things are grim in the future, but they're certainly beautiful to look at.The sexism aside, Kusanagi is an interesting character. When a man realises his wife and daughter are nothing more than an implanted memory, he fails to comprehend it. Kusanagi, with her mixture of organic and mechanical body parts and uploaded memories, struggled to define what it is to be human. Her hunt for the Puppet Master, who is seemingly a new kind of being, becomes a hunt for identity. Is it enough to be aware of what and who you are? The philosophy, although provocative, is heavy-handed. Conversations about humanity between Kusanagi and her second-in-command Bateau (Akio Otsuka) are delivered with a monotony worthy of a whiny emo teen, and I found the film's first half quite a head-scratcher. But things thankfully do become clearer, and the film is still, almost twenty years later, one of the best examples of the genre.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Perpetuation","Date":"5 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" If you'd like to see what life was, is and will be - watch 1995's Ghost in the shell by Mamoru Oshii...A long time ago I watched an animated movie titled Kōkaku kidōtai and it blew my mind. It seems that it impressed the Wachowskis and James Cameron the same way. As a fan of animation and anime in particular I have always been fond of this cinematographic masterpiece. It has long been a milestone with both its strong visuals and plot. Using digitally generated animation and digital audio Oshii's work is not only ahead of its time, but ahead of our time as well. We may be more technically advanced than back then 1995, but most of the current productions lack the vision embodied in Ghost in the shell.The story of the movie (which is based on the manga of the same title by Masamune Shirow) revolves around the main character Major Motoko Kusanagi's (a perceptional cyborg) hunt for the elusive Puppet Master. Her team of professionals from Public Security Section 9 is also a nice set of characters (especially Batou). For me it is important to tell you that I fell in love with the story from the very first night scenes of futuristic Tokyo. But it is even more important to contemplate on the rhetorical questions which linger in Kōkaku kidōtai.Many people around the world have found their meaning in this anime. For me it is an art piece about the meaning of human life. We all life in an era where technology and communication are an integral part of our lives. Now we question the value of life even more than before. Humanity searches for the answer of the ever valid questions Why are we here?, What is the meaning of our lives?, Are our souls immortal? and so on. In this anime the director doesn't give us answers, but rather shows us the right questions which consist of the answers. And let me emphasize on one quote to show you what I'm talking about. When confronted by the ever doubting Kusanagi, The Puppet Master says I refer to myself as an intelligent life form because I am sentient and I am able to recognize my own existence, but in my present state I am still incomplete. I lack the most basic processes inherent in all living organisms reproducing and dying. And continues Life perpetuates itself through diversity and this includes the ability to sacrifice itself when necessary. Cells repeat the process of degeneration and regeneration until one day they die, obliterating an entire set of memory and information. Only genes remain. Why continually repeat this cycle? Simply to survive by avoiding the weaknesses of an unchanging system. What is this all about? It is about the meaning of life. The answer we all seek. And we first see it in the entering scene where Motoko's body is created by machines, not by ordinary reproducing means. The main character has identity issues throughout the whole movie and they originates in her post-human body which ultimately cannot reproduce, but rather copy itself. And the whole odyssey of Kusanagi finds its conclusion at the end of the film when she is united with the Puppet Master in one sentient being. Evolution in a new form...Is this the meaning of life? Evolution? Is this the future of human life? I cannot be sure about that, but this is what Oshii shows us. In our hectic modern life we are very much frustrated with the means of reproducing and the juxtaposition of the sexes. This in fact is the main issue of today's society. And this is why art works such as Ghost in the shell push us a step further in the evolution of our minds. "},{"Title":"Futurism and Action","Date":"5 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" In the near future, corporate networks reach out to the stars. Light flows through the universe and visual binary code becomes ubiquitous. On earth, we are facing computerization, cybernetic technology, programs, simulations, artificial intelligence, and human holograms. Our story includes special access to projects that introduce us to classified information&#x85; information that has been classified due to national security information sensitivity. There is a sense of idealism and knowledge of realism. Special access to the Friendship Cube Group is a huge privilege, an honour, and a responsibility. There is a melding of mind and machine. We are creating more and more visual binary cube magic, media, merchandise, and a movement with funds from something&#x85; or someone&#x85; that is both very rich and very big. The stories we tell and symbolism we communicate reminds us to hope. When we realize that the full realization of our cube technology is within reach for the people of this world, we will quickly reach it. We will reach the full realization of our friendship cube technology. Through this story, many come to realize that the cube&#x85; the ancient relic&#x85; has an ancient origin. Our more intimate relationship with it, and its code... is more new. We have a sense of destiny that is great for all who join in and participate. Ghost in the Shell will be surpassed by the new stories we tell as film makers in the 21st Century. "},{"Title":"Cyberpunk masterpiece. (no spoilers as far as i am aware)","Date":"4 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" Story- 9/10 (This is the same review that i wrote and posted on ''MyAnimeList'', my account name is 'KingFlabadingdon')Puppet Master ''And can you offer me proof of your existence? How can you, when neither modern science nor philosophy can explain what life is?''The story and themes present in Ghost in the Shell (GitS) are both striking and very relevant. GitS takes place in a more than possible future world where cybernetics and AI have become a social norm. The amazing detail given to the universe and the true to life reflection of today's society makes the themes in question incredibly applicable. The different opinions in GitS are argued with a certain potency and precision. The maturity and skill of the characters in putting across their arguments will encourage the viewer to contemplate these 'philosophical' issues from a very serious stance. The 'main' story (when I say main, it is really just an excuse to bring up these themes, which are the focus) isn't so revolutionary in terms of originality but is definitely very intelligent. A mysterious master hacker, known as the puppet master has been causing some negative repercussions in the political world of GitS. Section 9 has thus been asked to investigate. This can be seen as nothing more than the story of an extended and very standard TV episode. And to an extent, you can't argue with that. But rather than witnessing the usual, ''-enemy is introduced, -enemy makes their move, *good guys then find a way to defeat this enemy*, -enemy apprehended'' sort of arc, the story unfolds in a very intelligent manner. The movie uses this particular case to initially explore interesting notions in the GitS universe, such as social inequality, the soul or 'ghost' of a robot and corrupt politicians. The story's themes will then take over and the resulting dialogue leads to some very interesting ideas. Overall, it is a very smart and engaging version of what would've otherwise had been a standard plot. The only 'flaw' in the story of the movie is that it assumes you to have at least a basic knowledge of the GitS universe. Whilst there isn't anything vital you need to know, the huge amount of detail and history can be too much to take in at times. If anything, (if you are a fan of cyberpunk/ sci-fi) this should just inspire you to learn more about the complex universe. Do not worry about being new to the universe; just have your thinking cap on. Sound/ art- 10/10The art and soundtrack in GitS are ground-breaking. A new method of animation at the time used for the film was basically designed to create a sense of depth in the different levels of animation. This resulted in some amazingly detailed backgrounds and city views. Beauty is in the detail, and with so much detail, you are really able to become fully immersed into the universe before you. The art style is basically a timeless example of how to animate a mature and intelligent film like GitS. For example, the opening credits was just converted computer code used in a creative way. It was lovely to see this clear, harmonious language between the universe and the media used to portray it. The art and soundtrack was so inspiring, that in the film are a series of scenes that are entirely composed of visuals of the city backed by a brilliant OST. I couldn't help but smile in awe at the level of detail and beauty. Characters- 8/10This is an unfair section to mark a single film on, when in reality GitS just follows on from two whole series of character development. In reality, you can watch the film without watching the TV series'. This is sadly due to the fact that you never really see the characters personalities in the film. They just operate as speakers for the themes in the film. Despite this, the cast are able to deliver these arguments with great effect because of their own maturity and strength of character. Enjoyment-10/10 Ghost in the Shell is an all-time classic. As mentioned, I absolutely love the detail in the universe. I want to become immersed, and I can very easily become immersed thanks to the soundtrack and artwork. You cannot help but admire what you are watching. In terms of action, GitS certainly knows how to deliver. Although not an action led film, the two action scenes actually featured are nothing short of masterpieces. There was a mixture of technology, well-choreographed combat and intense build ups. All backed up by a great atmosphere. Having all of this done in such a mature style enabled me to take everything that much more seriously which made the arguments far more engaging. Overall-9/10Although released in 1995, the ideas presented in GitS are becoming more and more pertinent. The ground breaking media and level of detail in GitS has and will continue to inspire many films for years to come. I thoroughly recommend you to watch this film and I encourage you to look into the other GitS films and TV series' that are equally as stunning. "},{"Title":"Anime does it again","Date":"9 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" Japanese animation has been known on the eastern side of our world, where the film-makers and animators put in all of their ideas and create enough to move the story along. The first anime have ever made an breakthrough was in 1988. That year, an science-fiction action animation called Akira was released in Japan, bringing in a lot of money there, but not here in America. Ghost in the Shell, an anime film that was released in 1996, tries to do the same thing. The movie takes place in the futuristic year of 2029, where the world has becomes interconnected by a vast electronic network which permeates every aspect of life. An assault team leader is assigned to track down an hacker called the Puppet Master. When a facility is hacked and is programmed to assemble a female cyborg, the cyborg becomes entirely programmed and escapes from the facility. The team soon investigate the robot after it is hit by a truck and realize something. Inside the robot, there is a human ghost, possibly the Puppet Master that the team is trying to capture. One of them goes into the robot and soon finds out that there's more than a ghost living inside this cyborg. Ghost in the Shell is probably going to be described as another anime science-fiction film like Akira. But, that is where I beg to differ. The difference between this film and Akira is that Akira was more based on the characters and the setting that they live in. Here, the characters aren't living in a world of chaos, but the story dwells on the plot of what the ghost in the shell really does to people. The technology behind the robot is very interesting to see and it does it best to tells us a lot about the robot. But, what lacks in Ghost in the Shell is the energy. That is why the movie isn't up there with Akira. When I reviewed Akira, I thought that the action in that movie really worked and to a degree, you can make a solid anime film with a lot of special effects and a lot of intriguing ideas that can take over the movie itself. In Akira, the energy never slows down. In Ghost in the Shell however, the energy isn't up to beat. Sometimes, I thought the energy really drags and eventually slows the movie down. That doesn't mean it's all bad. What fascinates me is that the science-fiction behind the story stuck out to me. There are a lot of technical aspects that the movie focuses on. In the opening scene of Ghost in the Shell, I was reminded of a movie that came out 4 years later after this one. That movie was The Matrix. In comparison, both The Matrix and Ghost in the Shell focuses on the characters and the technology that affects them. Another film that also did the same was 2001 A Space Odyssey. I like what Ghost in the Shell did for the science and the futuristic setting of the story, but I really wanted more energy and more action sequences that pushes the story along. That's why Akira was a much more better movie than Ghost in the Shell. It's not a bad anime movie. It just doesn't match with a great anime film. Nevertheless, the movie does work and does deliver the science-fiction story at its best. ★★★ 3 stars. "},{"Title":"it is entertaining not the fun kind but the sort that holds u in awe","Date":"5 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" It is the year 2029, cyborgs and AI are commonplace. Yet, the political and social scenario is similar to today's. There are cyborgs who have an artificial/technological body ,human in appearance and brains made like human's.They are physically and mentally more capable and can be plugged in to receive and analyze data. The story follows Major Motoko Kusanagi ,a cyborg working for a national security agency , as she and her team pursue the puppet master a hacker of formidable ability who seems to be planning a crime concerning foreign affairs ,thus involving other departments of the government.It is highly inaccurate to call this an action movie. Though it involves a national security agency it has very little action. The story unfolds like a well paced thriller but that is a very incomplete description. It is a movie for the patient. The scenes in the movie take their time but with good effect. The story and themes are very mature and intellectual but they are well explained .At the same time it is entertaining not the fun kind but the sort that holds u in awe.After seeing this movie i see anime as an art form and this as a masterpiece. The future is well imagined and appears realistic and the cinematography is so creative exploiting the freedom provided by this medium.Layer after layer is added to the story and slowly a cyber-meta- physical aspect enters it staying in the background at first and becoming significant with time.This movie hooks you to story of the future where scenarios similar to present day conditions are handled by advanced technologies but as the story progresses it digs deeper and deeper into the future.This is one of the best movies i have seen but i wont recommend it to everyone, only those who seeking novel mature content. "},{"Title":"A true gem","Date":"25 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" Everys 20 or so years a filmmaker will just pull one out of his hat and stun everyone, and Ghost in the Shell is that film. I'd give it more than 10 out of 10 but this website won't let me. Animation of such rich detail and gorgeously done, this is eye-candy of the highest order, but it's not just flashing colours and big-eyed girls. The character and plot are adult and intelligent, and I'll bet most folks will benefit from multiple viewings. Days afterwards, you will still be troubled by the thoughts this film will generate. This is NOT for Disney fans or children, and will reward intelligent and smart adult audiences. Now, I've seen some fairly short reviews in here, but for some reason I am being hectored to type a minimum 10 lines. "},{"Title":"A beautiful, hypnotic movie with an original plot","Date":"24 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" When you look up animé movies, two movies will repeatedly get mentioned - Akira and Ghost In The Shell. And with good reason. This movie was a lot better than I had anticipated. I was expecting something like a Lara Croft Tomb Raider kind of movie, but this was something else, thankfully. The year is 2029. The world has become intensively information oriented and humans are well-connected to the network. Crime has developed into a sophisticated stage by hacking into the interactive network. To prevent this, Section 9 is formed. These are cyborgs with incredible strengths and abilities that can access any network on Earth.This movie (directed by Mamoru Oshii) was the movie that was supposed to bring the animé genre to the western audience, it failed at that, and I can understand why. Like the movie Cloud Atlas, this movie quickly becomes more complex than your average action flick and I think that this turns a lot of people off. The movie starts of as an action movie, but it quickly turns into a more philosophical piece. I was actually pretty intrigued by some of the movies philosophical questions, which I am not going to analyze in this review, but the main topic is; What makes a human? and more importantly, what makes a human an individual? The animation was good, though it is funny to see how much animé styles change for each decade. You can just compare Ghost In The Shell (1995) with Ghost In The Shell 2 (2004) to notice the difference.The voice acting was also very good (I watched the Japanese version as I hate dubs, but some say that they also like the English version) I would also really like to give a shoutout Kenji Kawai(the music composer), this guy is awesome at making soundtracks. The cinematographer (Hisao Shirai) in this movie also does an awesome job, though I am not familiar with any of his other movies. Kenji Kawai and Hisao Shirai really elevates this movie to something else. The shots of the post-apocalyptic city along with the very haunting soundtrack was very intense. My only complaint about the movie is that I don't think it was long enough. It runs for 122 including credits, and there is definitely not any time wasted. The plot moves very fast, and so does the dialogue, which I thought was a shame because some of the dialouge really needed to sink in (for me at least), but it then quickly moves on to the next scene. Imo, this movie could have been a lot better with a running time of ~2 hours. Where we could have seen more of the city, and learned more about the status of the world which the movie only covers briefly. I don't know if the short running time is a deliberate choice made by the director, or if it is a matter of budget issues. I believe it is the latter, it is a little bit like (though not nearly as bad) as the new Berserk movies, in which they really amped up the animation quality, but they have also slaughtered more than 50% of the story that was in the original manga and anime. Overall great action, great animation, great voice acting, really great soundtrack, very nice cinematography, but a little too short imo. I highly recommend. "},{"Title":"Quick and short mini-review","Date":"29 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" Both of Oshii's main GitS movies are extremely stylish and enjoyable, but there is a LOT of really uncalled for nudity in this one. The GitS movies revolve around the concept that there are very human-like robots and cyborgs that inhabit the earth and that they have souls, called Ghosts, that inhabit their outer robot shells. These Ghosts can not only communicate with each other telepathically, but can switch shells, go on the equivalent of the internet, and be hacked, thus changing the reality that they experience. This movie follows a team of the once-organic female Major Kusanagi and the male Batou cyborg/robots as they track down a Ghost hacker called the Puppet Master. Good times are had by all, the visuals have aged very well and still look better than a lot of what's currently out there. A must-see for anime movie fans. "},{"Title":"Mamoru Oshii's masterpiece.","Date":"9 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" I just saw this movie recently. And it's a classic.Taken place in 2029 A.D. Computers are very advance, and more people are connected to the computer networks than before.Human Cyborgs have advanced to look human, act human, and have memories like a human. They're so advanced that sometimes they don't know they're not real. Most cyborgs resemble those who died.Major Motoko Kusanagi is a female cyborg who works for the Section 9 cyborg police. She often wonders if she ever was a real person or just an A.I. Her past is unclear, but she does have great cybernetic skills to keep the peace around the net and the city.Her partner Bateau, is also a cyborg who has some skills of his own. He's always there to help or calm Motoko down during any situation.A hacker has been roaming about hacking into cyborg's computer brains. Goes by the Puppet Master. Section 9 has no info on whether they're dealing with a human or a cyborg. It's up to Motoko and Bateau to investigate this crime.Ghost in the Shell is way past the average anime. It even broke the limits to Japanese animation, with it's computer animation and extra smooth cell animation mixed into one movie.It even has some similar elements you'd find in an average Mamoru movie with Basset Hounds and Guns. The story is pretty good. The characters well drawn, and the visuals are just excellent. Any average anime fan would consider this a masterpiece in most ways.Those who liked Mamoru's Patalbor movies will like this one. It's available in 6 different languages including original Japanese on the Special Edition DVD. I recommend it for 17 and up. Due to it having strong violence, strong language, and a lot of nudity. "}{"Title":"Like Gibson on Dope....","Date":"3 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  If you think anime is all about bubbly high school girls, big-arse mecha and funny sweat drops then begone! For Ghost in the Shell, in the vein of Wings of Honneamise, is an adult exploration of the themes of consciousness and individuality. To add to the oft-confusing, but gripping story, are some of the best visuals ever - check out the montage as Kusanagi makes her way to work -stunning. And the chinese choir chorus makes for an unusual but utterly stunning new cyberpunk soundtrack - Kenji Kawai must be congratulated for avoiding the typical techno/d&b cliches. Not one for the kids, not for gore or nudity, but simply because they just won't get it. "},{"Title":"Ghost in the shell is difficult, but still a fix for the intellectual adrenaline-junkie","Date":"8 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" As I see it, Ghost in the Shell is difficult. This is partly due to the subject matter, partly due to its style, and I suspect also because of language barriers (the Dutch subtitles are horrid, but even the English dub seems awkward sometimes). Suffice to say that few movies have challenged me as much as GITS has. I had never seen anything like GITS when I first saw it years ago, and I have never seen anything like it since. It is an exploration of the effects technology could have on the human condition on crime, global politics, identity, and death. True, the Matrix attempted to emulate its visual style and explore similar themes, but it is in many ways a more superficial and commercialized product. Ghost in the Shell portrays a realistic, near-future Japan, wherein cybernetics have become commonplace. Experiences and memories can be digitized, and therefore manipulated. Reality and fiction, as well as human beings and robots, become difficult to distinguish as a result. Section 9 is a top-secret task-force consisting mostly of cyborgs, whose main purpose is to pro-actively pursue hackers intending to manipulate the minds of others. Throughout the movie their commander, Motoko Kusanagi, is forced to question what defines her identity. The story allows for gorgeous action scenes animated in brilliant detail, subtle character-development, a very complex counter-terrorist plot that is somewhat difficult to follow, and extensive, sometimes long-winded reflections on post-humanism, philosophy of mind, and the nature of identity. Although the result is uniquely interesting, the movie sometimes explains to much, and sometimes explains too little, to maintain the interest of casual viewers. In my opinion, the movie is slightly too complex and short for its own good. It is still a beautiful anime, an audiovisual delight for any intellectual adrenaline-junkie, but... difficult. Worth it, though... The series, Ghost in the Shell Stand Alone Complex, takes more time to develop its characters, its storyline and its fictional and philosophical context context, and is an all-round improvement, although fans of a more purist or artistic stripe might disagree. "},{"Title":"the bridge between Blade Runner and The Matrix","Date":"24 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" from the curtain of green zeros and ones out of which the credits emerge, to the cyborgs and mirage of implanted memories, Ghost in the Shell is a vital link in the chain of the best science fiction films, linking Blade Runner and The Matrix. The smart, fast moving plot, philosophical undertones of what it means to be human, and the stunning animation of urban scenes add up to a great film. There's a lot of action here, but the plot is complex enough that it keeps your mind working, too. The film was released in 1995 at the beginning of the Internet boom (albeit well into the cyberpunk era), it would be understandable if the film hadn't aged well over the last decade. But it looks, if anything, better today. "},{"Title":"Good movie, it's better if you can understand it","Date":"4 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  Ghost in the Shell is a good anime. Normally, I'm not a big anime fan, but this I really liked. The animation is quite realistic (one of the reasons I liked it) and it is also very smooth. The gunfire is incredibly realistic as well. (SPOILERS!!)The movie brings up several points the externalization of memory brings into new light what defines being human. The Puppetmaster, or Project 2501, was started by Section 6 to basically do their dirty work. But somewhere along the lines it became self aware. In the end, the Puppetmaster merges with the Major, and completes our 'evolution', or rather, brings it to a new stage. That's what the verse from Corithians is all about.'When I was a child, I spake as a child, I understood as a child, I thought as a child but when I became a man, I put away childish things. For now we see through a glass, darkly; but then face to face now I know in part; but then shall I know even as also I am known.' -1 Cor 1311-12 We are as children, in this flesh. But when we ascend we will know all, be able to go into a new world, the net. It will be a whole new world, not just visible as light. It brings up some other issues to think about. Externalization of memory also makes us practically immortal, and the merger of the Puppetmaster and the Major gives a new perspective on transmigration.Moral issues about creation of life, existence of a soul, and many, many other issues are brought up for thought. You will enjoy this movie if you like to think about the movie afterwards. Like the Matrix. But it is still worth a watch, if only for the action scenes and cool animation.  "},{"Title":"Pure Experience","Date":"11 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  so, time passed by since we have seen Tezuka's first anime Astroboy. he just revolutionized japanese anime and put it to completely new form. And then we have a god among these guys called Mamoru Oshii who put a real masterpiece together Ghost In The Shell. Soon you realize that it's not a simple anime, you have to watch at least 4 times and still have unfinished business. The story puts us to a world of beauty and science, humans, cyborg bodies and questions that have no answers, or the answers needs to be found. if you love anime-manga, you'll like ito) peace "},{"Title":"Perfection","Date":"1 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  Ghost in the Shell is one of the greatest pieces of anime I've ever seen. For my money it's even better than Akira. All the classic elements are there the gritty, futuristic urban setting; the non-stop angst; the gratuitous female nudity; the incredibly complex art design; and, of course, the insane level of violence. The plot is also excellent in the typical anime way -- the story moves unrelentingly fast, with no exposition not absolutely necessary, but this doesn't necessarily translate into the film's tempo being too fast. Some scenes, particularly the lake-front fight, move at just the right measured pace. Clearly the prodigious screenwriting talent Kazunori Ito displayed with the Gamera trilogy was no fluke. The action is just excellent.If you like anime of this type, you'll probably love it, and even if not, you might still find it a guilty pleasure. "},{"Title":"Technology vs. civilization","Date":"18 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  Ghost in the Shell is similar to A.I. in respect to the possession of the human soul. Humans modified by robot parts still retain their ghost, or soul, in order to retain their existence as a human. Technology vs. society is at conflict as humans grow increasingly dependent on that which they have created, machines. Now that machines take a life on their own similar to the movie 2001 A Space Odyssey, humans must find a way to control or cooperate with their creation. The Puppet Master who is a master hacker can hack into peoples' ghost using them and acting as a host to carry out actions through their bodies. The animation sequences are superb and the action seamlessly flows about acrobatically. It is one of the best animes ever created 10/10 "},{"Title":"Simply the best anime","Date":"23 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  I have seen a lot of animes. But nothing, really nothing is comparable to this movie. And up to today there still no exists another anime of this quality. How I define Quality The plot is dense, characters are fascinating and the animation is fantastic. Wonderful backgrounds give to the melodramatic action scenes the most intense impression. The music is an art for itself adding the tension to the atmosphere. If you still haven't seen it, watch it and you won't be dissapointed! 10/10! "},{"Title":"A true classic","Date":"23 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  A true classic.  Set the bar in quality animation back in 1995 & to this day few is any films have matched it.Many films that try to merge traditional 2-D animation with CGI find that the two don't sit comfortably but in Ghost in the Shell, 2-D & CGI come together very nicely. why? CGI still struggles with fluid human & animal movement, so it was good that in Ghost that the CGI was left to the backgrounds & solid objects & the human/cyborg characters are left to 2-D.The musical score is easily the best yet seen in anime & one of favourites of all time.Plot could have been expanded upon, only going approximately 82 minutes, running time was not an issue. "},{"Title":"A Mind-Bending Animated Trip Through a Computerized Future.","Date":"6 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  	Ghost in the Shell was produced for a simultaneous release in the U.S., England, and Japan. It's intended goal was to make mainstream audiences aware of anime. But, once again, mainstream audiences stuck to movies like Independence Day and ignored this masterpiece. Thankfully, it became a cult classic in the U.S. and UK on video, laserdisc, and DVD.	The story is as follows In 2029 many people have some kind of cybernetic implant. The `brain' of the implant is known as a ghost. A police division known as Section 9 is looking for a `ghost-hacker' known only by his alias, `The Puppet Master', but Section 9 uncovers a startling secret.	I just saw it for the first time last November and I was very impressed. I went out and bought it after Christmas on DVD. During the next three viewings I got even more out of it story-wise. Though the plot is not as confusing as AKIRA, it will still take you a repeat viewing or two to fully understand the story.	Hopefully Stand Alone Complex and Innocence will come out in the U.S. Rent the subtitled DVD and see it the way Oshii intended it to be seen. My only complaint is that the movie clocks in at 82 minutes and it should run at about 30 minutes longer for this deep of a story. And for those of you prudes, Motoko is wearing a body suit during 80% of her `nude' scenes. Dubbed Version C-, Subtitled Version A.Rated R for scenes of intense/strong animated violence, nudity, and some language.  "}{"Title":"serious anime for the mind","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  GITS is one of the better anime's to make it into English. The art is well done and the story compelling. There is a nice blend of action along with intellectual pursuits.Set in the future, GITS shows mankind's growth in technology, and how it leads the main characters through a politically and technologically entangled criminal investivation. As they progress, they start questioning more about what makes humanity special. The big question is, how do humans define themselves as conscious beings? Whether on purpose or not, the English voice actors were a bit flat at times, not displaying as much emotion as I would have liked.I watched this on DVD and would watch it again.  "},{"Title":"This is one of the best movie of the 90'S","Date":"17 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  Ghost in The Shell is one of the best movies ever. Mamoru Oshi's Animated Thriller has become one of the greatest films of all time. This is a stunning work of speculative fiction and the first truly adult anime film to reach a level of literary and visual excellence. But the idea of this movie could have never been created without the help of Akira. Katsuhiro Otomo was the guy who originated the idea of making an animated movie with a message.Ghost in The Shell tried to give the same hard-hitting message as Akira had but it failed. It tried to give the message through biblical references, not action.  Much of the action in Akira showed government officials  standing about and discussing ideas  about what they were going to do the civilians as if the civilians were lab mice. Ghost in The Shell attempted to question our existence and it did but to me unsuccessfully.  In my opinion Ghost in The Shell will never equal the movie Akira.   Akira was the first and only anime film to truly question our existence.I do congratulate this movie for it's stunning 3D effects. The effects show that anime has grown to a new level. Akira started the new anime 3D effects, Ghost in The Shell took it to a new level, and the new Anime film Metropolis completed the trilogy.  I would also like to say something to people who complain that this film has to much nudity. Look, if you want to see an anime film  with no nudity, go see a Walt Disney movie. This is an intelligent and challenging science fiction film  aimed at smart audiences.I recommend this film to anyone who likes anime movies. I give this movie a 10 out of 10.   "},{"Title":"Probably the best anime you will ever see","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  Recently, I have noticed that the Anime genre has received an incredible amount of criticism from the likes of well-known movie critics like Richard Roeper, to many of my closest friends. Well, I am convinced that if everyone who dislikes anime's so much would see this film, they'd probably change their minds. I know it worked for my own brother, who is one of the pickiest movie viewers in the world (he rarely says he enjoys one). One of Ghost In The Shell's beauties (and there are many) is that it actually has a storyline that is both compelling, captivating, and comprehendable, unlike many popular animes such as Akira. And though it has numerous features other anime's lack (such as realistic-looking characters), it is still true to it's genre. Watch Ghost In The Shell and you will experience a visually stunning, captivating movie you will enjoy from beginning to end.my rating10 (it really is that good) "},{"Title":"Probably the best Anime you will ever see","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  Recently, I have noticed that the Anime genre has received an incredible amount of criticism from the likes of well-known movie critics like Richard Roeper, to many of my closest friends.  Well, I am convinced that if everyone who dislikes anime's so much would see this film, they'd probably change their minds.  I know it worked for my own brother, who is one of the pickiest movie viewers in the world (he rarely says he enjoys one).  One of Ghost In The Shell's beauties (and there are many) is that it actually has a storyline that is both compelling, captivating, and comprehendable, unlike many popular animes such as Akira.  And though it has numerous features other anime's lack (such as realistic-looking characters), it is still true to it's genre.  Watch Ghost In The Shell and you will experience a visually stunning, captivating movie you will enjoy from beginning to end.my rating10 (it really is that good) "},{"Title":"More than a cartoon - endorsed by Titanic's James Cameron","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  On its surface this a very beautifully animated action/adventure science fiction movie.  But anyone who thinks they are just watching a well drawn cartoon is missing most of what is going on.  This is one of the most sophisticated and mature science fiction films of all time. I put it right up there with 2001 A Space Odyssey and Blade Runner.The movie opens with what looks like a computer chip but as it zooms in resolves into a city seen from above at night.  Then it cuts to a beautiful woman standing on top of a building in the city.  This is 'The Major'. Although she looks very soft and feminine and wearing practically nothing, she is in fact a deadly covert operative working for a government agency called 'Section 9'.  The plot in the movie revolves around The Major and the other members of Section 9 as they track down a master criminal known as 'The Puppet Master' who has been hacking into local robotics factories for unknown purposes.  Naturally there is a lot of fighting and chase scenes, and not surprisingly in a Japanese animated science fiction movie, a fight near the end with a big robot.Another not unfamiliar element in a science fiction film is the presence of cyborgs.  Unlike a lot of other films though, almost everyone in this near future has some sort of cybernetic enhancement hidden below their seemingly human appearance.  In The Major this has been taken to its furthest extreme. Almost everything in her body is artificial, even most of her brain.  And this is where 'Ghost in the Shell'  departs from being a simple action film. Because in the character of Major Motoko we have a being whose consciousness and sense of self are being being transformed by pervasive technology.  While her mechanical body has the appearance of a perfect, her eyes are the one thing that you tell can are mechanical.  Those eyes are flat and lifeless and suggest a soul that isn't quite human anymore.The best animation in the movie occurs in a scene that has almost nothing to do with the plot but is very important for the theme.  The Major is on a boat that is going through the center of the city and all around as a light rain falls everyone is going about their regular lives.  The level of detail is unlike anything you will ever see in Western animated film.At one point on the boat ride she gets startled and for a brief instance we see what she is looking at. Slow it down on your VCR or DVD player and get a good look.  I won't tell you what I think it means. I will say that is nice to have a touch or too like this that the creators didn't feel a need to spoon feed to their audience. Another interesting thing to watch for is the silhouette of a helicopter after the battle with the big robot.James Cameron, creator of box office smash Titanic, has an enthusiastic blurb on the front the jacket for the DVD and you can see the influence of this work in his 'Dark Angel' TV Series. I wish that more Western science fiction film producers would be willing to make thoughtful films like this. "},{"Title":"One of the best Japanese Manga productions I've ever seen.","Date":"31 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  This is one of the best Japanese Manga productions I've ever seen.Ghost in the Shell is a very good Japanimation made with different animation techniques. For most of the time you'll see traditional cell animation, most cell animations are imposed over beautiful hand-painted sceneries. And a some 2d cgi and 3d cgi techniques are also used, most 3d is not that obvious to see, it's only obvious in some cutscenes. One of the best scenes to look at is a ride trough canals in a city that looks like Hong-Kong with nicely hand-painted backgrounds cgi rain and other cgi effects, but only the cell animation on top of it doesn't blend that well in the whole look of it. But what really completes this scene is the Japanese music.The storyline is good, but not the best of what I've seen in other Japanimations. It's a pretty straightforward storyline about hacks being made into cyborgs. The are not that many surprises in the story, the end is somewhat predictable but how when and where it happens is very nice.I can be breef about the sound and music very good. The music is very nice. The English voices are okay, but I prefer it in Japanese.I've you've seen the Matrix (1999) you can see where some of posses in the Matrix are borrowed from.And if you like Japanimation, you've got to see Ghost in the Shell. "},{"Title":"Setting the bar very high","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  I have seen Ghost in the Shell (GITS) many times and would still watch it again if someone else suggested it. It is the anime I would recommend to anyone interested in getting into the genre. The only problem is that GITS sets the standards for anime so high that most other works of the genre will disappoint. GITS is just the right length  but will inevitably leaving you wanting to see more like it. It is certainly the Blade Runner of anime and a must see. "},{"Title":"A misallocation of interesting ideas.","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  I read somewhere that books/novels are about what people think, plays about what people say, and movies about what people do.  Of all three,  Ghost in the Shell's script is the least suited to be a movie.Prior comments about the depth of Ghost's philosophical ideas are for the most part correct, but said ideas are unfortunately revealed through a near-continuous stream of expositional dialogue.  It's almost as bad in that respect as Patlabor 2.  I sat there marveling at the superb visuals and waiting for something to happen, but nothing of consequence ever did -- a few scenes cruelly tease you with some action, but the rest is one long, bland philosophical sermon.It seems to me that a whopping lot of anime filmmakers have failed to grasp the fact that advancing plot and revealing character thoughts through direct exposition is VERY F##KING BAD MOVIE MOJO!  Sure, the ideas involved may be quite interesting, but if you're gonna just TELL me your ideas instead of SHOWING me your ideas, why bother making a movie out of it? "},{"Title":"a great contributor to the philosophical dialogue","Date":"12 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  I don't know how anybody can so strongly disrespect this movie as many who've commented here have, but I do agree with the comments made by a guy who likes movies anyone who criticized it negatively must not have understood it.This is a really good movie and I'll tell you why it IS extremely intelligent (doesn't just try), entertaining, and imaginative.  Most importantly, it takes the dialogue on artificial lifeforms to a whole other level.  It asks the questions If one can create a soul, then what is the importance of being human?, What defines humankind?, What constitutes life?, and Once artificial life forms are able to become sentient and procreate, where do we -- WE pertaining to both the human species, as well as our technological advancements -- go from there?.  These are serious questions that are really difficult to provide answers to, but are really interesting to ponder over.  Just remember the movie opened by saying Some time in the not too distant future.  As you watch this movie and mull over its philosophy, think about that. 8/10 "},{"Title":"An under rated masterpiece","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  I'm going to keep my comments on Ghost in the Shell short but sweet. This film is a masterpiece, featuring wonderfull realistic storytelling, and eyepopping visual animation. Defently not for the weak at heart, since it features violent action sequences, and some nudity. (Well doesn't almost all anime have that? lol!) "}{"Title":"Deffinitely one of the better Anime movies!!","Date":"10 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  I'm a big anime watcher, and I'll tell ya the truth, i've watched somany times i lost count BUT I never get sick of it! WATCH THIS MOVIE!! It has a interesting plot, and good anime/computer graphics combined together. If you like movie's like the Matrix, then you'll love this one!! "},{"Title":"So, where does the newborn go from here?","Date":"7 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  Ghost in the Shell was the third Anime I ever saw where computer graphics were combined with Animation (The first two being Dragonball Z Movie #13, and Blue Sub #6).  This proved for an amazing picture, and the direction was very much like that in Blade Runner.  However, people who have also seen this that didn't like it didn't seem to know what the plot was, which is why Ebert says what he says about this film.  Ghost in the Shell is the second greatest Anime ever, with Akira being the first, and Princess Mononoke being the third.  However, it was just too darn short.When a man who calls himself the Puppet Master unleashes a virus among cyborgs, a lone ghost in a shell is to stop him.So what does Ghost in the Shell mean?  Well, after having their genetics inputed into a new body, a person's soul and mind still exists...  Or are they just, Ghost in Shells? "},{"Title":"My first anime movie.","Date":"4 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  One morning I got up, ate breakfast, brushed my teeth and decided to give anime a try.  Since Ghost in the Shell is one of the titles I had heard the most about, I picked it up.I didn't quite expect the kind of movie I saw. I expected an action movie full of violence, but the movie is mainly calm, pensive, and thought-provoking.You see, in the world of Ghost in the Shell, people have totally embraced cyber-additions to their bodies.  They upgrade themselves to become smarter, faster, stronger... almost invincible.  But how much flesh must you still have to be considered human? What distinguishes humans from machines now is their ghosts, or souls, which machines can never hope to have.So what we have is a heroine almost completely machine, trying to stop a hacker so good, he can hack into the ghosts of his victims. Who is this mysterious hacker, and why does he seem to pursue our heroine?Lot's of philosophical questions are raised here, and I liked the way the author(s) drew a parallel between the cybernetic evolution and the biologic one.The score is fantastic, although I'm not used to oriental music.  The characters' voices seem a little detached, unfortunately.  Still, I consider myself lucky to have discovered this good a film. I definitely recommend it. 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Possibly one of the best animes ever made","Date":"19 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  A brilliant Anime.  Excellent soundtrack, and a story line that is far more realistic and believable than most animes.  Very influential as an anime, and probably had a major impact on the Matrix, as anyone who has seen both movies can clearly see.  An excellent film. "},{"Title":"Dark SciFi from it's best.","Date":"10 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  It is a bout a girl, so many extras inside her body that she starts to doubt that she is a human beeing no more, like she died long time ago and somebody just put a copy of her brain inside this robot.Then she meets an ai and her life and the way she things about life is changing. "},{"Title":"Not your average anime","Date":"18 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  This thoughtful anime is a meditation on the meaning of consciousness disguised as action sci-fi. The checklist of futuristic Japanese animations is dutifully adhered to, however the requisite guns, tanks and robots are used sparingly and provide a backdrop to a more cerebral storyline.In a futuristic Japan, cyborg augmentation is commonplace, leaving many questions concerning what is the definition that qualifies humanity. What starts as an investigation into a mysterious computer wizard hacking into peoples electronically enhanced brains quickly escalates into political intrigue between government sections and a race against time to discover exactly who the hacker is before he is killed. The quality of the animation is superb throughout and is combined with computer graphics to great effect, with the optic camouflage brilliantly realised, notably in the two spectacular action scenes which bookend the main story development, one involving a chase through a crowded market and the other a tense standoff between the lead character and a typically insectoid tank.There are nice touches throughout (look out for the director's strange predilection for beagles), especially the scuba diving scene laden with rebirth symbolism. The plot is overly complicated at points (in fact I needed a repeat viewing to sort out exactly what happened), several characters seem to be mentioned in passing and later become important and I found I initially lost track of who was being referred to. If you aren't paying attention right from the first scene, you may well find yourself (like me) getting a bit lost towards the end. However, I think the premise of A.I. and consciousness was a fascinating one and found the film pleasantly deep. Credit must also be given to the writers for imbuing the lead roles with depth and in Major Kusunagi providing possibly the strongest female character I have seen in film. "},{"Title":"Hardcore science fiction at its best","Date":"24 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  Ghost in the Shell may have failed in its goal to make the American public aware of anime, but it succeeded in being one of the best works of hardcore science fiction ever.It tells the story of Major Motoko Kusanagi, operative for the intelligence division of a near-future government.  The major is a cyborg, which in many an American movie or TV show would mean The major is a human being with great strength and special abilities.  However, Ghost in the Shell (or GitS) is not a movie to make such a simplification.  A central issue in the film is the question of her humanity.  Who did she used to be before her body was rebuilt?  Was she ever a human being at all, or was she made from scratch as a cyborg?  Is she a real person at all?  Such introspection, one of the movie's main focuses, is handled in a masterful and thought-provoking (though occasionally dialog-heavy) way.GitS's action scenes provide the other focus.  Cinematic use of camera angles, jaw-dropping animation, incredible stunts, and clever symbolism make these (short) sequences memorable and exciting.  GitS has often been compared to The Matrix in this sense, and I found the comparison to be quite favorable.  The choreography and detail put into GitS's animation achieves the same stunning result as Matrix's special-effects magic.A serious, philosophical, action-filled science fiction movie, Ghost in the Shell is one of the greatest movies I've ever seen.  If you don't mind introspection mixed in with your action scenes or gunfights along with your science fiction, this movie is near-perfect. "},{"Title":"One of the master's best.","Date":"26 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  Very few people can do well what Masamune Shirow does all the time - make beautiful, intricate animations that are pitch-perfect in tone and style.Shirow is best known for his high-tech science fiction, which is exemplified perfectly here.  The blending of humanity with machinery, and its effect on the soul, are themes that are treated with delicate reverence.  It's easy to throw something out there that's simplistic in its ideals, showing nothing more than a babe with big guns.Ghost in the Shell is nothing near simplistic.  Its storyline is complex, yet comprehensible.  Even with all the scientific jargon and sometimes confusing imagery, the flow of the story is maintained, with haunting visuals and a soundtrack that is incredibly evocative.It's a beautiful film, one of the very best, and if you're a long-time anime fan, or someone just looking to peek into this new genre, or a fan of high-quality film-making, this will have something to show you.  "},{"Title":"Visual Masterpiece","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  I really need to see this movie again. The only time I've seen it was late at night and I got absolutely NOTHING out of the plot, at all. The only thing I understood was that right when the movie seems like it's REALLY about to get going, it's over. I was very disappointed.But who cares about plot? I am very willing to let a lot of bad things about a movie go if it looks good, and this one is the absolute best looking piece of animation I have ever seen. The detail, the fluidity, the realism...it's all there. When I was watching it I didn't care that I had no idea what was going on; it looked gorgeous. Not the best dub in the world, and a weird plot, but if you like animation, you need to see this. Really. "},{"Title":"Thinking Man's Anime","Date":"8 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  It found it interesting that so many people complained about the slow pace of this film.  Quite honestly, I fail to comprehend how an 82 minute movie with as much action as this one could possibly be termed slow.  Perhaps some people were just expecting 90 minutes of non-stop explosions or something.The film does have its moments of introspection, which is part of its charm. This isn't just about a couple of hard nosed cops out to collar a criminal. Instead we're treated to classic SF themes such as What does it mean to be human?  Self-doubt about identity.  The consequences of technological advance ahead of developments in ethics and philosophy.  I wouldn't go so far as to say this film has anything particularly original or important to say as these are pretty standard SF/cyberpunk themes to people who read books in the genre.  But compared to your average Hollywood SF product or the usual anime flick, this one is a standout.I also appreciated a few scenes that perhaps dragged on the pace a bit, but ultimately added to the visual experience of the film.  Such as the Walking the City chapter (track 8 on DVD) which is basically a music video which allows us to explore the city where the action takes place.  This scene not only functions as eye candy, it also gives us a generally positive feeling about the future city (and perhaps the future in general).  Why should we care about this place?  That sequence is the answer.The real problem with the film is its complexity, which will only become clear on repeat viewings.  Even as a hard core SF fan, I really didn't get the whole film the first time through.  It made a lot more sense the second time.  For people who saw it in the theatre, this might have been a problem. Owners of the rather short DVD can easily see it twice.  Heck, you'll even want to.  This is one that will definitely get additional repeat viewings from me.  Another brief nit is that the actors sometimes tell each other stupid things that are obviously meant to be informative lectures for the audience.  I thought this could have been handled better.I watched the DVD in Japanese with subtitles.  The voice actors are generally good, though occasionally the pure white subtitles could be difficult to read.  "}{"Title":"Lovely animation, fairly deep story, and very exciting action scenes. . .","Date":"6 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  Animation makes the movie, not usually, but it sure does help in the long run.  Realistic, mood setting animation is exactly what I look for when I do that part of a review for an animated movie.  Ghost in the Shell's animation was far above par, and extremely pleasing to me.  But, seriously the animation isn't the biggest part of the review, it is the over all story and pleasure taken from watching the movie that is the biggest piece of a review.  Combining a deep, confusing story line, with plot twists and very wild yet realitic ideas put Ghost in the Shell up higher than Ninja Scroll and X on my list of best all time animated movies.Definatly worth investing time into watching.  "},{"Title":"Excellent!!!!!","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  I have just recently began an interst in Anime, however my local video store has a poor, poor selection. I was over to a friend's  recently, and he let me borrow some anime. I was skeptical at first, but once I popped 'Ghost' into my DVD player and watched the first 20 minutes, I was blown away. I couldn't tear myself away from the computer screen. This movie is my favorite! The animation is superb, along with editing, sound, and graphics. This movie is a must-have for anyone even mildly intersted in Anime.  "},{"Title":"A wild dream.","Date":"11 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  This is one of the most beautiful, intelligent, creative sights I have ever seen.  Action wild as anything else out there, music that fits well, animation that is graceful and harsh, and an amazing story with deeper meaning than most things you see coming out of this genre.From beginning to end, solid.  "},{"Title":"Prejudiced against anime? Then watch this film.","Date":"11 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  Violence? Check. Complex narrative? Check. Heavy philosophical undertones? Check. Full frontal nudity? Check. From a personal viewpoint this film fulfills all the criteria to be an absolute masterpiece. Imagine if Blade Runner had been written by Kafka and directed by Francois Truffaut; the end result is probably quite similar to Ghost In The Shell.There are those who say that anime (or Japanese adult-orientated animation to be more precise) is nothing more than a silly gorefest, packed with irrelevant sex and violence. Not even the intelligence of Akira or the social commentary of Angel Cop can divert them from this view. Looks like Ghost In The Shell is just the right film for them. OK, there are some (ahem) rather disturbing scenes, but these are weighed down by the sheer scale of what this film is actually trying to say. Y'see, it's not just about cyborgs and hackers but the question of life and what it actually means to exist. Sounds ambitious? Sure is.Ghost In The Shell doesn't pull any punches in terms of presentation either. The animation is seamless and mesmerising, making the average Disney flick look like the doodles of a ten-year old. The whole film just oozes atmosphere - not since Blade Runner (there's that name again) have I seen a movie where music and picture work so perfectly in sync. It really is quite moving at times. A surprise plus point is the English translation. Admittedly, the dialogue is often drab and one-dimensional but I expected MUCH worse after Akira. At least they got professional voice actors to do the job this time. Kudos to Mimi Woods in the leading role.I recommend Ghost In The Shell to anyone, especially those who bear heavy prejudices towards anime. Ten out of ten. "},{"Title":"Beautiful, but sorely lacking as a film","Date":"8 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  Although this movie is unquestionable breathtaking from an animation standpoint, it leaves much to be desired as a cohesive narrative.  The plot was not too confusing (other than trying to keep track of which government agency was Section 6, which was Section 9, and which was Section 8 -- I just gave up, and it turned out to not be particularly important), but it never really did anything with the premise it established.  The action?  Well, it was good, but there wasn't much of it.  The philosophy?  It wasn't particularly well developed, and the dialogue behind it was horrifically expository.  The moody, atmospheric montages?  Well, they were dead-on, but those simply can't define a movie by themselves.  The filmmaker would have done well to have chosen a single theme and developed it in both cinematic sequences and the occasional burst of dialogue rather than only the latter. As it stands, the movie is painfully unsatisfying, and stands as a purely aesthetic achievement in my eyes.  Oh yeah -- and the voice acting in the English-dubbed version was quite bad; particularly that of the protagonist. The philosophical exchange on the boat?  She is inexcusably bad there.  Not that the dialogue provides much to work with... "},{"Title":"Read the book...","Date":"25 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  Its called Neuromancer. Read it and you will realize the plot is closer to Neuromancer then the average Hollywood film adaptation. I was expecting something new and original, but the plot was almost exactly the same. It did look cool had some well-done animation and the characters were well designed.I just got into Anime after watching Princess Mononoke, and I am finding that it is not as interesting or original as people have been saying.  "},{"Title":"animation right up there with akira","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  Darn, this is some of the best animation I have ever seen since Akira.  For those having trouble with the plot, try to find the manga (pub. by Dark Horse).  A movie you can watch over and over and not get bored with. "},{"Title":"such artistic splendor","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  A friend of mine rented this movie, labeled 'Ghost in the shell' because he loved anime movies. He fell asleep, I popped in the movie. This is a fine movie... no, not movie... piece of art. It is utterly amazing, great story, great visuals, and great sounds. If you like anime or not, this ones not to be missed. "},{"Title":"too short","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  I really loved this film but it is definitely too short. I was sorta surprised when it ended. I hope there is a sequel that deals with what happens next. Apart from that I loved the whole idea and the world it took place in. "},{"Title":"now THIS IS manga!","Date":"29 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  If you are, like me, a person that loves manga, and the style, you can't really dislike this movie... It is one of the most well done manga movies i've even seen. The art, is just fantastic. The story is great. The music sucks, but who cares =) This is the peak of good movies in the manga scene. "}{"Title":"A meditation on personal identity.","Date":"20 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  I was captivated by the main character's musing on her personal identity who am I?; am I human or merely a machine?; what makes an individual an identifiably individuated person?  This is an animated film for thinking people. A great film! "},{"Title":"Oshii does it again!","Date":"21 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  I would highly recommend this animated thriller. Kokaku Kidotai (aka Ghost in the Shell) is a breakthrough in animated cinematography, this film has an excellent storyline, high quality animation, and the sound is wonderful. What really makes this film interesting is the realistic characters. By saying this I mean that this kind of animation genre, known as Anime is usually filled with super-hero guys and big breasted girls. Those are the stereotypes of Anime. I think Kokaku Kidotai is right up there with Akira. This film maybe hard to understand at first but you have to keep an open mind and have a sense of imagination. As I said I would recommend this film, even to those who think animation is for kids. I think you will be seeing alot more animated films oriented for an older audiences, I hope at least one person who has read this review will go rent or buy this film. I rate it a 10/10! "},{"Title":"tad confusing..but overall very entertaining","Date":"28 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  When has a book to film been as good as the book? The same goes with manga to anime.  Hey, even the akira comics were a little more involved..so the same with ghost. But I take it as it is, and I really enjoyed the freshness of it, and NO ONE else has brought up the fact that this put anime back into the public's eye, so it had merchandise..big deal, maybe it will push American theaters to play more anime movies "},{"Title":"Best SF Anime of All (but boy is it Dark)","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  An excellent movie that struggles to define Life and Humanity. The characters are full and human. They have massive internal struggles while defending themselves and others. Ghost is not your standard Sci Fi flick but perhaps does the best job of entertaining and making you think. I would classify Ghost as pure Cyberpunk, as William Gibson originally wrote it.The graphics are the best that I have ever seen out of Japan or Disney; however, the Ghost world is VERY dark and brooding.If you buy one Anime title to start, make it Ghost in the Shell. I originally picked up this title on a whim before collecting Anime and now I have over 50 titles. Ghost is still my favorite, although I am also partial to Dirty Pair, Slayers, Evangelion, and Ninja Scroll. "},{"Title":"Right up there with Akira","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  I agree that the story line could have had a bit more balanced development as far as plot revelation but the artwork is first rate.  As with any ground breaking movie, it takes support to get the next generation on the storyboard.  I hope that Manga will continue to distribute this kind of art and that there will be continuing interest by the angst of humanity. Atlas-7  "},{"Title":"My favorite animation so far","Date":"29 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  After seeing it, I changed my mind about animation.  Now I am crazy about animated movies such as Akira, Evangelion, Raputa, Naushika, Fantastic Planet, Memories, etc., which I do have those tapes all now.  It's well known that Ruc Besson copies some of the images from this movie into his The 5th Element.Director Oshii Mamoru might be inspired by Blade Runner and 2001A Space Odyssey.  The concept of Ghost in the Shell is much similar to those two movies.  However, it has its own story worth thinking over and over.  The animated motions are superb, music is excellent and the scenario is so complicated (I like complicated ones).  It's best animation for me so far.   "},{"Title":"A must see anime","Date":"31 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  This impressive work is among my favourites animes.  The artwork is extremely impressive.  For the majority of the film I actually thought I was looking out a window.  The motions of the characters are perfectly life like.  The artwork is a credit to his film.  All hand drawn and coloured.The story is a beyond belief.  It takes several viewing to understand the storyline and another several viewings to truly get a grasp on the detailed artwork.With that being said there is nothing more to credit this picture.  Great story, impressive art and all hand done.  Nuff said "},{"Title":"GREATEST ANIME EVER!","Date":"10 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  If you haven't seen it you should. It's like an updated version of George Orwell's classic 1984. "},{"Title":"Intelligent anime","Date":"18 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  'Ghost In The Shell' is probably one of the movies that has an intelligent message (or several actually) AND a great story.It is detailed, plausible, intelligent, artistic, well directed, film noir and the music is great! What more can you want from a movie? "},{"Title":"Movie full of political intrigue, sfx and futuristic police action.","Date":"4 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  If you like movies that have action, cool specifical effects and lots of political intrigue then Ghost in The shell is the movie for you. What I liked about it, was that is brings out the issue about how our society can't cope with its rapidly increasing technology. Where cyborgs and artificial intelligence start to question their very existence and question their standings with humans and about their equal rights as a new form of intelligent living entities. "}{"Title":"Brilliant!!! 10 out of 10","Date":"3 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  I loved the musical score on this movie and it contains some of the best art work I have ever seen.  Definitely a ten out of ten on my scale.  A must see.This movie takes place in a future where humans use cybernetic implants to enhance their lives.  Someone known only as the Puppet Master has been hacking into peoples brains gaining control of them; allowing him to commit crimes, using his victims as drones.There's a number of quotes that the viewer must think through before continuing on with the movie.  Ghost in the Shell is a film that needs to be seen more than once in order for one to appreciate it's complex plot. "},{"Title":"An excellent piece of art.","Date":"13 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is one of my all time favoite animes, it has not only excellent animaton but  a storyline that isn't summed up easily. It is fantasy and at the same time reality. It leaves you with something to think about, I didn't understand it all the first time I watched it.   "},{"Title":"Creative, but Not Spectacular Anymore","Date":"16 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" Oddly enough, this movie may have been innovative and visually stunning, but its visceral, textual, and intellectual presentation have been badly dated resulting in a stunted experience. Robocop (1987) eight years earlier did a better job of the climatic fight/combat scene, while Aliens (1986) eleven years earlier presented a much more compelling action sequence and mechanical/combat machines. As for the animation, there is a disturbing discontinuity in overall photography that transforms and not smoothly between an almost exquisite animated moving drawing and a more bland, simple lifeless caricature. Final Fantasy (1991) four years earlier had produced the technical competence to realize what could be the best production/photographic technique to capture the essential premise of this movie - the fusion of man and computers, between the human brain and the electronic one, between human life and a new form of life. The dialogue was extended and lengthy, talking down to the audience that nowadays, such subject matter is almost taken for granted. The lack of the more controversial and interesting component of emotion was lacking in the animated voices, further disconnecting the audience's empathy - it sounded more like two talking robots attempting to talk existentialism. The music and the soundtrack were interesting efforts of creative explosions that didn't always work, especially with the tracking/following scene occurs with the musical flow not really effectively capturing the mood of the moment. This movie if it had been made in the 70s might have been a fabulous breakthrough, but by the time of its American release in 1995 it had already been superseded by other movies. Five years later The Cell (2000) would provide the amazing potential of the immersion of two minds while The Outer Limits, the television series (1995) would provide a superior look at the electronic mind and the number of more intimate issues without the exotic trappings of government conspiracies and military and technological gadgets and one episode in particular Caught in the Act its R-rated nudity scene as well as later was able to capture the emotional connection so much intensely. The most glaringly oversight, especially in the design department is the inability of the animation to really approach the layered look which in some instances appeared to be copied from Blade Runner (1982) that was shot more than a decade earlier. It is really Blade Runner that set the bar for set design that animated drawings could not approach. "},{"Title":"Awesome.","Date":"7 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" This is the best anime cartoon I've ever seen. Such complexity, and the parallel between The Matrix and this film is clearly evident. The film has a complex, clever and engaging plot and excites the viewer and really brings into question many of the basic things in life we take for granted, even questioning our existence. The film shows also the problems with developing a large scale dependency on computers and technology. The animation is some of the most complex and detailed work in any cartoon, and it's great that there are finally high quality adult cartoons on the market. Such an inspiring tale that should be seen by everyone. "},{"Title":"Way ahead of its time!","Date":"5 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was released in 1995 and is way ahead of its time even for today.It is a Japanese Anime but plays out as if it is a live action movie. The production values are  top-notch, the action is intense, the story intricate, and the characters complex.*** Possible Spoilers ***The only drawback for this movie is that some of the concepts are so advanced that the  average user won't be able to grasp all that is going on in one viewing. At the same time the  director spends too much time lingering on the animated breasts of the main character which  lessons the credibility of the film. At points the genious of the film is cheapened by the  gratuitous soft-core T and A content.This is an R rated film that will appeal to young adult male computer hackers and sci-fi fans  who accept that, in the future, it will be commonplace for people to be mentally and  physically augmented, that your brain can be hacked, and that computers can become self- aware.There is one scene where a criminal is apprehended by special law enforcement agents. The  agents comment on how sad it is when someone's brain has been hacked and they no longer  know who they are and that they have been used as a pawn by the real criminal behind this  person's actions; The Puppet Master. The plot is intricate and requires the viewer to pay attention or you'll end up wondering what  it's all about. Overall an excellent effort and a must-see for anime/sci-fi fans. "},{"Title":"One of the best Anime since Akira","Date":"8 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  This must be one the most down-toned anime out there. I viewed this on DVD and in the English language (I tried it in Japanese with English subtitles, but that drove me nuts).The story is very cool. Cyborgs and cybernetically augmented human bodies are an everyday appearance in the near future. A virus-like entity becomes aware and tries to become a sentient being through hacking into people and cyborg's brains. This is basically the premise for the story that involves a lot more than this basis.The animation is absolutely breathtaking and very natural. The SFX are very very cool, especially the thermoptic camouflage. The mood of the picture is very well established through the backgrounds and the music, anime never looked so cool. Voice talents are good enough both in the Japanese and the English version.Over all a very good movie with an intelligent story that will keep you thinking for some time.10/10 "},{"Title":"Fantastic story, amazing ideas, stunning soundtrack, praise, praise...","Date":"24 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  Like many Manga films I feel this crams a lot of story, past and present, and incredibly inventive ideas into an extremely short space of time. The character development is extremely rapid and rips you straight into the story so you find yourself really listening and trying to understand each scene. I don't necessarily think these are bad points, it forces you to think and become absorbed much more than any other film.The storyline, and ideas hidden beneath it, provide a great insight into life, and what consider actually constitutes the label of being alive.This is an extremely intelligent piece of work, yet there seems to be no real conclusion, it stops short of completing any claims it made earlier in the film and seems to end in the middle of its story.The sound is unbelievably stunning on DVD Dolby Digital, with some of the most haunting music sequences I've ever heard, you really feel the music is around you! The visuals are of an amazing calibre with realism being high on the film makers agenda.I just feel that there's been too much fired at the audience too quickly. I definately wouldn't have minded this film being longer, allowing it to make more of the story and build the characters more, especially that of the Puppet Master.Still, it's stunning. If you can see this in DVD format with Dolby Digital sound - do it. It's amazing. "},{"Title":"Ghost of a story","Date":"21 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" I tried to get into GITS way back in 1999 and it just didn't wash with me. I thought it was because the material was perhaps above me and that this kind of sci-fi was outside of my comfort zone. Now, all this time later, I decided to revisit the movie hoping that my older, more refined judgement would let me see the movie in a different light. Nope. It's still as impenetrable as it always was.In light of more recent sci-fi such as Deus Ex Human Revolution, Transcendence, and even RobocCop when you think about it (all of which have a strong thematic connection), GITS does have some relevance and an intriguing idea in a world that is evolving digitally far, far quicker than it is evolving socially or ethically. The story has so much to offer in that regard, it's ripe for satire, commentary, and allegory but nothing becomes of it. The credits roll at the 78 minute mark leaving you feeling that you've been short-changed. There is a lot of potential in the set-up but it's mostly squandered on techno-babble and overwrought, pompous dialogue that is rife with exposition.The movie was followed (and its universe expanded) by a sequel in 2004, an OVA, and a TV series, but this original venture feels more like a truncated TV pilot instead of a completely stand-alone movie. I am glad I gave the movie another go but the adoration mystifies me and the fans don't convince me. "},{"Title":"I honestly have to say, its a tad over-rated in every area.","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"11 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" I'll be blunt.  In my opinion, ghost in the shell is one of the most over-rated of all over-rated anime, and unlike other over-rated anime like Gundam and Dragonball, it doesn't even have any fun parts that make it enjoyable even if you can't stand the plot!  The problem is, apparently, those that made ghost in the shell thought that by having the movie try to be everything, it would make up for the fact that none of its attributes were all that spectacular.   You want to see weird philosophical anime?  Watch Serial Experiments laine, at least that presents a few semi-original points here and there.  You want big gun martial arts action?  See a Chow Yun-fat movie, or any action oriented anime that does it right (robotech, gun smith cats, cowboy bebop, etc.)  The other major problem, I found, was that the movie was WAY to much like William Gibson's Neuromancer.  While I realize that all cyberpunk stories are going to sound like neuromancer until somebody does something to get it a bit more mainstream, I still wish cyberpunk movies like this would do a bit more to be original.Instead of watching this, watch Cowboy Bebop or Serial Experiments Laine.  You'll be glad you did. "},{"Title":"Highly over rated.","Date":"30 November 2004","Score":"20 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" For some reason, anime has become increasingly popular in the past few years. Perhaps in their unending search for cool, American teens have decided to settle on the strangest form of film and television they could find. Whatever the reason, it's well past time for this fad to end.Ghost in the Shell represents everything wrong with anime. It attempts to be far too philosophical while not really answering any of the questions it half-heartedly asks. It's take on the evolution of man, as cyborgs with souls, is a sad Sci/Fi rendition of Burgess's A Clockwork Orange. Simultaneously, the action attempting to keep this travesty afloat is slow, boring, and all together unbelievable.There's a scene where a cyborg babe is fighting a tank. The tank has the ability to demolish the pillars the girl is hiding behind with its main cannon, instead it fires a stream of bullets that merely wear away at the stone. I find it very difficult to believe that in a age of cyber-cameo and machinized people that targeting computers would be so bad that a person, however enhanced, could still outrun bullets. This isn't The Matrix. This is bad cinema. Of the dialogue, most is forgettable. However, one line involving a pressure sensor has stuck with me. Apparently, all the characters are clairvoyant and on the same page of any crisis that may be going on. Why people enjoy this movie is beyond me. The majority of anime is terrible. Normally, I'd feel bad about making a blanket statement like that, but in this case I'm right. There are several animes that are more than amazing (Akira), and so it boggles my mind why the subpar ones would gain so much attention. The worst part is, the movie starts amazingly. A feeling of high tensions fills a room as an invisible assassin slips in. Gun fire, exploding bodies, a short chase, it's all here. From that point on the audience is only presented with dull, superficial action, a plot that really has no context in its own world, and a philosophy a high school student would find elementary. "}{"Title":"Do Androids Own Their Electric Sheep?","Date":"22 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" This is a review of Ghost in the Shell and Ghost in the Shell 2 Innocence, two animated films by Mamouru Oshii. The titles of both films allude to the ghost in the machine, philosopher Gilbert Ryle's description of Descartes' mind-body dualism. Both films spend much of their time drawing parallels between animals, pets, simple machines, human beings, augmented humans, cyborgs, computers and robots. Oshii then uses these parallels to introduce various questions regarding hard and soft free-will, predestination and nascent intelligence. Bored yet?Today many neuroscientists are quite happy to cast away the notion of both hard freewill and the Sovereign Self. Indeed, many recent experiments are starting to show that a large number of human activities, actions, thought processes etc are preconscious; they occur before we consciously decide to do them. To many eliminativist philosophers, The Self, what you think of as a free, independent agent, is but a phenomenal self model (an accidental byproduct of our senses) whose content is not innate but impersonally programmed by extrinsic sources. It's a relatively recently built neurocomputational model - not a soul or mental or coherent essence - which mistakes itself for an uncaused causer capable of initiating causal chains. Free-will is interpreted in a similarly reductionist light; man is not a free agent but a machine programmed or buffeted by a host of invisible triggers (social, external, environmental, biological, neurological, genetic, cultural, language etc), all of which are responsible for his actions, thoughts and subjective content. If the Self is Other, than Will is likewise.To Eastern religions, this is hardly radical. Indeed, the major religions of both the East and the West can be seen as a response to the Self. Very broadly speaking, Western monotheistic religions assert the existence of a God whose authority, strength, demands and wisdom keep the Self concrete, whereas Eastern religions try to weaken these ideas, and stress a kind of depersonalisation, or collapsing of all barriers. One side's ego boosting (you're real, you matter, free choice, a preoccupation with acquisition etc), one seeks ego death (self as illusion, let go, illusionary self, no bodies, only interconnected matter etc). Giving up the former idea is like man's rejection of geocentricism. When people started to see the earth as just another moving object, man was essentially displaced from the centre of the universe. Many were unsettled and alarmed by this idea. The status quo actively suppressed the Copernican revolution. Today the idea's accepted and viewed as being liberating and empowering rather than a threat.Today it's the eliminativist mindset that's deemed abhorrent. To such scientists, consciousness is severely limited and self understanding is particularly delusional. We are conscious of but a morsel of our external world, and even less of our internal, mental worlds. Our inner and outer experiences are themselves neuro-simulations that have been evolutionary fashioned for survival value, rather than representational truthfulness. The implication is not only that there is no we, and that our consciousness is not ours, but that consciousness is itself unconscious, highly inept. Most of our explanations and understandings of others, things, people and environments are themselves delusional, self-aggrandising fictions. What we say, think, feel, perceive, and do are but the consequences of deterministic physical (electro-chemical) processes in our neurons, and our own motivations and reasons are oft misunderstood, or may not even exist at all. We never actually decide on any of our actions; rather, our sense of choice and decision, and the reasons and motivations we cite for what we do, are all post-hoc rationalisations of processes that happen mechanistically via electrochemical cause-and-effect. All our rationales, and all our values, are themselves nothing more than consolatory fictions. Suicidal yet? This is taking a certain form of reductionism, or empirical materialism, to its extreme (Metzinger etc), and while it is correct, neurobiology and cognitive psychology are still not advanced enough to tell us quite how correct it all is. We know little about the processes of decision making and scientists are still constantly (Walter J Freeman, Damasio, John McCrone etc) trying to rehabilitate the idea of choice, teasing out nuances between voluntary and involuntary processes. One interesting line of study involves Cotard's syndrome, a pathological condition which results in a kind of ego disturbance. Sufferers are unable to run self simulations and are unable to perceive themselves as being the centre of their consciousness. Cotard's patients thus think they are dead, or deny their own existence. They stop using personal pronounces (I, me etc), refer to themselves as it, rationalise their own non-existence and begin to develop a machine-like emotional flatness. This &#x96; a conscious subject denying its own existence &#x96; of course seems bizarre to most, but such a form of existence denial highlights how incredibly fickle our own concepts of self-hood and existence are. Indeed, Cotard's syndrome heavily resembles the spiritual experiences reportedly induced and experienced by shamans and mystics. In both cases, the result seems to be a transition from a phenomenal self model (a simulational model with an I reference point), or subject model, to an object model (a decentralised simulation); a shift from a first person perspective to first-object perspective, in which the phenomenal property of mineness disappears from the patient's reality. This loss is theorised to be caused by either an extreme suppression of emotions, or a glitch which results in both affectlessness and, bizarrely, a replacement of self concern with something the patients describe as being egoless and bigger. Studies also demonstrate that an increased awareness of the self-model as a model has the effect of making the self seem less real, which of course is akin to a scientific proof of a kind spiritual enlightenment (ie dissolution of the self).8.5/10 - Shell 1's more of a traditional action-anime, whilst Oshii cites Antonioni and Godard as an influence on Shell 2. "},{"Title":"This movie is art","Date":"4 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" Well, where do I start? Let me begin by saying that this is the one and only film that I've watched twice, in a row. Directly after each other (!). Since then I have watched Ghost in the Shell many times again, at least 20 times. This may sound a bit crazy, but the film is of such depth, with such a complex story, that you have to be very attentive to get the whole story, and it's quite impossible to fully understand the movie after one viewing. (especially when you watch it with subtitles) In fact, not all plots in the movie have tied up ends, which makes the film all the more intriguing. The main reason I've had multiple viewings, is, well, because it's art.I'm a fan of science-fiction, especially the intelligent kind, and I like manga, and this movie is the best in its genre. The artwork is sublime, with incredible detail. The music is mesmerizingly beautiful, and fits the existential atmosphere perfectly. The story is based on the book of Masamune Shirow, who deserves a lot of credit, for coming up with all these original ideas (the fingers that type the code!, to mention one). There's a lot of philosophy in it, enough to keep a few discussions at the pub going.At last a lot of credit goes to Mamoru Oshii, the director, for the intelligent script, excellent editing and infusion of Weltschmertz and existentialism. It's been a while since I've seen Ghost in the Shell, and there's only one reason for it I've lent my copy to a friend. Can't wait to watch it again! Watching Ghost in the Shell is like going to church for me, the good kind -) Enjoy the movie! "},{"Title":"Cerebral and Groundbreaking","Date":"14 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" Mamoru Oshii's Ghost in the Shell is a science fiction anime film that raised the bar for Japanese animation. Its complex woven narrative is set in a society where being a full-flesh human is no longer the norm. Is humanity losing its existence or is it loosely defined? Cyborgs are part human, part machine, and a continuation of a previously whole human entity. Major Motoko Kusanagi, a full-replacement cyborg in the national security division Section 9, is investigating a mysterious hacker who goes by the name The Puppet Master. It may be apparent throughout the film that many of its aspects and ideas have been borrowed for other films such as The Matrix (source code; plugging into the network) and Inception (diving into another's conscious).Ghost in the Shell's portrayal of the significant role of networking in society appears strange and exaggerated to us but carries with it a strong familiarity and subtle message. Our reliance on networking is similarly demonstrated in The Matrix, but GITS takes it beyond questioning the basis of reality by turning to the self. The dualistic nature of mankind's existence is so prominently explored that it is reflected by the film's title itself. Physical vs. metaphysical&#x85; mind vs. body&#x85; the ghost vs. the shell. Cartesian dualism is a theory that the mind and body interact yet remain distinct from one another. Major Kusanagi contemplates what determines the identity of an individual. What defines life? Almost entirely artificially constructed, she questions her own existence. Is the ghost distinct from the shell? When someone is ghost hacked, they no longer have memories. So is the ghost (a loose metaphor for mind) what defines the self? Her resolution is reached as she merges with the Puppet Master, who suggests that life is simply a component of the network of all things. After the merge, the major and hacker share one entity with a blueprint for regeneration and become an integral part of the network by achieving a higher consciousness. The chief of Section 6 refers to the Puppet Master as a self-preserving program to which the hacker objects that by that logic, the human genome is no different. The Puppet Master claims to be a ghost born within the flow of information and goes on to define life from a person's memories. Ghost in the Shell manages to mix seamlessly integrated CGI and hand drawn animation, a complex but fitting plot, a resonant score, intermittent action sequences (complete with thermoptic camouflage!), and heavy philosophy (without being preachy) into an 82 minute runtime to make for a profound experience with loads of replay value. "},{"Title":"Very good science fiction","Date":"20 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" Ghost in the Shell is one of the ultimate nerd movies. A science fiction anime aimed at smart audiences. It's fundamentally about artificial intelligence and how human can be an individual that is mostly synthetic. At slightly over 80 minutes the movie is rather short and the story is rather simple, more of a short philosophical comment on what means to be human and life form, not a simple machine.The film follows a cyborg, major Kusanagi, which works for the police to track down an international criminal, which is initially though to be an American hacker but soon it is revealed to be something entirely different. I wouldn't say what it is to not spoil the film.My favorite thing about this movie was the amazing quality of the animation it was hugely detailed and of excellent quality, among the best ever seem. A very good movie, highly recommended for science fiction fans. "},{"Title":"Hey are there any fans out there? Film student Questionnaire!","Date":"23 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" If any of you out there are big GITS fans, I'd love your feedback! I am a film studies student (and a fan!) who is researching the GITS audience. I have a questionnaire and would love to get your comments.The questions are mainly about your opinions on the style, genre, content, and the themes contained in the film. Also, it is a chance for you to talk about anything on your mind about the film... things you find interesting and appealing. you can email me at replicant6 @ gmail.comcheersDaniel "},{"Title":"The anime film that inspired filmmakers.","Date":"5 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" Like, Akira, that movie did have an influence on filmmakers. But the film that had an influence on sci-fi filmmakers was the 1995 anime film, Ghost in the Shell.The story is about a female cyborg and her sidekick trying to track down a hacker known as the puppet master.The story is great, the animation is great, the action scene's were pretty cool, and what make's this movie interesting is that almost every citizen in this movie is a cyborg.Overall, Ghost in the shell, is an anime masterpiece that is definitely worth watching. "},{"Title":"science fiction at its best","Date":"1 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" ghost in the shell is a bio-electronic thrill ride adventure. it is easily one of the most intelligent, thought provoking science fiction films ever made. it has style, action and many philosophical scenes that will take any humans breath away. the film is centered around Major Motoko Kusiginagi, a female cyborg cop. she is the head of section 9, a secret government organization that fights of cyber terrorists. the crew consists of Bato, Togusa and many others. the crew is on the lead of one of the most infamous hackers ever, the puppet master. when i first watched ghost in the shell i loved it but i wouldn't put it in my top 25. after i watched it a few times, everything started to make sense and i loved it. the action is incredible, the scenes that are just made up of dialogue are incredible, the music is incredible, the animation is incredible, the characters are incredible, everything is incredible in this movie.Ghost in the Shell has inspired many movies such as the matrix. in fact when i first watched this i saw that many scenes were similar to the matrix, knowing that this was made in 1995 i had to do some research to see if anyone felt the same way. of course many people had the same thoughts that i had. overall Ghost in the Shell > The Matrix. Sure the matrix has more boom boom, but ghost in the shell has much more substance. "},{"Title":"The second best Japanimation movie of all time!","Date":"17 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" In the near future, corporate networks reach out to the star systems as in an unknown Asian city there lives both human beings and cyborgs named Shells who live together in peace. Cyberbrains of some humans and mainly cyborgs have a subconscious called a Ghost but some of their ghosts can be hacked in by cyber-criminals especially of the most infamous of them all known as The Puppet-Master that can manipulate humans like puppets in their ghosts. Female cyborg cop Motoko Major Kusanagi and partner Batou hunt down this mastermind to find out what schemes this person is hatching.Absolutely brilliant and visually stunning work of animation from Japan! based on Masamine Shirow's popular comics, this Mamoru Oshii directed cyberpunk Sci-fi action thriller offers such amazing anime that broke the anime mold like it's cousin Akira which this film is from the producers of. And like Akira, it became a phenomenal movie that got the public into anime when it hit US theaters as well as Hayao Miyazaki's work and even Voltron on TV back in the 80's.What i also like about this movie is that it's a cerebral and intelligent work of art that deals with what it's like to either be human or machine, it questions the nature of humanity. There is a lot of nudity in this picture from Kusanagi who is quite sexy but not as sexy as her TV show/Manga counterpart, i really loved this back in 96 when i bought it on video when i was 14 years old after being blown away by Akira as i had an anime addiction since then. You can tell this influenced many filmmakers over the years including everyone from James Cameron, Michael Bay, Steven Spielberg, Guillermo Del Toro, Zack Snyder and more who praised this work of art and inspired The Matrix big time.Also recommended Akira, Blade Runner, Total Recall, Avatar, Minority Report, The Island, The Matrix Trilogy plus Animatrix, Serenity, Terminator 1 & 2, Armitage III, Project A-Ko, Ninja Scroll, Surrogates and The Fifth Element. "},{"Title":"A slightly flawed anime classic.","Date":"24 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" And where does the newborn go from here? The net is vast and infinite.Science fiction can often make you feel like you're in a philosophy class, and sci-fi anime usually does that as a rule. Ghost in the Shell is no exception.Questions of what makes an entity a human being and the ramifications of increasing artificial intelligence on what we define as a person are all woven into an action story about conspiracies in a near-future Hong Kong and a world where human beings connect themselves directly to the Internet and each other. This opens people up to the danger of having their minds hacked by outside influences, and it's just such an incident that sends the cyborg Major Kusaragi and her team of government agents on the trail of a mysterious hacker known as The Puppet Master. It's really a simple story, but it attempts to go quite deeply into some of the areas I mentioned previously. The writing isn't quite up to the task of adequately communicating the ideas that are being presented, but if you like to think along with your sci-fi anime action, you'll be comfortably at home, here. The animation is quite good for 1995, the plot and characters are interesting, and it all moves along at a brisk clip that makes subsequent viewings anything but a chore. I still prefer the two series that were spawned by Ghost in the Shell to the original feature, but it's nice to revisit this from time to time. "},{"Title":"A movie that should be mandatory to watch in any Science/Medicine/Engineering/Computing School","Date":"6 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" This is a modern art masterpiece, from beginning to end. It is eye candy and food for thought. All of your senses (except smell and taste) will be delighted.Where do I start?An outstanding soundtrack by Kenji Kawai makes you feel immersed in what society might be in 100 years from now (although plot is set earlier, I believe technology will not be so advanced until the 22nd century).Artwork is simply sublime. It is hard to believe that such animations were drawn one at the time. This movie puts CrapVatar to shame. Don't believe me? check the intro only.Insight into science and society is awesome. It is hard for me to explain, but as a scientist I believe that trends in science and computing are guiding us in a complex society such as the one depicted in the movie, where each individual is a key part of the whole. Information/Computing becomes so complex and huge to comprehend by a single person, yet it is also so simple that anyone can make use of it (for better or for worse). One final thought. When you get to the end and you see what Project 2501 is, think about this what is a life-form to you? is it necessary for a life-form to have a real-world existence? is it necessary to be carbon-based? would the actual definition of life, that is - an organism that has a molecule capable of storing information - an organism that grows and reproduces - and organism that keeps a balance with the environmentaccurate enough for the times to come? "}{"Title":"Amazing! One of the best animes along with Akira!","Date":"10 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" Now too tell you the truth, I've never read the Ghost in the Shell manga before, and the movie makes it seem that they probably ditched some of the manga's content (the movie's only 82 minutes long!). Now there are many people even anime fans out there who probably hate this movie! And I can understand why! The movie is not so much a sci-fi action thriller, but more of a intelligent, phsycological thriller! And too be honest, I didn't completely understand the movie (because believe me, ITS CONFUSING) but I still found the movie excellent and a masterpiece of the anime genre! But lets talk about the other good aspects of the film! The animation is great (especially for a movie from 1995!), and the CGI! ITS B-E-A-U-T-I-F-U-L-! And kicks modern CGI's ass! Music is good and English dub, while it good have been better, the actors still do a neat job! This a must see for an anime fan and is HIGHLY Recommended! 5/5 10/10 "},{"Title":"Ghost in the Shell","Date":"5 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" From Mamoru Oshii comes the masterpiece of Ghost in the Shell. A cyberpunk anime about a cyborg, Motoko Kusanagi, in a special police unit. Ghost in the Shell does what few movies can, it weaves complex characters into a story where no dialogue is pointless and no image is wasted. While the Characters are from a manga, Mamoru Oshii created the film from his mind's eye and is not simply recreating the manga through film. The thematic material is mainly existentialism and evolution, however Oshii dabbles (as he usually does) in religion. Ghost in the Shell is a film that requires multiple viewings to truly be appreciated because of its subtle characters and fairly complicated story. Watching it once is hardly enough. It should also be noted that Ghost in the Shell has influenced an array of directors and films, most notably The Matrix. "},{"Title":"Animé-zing","Date":"14 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" Starting from that brilliant title theme over those digital, Matrix-style opening credits, Ghost In The Shell is a hauntingly mystical and stunning experience. Despite an occasionally confusing plot and a certain lack of closure to the ending, with this film, director Mamoru Oshii could rival Hayao Miyazaki(Princess Mononoke, Spirited Away) for the best artistic creativity in Japanesse animation. This is one not to be missed.It is tricky to summarize this elaborate story, I can't say I've heard of anything like it. Our protagonist is a cunning young police officer who with the help of her comrades has to stop an international hacker called the Puppet Master who has worked his way into some of the government's most advanced technology in the super city where the movie is set. In this version of the future, man has the ability to not only separate a soul(or ghost) from a body, but also the ability to manipulate and program people's ghosts, which among other things is the key to being in the ideal physical form. As a consequence, people in this world have become biological-cyborgs.Ghost in the Shell is so unique in its vision and advanced in art that we the viewers cannot help but be drawn into every minute of the film; art, action, animation, amazement, Ghost in the Shell has it all. "},{"Title":"Great science fiction that just happens to be animated","Date":"15 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" Set in a not to distant future Ghost in the Shell is an impressive science fiction film that just happens to be animated, so don't be put off if you think cartoons are for children. The film contains plenty of action and a plot which is up there with films like The Matrix, in fact this film was a major inspiration for The Matrix.In this strange, almost dystopian, future some people have been augmented with cybernetic implants and other people are in fact fully cybernetic. One such person is Major Motoko Kusanagi, an officer working for Section Nine. They are a tasked with finding The Puppetmaster a mysterious computer hacker who has been hacking into people's implants to control them and even give them false memories.While on the case Motoko questions the nature of her existence; while she may be artificial she is has both self awareness and emotions and is thus to all intents and purposes alive.The animation is of a high standard and is filmed in a way that makes it feel more like a live action film, for example characters don't show exaggerated facial expressions like huge smiles that are impossibly large as one tends to get in animation. If fact the animation was such that I often forgot I was watching an animated film and enjoyed it as a great sci-fi thriller along the lines of Blade Runner or The Matrix. Some people might be put off by the nudity early on in the film although this is desexualised and is given some justification in the plot. If you like sci-fi I'd recommend giving this film a go even if you don't usually watch animated films.These comments are based on watching the film in Japanese with English subtitles. "},{"Title":"Just simply amazing","Date":"26 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" For many Ghost in the Shell is a very special movie , including me as I was just began checking anime out and well Ghost in the Shell was the one that did it. However my previous attempts of watching it were failed but then yesterday I was glad to report that I sat right through it and am glad to say that it is nothing short of a breath taking experience. The strange thing is that it was made in 1995 but it still feels so advance for its time and yet it has still not lost any of its shine. Ghost in the Shell sucks you in with its seductive music , use of graphics but then makes one think and about life and other forms of social commentary. All I can say is that this has to be on your 100 movies to watch before you die list , the only thing that I would ask the viewer is watch it with a clear mind , you have to want it to get it !GHOST IN THE SHELL - 8.8 OUT OF 10 "},{"Title":"Science fiction with a philosophical bent","Date":"22 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" The ghost in the machine is the derogatory phrase Gilbert Ryle uses to describe Rene Descartes' notion of metaphysical dualism in his famous polemic Concept of Mind. It is Descartes' theory of dualism--the idea that human beings are comprised of a tangible body and an intangible mind--that is explored in Ghost in the Shell, a truly different kind of sci-fi movie.The film takes place in the distant future. Cyborgs walk the earth and computer crimes have proliferated beyond control. It is up to 'Major' Motoko Kusanagi, a cyborg herself, and her crew to put an end to these hackings.For the most part, those who have watched adult-oriented anime before will know what to expect. Violence, nudity, and melodrama are abundant in Ghost in the Shell. What makes the film different, though, is what makes it so much more interesting than your typical anime flick.Motoko's investigation of a notorious super-hacker inspires a number of discussions about the meaning and significance of reality and consciousness. Few films dare to delve into philosophy so thoroughly and so directly, but that is what makes Ghost in the Shell special.While the conversations are fascinating and build as the film develops, the characters themselves are generally emotionless in spite of the drama that surrounds them. This is especially true for the imperturbable Motoko, who behaves exactly as one might expect a machine on a mission would. There is little room for character development here--one of the film's few flaws.Ghost in the Shell is not light entertainment. It is a heady, thought-provoking film that should appeal to fans of science fiction, action, and even philosophy. "},{"Title":"Give it a chance - you wont regret it","Date":"13 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" I first saw Ghost in the Shell at a friend's house, on a dodgy copied DVD, on a dodgy DVD player. The whole film had a green tint and scuppered the viewing pleasure somewhat, but I still came away realising I had seen a milestone in animation.I now own the film myself and can't stop coming back to it. When you watch it the first time, you'll be torn between watching the glorious visuals, trying to follow the complex cyberpunk police investigation storyline, and trying to find where you stand when the film dabbles in philosophy and the nature of self. With each subsequent viewing, you'll get more out of it. It's one of those.I like to think that GitS tries to ask the same questions as Blade Runner ie. How human can a computer be? Will humans be considered inferior and obsolete if computers can develop emotion and self-awareness? Except, of course, where Blade Runner was concerned with the destruction of Replicants/androids, GitS shows us a society where cyeberisation or the augmenting or our bodies with machines is the cultural norm, which makes for refreshing and compelling viewing.The shift in technology has of course seen a shift in technological crime. Enter our heroes, Section 9, an elite technological crime-fighting unit let by Major Motoko Kusanagi, a soul-searching android.To people not familiar with anime (and there are clearly quite a few, having perused the message boards) GitS will be very different to anything else you've watched. But open your mind to the possibility that animation can be so much more than a cartoon. And if you wont, stick with it anyway - the 5-minute dialogue-less scene halfway through the film and the climactic battle scene are two of the most beautifully animated and directed sequences I've ever seen, backed by a soft but very effective score from Kenji Kawai.All in all, a brilliantly executed vision of the future. "},{"Title":"Very Cool Anime","Date":"18 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" I saw this movie last night I can understand why it's such a cult film in the realm of manga- first of all, the computer graphics and the animation is amazing such attention to detail and really bringing scenes to life.Then the binary sequence code at the opening scene strikes such resemblance to matrix, well vice-versa actually, including the connecting place through the back of the neck. Combined with that is the philosophy of self awareness I am aware of my existence because I feel it, but how do I know I really exist and how do I define and prove it; can there be different forms of existence (especially when it comes to artificial intelligence) and how do we explain them and what complication can it bring.The only thing is I wish it was a bit longer- it ends rather too quickly (it's only 80 min long), right after the Puppet Master and our heroine do the merge and create a so-called offspring, leaving us wondering what does its future hold. Also, I don't know if it was just my edition I was watching (it had a different cover than this one) but some of the characters including the lead character Motoko Kusanagi sounded like they were just reading their lines without actually giving emotion and real life voice- unlike other characters. I don't know if that was the point since she is a cyborg, but it sounded so off it almost killed the appeal of the character.Other than that, I really enjoyed it, especially considering it came out in 1995... wow.... "},{"Title":"Border between human and cyborg","Date":"18 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" Very interesting movie but its main mistake is....fast action(sic!). The most important dialogs are spoken too fast and it's a big likelihood that at first time you won't be able to catch point of some dialogs(some scenes should be viewed several times). However, huge number of philosophical scenes(mainly with Mjr Motoko Kusanagi who often considers her humanity)is an important and stunning part of the movie(showing major's self-consciousness and gripping,animated, futuristic Japan). They are amplified by music which stimulate our imagination and is a great supplement to movie. Mayor(resembles girl from Blade Runner)is not only a cyborg but also developed form of live which desire to connect with Puppet Master. Although he has never been in touch with him, she instinctively feels this need. Puppet Master(originally Project 2501) is precursor of new revolution(created by man demands to be treated like a human, not like something controlled which is sentenced to being damaged). I have to admit that movie forced me to thinking. If we look at the human progress in movie, we will realize that we loose our humanity and self-conscious(memories, feelings can be removed or added without any problems, borderline between AI and human between true and false can no longer exist). What is more, AI is more powerful and might supersede humans. As I mentioned before the only disadvantage are prompt turning points. That's why my rate is 9. "},{"Title":"Man, I Missed The Bus With This One","Date":"6 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" I must admit I do not know much about animé. When talking to an animé buff recently about this project and my comparative lack of knowledge of the genre, the conversation of what I had seen and what I owned rolled around. I declared that I did own a few things, one of them being Ninja Scrolls. 'Which version?' I was asked. Blinking for a moment I thought&#133; Luckily I realised I had the box set with two versions on it, the Japanese and English versions. I told him this, also pointing out that I had only watched the Japanese dub. That kind of thing always goes down well with geeks. (We can smell our own). However I was looked at with a mixture of pity and despair. No, that was the wrong version of Ninja Scrolls. I was ashamed.So it was with some trepidation I dipped my toe into the hugely complex world of animé That feeling was off-set however with a certain amount of anticipation. I'd always been told how great Ghost In The Shell is, by many people whose views I respect, and so I looked forward to this movie. Unfortunately I'm still trying to work out what is so great about it.Set in a cyberpunk future where the whole world is connected by a vast network of electronic data, the hero, Motoko Kusanagi Atsuko Tanaka - or 'The Majour' as she is known - is part of Section 9, a high-tech crime fighting unit. The plot itself involves concepts such as AI and 'Ghosts', a term meaning a persons consciousness. We are asked to consider ideas such as what constitutes life, humanity and death itself while Section 9 deal with a hacker known as The Puppet Master, who is wanted by the highly suspect Section 6. (Hmmm&#133; 9, but reversed&#133;) Needless to say there are layers of intrigue and suspense and we are also given the chance to watch some pretty impressive animation. The core of this movie, what Shirow really seems to emphasise, are the ethical and philosophical questions raised by this brave new world.With the title itself clearly referencing the term Ghost In The Machine - a phrase first used by Gilbert Ryle and a concept later expanded on by Arthur Koestler (basically a refutation of Descartes idea of dualism) - I expected a large amount of philosophy. I have no problem with large amounts of philosophy. Unfortunately the philosophy I was given wasn't (to me) all that exciting. It is important to realise that I am watching this now in 2007 and the concepts may have seemed new in 1995, especially to an audience not overly familiar with the works of people such as Koestler and such. Yet for me the ponderings of the cybernetic humans are vaguely reminiscent of the kind of conversation had at about 10.54 down the pub, when people often say things like 'Yeah, I know what you're saying, but you're not thinking about it like this&#133;'. The most interesting concept was the idea of reproduction as a form of immortality, and that a computer program may want to do this. The further idea of two different beings creating a new life, one that links human and AI consciousness and creates a new and different being, perhaps the next step of evolution, was also interesting. Sadly the fact that these concepts and ideas do not occur until the end of the movie meant that I found the movie difficult to really enjoy.The director spends a lot of time between scenes simply showing us the city this is all set in. There is much use of simply driving by the landscape. Again this was very beautiful but as I personally had been unable to invest myself in the movie, I didn't really enjoy these parts, and instead found them distracting, wanting to get onto the next bit of something actually happening.The realisation of the cyberpunk world is outstanding, the art fantastic and attention to detail something to revel in. Although as I am not the biggest cyberpunk fan that the world has ever seen, this wasn't enough to make me fall for this movie.So I was left with the action scenes. Having now watched this movie I can see just how much it inspired The Matrix visually as well as stylistically. The action scenes are amazingly well conceived and directed, the feeling of movement on screen is particularly well done. Yet they are few and far between, not really allowing me to enjoy this movie on a purely action-based level either.So I am left feeling vaguely disappointed, not just in the movie but with myself as well. When mentioning this movie to a friend a few nights back he nodded enthusiastically and told me Yeah&#133; it's great! When I simply asked why, he seemed a little confused. I want to like this movie more than I do, but I simply cannot. I know that it is part of a series of movies, and that there is also a television series based within the same universe, and as is so often the case, this is all based on an original graphic novel. Perhaps I'd find one of these to be great? "}{"Title":"Classic","Date":"16 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" This is a classic anime that I enjoy as much today as I did when I first watch it back in 1995. This is a cool movie with lots of cool robot effects and the story stays within the realm of the possible as we progress in robot technology are we really that far from having a ghost in the shell ourselves? These classic characters are well written and the dubbing is great, the voice over actors that took care of the dubbing does a great job and can be commended. But a warning to parents, the type of parent who went to see Gremlins without paying attention to the trailer. Just because it's a cartoon doesn't mean it's for kids or at least by American standards. This movie is full of bad language and nudity. Hence the rated R. But adults and cool parents will get a kick out of GHOST IN THE SHELL. I give it...9 STARS "},{"Title":"Very impressing movie","Date":"17 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" Well I'm not a big fan of Japanese Animes or Nangas but this movie impressed me! Japan of 2028Most of the inhabitants are at least partly a machine. Many of them have a body made of steel or titanium. In those times there is a powerful hacker called the puppetmaster who is able to influence those human like cyborgs. Section 9 which is like the Police Force is looking for clues. A visually very amazing movie. The action scenes were brilliant, the artwork well done. And the plot was very good too. All in all it was like watching a James Cameron movie. Plus The soundtrack was pretty good. I really enjoyed this one and I like Stand alone Complex too. A brilliant adult animated movie! "},{"Title":"A series of strange occurrences (the hacking of cybernetic implants in the brain) lead Motoko Kusenagi to suspect a mysterious figure is pulling the strings","Date":"7 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" This is an excellent film. I gave it 10/10 because the first time I saw it, it blew my mind. Extreme violence and nudity are often accompanied with weak plots and mediocre symbolism, but Ghost in the Shell is an exception to this rule. Amazing visuals, sound, plot, and ending. This is a must-see for all serious film goers. The nudity in the film should be viewed from an artistic standpoint (meaning emphasizing the beauty of the human form - rather than pornography. My only critique of the film actually enhances the film the plot is very complicated (but also adds a sense of mystery to the film). If you liked the Matrix, you will love Ghost in the Shell. "},{"Title":"Oh my god!","Date":"6 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" This is a must see anime. For years i was told that i had to see it and when i did my mind had been totally blown and wanting more (alas this series has cost me a small fortune, but it has been well worth it).Not only is this aesthetically stunning, but with one of the most mind bending story line ever conceived in the history of man and will definitely require more than one viewing if you wish to truly understand, as well as maybe the viewing of the rest of the first series (this being the movie that started it all.)! If you love anime and you love great stories, and the choice to continue in the saga then this is a must have, i promise that you wont be disappointed.10/10 "},{"Title":"Perrrrrfect","Date":"1 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" I've just watched GitS for the second time and I must say, I'm absolutely stunned. The first time I saw it, it didn't really make a larger emotional or artistic impression on me, maybe the circumstances, who know. Anyway, I cannot truly express my most grand satisfaction and respect for the production I'm feeling now. Maybe it's the way I watch most of the movies, but this time, I've actually scanned through each important fragment that a movie production, an anime in particular, should possess. From the most basic things, like script, dialog, sounds, graphics and the idea - not only does it keep its freshness through all these years but still it enchants by what is most important in a good movie. Those who think it belongs to some underrated category just because it's an anime should be scorched by the wrath of the Alimghty. Anyhow, what's really interesting and essential in this anime is its story, very original and awesomely developed, it's a pity that some countries (including Poland) have some kind of cultural barrier that shallows their artistic horizons and so they do not embrace and glorify the really good pieces of animation art. Instead, we blindly follow primitive fashions brought from the USA. Ghost in the Shell is not an easy, pretty and flowery cute story, nevertheless it's a story with climate, passion and unmistakable, subtle beauty. For all those who want to indulge in something deep, original and pleasant to your ears and eyes - I highly recommend watching Ghost in the Shell. "},{"Title":"From an American perspective...","Date":"11 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" When this film was released in theatres in the US, it was denounced by some critics for being too philosophical. It's amazing how often that term comes up around great works of art. Socrates, Jesus, Ayn Rand... so many people denounced for being too philosophical. Honestly.Anyways, I am relatively unfamiliar with most Japanese animation, but I am a great fan of cyberpunk films and this one fits the ticket well. In the future, when the information age has grown to the level of cities and structural definitions of separation between machine and human are breaking down, a feminine cyborg is hunting down a mysterious hacker called the Puppet Master who's history and purpose remains completely unknown.The animation here is really beautiful and contains magnificent imagery. One of the great things about going with animation as opposed to filming sets and the like is that every shadow, light, and body is completely controllable, even if it's just added in as an afterthought. Nothing in this film seems just added in, though, as everything from the city to the nudity is of symbolic import.It's also clear that this film is yet another of the many various works that culminated inspired the Wachowski brothers. A lot of the imagery of this film is very much reminiscent of The Matrix (or, to put it more accurately, The Matrix is very reminiscent of this film).It's not actually much on the action side of things (though it has it's moments), but it certainly is worth the watch, especially to see mostly the imagery and how the characters live and interact with it.--PolarisDiB "},{"Title":"Atmospheric depiction of a realistic future.","Date":"23 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  Although there's the usual bouts of metaphysical nonsense, there's still plenty to praise in this slick futuristic thriller. Most notably the top-notch animation and outstanding imagination that peppers each scene. The soundtrack is perfect, the ending puzzling. It's worth watching again just so you can decipher it's message, or comprehend the narrative itself.  "},{"Title":"A top Anime.","Date":"1 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" A top Anime. Great animation, good action. A moody, exellent soundtrack. Very interesting story, deals with questions like What is life?, and technology, is it helping us advance? a bit creepy, but intersting. slick, cool characters. Definatley one of the best. Average 9.8(10) "},{"Title":"My All-Time Favorite Piece of Animation!","Date":"25 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  Wow, Japanese Animation.  Wow, Wow, and triple WOW.Americans need to grow up now.  Big time.  Disney is no more.  Dreamworks is no more.  Pixar is no more.  Family animation is cool, but it's just not cool if your 28 and are tired of seeing fuzzy animals talking to little boys while running through a field of dandelion seeds.  Seeing live toys is funny nostalgia, but that's all it is for me at this point.  I'm sick of America's notion that all cartoons are for adults and that only kids should be watching them and there is no true artform in animation anymore.  You old people just don't understand.  Animation isn't just for making your kids happy all day.  It's a tool like any other.  And when used correctly, can be a very powerful tool.  I'm not talking about just as a means to make you laugh, like all those prime time animated shows (South Park, Simpsons) that might have adult elements in it but still don't take the genre seriously. I'm talking about Japanese Animation here.  The stuff like Akira, Vampire Hunter D,  Project A-Ko,  Macross, Cowboy Beebop, Battle Angel Alita, Dominion  Tank Police, AND of course this outstanding piece of animation that, when I saw it for the first time, made my jaw drop to the floor and caused me to scream HOLY SH*T!! TOTALY WAY COOL!!!.  Just what IS this glorious defining piece of work?  Well folks, let me present to you...GHOST IN THE SHELL!Skip ahead if you dont want to read a spoiler!!!Still there?  GOOD!!Right from the get-go things are totaly right here.  You don't have to be a sci-fi fan to appreciate this stuff.  Here.. we see a beautiful assassin-like-woman looming over a futuristic city landscape, listening in with her headpiece to a conversation that's taking place like 15 floors below her.  She zooms in with her night goggles so she can get a better view of what's going on.  It's some sort of diplomatic thing.  Technobabble that's just an addition to the setting.  Nothing more.  We don't really care what or who these people are.  We just wanna see what she's up to and thats all what the scene is about.  What I got out of the whole thing is that there is some kind of defection going on.Suddenly there is nudity.  Why nudity?  Well for the obvious resons.  Did the invisible man ever wear clothes?  Did Keven Bacon wear clothing when he was invisible in Hollow Man?  Hell no!  It's all material stuff. Invisibility should only work when you are handling your bare necessities right?  This totaly smart, wish you knew her so you can hang out with her for just an hour sort of babe, strips down to her bare ass, and you suddenly understand why as she fades into the city landscape.  She's in invisibility mode.  It explains the nakedness.  Suddenly the nudity doesn't seem quite so shocking anymore.  It's not sexy because it's not supposed to be, as we realise she's a cyborg.  She wasn't listening to her earpiece.  She was actualy homing into the voices via a giant networking system that supposedly every human and cyborg is linked to either psychicly or physically.We see all these ugly old Japanese businessmen having a diplomatic conversation about defection when the swatts burst in, followed by rabid gunfire.  After one of them tries to B.S. his way out of being arrested, the window crashes open, and this guy's head suddenly EXPLODES!  I mean, not just fire and smoke, I mean, blood splattering everywhere.  Big, nasty goops of it!  Raw, gritty blood that Disney would never have the BALLS to touch! The rest of the old businessmen followed the action out of the window, as the babe waves her hand over her face.. ripples of animation in the background revieling her muscular frame.  A man reacts My GOD! Thermoptic camaflaudge!Suddenly the scene is over.. and the main titles explode on the screan with really crazy Japanese choir music and BASS so loud that it makes techno sound like somebody's drum stick tapping on the side of a desk.I was squirming in my seat at this point.  Giddy with joy.  Wiggling this way and that.  Ghost in the Shell isn't just any other Anime film.  No WAY does it rank below the depths of O.A.V.'s like Devil Hunter Yohko. This is a cinematic event.  One that should have been released nation-wide but never was simply because Americans haven't grown up yet.  We weren't ready for this sort of visial bombardment of shocking nudity and extreme violence coupled with some of the most amazing sci-fi cyborg stuff since Blade Runner.  This was all in the first 15 minutes of the film, and it gets better.There are brain hackers, giant mecha tanks, unbelievably realistic sound effects that breaks the limits of your home theatre, and animation that is so shockingly beautiful that you'll be talking about this film for the next two decades.  There's one scene where the Major, the pretty cyborg babe, is diving in the ocean.. and rising up to the water just so that her face peers through the waves.  We see water drips on the scuba mask distorting her vision.  Disney has NEVER touched this depth of realism.  Bullet holes that explode 3-dimensionally created by the gattling gun of a giant mecha tank. What does this remind you of?Remember a little sci-fi blockbuster called The Matrix?Yes, this is the film that inspired THE MATRIX!!  Without Ghost in the Shell, The Matrix would be non-existent.You folks should make it your mission in life to see this movie.  It's so good.  It's one of the best DVDs that I have at this point.  See it for bragging rights.  Have you seen Ghost in the Shell?Hell yeah,  you reply I LOVED that movie. "},{"Title":"Superb Effort","Date":"7 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  This is a superb effort featuring top notch work from all involved. The film itself reminds me not only of Mamoru Oshii's other directing efforts(PATLABOR) but also of METROPOLIS(for the futuristic Hong Kong), BLADE RUNNER(the intelligence of the machine), ROBOCOP(the shoot-outs and gunfire action) & 2001 A SPACE ODYSSEY (the ending--the rebirth). The animation is excellent, the sound fantastic and the soundtrack was very appropriate--and the story well, while entertaining there is really very little truly 'new' here. Aside from that this is a great ride. "}{"Title":"Wow!","Date":"20 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  I always say that I love Manga films, but sometimes I wonder... Ghost in the Shell has confirmed that I DO love Manga - I'll start with the few complaints OK - Japanese women always have to have those giant eyes, but is the gratuitous lara croft look necessary?  They're just TOO big, and the opening scene makes a bit too much of them!  And, as a rule, I recommend English-speakers to choose the Japanese soundtrack with subtitles... ideally learn Japanese!  Somehow the US voice actors don't quite sound right to me.So what was good about it?  A great story that, unlike Akira, I can almost follow, and some GORGEOUS mood sections - very Bladerunner as the rain falls down, and nice touches like the dustbin-man's basset hound appearing in odd places, a wonderful big crowd scene (not often seen in animation), great action, the significant tree of life in the warehouse... in the making of, they even fired guns as part of the research and made sure the ricochets only sparked at the right times!I think my favourite shot is where the ghost-hacked gunman is walking along the alleyway with a jumbo flying overhead.In summary, a good action film, clever touches, good story and characters, some engaging and moving scenes... just try to ignore the gratuitous close-ups! "},{"Title":"The best anime movie I've seen, althought I've seen very little","Date":"27 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  I want to give the bad review right away I would have appreciated very much if they gave more movement to the animation, very stiff, at least let them wink! The dialogue is a little artificial, but I'm sure it was the translation, I hate dubbing, really do. So, some dialogues were thrown at the spectator in a very cold manner. Other thing, about the sound, probably for the dubbing also, it sounded very low and could have done a little bit more of work, and for the music, well, not my taste.Anyway, it might seem I really dislike it, but quite the opposite. I can compare it to the other few anime I've seen, Akira, Mononoke Hime, and still I like this one more. Mainly for the smooth pace, uncompromised to show stupid action sequences. The plot reminded me a lot of Blade Runner (which I prefer), it deals with similar theme. The director probably saw to many art films, and that's good, let's change anime stories; it has a lot of potential, you can create a world from a scratch, but I can't still see how everybody is obsessed to making futuristic fantasies (for Ghost it's alright, its the whole point). Well, I'm drifting away... This movie reminded me to Apocalypse Now, althought is not nearly as good as it, it has the same dedication for the visuals, to create an hypnotizing mood.See it, buy it... We now see thru a mirror, darkly. - I Corinthius 1312 (The movie didn't bother to cite.) "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  Damn this is one great movie, most have seen it 7-8 times ) Apart from being a great action manga movie, it raises a lot of interesting questions.  "},{"Title":"the best there is!","Date":"16 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  Well, i must have seen ghost in the shell about 80 times, and still, i sit there and enjoy this amazing film! The plot is genius, and the japanese painters did perfekt work creating the characters. Everything in the movie seems to be like in the real life, though it is an sf- movie. If you still haven´t seen the movie get it on DVD, and enjoy the film, which is on my opinion one of the best movies of all times! "},{"Title":"Ten Stars!","Date":"14 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  In a world caught in the grip of information overload, where artificial intelligence is more than the real thing and cyborg cops spend their lives surfing on an electronic sea of living data, only the Ghost- the indefinable element of human consciousness-exists to determine who is alive and who is purely a creation of the Net. Get the DVD! "},{"Title":"Excellent animation and exciting plot, but some things get lost in translation.","Date":"6 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  In the future, most people have cybernetic implants and everybody connects directly to the net through neural interfaces. Now, an unknown hacker called the Puppet Master has found a way to break the firewall and hack the human mind.Strengths One of the few pieces of Anime to come out of Japan that doesn't involve ninjas or space-monsters. Crisp, detailed drawing of a quality rarely seen in animation (I've watched the scene of the heroine riding the ferry in the rain a dozen times, and I swear each raindrop is unique). It's good sci-fi and great action.Weaknesses There's this running theme about identity in the movie, which has potential to make it a deeper story than an action flick. However, like much anime, you can't help but feel much was lost in the translation. The combination of the characters talking really fast (a by-product, I assume, of trying to express concepts that take more words in English than Japanese) and somewhat literal translations of complex ideas makes me really wish I spoke Japanese to get the full effect.Still, a strong and fun piece of animation. One to own if you are into the genre. "},{"Title":"Brilliant but a little confusing.","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  This was a great movie, despite being quite short and moving at breakneck speed with some interludes.  It talks about what makes a person an individual and asks what it is to be human.  It may sound trite but it was well done and intelligent (I really liked the scene were a guy discovers his life is an illusion).  Unfortunately it's a little confusing in spots and it took me a while to figure it all out (I was tired at the time I watched it anyway).  The animation is incredible and the characters were well thought out and I look forward to the sequel. "},{"Title":"Techno-action to the max....  wish I knew what happened....","Date":"29 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  Ghost in the Shell follows Akira in the action/sci-fi/confuse-the-viewer genre.  Production quality on Ghost was high, nearly to the level of Akira. The animation was fast paced, smooth, and flowed amazingly well.  The level of detail in the backgrounds, the expanse of the land/city, all something to be admired.  Numerous plot twists were involved in the story, most of them took place in the end of the film, and nearly all of them were unnecessary. For some reason the director felt that to make a great film, the viewer has to walk away scratching their head.  Don't get me wrong, I liked the film, but it took me two or three more viewings to fully understand what exactly happened.   "},{"Title":"One of the best Anime movies ever!","Date":"27 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  When I first saw this film, I didn't like it, because I found it very confusing. For a long time I left the video of it on my shelf and didn't touch it. But about a year after buying it, I decided to watch it again for some reason... I loved it the second time around! I understood a lot more of the plot this time around and I appreciated the detail and effort that had gone into the animation and artwork in it. This really is one of the most spectacular animated films I have seen and once you understand the storyline properly, you will like it. If you have only seen this film once and didn't like it, then I definitely recommend that you watch it again. The DVD version of this film is even better too... "},{"Title":"Futuristic fast paced action movie","Date":"30 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  GITS as I like to call it is a very good movie as I have seen it many times I have come to understand all the plot which is if you watch it once very hard to piece together.An action packed ride through things that could be very possible in the near future.You will have to watch it a few times but if you do you'll really like it.I did. "}{"Title":"A good film, but very hyped by merchandise","Date":"24 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  Don't see this movie expecting the exact animation of the original comic. For example it lacks the Fujikoma, the cute robot-like vehicles. Most story-lines of the graphic novel where left out as well, but not necessarily for the worse. The whole mood is much darker and not as colourful. The film has a much more pessimistic view of the future than the rather optimistic comic. Hentai-lovers are warned The infamous cybersex-scene was stricken from the movie as well. No matter, what anime-defenders may claim, animation-wise, it cannot compete even with the oldest Disney movie, and even the much older Akira was more stunning, I thought. Still the story is worth watching this film and the score is just fantastic, though not everyone's taste. If you loved Patlabor 2, you'll like this one as well.  "},{"Title":"Style or Substance?","Date":"17 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  Perhaps one of the flashier and hyped anime movies of all time, GitS flamboyant style and intriguing story has given this movie its place in anime history.  However, one wonders if any movie can live up to the hype. Unfortunately, Ghost in the Shell can't.The biggest flaws of Ghost in the Shell are the pace of development and the rushed ending, which pretty much go together hand in hand.  It seems as though the first 70 minutes are devoted to the premise, whereas the heart of the story and the resolution are thrown into the last 10.  Personally, I didn't like the end, but that is more of a matter of taste as opposed to quality.However, these problems shouldn't overshadow the fact that GitS is indeed a good movie worth watching.  If you get bored waiting for something important to happen, at least the animation will keep your attention.  The overall message of the story is somewhat profound and noteworthy.  "},{"Title":"Complex yet rewarding sci-fi anime","Date":"1 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" At the first go this movie is a little hard to follow. The story is complicated, for example the concept of a 'Ghost' is not immediately apparent. Despite this the movie draws you into its futuristic world where body and soul are independent of each other.The visuals are amazing and the accompanying soundtrack is fantastic. There are a couple of great sequences which take the viewer on a rhythmic journey through the city.For some reason this movie felt like a TV pilot. It created an interesting an exciting new world and left me wanting more. That is a hallmark of a classic movie in my view. "},{"Title":"Pretty much spectacular","Date":"15 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" Ghost in the Shell is a cinematic gem of considerable carat. Blending over-the-top action, fantastic imagery, thought-provoking philosophy and suspense is not easy, but it seems Japanese animation is quite good at it. I imagine pitching this would have been hard in the west.As cool as Ghost in the Shell is with it's many gadgets, gunfights and futuristic settings, it is actually an almost talky(the right amount and level, thankfully) philosophic exploration. Individuality, memory, personality, intelligence and the definition of life are some of the issues the film discusses, without giving a definite verdict on any of them. Not even the supposed villain of the movie is singled out as the source of all evil, which happens all too often in movies.There is a good amount of action and a complex plot to rush your drifting mind, however. For example, the weapon design credit was an early one, and there's a lot of futuristic hardware and technology used on screen. The people of Ghost in the Shell are technophiles, no doubt about it, and some take it to almost absurd levels. Ironically, it's also all the tech that makes them so insecure and thoughtful.Then, at point, the movie takes time to be just beautiful. The never-named city(we can assume it's Tokyo or neo-Tokyo, it always is) is a contrasted entity, mysterious and great to behold. Scenes with the rain, people in the streets, and a hauntingly beautiful score are probably the best parts of the entire movie.Keep in mind, that this is probably not the best movie to watch lazily. Although it's action, it's far from van Damme, and you have to make an effort to keep up with the plot and the philosophy. Another tip Try to watch it subbed. Dubbing takes away a lot of the wonder of unfamiliarity. Oh, and it usually sucks.A side-note Try to count the things the Wachovski brothers borrowed for the Matrix! "},{"Title":"Ambitious","Date":"21 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" This movie is ambitious to the point of being pretentious, which in this case in an odd way is a good thing. I wish there were more movies like this that weren't afraid to attempt serious art with characters that do more than athletic violence.Of course the central character Motoko Kusanagi is a perfectly formed super-female. It isn't made clear (is it ever?) why a cyborg like this needs to be female, and have a desirable shape with breasts and nipples but no genitalia. (Yes the footage is there to show this, but not as much as some reviewers are making it out to be.) Her sidekick/subordinate Batô makes much more sense, he's a competent buff post-human with most of his original parts replaced with hi-tech and swimming-goggle type devices where his eyes should be. He follows her orders but also has clearly developed a deeper attachment to her -- perhaps that's what the designed-in pulchritude is all about. He goes the extra kilometer to save her, even from herself if necessary.The plot is a bit threadbare, but that doesn't matter, really. It is just a backdrop for Motoko's journey.One recommendation I would make is if you rent the DVD, try watching the Japanese audio with English subtitles (assuming you don't understand Japanese already). The voices are much more believable in that version. The English version often sounds like high-school students reading out loud in class. "},{"Title":"Cyber Punk at its finest","Date":"27 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" Mamoru Oshii (Avalon, GITS Innocence) has taken the finest work of Masamune Shirow (Appleseed, Dominion Tank Police)and turned it into something so artful and inspiring that just about every sci-fi to come into theatres since 1994 has pulled from it in some way or another. My favorite scene takes place near the middle of the movie. It is an introspective look deep into the mind of a cyborg who feels lost in the new age of mass digital information. Her personal freedom is restricted due to the fact that her mechanical body belongs to the department she works for.When an entity claiming sentience comes along in the form of a computer virus it starts our Heroin on a journey that will push the boundaries of our conceptions of what makes a person human and what defines us as sentient beings.Ghost in the Shell is more than just a cyber punk shoot em up. It is an underrated masterpiece with excellent pacing and the ability to cause a seemingly unending sense of claustrophobia. Even with a vast and infinite expanse of digital information at our fingertips, we can all sometimes feel trapped and restricted within ourselves and our own human limitations. "},{"Title":"Manga at it's very best","Date":"28 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" I'd heard the Matrix borrowed several elements from this movie - having seen it now i would say that's something of an understatement. Both films are highly stylised action movies that attempt to cram in some philosophy. But while Ghost In The Shell also addresses the main question asked in the Matrix (what is reality?) it also asks some more interesting questions( what does it mean to be human? to be alive?), and though it is occasionally heavy-handed, it is more successful in making you think.To be brutally honest, most Manga i've seen (with the notable exception of 'Akira') looks kinda cheap due to the somewhat jerky animation. However, though the style of animation is the same here, the artwork is breathtaking - in the evocation of a rain-soaked futuristic city, the choice of camera angles, and the stylised use of light and shadow. The music is also superb, and the sometimes languid pace of the movie feels like a benefit rather than a problem.As with virtually all movies, watch the non-dubbed version if possible. However, the occasionally clunky translation and second-rate voice acting in the dubbed version can't spoil a classic piece of animation. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"27 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" Japanese story as one of its best. Emotional intelligent maudling yet not depressing. The animation for its time (1995) is excellent as well. (Today we have computer animation which cannot be imitated by the finest pen and pencil 2D animator.) But as always it is the story which matters and not the technique. But this story is action packed with a well rounded story that has plot twists which enhance and do not detract. (I've seen Aeon Flux and Spawn (the unedited animation) and GITS is the best - hands down. I don't think I can think of a better sci-fi anime than this one. 10/10-Zafoid "},{"Title":"one of the best","Date":"7 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" There's not enough words to describe how excellent this anime classic is.In future, cops are cyborgs. The cyborgs are robots, but have human personality. They all have ghost or soul that gives them a human connection. (Hence the name Ghost in the Shell). The film focuses on a cyborg named Motoko Kusanagi. Motoko is a cop with ability's similar to Trinity from The Matrix. She also has the ability to go invisible after stripping off her clothes.The cops are after a hacker called The Puppet Master. The Puppet Master has been hacking into the minds of humans. It's up to Motoko and the cops to capture this hacker. During the search, Motoko begins to question herself and her origin. I almost with the movie would have focused more on this because I was feeling curious myself.Overall, an excellent anime with great action, philosophy, and spectacular animation.I recommend this movie if *you like anime/animation *you like The Matrix *you like philosophy, action, and science fiction *you want a complicated and sophisticated storylineavoid if *you're offended/disgusted by graphic violence and blood "},{"Title":"One of the Best Science-fiction films.","Date":"1 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"    This is one of those films, that someone is going to have to make a REALLY good film, in order for beat it. And I think for many reasons, that won't be for a while. And its already been 8 years!  The main reason I believe this is the combination of imagination, story, dialogue, and music. And what a great mixture it is.  The imagination amoung this film is beyond comprehension. Both Kazunori Itô and Masamune Shirow, must of went insane after coming up with such a grand idea! The ideas of diving into ghosts, ghosthacking, etc, are like nothing I've ever seen in cinematic history.  The story is really really fantasic! My god...I enjoy how this move has the plot of an on-going chase, along with the minor problems along the way. The great thing too, is that later on you realize that the minor problems are only a fragment of the grander issue.  The dialogue(like the imagination), is something so unheard of. And I'm glad its here in Ghost in the Shell. As the story moves on, here and there we grasp interesting conversation of philosophy and psychology.  And finally the music. Kenji Kawai emotionally sets this film up perfectly with music. And the whole film gives off the feeling of a depressing society that continues to drag to and endless future. Whether or not that's what they were aiming for...I enjoyed it.  Truly a perfect film.  "}{"Title":"Absolutely astounding...","Date":"19 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  This is one of the most visually impressive films made, period. The plot is utterly intriguing. Please keep in mind that the violence is graphic and over the top. But this is buffered by the film's deep inquires into the nature of reality and what it means to be alive.I cannot recommend this film strongly enough.  "},{"Title":"Wow","Date":"9 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  Beautiful movie D  I liked the rhythm of action and philosophic scenes. Main character is great, cool, and smart. And the end is fantastic. "},{"Title":"Overrated.  Pure blasphemy to the manga.","Date":"25 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  This movie really sucked.  Having little to do with the manga of the same name, which was once an excellent sci-fi story with philisophical questions and a nice bit of humor thrown in, we instead have a bunch of techno-babble that makes little if any sense, in a really gothic-looking future.  The character development we had for the cast in the manga is all but gone, with some very one-dimensional characters.  And the artwork is BAD.  Very, very bad.  The characters look awful, particularly Motoko, which is a shame since she's the main character.  For people who call this crud one of the best anime of all time, instead check out something like Akira of Spriggan.BOTTOM LINE  This movie really needs an over-haul.  Hopefully the TV series will be much better. "},{"Title":"Re-translate this, please!","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  I love anime, and I've had experiences where bad translations have ruined the movie for me, like Akira's VHS dub. But just as Akira went from a 5 to a 10 with the new translation, so could Ghost in the Shell be boosted way up with a better translation. Still, it's a decent movie, 7 of 10. "},{"Title":"Let's set the record straight once and for all...","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  Anime is not for everyone.  No...wait, let me rephrase that anime IS for everyone--you have your porno anime, your kiddie anime, your historical anime, etc.--but the very good anime, which, of course, Ghost in the Shell is a part of, is meant to be watched only by cereberal people or film buffs.The undisputed kings of anime cinema--Akira, Ghost in the Shell, and Jin-Roh, among others--are complete and total headf***s.  The imbecile who insinuated that this calibre of anime is meant for kids (tedg, I believe) is completely wrong.  Pokemon is some of the stupidest trash I've ever watched, and while Dragon Ball Z has its merits (those beam attacks are AWESOME!) it's still a tire to sit through.  But they're bright, colorful, and have childish dialogue, so appeal to a younger demographic.  Ghost in the Shell is not within this category.I was first introduced to anime films with Ghost in the Shell, as a matter of fact, and before then I thought it was a retarded, low-animation soft-porn flick.  Hell, the cover of the video alone displayed Kusanagi, a gun-toting naked cyborg with massive robo-breasts, and that is certain to turn a few heads.Boy, was I wrong.  The few times you even do see naked female chests are not meant to be sexually arousing (note that I'm 16, at the peak of my horniness) and the philosophical questions brought up in the third act are incredibly intense, and obviously wouldn't appeal to the weak-minded.  Some parts of the dialogue were unnecessary, expository bull**** (every time I watch the boat scene, and Kusanagi rambles on to a fellow robot about how they metabolise alcohol quickly, I cringe) but the rest is pure gold.And sure, the animation is not as stunning as in, say, Tarzan, but if you look closer you'll notice that the characters move more realistically than in any Disney movie, from the most subtle shrug of their shoulders to putting on a coat.Ghost in the Shell is NOT the best anime film.  In fact, of the dozen I've seen (I don't care for TV series like Neon Genesis; I don't have the time) Akira takes that prize hands down.  But Ghost in the Shell deserves at least an 8.5/10 on any critic's scale, if not a 9.  If you're too fucking restless to sit through twenty minutes without a chase scene or a shotout (and GITS has plenty anyway) then stick to Segal and Van Damme. "},{"Title":"Watch it about three times, THEN you'll get it...","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  Like the header says, I really had to watch Ghost in the Shell about three times before I really and truly grasped the majority of what was going on. But after that... whoo, baby. What a movie.With excellent animation and a storyline that really makes you think and pay attention, it's not hard to see why Ghost in the Shell is hailed as such a classic. But it's not without it's negative points.For one, there are portions of the movie where the dialogue is terrible. And don't you start with me about that being the fault of the dub, because it isn't. What I'm talking about are the chunks of the script that are nothing more than bland, drawn-out, and at times, very unnecessary exposition. Take the scene with Motoko and Bateau on the boat. He makes a quip about her being drunk, and she responds with a slew of technical jargon explaining why she can't be. Uh, Motoko... he's a cyborg too... he KNOWS. SHUT UP. These periods of exposition can also be very important to the plot, but they suffer from being over-long, and over-worded, meaning a casual viewer is really going to get lost if they can't follow it. That's why I had to watch it three times. /)My other large gripe is the poorly-placed musical numbers. I probably wouldn't mind them too much, but for the fact that they're being sung by what appears to be a choir of Japanese schoolgirls screeching like demons.Also, for the US dub, Motoko's voice actress is a serious let-down. The quality of her acting wavers throughout, dipping to outright awful and never moving above kinda decent. The rest of the cast is good, though, with many dubbing veterans lending their voices (almost all of them use pseudonyms, though, as GitS is a non-union project).Also, I don't find the nudity sexy in any way. It feels terribly tacked on, and it's just not sexy. Motoko has an over-muscled body which isn't attractive.Aaaanyway, beyond all of that, it's a damnably entertaining film. It just needs more action and less talk. But, hey, there's a sequel coming soon... "},{"Title":"mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm sexy cyborg","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is, quite simply, hot.  It has everything you want from Manga/Anime, violence, great animation, special effects and um.... a sexy cyborg.  Let's just face it Major Kusanagi is just plain sexy for a drawing. See the movie and you will see what I mean.There's not just the sex appeal by the way.  There is also a plot of sorts (though that takes second place to the sexiness) and, being Manga, a philosophy break (you know those bits where they stop the action so someone can get all philosophical or moral, normally at great length), this one thankfully not too long.I love this movie. "},{"Title":"Good story, bad movie.","Date":"31 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  Yes, it talks about high concepts, and do so many questions about our existence, but...A movie is about action, and this one is just words. You can understand the whole story just hearing it with your eyes closed. Try doing that with Akira.The only really good thing to see in this movie are the eyes of the beautiful cyborg.Did I say the eyes? "},{"Title":"It's a movie that's worth the effort","Date":"9 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  Firstly, every good thing said about this movie in the other reviews is pretty much true. Every bad thing said, is said by someone who really didn't 'get' this movie. And this is understandable - many people aren't going to get it - but believe me when I say I got it, and am still getting it, because with every repeat viewing there is something new to catch - something that slipped past the last time I watched it.Try and get a hold of the DVD if you can, since that has both the English and Japanese language versions. I'd suggest watching the English language version first, simply so that you can actually watch what's happening without having to focus on the subtitles at a cost to the beauty of the animation and atmosphere. This will let you really get a feel for some of the scenes in this movie - scenes that I feel are timeless. I'm not going to go into spoilers, but some parts reminded me of that other superb film 'The French Connection', simply due to the fact that both share the same dedication to certain 'set' pieces that operate almost independently of the film, really hooking your interest.And as for the delivery of the more philosophical ideas in the film minor spoiler warning please bear in mind that 2501 is a machine. Machines are precise and calculated. The way it rattles off constantly more complex truths is mechanical. It doesn't need to explain it slowly like a human would, it JUST states facts. And this puts them into your head. And with repeat viewings they start to grow. And this is how this film becomes deep - in an entirely relevant, impersonal mechanical way.Ghost in the Shell is a ten star anime, and probably wouldn't work in any other medium. As it stands, it's stunning - and if you're willing to accept a film that's a little different to other styles, then you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"a very dark and interesting tale","Date":"23 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  mamoru oshii, i've noticed, seems to have a taste for dark plots or political uprising of technological proportions. ghost in the shell is one of them. this title is very dark and has a great opener. the animation is breathtaking, but major kusinagi looks better in the manga (japanese for comics if you don't know). the story is pretty much straight forward, with a few twists and turns. this isn't one of my favorites, but it's well worth your time. "}{"Title":"It's cyberpunk, and I liked it anyway!","Date":"19 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  This was one of the first animated Japanese movies I've see; the only other was the mythical adventure Mononoke Hime. I can only compare it to live-action movies with science fiction themes.The movie is set in a future Hong Kong where cyborgs are common enough that even some of the garbage men have computers linked into their brains. The title refers to the distinction between the ghost, the conscious mind that makes a person human, and the shell, a person's natural or artificial body.At the beginning, the Section 9 internal security agency has its best agents investigating computer crimes linked to the mysterious individual known as the Puppet Master. His (or possibly her) nickname refers to the Puppet Master's criminal specialty, mind-controlling people by way of their own brain-implanted computer links.The Ministry of Foreign Affairs Section 6 is also interested in the Puppet Master, who has apparently attempted to manipulate international diplomacy. Sections 6 and 9 soon come into conflict over how to pursue the Puppet Master, although it appears that a hostile internal rivalry already existed between those branches of government.Section 9's top agent, Major Kusanagi is a cyborg who is mostly machine. Her investigative partner is Tosuga, a married man who still has almost all of his natural body. She has doubts about how human she is when she has almost nothing of her natural body left except her brain, and finds a mostly-natural partner reassuring. As she learns more about the Puppet Master, her doubts about her human ghost deepen.The main plots are the pursuit of the Puppet Master, the government in-fighting, and Kusanagi's self-doubt. The interlinked plots are complicated enough to confuse an inattentive viewer. But watching closely, one can see that everything in the movie was leading toward the conclusion, although I could only managed to see that after I had seen the conclusion.The characters all seemed to have motives that rationally explained their actions. In many movies, they would just do whatever the screenwriter needed them to do. The movie was good science fiction, with a lot of mystery and action, and a little politics and philosophy -- not just cyberpunk technobabble. Unlike so much science fiction, worst of all cyberpunk, the story isn't just a carrier for special effects, the story is the soul of the movie.The animation was good, comparable in quality to mid-range Disney, but far short of masterpieces like Mononoke Hime. The artistic design was very good, with lots of depth and atmosphere, in the style of Blade Runner relocated to Hong Kong. The weapons and armed combat showed clear attention to realism. Overall, the movie was very good visually.I watched the movie twice, in part to compare the Japanese and English voices. The Japanese voices were very expressive, although I couldn't understand the dialog without the subtitles. The English voices varied between competent and lackluster. The two versions are somewhat complementary -- the Japanese voices bring much more emotion to the movie, but the English sound track is often clearer on details than the somewhat-condensed English subtitles. Best of all is probably the Japanese sound track, for those who understand Japanese.The music was excellent. The sound effects were very good. The overall sound quality was good on my modest sound system. I don't know how much better it would be in fancy surround sound.Overall, the movie is very good. "},{"Title":"Phantastic VR-Action","Date":"19 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  I have seen the english version of Ghost in the Shell a year ago in a german repertory cinema, and I got crazy about it from the beginning on. After getting hold of the manga by Masamune Shirow on which the film is based, I must say that the film is far better than the comic.For the film, the original story line has been changed, shortened, many sub-plots have been removed -- but it turns out to be an improvement at the end of the day because the main plot is sometimes a bit lost in the manga whereas the anime concentrates on the main story. Especially the end is far better in the film.Animation and music are superb, the only thing I dislike sometimes are the speakers of the english version who tend in some scenes to sound a bit odd and boring. But it is just a minor fault which does not affect that Ghost in the Shell is simply one of the best movies I have seen. "},{"Title":"anime classic","Date":"9 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  Even though this film is animated, it has a real sense of live-action to it, and never for a moment feels like a cartoon.  I think that's the hallmark of good animation.The plot does suffer from having the story from the manga by Shirow Masamune condensed into about 80 minutes, and a lot of the complexities are lost.  Whole sections of the manga are missing from the animated film, but they're mostly self-contained stories not having to do with the Puppet Master (called the Puppeteer in the manga).  Some scenes are very close to the manga, like the opening scene, which comes straight from the opening of the manga.  Others are different, like the ending.  The scene with the tank at the end originally came from a chapter of the manga not having to do with the main story.  The story was prepared for the screen by Kazunori Ito, who also wrote the excellent Gamera Guardian of the Universe and Shusuke Kaneko's segment of the rather disappointing omnibus horror film Necronomicon.  The character designs are a bit different too, more realistic than Shirow's somewhat cartoony and caricatured character designs.  Major Kusanagi has a slightly more androgynous look than in the manga, where she has a more feminine appearance.The film has some simply beautiful artwork and animation, similar to director Mamoru Oshii's two Patlabor films.  I really like Oshii's style of direction too, he has a more European style than most anime directors.  Something about his style makes me think of Luc Besson, which makes since, since I've read Oshii is an admirer of Besson's work.  The musical score by Kenji Kawai is very good too.  If you liked this film, definately also watch the two Patlabor films.  Also worth checking out is the wonderful comedy Urusei Yatsura 2 Beautiful Dreamer. "},{"Title":"The best animated movie ever....but so much more.","Date":"14 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  This is the best animated movie there is, the graphics are amazing, unlike anything you've seen before, the fight sequences are as impressive as it gets, the music is brilliant, the characters are perfect.But this is so much more this work of art has a complex and exciting plot, which goes far beyond nearly any animated movie there is; it's an excellent and realistic vision of our future, and is the perfect setting to ask ourselves once more what is life?Ghost in the Shell is the perfect mix between beauty, action and reflexion, this is a must for anyone who has eyes and a brain. "},{"Title":"A softly poetic masterpiece of science fiction","Date":"4 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  A great many people enjoy this movie simply for its violence, technical quality, and nudity.  And yes, while those are indeed very important factors, they have nothing to do with the film's real point.  What very easily could have been a meaningless, fast-paced, sexy action movie comes out as a shockingly reserved and poetic look at the future of humanity. Personally, I think this is probably the most accurate prediction of the future in the history of cinema; Blade Runner came very close, but failed to see the full civilizational importance of computer technology.  Masamune Shirow took the next step.  He realized that the world of the future will be every bit as grimy and unpleasant as that of today, except computer technology will have taken over every aspect of human life.  Indeed, Project 2501 represents the ultimate achievement of technology--a type of life form which can exist, reproduce, and evolve without ever inhabiting an organic body.  This is the third best sci-fi movie ever, behind the Star Wars films and 2001 A Space Odyssey. "},{"Title":"Good, but the plot is cut short","Date":"25 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" There were many things I liked about this movie. The animation was beautiful. The setting and concepts were developed beautifully as well. The storyline was engaging, if not confusing at times. This is a movie that is action-filled but also makes you think, much like the Matrix (which was heavily influenced by it).It has some sore spots, though. My main problem with it was that the plot was too short-- not much happened over the course of the movie. It was as if the movie gets us excited and interested but doesn't carry through by developing the plot further. I plan on watching the sequel to it, because I think that may be the only way to get satisfaction from the storyline. If I were to watch this film and not watch its sequel, it would be like watching the introduction and some of the body of a movie without ever getting to see its conclusion.I didn't much like the soundtrack. It didn't seem to match the setting at all. Rather than be intense and futuristic, it was a simple high-pitched instrument of some sort, fit more for a horror or thriller film than a futuristic action anime flick. The Matrix's soundtrack was the right type of sound for a film like this, not annoying string arrangements.Overall, this was good, though. I look forward to watching the sequel as I just rented it last night. "},{"Title":"A disappointment","Date":"4 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" I don't actually know what I really was expecting but after hearing so much positive things about 'Ghost in the Shell' I was really disappointed of what I finally saw.The marriage of flesh, mind and machinery. Can the machine, or artificial intelligence become self aware? What makes humans human? Can a self aware entity become human if it can live, give birth and finally die like everyone else. These are the question and the holding theme of the movie. And it brings nothing new to these questions. Philosophical babble flings left and right among pretty imaginary yet I was left more bored than amused. I felt nothing for the characters, thus their existence became secondary for me.'Ghost in the Shell' has a couple of effective and well directed scenes in it but overall, after considering all the great things said about it, I really couldn't see why this film has been chosen as a marker of sci-fi anime of this genre. Maybe people settle for lesser things than I've thought or maybe I'm not japanned enough... yet. "},{"Title":"Looks pretty. That's all.","Date":"15 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" In the future, everyone's half-robot (usually more) and souls are called Ghosts and can be manufactured like Cheez-Wiz or Toyotas. So we've got ourselves a naked robot lady. She communicates with the other half-robots with her mind through this thing called the Net. She's got skin that goes invisible like the Predator. And she's super mad. Why? someone's using the Net to hack into a bunch of the half-robots and make 'em do stuff they don't want to do. So what? Well, it's a conspiracy. Big surprise. Big Corporation #124556 took this, like, 10% robot guy who was good at hacking, killed him, and put his memories in a robot. They called him the Puppet Master and employed him to employ other half-robots to do their dirty work. Oh no. So the naked robot lady's gotta get to the bottom of it. And she does. Oh yes, she does.So basically this movie's plot is mediocre. Now, it's not as lame as, say, Idle Hands or From Justin to Kelly. It's okay. But basically you have a pretty picture (that includes naked ladies) with lots of guns and and fancy 3d stuff that was probably pretty killer back in 1995.Overall Respectable. Barely. 7/10 "},{"Title":"The most overrated anime in history. Read the manga instead.","Date":"8 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  Oh, boy this is one of the worst movies I've seen in my life. Akria had a plot you could follow, characters you could understand, and even a sense of humor. This has THE most boring, stupid characters in any anime I've seen. The only reason this film is such a hit is because the main character, a female cyborg runs around naked several times. Big deal, I'll watch Original Sin when I want nude girls. I watch anime because it's more than just pretty pictures. I read part of the manga, and it's by far superior to this waste of shelf space. Thank God the library had this, because it would have been a waste of rental money for me. Graphic violence. Ha! There's only one scene where a man's head explodes, and it goes by so fast, there really wasn't any point. The visuals are the only true saving grace they're simply some of the very best to this day in animation, but others today are coming very close. Do yourself a favor and try the manga - it's easier to follow, has way better character development, and is longer. "},{"Title":"an extremely well-crafted and surprisingly deep piece of anime","Date":"8 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  The fact that a lot of people that worked on the classic Akira was reason enough for me to pick this fantastic film up. and it doesn't disappoint in the least bit.The animation is stunning and exhibits a style and depth that is not seen in most anime. The characters move with great realism and the mixture of traditional hand-drawn art with computer graphics in certain spots is breathtaking.The characters are more fleshed out and interesting than most animated features and the plot is deep and multi-layered. The film makes some great points about what it truly means to be human without being preachy or pretentious.The only place where the film falters just a bit is the ending which is just a bit too ambiguous. The film just seems to end without any sense of true closure, but that may have been the point. Either way, if you're a casual fan of animation or a fanatic of anime, this film will quickly earn it's place as a classic.rating9 "}{"Title":"dedication","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  It took dedication to get through this movie.  Its pace is so slow that it put me to sleep the first time I tried to watch it.  The second time was a fight, but I made it through.  My girlfriend fell asleep both times.  In fact, she is still asleep as I type this!!The story takes a full hour to get interesting.  Once it did, the movie again takes numerous nonsensical turns into weird musical montages.  Maybe something is lost in the translation from Japanese.  Finally, the animation is very coarse...  difficult to watch compared to modern technology.In short, this movie is a good story that was simply poorly executed. "},{"Title":"Wow. This was bad.","Date":"22 September 2001","Score":"12 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  Ever read The Emperor's New Clothes?Where the main character is brainwashed to think Ghost... is a terrific film, or else everyone will think he is not so cool? That watching (nicely detailed) animation running around at 6fps is the definition of the best animation ever? That just because the main character runs naked all the time, it doesn't mean the film is full of gratuitious nudity? That the plot is incoherent, incomprehensible, and, ultimately, just bad? That if you like Disney movies, then you don't know a thing about real animation?Wait. That wasn't The Emperor's New Clothes, was it? "},{"Title":"The best anime for first timers.","Date":"1 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" If you have not seen this anime go out, right now, and buy it. I can not implore you enough. To start off, the artistic style is amazing. I have not seen a anime that except for Akita(By the way see that too) that brought me to such emotion except for this. secondly the characters and dialog are three dimensional the are as complex as real human beings. And lastly, the story. What I can say about this story is only barred by a character limit. The ideas and messages of this anime are philosophical! The ideas of what life truly is was questioned. The idea that we have a soul is questioned. The story is as complex as the characters that star in it. several times i felt like i was watching a movie written by one of the grate Greek philosophers! Yeah, it is that good. it is so complex that you have to watch it several times just to understand half of it! "},{"Title":"A sleek and sexy cyber-punk classic","Date":"3 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" Ghost in the Shell (GITS) is an iconic and influential anime (adapted from the manga series). On the surface, it's a sci-fi action flick, but underneath this cool exterior lies a deeply complex storyline, rooted in philosophical ideas such as the relationship between man and machine, the insecurities of mankind, and the things that make humans human.The storyline for GITS is fresh and original. In the year 2029, the world's craving for information is more ravenous than ever. The biggest crimes now take place within the interactive network, where hackers attempt to take control of individuals in the network. The main character, Major Kusanagi, (who bears a resemblance to a more voluptuous version of Luc Besson's Nikita) and her partner, Batô (... Duke Nukem?) hunt the most dangerous hacker in cyber-crime The Puppet-master. From the first frame to the last, the animation is fluid and stylish, and the artwork focuses on a dull blue color scheme, creating a moody and cold atmosphere that the cyber-punk genre is known for. Character designs are very articulate, particularly Kusanagi's. Half the time, her flawless body is drawn completely naked, or with her skin-tight therm-optic camouflage suit. A lot of thought went in to the creation of her character, and this is not solely concerning her physique. In other animes, characters are drawn blinking in order to humanize them, but throughout GITS Kusanagi will stare off, unblinking. Mamoru Oshii intended to portray her as a doll, and the blank stare conveys that persona. Batô is her loyal sidekick in the story, and serves as a light-hearted character, who seems to be more of a human than a cyborg. To add to the relationship between these characters, they were given names that carry an interesting mythos. Kusanagi is the sword of the eight-headed beast, Orochi, and Batô is Mandarin for eight-headed. This added fluff behind the character design gives insight to how seriously Mamoru takes his storytelling. Mamoru is very tasteful in his utilization of intense action sequences. He realized that if he had bombarded the viewer with non-stop no-holds-barred combat and violence throughout the movie, he would have dug himself into a hole--a hole in which he would be incapable of providing an emotionally satisfying climax for the audience. He progresses GITS at a gorgeously slow pace, meticulously placing each intense action sequence in the film's sweet spots. GITS is definitely a thinking man's anime film, and not a mindless fast-paced slug- fest. It instead takes a less conventional approach to it's pacing--an anime of this sophistication demands a tasteful, slow ride up the plot ladder. Music adds substantially to the atmosphere of the film. The mix of the synthetic sounds and the tribal drums help darken the mood. In particular, there is a recurring choral song that seems to haunt Kusanagi in her pursuit of the Puppet-master. This is the core song of the film, and has likely haunted audiences as well--it's gorgeously arranged and repetitive. The English voice-overs are fairly decent for an anime film. Some are appropriately stoic and cold, with the cyborg characters taken into consideration. There are some points when the delivery of some important dialogue ought to be a little more emphasized, but this is a minor complaint that will otherwise go unnoticed with the positives of this film in consideration. While a little rough around the edges, this film is a landmark achievement in the anime world, being one of the first anime features to appeal to non-anime fans. Just like the lovely Kusanagi, GITS is a thing of beauty, from the outside in. 4.5/5 "},{"Title":"One of the finest anime films of all time","Date":"29 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" I very much enjoy and appreciate anime, and Ghost in the Shell is no exception. In fact Ghost in the Shell is not just one of the finest anime films not to have Studio Ghibli's name on it, but also ever. The animation is breathtaking to watch, ethereal, fluid and very detailed. The score is one of all-time favourites, I love music(especially film music, classical and opera) and from the enchanting melodies and vocals Ghost in the Shell is no exception, really drawing you in. The script is one that really makes you think, it's a very ambitious and thoughtful one with its scientific and philosophical elements. The story is unique and compelling right from the start to the end, the characters engage and the voice work(more in the subbed rather than dubbed version) is very dynamic. I can understand why some may be underwhelmed by the ending, first time I saw Ghost in the Shell I was, but now I don't have a problem with it, and even if I did it would not stop me from loving this film any less than I do. Overall, amazing, one of the best of its kind. 10/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Exploring the nature of the human soul","Date":"16 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" This movie takes on some of the themes that Dark City explores, namely the nature of the soul (or ghost as this movie refers to it), the nature of who we are and sentience in general. Like Dark City, this movie deals with the ability to program human memories and thus change our identity. In this movie, the programming is done through computers by hacking into the person's brain and then rewriting the brainwave patterns. This movie also looks at technological advancement and questions its morality. Will we advance to a point where technology will become sentient and turn on us? Ghost in the shell is based around a group of officers belonging to an organisation known as section 9. These cops are heavily enhanced through cybernetics and deal with cyber-criminals. They are chasing a criminal known as the puppet master, who has done everything from terrorism to theft of information. He is a threat because he seeks to undermine international security. The puppet master is very dangerous because he hacks into people's souls (ghosts) and rewrites them and thus uses them to further his gaols. His goals are never really quite clear but this is not what Ghost in the Shell is looking for.The title of the movie suggests the theme of the movie. Can technology reach a point to where we can transfer our bodies and retain our soul? And is the soul something that can be programmed and manipulated? This movie seems to suggest that it is, and it is our soul that makes us human, everything else is simply a shell. We are focused on the cyborgs and they are contrasted with a police officer who has only a phone installed in his head. Yet we notice that the cyborgs are as human as the police officer. They still enjoy the pleasures of life and seek to experience more. The drawback is that their body is owned by the government and thus they have less freedom than those with a flesh body. Even so, they are still human.Sentience is another theme. It questions the structure of our soul and raises the idea as to whether such souls will develop through rapid technological advancement. In an evolutionary way, with the creation and development of cyberspace, the possibility of cybercreatures appearing is theorised. This movie jumps straight to sentient cybercreatures who have no form but a program, though they are very dangerous for they can manipulate the outside world through technology. Such a creature is generated in Lawnmower man, but he was first a human. Ghost in the Shell suggests that such a creature arose out of our ignorance of what we were developing.Ghost in the Shell is a brilliant manga movie. At first I thought it was slow, but the second time I realised that though there is good action, the ideas that are prevalent throughout make it a top rating movie.Favourite Quote Just your standard issue big gun, borrowed it from section 9 armoury and decided to keep it. Sorry that I'm a bit late, had to go home and get it. "},{"Title":"Ghost in the Shell is a well-executed and substantive film worth both watching and thinking about.","Date":"15 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" Ghost in the Shell was and is a great example of both sci-fi and anime, and is widely regarded as the film which opened western audiences up to the concept of a serious anime. This is an excellent movie which expects something of its viewers and gives much to those willing and able to meet the challenge.This film explores what it means to be a person in a post-cyberpunk near future where people and technology have begun to meld. For the most part, this is done with esoteric, fast-paced dialogue between the main character (the Major) and her companion (Batou). It may feel to some as though these conversations were inserted not for the betterment of the work, but rather the reception thereof. At times characters give somewhat long philosophical and/or expository speeches; one should keep in mind the difficulties of explaining a universe and expressing thoughts so complex as those in this film -- contrived monologues are often necessary.There are brief sequences containing nudity and/or violence. These are spaced out and well-done, with no scene featuring either being at all gratuitous and an in-universe explanation of why what nudity there is is present.There is much artistry in the film's presentation. Even the beginning credits are beautiful just as they serve a purpose. Not only was the visual style thoroughly enjoyable, but so too was there the mark of a great craftsman on Ghost in the Shell's audio; during the climax there is beautiful audio-visual dissonance which uses the uncanny valley to great effect. The score lends itself to the piece's mood etc and could stand apart from GITS and still be regarded as good. One would be hard-pressed to find unnecessary material in this film, though this may contribute to a vague feeling of the story being rushed and, perhaps, unfinished.The main characters are somewhat angst-ridden, a fact evident in their questioning of their own humanity along with their other musings. This is likely because the director attempted to establish a very particular mood, using dialogue to that end. Some viewers will become lost in the rapidly shifting world set twenty minutes into the future in which the story takes place; references are often made to concepts from advanced sociology and philosophy. Nietzche was not unknown to the writers, this much is clear.Western audiences may be bothered by the ending of this film. In American cinema it is considered bad form to leave any loose ends or major questions at a piece's close. This is a Japanese film and their different opinion on the matter is evident. Some criticize Ghost in the Shell for its ending not expressly answering the existential questions posed throughout the film. However, this movie was not meant to answer, but rather ask. The ending of GITS leaves an emptiness meant to be filled by the viewer's ruminations on what was said and, more importantly, what wasn't.One should watch the subbed version rather than the dubbed one. There were certain script changes which were in bad taste.9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Darker and grittier than the Comic","Date":"12 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" (www.plasticpals.com) Masamune Shirow's Ghost in the Shell, a sci-fi manga originally published back in 1989, was the inspiration behind the 1995 anime film directed by Mamoru Oshii. He and his Patlabor alumni take the Gibson-esque cyberpunk aspects of the setting they enjoyed most, ditching the humor and much of the character of the graphic novel. Interestingly, Shirow's first experimentation with digital media was mirrored by that of the film's production, which utilized what were at that time revolutionary digital visual effects. The result is a stark, more realistic vision of the future than that presented by Shirow, but one still over-run by problems emerging from society's new interconnectedness with technology.What could be called the internet 3.0 is ubiquitous. The main character, Major Motoko Kusanagi of Public Security Section 9, is a cyborg who's body is on loan from the government. She connects to the network through wires in her spinal cord, accessing information directly with her consciousness &#x96; her ghost. Like a computer program, ghosts can be hacked turning otherwise normal or modified humans into walking puppets. Simulated experiences - implanted false memories for example &#x96; are used as a template to control whole patterns of behavior so a hacker need not take direct control. The story centers around the exploits of an enigmatic hacker pulling strings on a multinational scale known only as the Puppet Master who may or may not be human.GITS-001 The film made an impact when it was released, not unlike that of Akira when it hit the international film circuit. It's a difficult science fiction film of the sort Hollywood cannot make dense without explanation; and much too hard to follow for the average movie-goer. For those well-versed in cyberpunk lore there isn't anything too new or groundbreaking. It's the excellent art direction based on the gritty, overcrowded streets of Hong Kong and Kenji Kawai's haunting musical score that lifted this above the typical cyberpunk fare, putting to shame its contemporaries like Johnny Mnemonic. It so redefined the cyberpunk aesthetic that many consider it the primary source of inspiration for the Wachowski Brother's sci-fi blockbuster The Matrix (an assertion with which I'm inclined to agree).There can be no question that Ghost in the Shell is an important film, a kind of spiritual successor to Blade Runner, which thankfully stands apart from Shirow's graphic novel. The two are quite different, and can be enjoyed for their own quirks and qualities. Unfortunately, there is a GITS 2.0 (renewal) version of the film made to take advantage of advances in CGI. Scenes from the original have been altered or outright replaced with computer graphics. As a fan of the original film, I see this renewal as completely unnecessary. "},{"Title":"Believable, yet unbelievable at the same time.","Date":"26 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" I was born the very same year this film was released - 1995. And is one of my favourite films from 1995, alongside Goldeneye. In fact, Ghost in the Shell by Mamoru Oshii is perhaps one of the greatest anime films to have ever been produced.In the year 2029, Major Motoko Kusanagi (Mimi Woods) of the Sector 9 Security Service is a cyborg with very human traits. She eats, sleeps, breathes, and even talks like a human, but in a society where cyborgs are replacing humans for government work, cyborgs are being repulsed by the masses. As such, anarchy breaks out. The Puppet Master - a master hacker who is a cyborg itself - breaks loose and starts to hack the humans' 'ghosts'; their minds which carry their memories and thoughts, and the Puppet Master manipulates these thoughts and memories as he sees fit. However, it is caught in a road accident, with the appearance of a nude woman. Because of this, the Puppet Master is incomplete, but still alive. It is up to Major Kusanagi and her right hand men Batou (Richard Epcar) and Togusa (Christopher Joyce) to stop the Puppet Master's terror and save the masses from the ghost hacks.This film was highly acclaimed by James Cameron himself, saying that this film was the first truly adult animation film to reach a level of literary and visual excellence. I agree with his comments, as the film was one of pure genius and passion. Even the directors of The Matrix said that this film was what inspired their film.The plot it unlike most anime plots for the time. It's generic now, but at the time no-one had thought of something like this. Now, cyborg-cop plots are incorporated in The Matrix, or Deus Ex. I guess it could be said this IS Deus Ex.The animation, for example, is so fluid, you can barely tell when the frames are passing, it is that smooth. And unlike most anime, where the body is anatomically changed for the anime stereotype of cuteness, this film breaks this concept of that by having everything anatomically correct, from head to toe. Though, there are some characters in the film whose fingers split up into multiple prongs to type faster.Ghost in the Shell does have a tendency for the main character, Major Kusanagi, to strip down naked during some scenes, though most of these are for what missions she is undertaking. These usually include the stealth missions. Her cybernetic body allows her to use equipment which changes her in ways, such as making her invisible, enhancing her muscles, etcetera.The music is magical. It's on the level of Akira, with its score. It was composed by Kenji Kawai, and features female chanting and vocals, and percussion used in Shinto prayer (taiko drums). The lyrics of the intro song 'Making of a Cyborg' are sung in ancient Japanese, and are pretty much different to what Japanese now (the movie isn't even set in Japan). Even so, the soundtrack is still amazing.This is one of the first anime films to successfully cross anime with computer graphics (the first being Macross Plus), and was one of the first successful attempts at doing so. There is nary a problem with the CGI/anime crossover here, and it's great that it tried to mix the two together. In fact, I'm willing to say that the two complement formats each other brilliantly.Despite it winning some Academy Awards and being nominated for some as well, this film didn't popularise anime as a genre. I assume the reason for that is because it was too un-Western and too alien to most Western places. Sure, Akira kick-started the engine of anime popularity in Western nations (and it was released 7-8 years before Ghost in the Shell, too), but it still fell slightly short of popularising the anime genre. However, Ghost in the Shell itself is one of the more popular anime films out, so while it failed to popularise the genre, it was still pretty popular, and has a good fan base.The film was based loosely off the manga, by Masamune Shirow, and featured a lot of key scenes from the manga excluded from the film. As such, this spawned a TV series called Ghost in the Shell Stand Alone Complex. The series sticks a lot closer to the manga, and the film itself got a sequel - Innocence - as well as a remake, called Ghost in the Shell 2.0, which reused the voices, but also remade the entire movie, by upgrading the computer graphics, and bettered the quality of the characters' designs. However, the remake was lesser favoured than the original, so it may not be worth seeing, unless you want to.Usually, English dubs in anime are hit and miss. Examples of good dubs are Neon Genesis Evangelion, and Azumanga Daioh (different genre, still anime). Examples of bad dubs include the original English Akira dub, and One Piece (again, different genre but still anime). Ghost in the Shell is a great dub, and the voice acting fits most of the situations better than some other anime, although there is a little vocal hyperbole at points, where the voices are a little too deep, or exaggerated to make it look as though they were the tough guys. It's a good dub, but a little too exaggerated. Strangely enough the voice actor Mimi Woods, who was Kusanagi's voice actor, appeared in almost nothing after this work.Overall, I give Ghost in the Shell 92% - it's a thrill from start to finish, and has that undeniable classic feeling to it that you don't really notice in other anime. It's great, and it's pretty great to watch. Just don't go getting your ghost hacked. "},{"Title":"Ghost in the Shell (1995)","Date":"28 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" Overspecialize, and you breed in weakness. It's slow death.This is the story of a cyborg cop and her team, on a mission to catch a thief. The animated movie has interesting direction, good animation, great music but a weak script.Director Mamoru Oshii goes old school, in this movie. His technique reminded me of Tarkovsky's movies. There are moments when the camera simply stops in place, lost in a long contemplation, as people go in and out of the picture. There is also the use of water. Water is a mirror, reflecting the reality above, around and beyond it.Other than that, the action scenes are well done, and during dialogues the camera has a way of focusing on the person who listens, not on the one who is talking, which may be confusing, at first, but then it becomes quite interesting. The camera moves a lot, and the director makes a point out of filling in the entire space around the characters.The animation is good, a bit dated by today's standards, maybe, but still very well done. The characters are interesting, and the surroundings are full of small, fine touches, of which some may seem like overkill, at first, but they all add to the atmosphere of the movie.The music is great. The leitmotif is haunting, it is surprising and quite stirring. It also complements very well the images on the screen.The script, however, is the weak point of the movie. It it too short and it fails to explain just what is going on in this movie. It starts well, it has great pacing and it builds nicely, but then it grinds to a halt about midpoint and it never gets going again. The main premise of the movie remains unexplained just what is a ghost and how does somebody hack into it? Are all humans cyborgs? Do they all have artificial bodies? Or just a few?On a deeper level, the script tries to touch on a more interesting problem what exactly do humans feel, if you take away their body? Are they still humans? Or something else? Are they still capable of love and devotion?Ghost in the Shell. A good action anime, that develops a midlife crisis. 7/10. "}{"Title":"Dubbed American version zaps the meaning, but not the strength of direction","Date":"13 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" Some films lose something in translation. Ghost in the Shell pushes a lot of philosophy, and sadly when you're stuck with a dubbed version streaming on Netflix, the wooden expression behind the dialogue fails to truly communicate these sophisticated ideas. The artistic and almost meditative direction of Mamoru Oshii comes across without interference from cultural boundaries, but Ghost in the Shell is tough to follow from the American perspective and its potential for poignancy shut out thanks to bad voice acting and general language translation.As far as how one would animate a futuristic film steeped in technological references and with a story populated by cyborgs, Oshii quite honestly nails it. Masamune Shirow's manga clearly focused on the question of what makes us human and Oshii's direction so perfectly captures the combination of human and mechanical elements. From the captivating title sequence as we see the birth of our hero, Kusanagi, there's an immediately striking contrast and blend of natural and manufactured beauty. Almost all the settings and directorial choices reflect that balance as well.Kusanagi is a cyborg police officer in a future where most people's brains and souls or ghosts exist in mechanical bodies. She and her unit are on the case of a renowned hacker called The Puppet Master, who ultimately challenges what she believes in. I wish I could explain with any depth, but most of it was lost on me.Kusanagi draws you in as a cyborg protagonist. Oshii paints her as this fragile doll of sorts, with lingering shots expressive of deep thought which we might not normally believe a cyborg capable. Although her behavior outside of that deep dialogue is mostly mechanical, we care for her rather instantly.She can also kick some ass, which is important in this film. The action is much grittier than usual anime fare but with the same artistic flair you'd expect from the genre.Occasionally some long scenes without dialogue and just music come into the picture to allow focus on the well-animated world of Section 9. The pause doesn't help matters of focus, but it does highlight the undeniable strengths of the film the technical aspects and the animation.I would honestly have to watch this film again to understand it, so perhaps a higher score would come with a second viewing as it warrants this many stars on art and direction alone.~Steven CVisit my site at http//moviemusereviews.com "},{"Title":"Yes, this movie rocks.","Date":"8 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" Just watched it dubbed last night. Absolutely fine.Movie was OK, better than most of the crap coming out of Hollywood, certainly more depth to the concept than 'Click', (just for instance, of course).Beats pants off 'A.I'. Nice to see where the Wackowski's sourced much of their material from.OK, so I was really quite drunk last night, and I'm gonna watch the movie again soon to enjoy it sober.Everything the other guy says about the scenic montage, that's true. These scenes reminded me of Myung-se Lee's Nowhere to Hide and the amazing shots of falling rain. It's a great opportunity to relax from the intense plot for a moment and just feel immersed in the characters world.On the other hand, and it may be the booze that experienced this, the concept of a 'ghost' is never defined (as far as I could tell at least), and it's up to the viewer to define this aspect for themselves. At least it's clear the characters understand what each other are talking about ! All in all a great movie and one I'd be happy to recommend. "},{"Title":"Quite entertaining","Date":"27 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" I was curious about Ghost in the shell because of all those people who said that Matrix was a plagiarism of this animation movie. As for the movie itself I must say it's so entertaining, full of futuristic philosophy, the animations are just OK, and the script has such rhythm (although is a little bit confusing and hard to follow -or maybe I'm getting too old for this kind of products-).Regarding to the accusations of plagiarism, well, there are many points in common with Matrix the titles, some characteristics of the characters (the way they're connected to each other with those receivers in the nape).In short quite entertaining and much more serious than most of nowadays futuristic cinema.*My rate 7/10 "},{"Title":"about as visually striking as futuristic/sci-fi anime can get; possibly Oshii's finest achievement","Date":"17 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" This has been counted by some as one of the best anime films, particularly out of the Manga group, of the 90s, and even by some die-hard cultists as one of the all-time great science fiction films. I might argue that not to be so; it's too short to really take its full-on effect, and at the moment my view on the film is slightly taken aback by having seen the dubbed version- about as talky, if not more so, than A Scanner Darkly and even more loaded with exposition. But nevertheless I do recognize for certain Ghost in a Shell's total strengths, which are combining the elements of traditional hand-drawn animation, computer effects, and some kind of extra futuristic element that perfectly corresponds with the story. All of the sights that go by in the city-scapes and big electronic machines and weaponry and so on and so forth are about as close to being the anime equivalent of Blade Runner. It's a triumph, in that sense, of production design and technical grandeur. Even the musical accompaniment, especially the fairly chilling opening theme, is quite keen. If sometimes the plot becomes convoluted, it's not too much to bear; as long as you pay attention- not like the sci-fi that might whiz past you in its dumbed state- it's not much of a stretch. It does leave off on a sort of open-ended note (see other running anime series and sequel for possible details), and one that puts a lot of philosophical contemplations to go alongside the techno-wizardry, violence, and cyborg-nudity. But as it stands, Ghost in the Shell is worth it to check out, even just regular casual observers of anime. It doesn't leave the immediate wallop of a classic like Fist of the North Star, but it also doesn't leave you disappointed either. It has me anticipating the original Japanese language version far greater now that I know the dubbed-version's limitations. "},{"Title":"Beautiful, philosophical, ahead of its time","Date":"10 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" I remember loving anime when I was about 13 and I especially loved this film. I watched it again recently and I have no idea how I understood it back then. To be honest I probably just liked the fact that it was a cartoon with violence. The second time round the film blew me away. Every part of it has been crafted beautifully, the animation is second to none, the futuristic city scape's are absolutely awesome and the computer sequences look like live action computers. The story is quite confusing, but like the best films it becomes much clearer the more you see it and each viewing offers new perspectives. The underlying themes to the film are what makes this film so good though. Clever usage of monologues delivered by cyborgs convey some deep philosophical thoughts on the nature of human life, things which I think we all wonder about sometime (well at least I hope we all wonder about). I'd recommend you watch this film in Japanese with the subtitles because I've watched both versions and some of the English dialogue is completely different to the subtitles (I think you should always watch a film as the creators planned it to be seen)some may find this a little difficult but it is well worth the extra effort. The only down point is that the film, at about 1hour 15minutes, is so short. But what is in the film is near perfection. "},{"Title":"Cartoon Naked Robo-Women Ponder Meaning of Life, Exploding Heads Ensue In Both Movie and Audience","Date":"12 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" Ghost in the Shell is an odd movie. It's like an adult sci-fi philosophical picture book, only the pictures have lips that move and occasionally something blows up. There are long periods where you're just looking at a still picture with flapping lips. I personally don't mind this too much, but at least in that other movie Akira they bothered animating people's faces completely when they talked. But the actual story, that is the thing that these pictures are flapping their lips about, is really quite good, but it's pretty much impossible to follow the first time through, particularly if you're just listening to the dub. There are some really striking sequences, many of them involving the main robo-girl wearing very little, and at least one five minute stretch where nothing happens plot-related and we just get to look at stuff, and unfortunately none of it belonging to the main robo-girl. For an 80 minute movie, I think it feels too long and too short. Too long because it seems to feel the need to just show off its detail and bring whatever momentum there is to a standstill a few times, and too short because it's freaking AWESOME!Yes, in spite of whatever qualms I have listed, the movie is, frankly, pretty awesome. The only thing that really sucks about it is that I can't fantasize about the main robo-girl without remembering she has no sexual organs. It's the most philosophical movie to ever have naked girls making people's heads explode within the first five minutes--which in itself is pretty philosophical. "},{"Title":"Very Interesting","Date":"26 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" This is definitely one of the best animation movies I have seen. Dark and grim atmosphere through the whole of the movie, kept my mind working constantly on what was going in it. Actually I re-winded back the movie a couple of times to understand better what was said. I like science fiction, though this theme of androids ( robots generally ) , becoming aware of their entity, was done more than a lot before and after Ghost In The Shell ( But I saw them earlier than this one). Still Ghost In The Shell maintains some level of originality, especially the terms Ghost and Shell, which are the soul and the body referring to human. The plot itself is great, and it's revealing is amazing. The dialogs, characters' thoughts and the action couldn't be better.Another thing is that Ghost In The Shell didn't left me emotionally indifferent. I don't mean to that it made me think about it's context,but I developed some sympathy towards the characters. I strongly recommend this movie to anyone who likes Japanese/eastern films, which exhibit strong naturalism and high detailing. "},{"Title":"Yawn","Date":"31 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  Man I tired to like it but it put me to sleep both times I tried to watch it.  So I don't know, it could have been good if I had stayed awake, but then again if it was good it probably wouldn't have put me to sleep.  The animation is pretty amazing, I'll give it that much.  Maybe if I tried watching it again and stayed awake I could enjoy the story but then again I don't think it's worth the effort.  I do suspect that a lot is lost in translation making the movie hard to follow and thus inducing said slumber. "},{"Title":"An Anime classic","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  This is the second best anime of all time, the best being Akira. It's also a forerunner to The Matrix. The plot is rather confusing on first viewing, but if you watch it again, it will be easier to follow. There's a lot of the usual Manga nudity and violence, but the film is absolutely dazzling. 8.5/10. "},{"Title":"Great anime but its too long and long scenes dont help it","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  Ghost in the shell is a great anime movie, but its nothing I havent seen before real characters with issues, govt coverups, greedy corporations, robots who have human entities, i can think up a couple of titles that use these subjects.However American animation cant touch this. The movie revolves around a female cyborg and her companion who fight crime , I am not going to reveal anymore as not to spoil the scenes.If you want to see the best anime movie rent or better yet buy Macross Do you remember Love? Why is it the best because this movie was ahead of its time (1982) and every anime movie ive seen borrows a little from this movie.I doubt though many people have seen it, since it is out of print, but rent Ghost in The Shell it will give you a taste of great anime. The only complain in this film is that it could have had 15 to 30 minutes of dialogue removed, it slows down the action. "}{"Title":"A famous and classic anime","Date":"16 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  Ghost in the Shell is a classic anime at this time. I do think it's a really deep story, and you'll have to sort of focus and concentrate to be fully aware of what's happening, all due fast action bound up together with a unique and complex story - And I like it!I really enjoy the description of the characters and how the whole story develops to the end. This is a must to have in each animefreaks moviecollection, nothing beats owning the original!Time to freak out - put this thing in your VCR!See this, you won't regret it! I didn't -) "},{"Title":"Brilliant! Just Brilliant!","Date":"31 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  The animation on the film was excellent! A decent political storyline, hey it's a little far fetched but hey! thats what animation should be all about! )10/10 "},{"Title":"A Beautiful Shell, but Needs a Better Ghost","Date":"8 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" I believe one of the hardest things in reviewing this anime today is trying to determine what made it so popular when it was released. As beautiful as it looks and how compelling its story is, I find that Ghost in the Shell lacks a personal touch that could have made it far greater.Oshii's vision of the manga is dark, serious and uses some amazing cinematography that, while no longer as amazing by today's standards (and even the film's sequel), still offers a groundbreaking look at the efforts to merge art and animation. The story is very smart and engaging as well, offering a wide range of metaphysical concepts that have gone so far as to inspire another philosophical (and more action-packed) phenomenon, The Matrix. If anything, the film makes you think a great deal about the ideas it produces (or pulls from the manga), possibly producing your own questions or theories in regards to what is real, who and what we are, and so on.But while the art and intelligence of Ghost in the Shell is powerful in itself, I would have gladly sacrificed a chunk of it to give the film a little more heart. The characters - even good-humored Batou - feel bland and unimportant in the film, offering little more than an outlet to spew plot points and keep the story going. The movie also relies heavily on waves of philosophical monologues that, while interesting, slow the movie down to the point where you're basically watching a still screen with the voice track playing over it. Compelling as the film is, I've had actual lectures that have kept me interested longer than some of Ghost in the Shell's more spiritual moments. If you have a short attention span, you probably won't last through this film; other than a few brief bursts, the film lacks the energy to keep the restless and fidgety glued to their seats for long.Oshii deserves credit for his efforts, but Ghost in the Shell is still a film that relies too heavily on its look and not enough on its personality. It truly is a beautiful Shell, but the Ghost within doesn't do it justice. FINAL SCORE 6/10 "},{"Title":"An overrated and bland adaptation of an amazing manga by Shirow","Date":"11 August 2005","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" Kôkaku kidôtai was a movie I was so highly anticipating. I loved the manga since it started. I finally found the time to see the movie, and I was surprisingly disappointed. The characters were stripped of any personality at all, they all seemed the same, with actors just as bland. The story is absolutely terrible. They stripped the ENTIRE story into a paper thin version of the Puppeteer background in the manga, filling in the spaces with watered down parts from the manga, added material that sucks etc. One of the time fillers was a boring 12 minute scene of Kusanagi just looking around while they were on a boat with music that's not bad, but it really downs your mood. The animation is great, but unfortunately the movie is way to overrated. Skip this one, for the love of god, SKIP IT!!! Go out and buy Kôkaku kidôtai by Masamune Shirow, he needs more recognition!! This movie totally tarnishes the graphic novel!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Couldn't finish it","Date":"13 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  Maybe interesting if you're into anime but I just couldn't join in with the story. Seemed contrived. I liked Akira & Heavy Metal, but this did not turning my crank. Animation was grainy the characters were thin as razors. The story might appeal to a pre-teen audience, but I would recommend most adults who've matured past thirteen (mental age) pass. "},{"Title":"Inspiration for THE MATRIX?","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  I don't normally get in to anime, but this movie was pretty entertaining. The animation is this movie is some of the best I have seen.  Not only is the artwork fantastically done, the movement of the characters is very realistic.  It almost looks like they rotoscoped some scenes, although I doubt they did that.  The plot, as you might expect, is a little thin and takes a while to develop fully.  But there is a good amount of action and violence.  At the beginning of the movie, a guy gets shot in the head and pretty much his entire upper half unzips like a water balloon hitting a windshield, exposing internal organs, a shattered spine, and plenty of blood in gooey detail.  The guns are extremely cool in this movie, and some are depicted with shocking destructive power, which I thought was really neat. Not to mention, you get to see some really sexy cyborgs, who have to take all their clothes off and fight naked all the time.  Thats always a bonus in my book.I rented this movie because I had heard that some of it had inspired the making of THE MATRIX.  I was surprised at just how much similarity I found. The green, full screen numbers of computer code are there.  The idea of existing inside an internet world controled by computer.  People logging in to the computer world with electrodes in the backs of their necks.  The silent, ominous agents with their powerful guns and sun glasses.  People with super-human abilities, jumping impossible distances and cracking the concrete they land on.  And of course, the entire concept of debating our own existence.  I have no idea just exactly how much inspiration the Wachowski brothers took from this movie, but there are certainly plenty of similarities.  However, there is also a lot of differences.  Enough that if you are a fan of THE MATRIX, you will definitely enjoy watching this movie.And, if nothing else, you get to see a very well drawn, anatomically captivating cyborg chick run around naked.Major complaints  Some of the writing was very soap opera-esque.  (In other words, the plot is explained to the audience in very obvious dialogue which is not well written.)High point aside from the naked chicks  The battle at the end with that super cool Spider/Tank thing.  When that thing was shredding the concrete pillars that the cyborg chick was hiding behind, that was really cool.One other similarity I noticed is, I watched the version with the English over dubbing, and by coincidence or not, the voice of the mysterious Ghost/Hacker character that is a lot like Morpheus in THE MATRIX, even sounded like Lawerence Fishburn.Too bad the plot was a little muddy.  I don't know why those anime movies always have problems with their plots.  Seems like the writers are trying too hard to make things complicated.   "},{"Title":"Visually stunning, a bit disappointing","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  Great production and animation; though sometimes I think the 'slow panning over a painting' gets a bit old.(minor spoilers ahoy)As one other poster said, this film borrows a ton from Blade Runner  it's in Hong Kong, we've got implanted memories, and artificial sentient life issues.  The antagonist is very much Roy Batty - and we get too little exposure to him apart from a couple of speeches.  The ending seemed abrupt and anticlimatic. "},{"Title":"Overrated, but still excellent","Date":"30 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  It is believed by many that Ghost in the Shell is the best manga-movie ever made.  I disagree, but don`t get me wrong, as I think Ghost in the Shell is excellent.  But I think that The Professional Golgo 13(10/10) is better. Ghost in the Shell has all the things that we`ve come to expect from the manga-movies a good story, excellent drawings, action and characters with big eyes.  Ghost in the shell succeeds in most areas, but the story can be hard to follow if you don`t pay attention all the time.  Therefore, you shouldn`t see this if you`ve had a couple of beers or have a headache or something like that. Ghost in the Shell is an excellent film! 8,5/10 "},{"Title":"I agree Surlent!","Date":"15 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  I hafta back up Surlent 101% here.The manga rocks! They should have had Masuamune Shirow direct it instead of Mamoru Oshii.Oshii-san had to put political preachy bunk in it.That is the #1 destroyer of anime!And it's too serious.Often times,camp and cheesiness can help in some situations here.Sure,it has great special effects and looks extremely realistic,but do excellent special effects ALWAYS make good movies?Flashback to Akira,Titanic,ID4,The 5th Element,Batman and Robin,Marooned and The Incredible Meltimg man.Sure.....they ALL had great graphix,but the story,the character development.....uuuuuuugh,dumb,dumb,DUMB!!!Imagine if G.I.T.S had bad special FX and animation,people won't watch it.So sad that people are starting to hate quality these days!At least the Video Game is based on the Manga. "},{"Title":"Stick to the Manga!","Date":"2 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  I enjoyed the Manga of Kokaku kidotai,so I saw the Anime. Sadly,it lacked the charm of the manga.Sure the animation is good,but remember,animation isn't everything.Personally,I thought Ghost in the Shell is THE most overrated anime movie since Akira.I was very disappointed on how the heroine was depicted.At least she actually looked something like a woman in the Manga.She looks so manly.I'm not saying the Anime is bad,just mediocre.The biggest thing that irked me is that the characters are soooooo serious.I remember in such Anime titles as Space Pirate Captain Harlock and SF Lensman,the characters actually smiled and laughed and there were jovial characters in there (even if they did get annoying sometimes).The characters there looked like they were having a good time.The characters in Ghost in the Shell barely smile or laugh.They looked pretty bored.There is a lot of action and FX,but it barely saved it from the fun that it's lacking. "}{"Title":"Misogynistic garbage, even for anime...","Date":"11 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" I revisited a classic recently. I'm a pretty big Anime fan and I lie pretty much in the norm concerning my tastes. I enjoy all the most revered of the genre Akira, Gundam, Evangelion, Princess Mononoke, etc. These are all more than just cartoons, they are films with all the baggage that label entails. But there is one highly rated Anime that I don't understand all the fuss over Ghost in the Shell. Supposedly this thing influenced the Matrix more than anyother source. I remember seeing it several years ago an not being impressed, so I decided to see it again hoping that it would have a better effect. It was worse than I could have imagined.This is a bad, bad movie on so many levels. First, and foremost, it is the most unapologetically misogynistic piece of crap I've ever seen... And not in a good way. There are certain kinds of misogyny that no man can help but enjoy, like girly magazines or Rolling Stones songs. Juvenile, but entertaining. Well, Ghost in the Shell makes Stray Cat Blues look like a tribute to the strength of the female of the species.While its true the two main antagonists of the film are both very powerful women, they are mistreated in such a way that is so grotesque I can't seem to find a funny metaphor. First of all, the main character is nude throughout most of the film for no reason, especially during combat scenes. Supposedly she has to be nude to use an invisibility device, but a male character uses the same device fully clothed. This is a silly kind of fanboy misogyny that they could get away with little more than a chuckle from me, but then they had to get into mutilation.You see, both main characters are robots that only look like humans, so they can take quite a bit of abuse without dying. Both characters are horrendously mutilated throughout the movie, losing limbs left and right, and usually being naked while its happening. In the end their upper torsos are dragged around like trash and put on display - their faces and breasts still intact. I guess those are the only parts that are important to the director who seems to want to make the titillation of the nudity and the violence if the dripping entrails into a single arousal. This is a new form of low in a movie that actually wants to be taken seriously. This could only come from the mind of someone who viscerally hates women and wants to see them humiliated in the worst possible way.To top it all off, like most pseudo-pornography, the plot is nonexistent. People will have you believe that it's all about the line between sentience and mechanism, but that's been done to death since Pinocchio. Dialog is purely scientific and lacks any humanity. Characters are purely two dimensional and never grow nor bring out feelings of sympathy from the audience. That's the worst problem about this film - it's all about the science and not about the humanity. Akira wasn't about human evolution, it was about two friends in a disproportionate relationship. Evangelion wasn't about giant mecha, it was about a semi-autistic 12 year old learning to trust others and love himself. Ghost in the Shell is all about computer viruses and disembodied titties, and that's why it sucks. It's nothing more that an technological version of Baywatch - that is if Pamela Anderson was ripped to shreds by a shark and her carcass was hung on the wall as a trophy... "},{"Title":"Visually clever, but lacks substance","Date":"15 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  I just managed to get a copy of this film on rental DVD.  I believed the hype - but was disappointed by the reality.Yes - it is visually very impressive, and the music is amazing.  But there's no substance to the characters and no exploration of their real feelings or relationships.  It's as deep as your average comic strip.So on the whole, I was disappointed.  It's the kind of film you can appreciate rather than become involved in.  And I never did get to grips with the plot - so I really didn't know who were the goodies and who were the baddies.  "},{"Title":"Blah-blah-blah-pow-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  WAYYYY too much chit-chat in this film.  Fine action sequences, left me wanting more - and I mean like in a dissatisfied way.  Yeah, the philosophy was deep, but with all that talking, they should have made this a radio drama instead.  Wake up, folks, film is a visual medium.As visually stunning as this film is, the animation looks about like it did when they made Speed Racer.  There's a lot more detail per frame, but the characters' mouths do not match the dialog, not by a mile (yes, I watched it in Japanese).  It's also very choppy (10-12 frames per second).  I realize it's a stylistic thing, but it would be nice if somebody took a baby step in the direction of better animation. "},{"Title":"erratic and lacking","Date":"1 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  Though this movie does have a few good moments and pretty good animation it is overall a grand disappointment. I dare say that the only people who will like this are those who never read the manga. The movie is seriously lacking so many of the elements of the original story line presented in the comic. Normally you can excuse it because they can't put it all in, but the result is a movie that makes very little sense by comparison, at times is tedious, and left me going What!? they screwed this all up! The manga is worth good out a reading (if you can find it) and to me is a classic in a way. Shirow is one of the best artists and a good storyteller, after you get past his blatant perversion.Don't see this, it's not worth it. Unless you got nothing better to do.  "},{"Title":"The title describes this movie all too well!","Date":"14 May 2011","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" I've seen Akira and this is almost an exact opposite. There is no real substance in this film. Literally a 3 minute shot of absolute nothing roaming the different scenery.Basically monotonous talking for an hour, as soon as the story starts to pick up the movie is over.Best part of this film was the ending. That you don't have to watch anymore of this blankness.If this is the best movie you've ever seen then just go watch Akira, blows this movie away in every area.I've seen Akira and this is almost an exact opposite. There is no real substance in this film. Literally a 3 minute shot of absolute nothing roaming the different scenery.Basically monotonous talking for an hour, as soon as the story starts to pick up the movie is over.Best part of this film was the ending. That you don't have to watch anymore of this blankness.If this is the best movie you've ever seen then just go watch Akira, blows this movie away in every area. "},{"Title":"decent but overrated","Date":"5 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  I watched this before reading the IMDB reviews, so I had no idea it was considered some sort of classic, and never could have guessed that from the movie itself.  It's a watchable movie.  The animation is good, although I've had more moments of wonder and awe from the animation of a single episode of Cowboy Bebop than from this whole movie.  It does a good job of combining the three favorite components of anime nudity, savage violence and contemplation on the nature of self.  The concepts feel a little underdeveloped, but you get the idea.  The story also feels a bit lacking.  The ending is especially weak, not for what happens but for the lack of preparation.  Motoko is a decent stock character but nothing more, and for the ending to resonate one needs a better sense of who she is.  The end result left me with a so-what feeling, and I give this 6/10. "},{"Title":"Sophomoric Philosophy","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  Spoilers herein.This story is just plain stupid. And I say this as someone steeped in SciFi, and especially investigations of created consciousness.There are some wonderful books to check out, depending on your taste. What makes these worthwhile is the deep ambiguity, from Golem through Frankenstein to P. K. Dicke.I suppose since these movies are for kids, they can't be any more sophisticated than Saturday morning cartoons. There are some haunting visuals here, but they have nothing to do with the story. Good science fiction creates a new world, extrapolated from now. What's extrapolated here are some corporate strengths and robotics. Same stupid guns, keyboards. text-based computer screens! Ordinary guns. An ordinary conspiracy.What's strange is that the robots are humanoid, girls with huge breasts and no genitals. What's the excuse? "},{"Title":"average","Date":"14 May 2001","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  (I watched the dubbed version) I do not understand why many reviews of this movie are negative and yet the review still votes 7/10.  I agree with most comments both positive and negative but when all is weighed in I cannot give this movie more than a 4/10.  Main drawbacks are confusing dialog filled with techno-cyborg-babble, &#127; two government agencies called section 6 and section 9 and it takes half the movie to figure out which one is which and who works for whom.  Also the Puppet Master was evidently a male that eventually ends up in a female body-- so why is the voice male?  And the final scene smacks of a homosexual encounter between two females-- even if they are cyborgs people should be aware of it....... "},{"Title":"Don't bother","Date":"13 August 2006","Score":"9 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" Finally saw gits. It was disappointing and way over hyped. Understandably it is about 10 years old so I'm probably wrongly comparing it against CGI and anime that I've recently seen. But hey this is my honest review. I've seen enough anime and sci-fi, Japanese and American to know the difference and sorry to say this one just doesn't cut it. But nevertheless i watch this story to the end, i found i was just not interested in the story and characters, and the dialogue were simplistic and insulting at times. yes there's a cyborg chick running around battling naked, which i didn't get, and was frankly gratuiuous. If you still feel urge to see this, probably because of the hype, just rent it. but i warned you.oh i remember it actually reminded me of my childhood watching G Force Battle of the Planets shows, which were entertaining as i was in grade 2. "},{"Title":"Complex, but no masterpiece","Date":"18 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  An interesting, and occasionally exciting anime, with a superb soundtrack and excellent visuals - the rain-washed city scenes are particularly effective. But the characters are poorly drawn , even for an anime, and their voices, with dull B-movie American accents, undermine the impact of the soundtrack. The plot is convoluted and confusing, with gaps and discontinuities which suggest substantial cuts and boring speeches which try - and fail - to excuse the plot's inconsistencies. It was more subtle than most animated science-fiction films - but this is a reflection less on this film than on the general run of SF on film. Overall, disappointing after all the hype about it. "}{"Title":"Over-rated","Date":"8 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  This film is way too over-rated. Sure the animation is good, but the story plot is a little weak, and most of the film is just talking. Let me tell you this, it's NOTHING compared to Akira.6/10. "},{"Title":"Simply Overrated.","Date":"20 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  Overrated. Though not as much as Akira.In early eighties, William Gibson created Cyberpunk genre with other fellow writers. The milestone novel was his Neuromancer Almost every aspect of Cyberpunk life is described in that novel and some other novels. Now what in Ghost in the Shell? Absolutely nothing. No concept in this anime is original.Cowboy Bebop is way better than this. "},{"Title":"Cold as a shell (DVD)","Date":"13 May 2010","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":" As a great fan of U2, maybe I picked up this movie because it features a track from Passengers (One minute warning). Unfortunately, I didn't hear this in the movie and worst, the movie is boring.The plot of a robot having human feelings and asking for its identity isn't news in science-fiction. As the masterpieces already exist (Blade runner; IA), the subsequent movies must truly find something specific to gather attention. This one fails The animation is slow which is anti climatic for the action sequences and dull the rest of time. Colors are sad and the story a bit complicated to understand.In conclusion, prefer Myasaki for poetry and Akira for science-fiction. "},{"Title":"Didn't like it at all - it ripped the original manga to shreads","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"7 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Mystery","Review":"  Unfortunately, this was an anime adaption of a really good manga. The manga was pretty good, even though I'm not into this genre very much.But since I enjoyed the manga (and the other works by this author), I thought I'd go see GitS with my friends.I almost fell asleep.They ripped apart the manga, getting rid of anything that I found of interest (the fujikoma were dispensed with, there was no comedy, the animation didn't look good - take a look at the GitS playstation game ... THAT is what the movie SHOULD have been like! - and they made all of the characters UGLY - they didn't look like themselves at all!) and they *changed the ending*!!As you can guess, I wasn't too thrilled. I won't say what the ending should have been, but it ticked me off no end.I thought it was awful, but because I loved the original manga, I guess I'm biased. "}]