[{"Title":"Disney at its finest.  A superb movie!","Date":"3 October 1999","Score":"39 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A Goofy Movie ranks upon my top 5 favorites.  It gives an accurate representation of adolescent life in an uplifting, comedic, and often heartwarming fashion.  The animation is good, the songs are great, the screenplay is superb, the voices fit each character perfectly (Especially Max's.  Good job Mr. Marsden!) and many nice cinematic effects are included. This kids movie is a real treat to the older, and, at times is symbolic of deeper messages.  A real winner that should be in the hands of any Goofy, Disney, or movie fan, for that matter!  "},{"Title":"I love this movie","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"31 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" OK, I'm a grown up man and I love this movie. I know I have kids but shouldn't I want to watch grown up films? Maybe this is actually just a good movie that adults and kids alike can enjoy.This is a well underrated full-length cartoon movie about Goofy taking his son Max camping for the summer vacation. You know what Goofy is like from his appearances in Mickey Mouse films and the name Goofy sums it up. To make things more interesting, Max is wanting to be the cool kid in school and his dad is an embarrassment.The trek across the States in Goofy's little car and all the madcap things that happen to them reminded me of the original Vacation film only for kids and a little funnier.The music in this film is excellent. Some of the tracks could have been singles in the charts in their own right. Maybe not nowadays though.If you have kids then they will love this film. If you don't have kids go to the video shop, hire it out and pretend it is for the kids. "},{"Title":"A great children's film!","Date":"26 April 2004","Score":"26 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  When I grew up I watched A Goofy Movie ritually, and it never ceased to entertain me. This is a great children's film and can still relate to today's kids. The humor is enjoyable, the characters are lovable. The music is definitely bearable, whereas with most musical animated films the songs can really grate on the nerves. Perhaps it's just because I practically was raised on this film that I enjoy it so much, but I have given it to my little brother and he loves it as well. It's a great experience for any kid and shouldn't be missed. It's even a little fun for adults, and I am not ashamed to say I still enjoy it as well. A Disney classic! 10/10 "},{"Title":"Great, clean fun with the irrepressible Disney hero","Date":"29 January 2005","Score":"28 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is a great, criminally underrated movie; that provides in equal doses, laughs, toe tappingly catchy songs and genuinely heartwarming moments as Goofy hits the road with son Max, for the summer vacation fun.In this movie, Goofy has more depth than one would probably expect from him, and his character is much better defined and explored than the Goofy that we see in Goof Troop. There is plenty of good slapstick humour, in the great traditions of Goofy cartoons, but there is also a genuinely heartfelt and touching undercurrent, that underpins the tumultuous, but always loving relationship between father and son. Mixed with some terrific music, this is a truly memorable movie that lovers of Disney and Family movies will want to watch again and again.Highly recommended. 10/10 "},{"Title":"More Then A Disney Kids Flick","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"18 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I remember the old Goof Troop show when I was a kid. It was fun but perhaps a too well  Goofy for me now. It was a cartoon after all, and when I heard about this movie I thought this would be the same. Boy was I wrong.This movie truly reaches out for kids, teens, and adults. The whole plot revolves around Max trying to get the girl, making a name for himself, and well not trying to be a complete Goof. So he does what all kids in real life do, well more or less. Basicaly he holds a little surprise concert in the middle of an assembly, with him starring as the schools favorite singer Powerline. Well he gets Roxanne's attention, but also that of his father who thinks maybe he should spend a little more time with his son, making sure Max will turn out to be a good kid.(The characters)Goofy Its good seeing Goofy trying to be a real parent. To me in Goof troop he was more like Max's older friend. Though Goofy doesn't seem to be as goofy as he was on the old cartoons, this shows something of a better side him. Trying to be a good father, who just wants to be part of his son's life.Max Well he's a teen now, and he certainly shows it. Really all he wants is an easier life. Plus to get the attention and heart of that one girl. I think he truly has the most character development of the entire cast. Making things right in the end with his dad and Roxanne.Pete/PJ Nice cameo characters, its also nice to see Pete and Goofy acting as better friends. PJ really hasn't changed much but these two truly have some of the best lines in the movie. One thing is I don't get why everyone's all confused on Pete's wife and daughter. He said in the store that he's taking PJ camping to strengthen the father/son bond. So its obvious that Peg and the girl are still at home doing their own thing.Roxanne Ahh that popular girl that steals the heart of Max. She seems like an interesting girl however she gets really little screen time, well not counting the visions Max keeps getting of her. I kinda wish she was in it more, so we could learn a bit more of her character. Well maybe if they do A Goofy Movie 3. Big Foot 3 words Funniest Character Ever!Music The Powerline songs really have to be my favorite. You don't hear R&B like this anymore. Of course I also like some of the instrumental pieces as well. Not to mention the After Today these songs really wanna make you dance more then just sing. I'm even thinking about getting the soundtrack.This movie really needs to be seen to get its true impact. Doesn't matter how old you are, hey I'm 17 and I think its great. So if your interested in a good family movie, or just want some humor and a good story, then this is the Disney movie for you. "},{"Title":"A movie that brings you the freshness of youth","Date":"10 October 1998","Score":"18 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is one of the best Disney films I have seen. If you are young, you will fully identify with the characters, and if you're not so young, this film will make you remember many things you left behind. The expression of the characters is sensational, the music is very good, the screenplay is fantastic, and there are lots of intelligent cinematography effects used. I find it a little short, but I'm sure that children will appreciate that (as far as I can remember, I never was able to watch a long movie when I was a child). My final rating is 8-9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Pretty solid","Date":"25 December 2001","Score":"15 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Goofy has always been one of my most favorite Disney characters and I always found it a shame he had no feature length film (like Mickey Mouse whom I really do not like that much). In 1995 though Goofy got his feature length film, but it took me until now to see it. It was not for rent here, but I was lucky enough to catch an English spoken version on it on German TV (films on German TV are usually overdubbed in German) so I was very happy to have caught it. I was not let down, neither by Disney, nor by Goofy. The movie was not as good as the Disney movies who are targeted for big audiences, but I still liked it quite a lot. The story was pretty realistic and good, there were enough laughs, but also some &#145;emotional' moments. All in all, something of everything and something for everybody. From me, that gets a7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Movie Awesome","Date":"5 March 2006","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Perfect, it's cartoon. The music is awesome. It's perfect, funny, and clever. A must see even though your not a fan of Disney or cartoons this one just pulls you right in. Max is such a cool kids. It gives a good message. It tells you how some people act. How lying is bad. How there are consequence's for your action. You have to watch this movie even though your not a Disney fan or you are just not into cartoons. Is good for both teens and children of any age. Adults will find it suitable. Just please go out and rent this movie. Its So Funny. I gave this movie a 10 out of 10 stars. I will never ever let so one borrow my VHS because a movie this good must be valuable one day. "},{"Title":"Dinsey gone Hip Hop","Date":"22 August 2003","Score":"15 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Max, the little eleven-year-old on Goof Troop, that's not him in this he's grown up, and this is not what I excpected, it's a rare movie they don't make often. The theme here is old-fashioned dad growing up in the 60's meets your typical 90's teenager. Max is a teenager in this movie after trying to impress Roxanne, the girl of his dreams by performing a Powerline concert with him without telling anybody, something that has great imagination. He gets busted and is threatened to get put in the electric chair so Goofy decides to take him on a fishing trip to Idaho. The films got great music that I enjoy listening to on tape. Max later changes the map so they can go to the Powerline concert in La cause he couldn't see it at the graduation party he had to miss. I can relate this movie to how we all fell sometimes as teenagers. Max is mean spiritted, and tries to avoid being around his dad, and is embarresed by him and slams him for being so old-fashioned and clueless to the teen culture. He evolves towards the end, and changes and is nicer and learns to appreciate and like being around his Goofy dad and except him. In one scence at the possum park Max almost says my life's a living hell but gets cut off by a possum which I got laughs from him decking the Chuckee Cheese like thing trying to Cheer him up in a geeky friendly way. The theme is an odd couple a 90's teen stuck with a goofy old-fashioned dad. This is one of the funniest, best Disney movies ever. There's plenty of slapstick comedy like on Goof Troop. "},{"Title":"Probably not what you'd expect.","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This one seemed to pass without notice in the theaters which is what I figured it deserved, but upon seeing it some time later on video I was surprised at how much fun this buddies on the road flick really is. Goofy is, for the most part, the lighthearted walking disaster we'd expect him to be.  But surprsingly enough, he shows a serious range of emotion, and actually pulls it off.  You really can sense his devotion to his son, Max, and you never have to remind yourself that Goofy would have ever been anything but a deeply caring father. It just works naturally as a genuine extension of his gregarious character.  Max himself is believably adoloscent, primarily concerned with getting asked to parties and getting the pretty girl to notice him and hoping his father doesn't publicly humiliate him (which he does, frequently), until his dad forces him along on a fishing trip which becomes a test of conscience for the both of them.  The movie mixes Goofy's classic slapstick comedy with serious drama and seems to know just when to switch gears to keep from getting too melodramatic or losing sight of the conflict at the center of the story.  In the end, the dramatic bits feel surprisingly honest and human and the comedy is, as I said, classic Goofy schtick.  It was made when Disney thought EVERYthing they did had to be a musical, but the songs here work into the story fairly easily, and a couple are even catchy.The only sad part is that the age group which could probably stand to learn the most from it will unequivocally find it uncool.  Oh well, the younger set as well as more mature people who love to laugh will find it plenty entertaining. "}{"Title":"Great Underrated Movie","Date":"23 February 2012","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I never though that this movie would be any good, until I saw it on Cinema when I was little. I didn't remember this movie to be that good until I re-watched it as an adult.This movie capture the relation between father and son perfectly. On one side you have a typical child having a crush on a girl as he tries to act cool and draws her attention in every opportunity, and on the other side is the most uncool father a child would ever wish to have that could ruin his reputation in an instant. Max values coolness greatly and tries to sever any relation he has with his goofy bloodline (even though his bloodline is occasionally catching up to him in the form of embarrassing Goofyish trademark subconscious laughs). Goofy on the other hand is the caring father, that is oblivious of the worlds recent trends, have no idea what being cool is or how his action can damage his son's reputation, and believe that every experience he had at his younger years, will work just as well on his son. Thus begin an journey where Goofy will learn to respect his son and realize that not two people are the same, and Max will have to accept and learn to appreciate his father for what he is.Also worth to note is that there is no main villain in this movie. Disney's traditional antagonist Black Pit plays an important role, but he never does anything bad, he does't sabotage the heroes's goal in any way, he don't wish bad for them, he does't get punished in the end, he even tries to help the occasionally with advices that he thinks are good. His role in the story is to represent a different opinion of how a father should interact with his son, and even though he is presented as the bad example, there is no solid proof that his model is entirely wrong.This movie could had worked as well with any random cast of characters, but for some reason Disney threw goofy in those shoes, and that was both good and bad. On the good side, Goofy's recognizably goofy and slapstick personality fits perfectly the uncool father, without making him annoying to the viewer. On the bad side, most people thought of this movie as a long Goofy cartoon and it didn't get the recognition it deserves.The movie designed to entertain and teach equally to both the child and the parrent. You should give it a shot. "},{"Title":"One of those movies that surprises you","Date":"16 April 2005","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" A Goofy movie starring one of the heroes from children of the early Disney era is a surprisingly fresh comedy about the trials and tribulations that a family of goofs would endure. At the offset of the feature, Max, Goofy's son, is trying desperately to disavow any link to his roots as a Goof. Max is caught in that tragic stage of being a teenager who is both trying to find his place in his school's society, impress the girl of his dreams, and at the same time do it all without any help from his parents. Goofy on the other hand simply cares for the well being of his son, as most parents do, and only wants the best for him. As the plot of the movie fleshes out though the two become quite aware of the fact that their priorities sometimes lie at distant ends. It is interesting to see the chemistry between the two develop as Max's beliefs and feelings are completely rooted in the hope for his immediate future, while Goofy's are formulated from the great experiences of his past. The pure beauty of this under budgeted Disney film comes in the way in which the two reconcile their differences. Max comes to understand the beauty of his father's past as well as the fact that his dad only wants what is best for him. Goofy comes to realize that Max has to grow up on his own sometime, and that this will not limit him from still playing a part in his son's life. Through trials and tribulations that are both painful and funny, the two come to understand the meaning of the word family. I went to this movie when I was a teenager, loved it then, and then revisited it many years later and I still love it just as much. A delight for both parents and kids 10 of 10. "},{"Title":"A Forgotten Classic","Date":"10 May 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I hadn't realized how great this movie was until I saw it once more today.An touching story of father and son, plus the story of a growing youth. Wrap this in with an unusually high quality comic-content and competent animation and you have one of the greatest films by Walt Disney.One wouldn't think that a movie based on a TV-series could be this good. The intelligent story and goofy comedy plus excellent drama provide the frame for an excellent viewing experience. Additionally the musical output is excellent and not at all as cheesy as one might expect.It is therefore my distinct pleasure to declare it the third greatest Disney animated feature film ever. Why third? Because it's just not Bambi. "},{"Title":"Not my all time favourite Disney movie, but it is still very funny and touching","Date":"30 April 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I was surprised at how much I enjoyed this movie. It isn't my all time favourite Disney movie, but it is very entertaining and touching. The concept may be a little old fashioned, and the film could have been longer, but A Goofy Movie does have a very good message, good characters and a good balance of humour and sentiments while providing an accurate take on life as an adolescent. The animation is really lovely, the backgrounds are beautiful to look at and the colours are audacious. The music is funky and nostalgic, and the story is sweet and realistic, even if it is quite ordinary but I don't particularly see anything wrong with that. I also loved the sight gags, the funny things Goofy says and the touching moments especially in the latter half of the film. And the characters are great, Goofy can't do anything right, then again he was like that in the original cartoons and that's why we love him, and Max is an appealing and not bland teenager. It was also nice to see Pete, and Roxann is really sweet and cute. I also thought Max's and Roxann's relationship was really sweet. Also the voice acting is great, Bill Farmer is amusing as Goofy and Jason Marsden is on the money as Max as is Jim Cummings as Pete. Overall, entertaining and touching. 8/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"It's goofy, but I love this movie! Stop goofing around, and get this movie!","Date":"21 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Having grown up watching it, it's one of my personal favorite kid movies of the 1990's. If you ever wanted to take a 90's nostalgia summer road trip, A Goofy Movie is a great place to start. The entire movie just screams 90's. When the animated series Goof Troop aired on television in 1992, it was very popular to the point that a sequel movie had to be made. In 1995, such a film was indeed made, titled 'A Goofy Movie'. Directed by Kevin Lima, the movie is about the father & son relationship between Goofy (Voice by Bill Farmer) and his son Max (Voice by Jason Marsden). Max got into trouble in school trying to impress the girl of his dreams, Roxanne (Voice by Kellie Martin), and now Goofy believes that Max is growing up too fast, and fears of losing him to a life of crime. While Max believes in his independence, and wanting no part with his father, Goofy. Goofy want to work on their tense relationship, by wanting a family cross country trip to Lake Destiny, Idaho for some father and son bonding while fishing. The only problem is that Max promised to Roxanne, the girl he has a crush on, that he'll be at the Powerline concert in L.A. This gives Max the problem of whether to tell the truth to Roxanne or screw up Goofy's fishing trip just to be at the concert. While the movie is a cartoon, and it has a lot of humor. I do find it's mature in some places. It focuses a lot of the chemistry between father and son. This was the first time, I even saw Goofy as a father figure. While on Goof Troop, Goofy was still a father to Max, but the character on the show never went into development. He was always a stupid adult of a person who can't do anything right. In the film version, we see how his dad's antics has alienated the boy to the point, that he fears being like him, due to people mocking them. Max is actually growing, and I can totally see him as a teen. Max is one of the most believable Disney character that I can related to. Max, much to his own dismay, takes after his father at times, whether it be mannerisms (including Goofy's trademark laugh) or occasionally being clumsy. He feels that he is much cooler than Goofy however, and is not as earnest and humble as his father, as he can be somewhat of a show-off at times when he excels at anything. Adolescents are very private about their interests and are especially reluctant about sharing them with their parents. While Goofy is still clumsy, he works hard to be a good father towards Max. Goofy wasn't one-dimensional in the film like he is in his earlier cartoons. Who knew, Goofy could show angry, pain, and love? It's one of the very first Disney movie seems to actually try and convey the generational conflict between parent and child; and portrays this relationship in a very real way, full of ups and downs. I can't think of another Disney movie before this, going to this level. I think the movie works so well because of that. I have a soft spot for this movie - simply because it mirrors a lot of people teenage years so much. The embarrassing parent, the awkward kid who just wants the world to know that they're more than just some curb stomp, and wanting to prove themselves. I have to admit, it was probably this movie that convinced me to come out of my shell and made the rest of my life more enjoyable and memorable. I have to say the humor works, physical slapstick, and jokes. Some of its jokes are pretty out there like odd breaking the fourth wall humor. I loved the Lester's possum park. I don't know if it was making fun of Disneyland or not, but it was funny. Always made me laugh. This always reminded me of Chuck E. Cheese. The big foot scene was hilarious as well. The supporting cast work even Pauley Shore as Max's friend, Bobby. I'm just glad, he had a small role. Good to see Jim Cummings voicing Pete. He is a voice actor legend. The animation was pretty OK, it wasn't catchy. It look like animation, you give a TV show, not a full length animation movie. The title also is kinda wrong. It's not a Goofy movie, but a movie about Max. Goofy only plays a supporting role in the film. Kinda like a second banana. I do have to say the movie have a musical like theme throughout the film. I love every song in the film. After Today is 'The Part of your world' emotional ballad for the Disney teenager male setting the table type song that mostly sang by Disney heroines. The Tevin Campbell songs 'Stand Out' and 'Eye and Eye' are catchy. On the Open Road and 'Nobody Else But You are just too cheesy for me. I don't know, but I always thought Powerline was supposed to be Bobby Brown or Michael Jackson. A direct to video sequel was made in 2000 worth checking out. The second uses a much more cliché theme of old vs. new, and though it does work and is interesting, never goes the extra mile to address anything of true importance. So I like this movie, better. Overall There is something for both parents and the children with this film. It just had the right mix of elements for me. It had an old concept, the buddy/father-son/coming-of-age adolescence film. But it did it in just a very fresh, very appealing way for me. "},{"Title":"One of the best animated films ever!","Date":"20 February 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" What made me suddenly come and write a review to a movie that released over a decade and a half ago? The answer is simple. This movie is sincere and touching, exciting and hilarious, tear inducing and magical. I remember seeing this as a kid and have watched it every year almost after that. It is one of those movies that you can watch again and again over decades and it will still be fresh, entertaining and lovely.This movie is a definitive example of great, beautiful emotion that captures you and tugs at your heartstrings with its pure relatable and touching emotional storyline. SPOILERS AHEAD A story about a father and son duo on a cross country trip with different plans and a story of parent-child bonding and seeing each others perspectives. A story that had me in tears with its honesty and masterful as well as emotional storytelling. It has intelligent wit and humor as well as catchy song that i still find myself humming 17 years later.These days many animated films rely on the quality of animation but have a shallow story. This one, a great classic gem from the past, has lovely animation and a smart, intelligent and heart filled story that just warms your heart and has you in smiles and tears through out. An accurate depiction of father-son relationships and teenagers. One of those larger than life films i will see with my kids. They don't make fantastic, animated adventure films this great anymore. Very few live up to it.Saw it on TV and was reminded of its heart warming, action packed adventure filled with some of the greatest humor Disney films have ever incorporated. A fun magical ride for all generations and a classic whose status as one of the best will be cemented int he years to come. SOME of the greatest films of all time are underrated and this gem is one of them. A testament to when animated films had that something special, something very few animated films can regenerate these days. "},{"Title":"A new favorite!","Date":"12 October 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" In spite of having been a faithful Goof Troop regular watcher when it aired, I hadn't watched A Goofy Movie until yesterday, 16 years since it was in theatres. And I have to say, I have no regrets! The movie was far more deeper than I imagined. I expected a lighthearted movie with plenty of laughs, and I got that, and more, and I was impressed by how well they fleshed out the characters. I would definitely consider A Goofy Movie an underrated Disney movie, in my eyes. Whether or not you're looking for the nostaliga rush that I got when I saw it or just looking for a good family movie to watch with your family, I highly recommend A Goofy Movie! "},{"Title":"A very underrated film","Date":"25 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I do not see why this isn't on the Disney classics list. It is well animated, well scripted, heartwarming and it has better songs than many other Disney films. It deals with Goofy taking his son Max out on a road trip after Max sabotages an assembly. Meanwhile Max wants to stay so he can go to his favorite singer's concert and go out with his crush from school Roxanne. When compared to almost every other Disney cartoon, this one has more emotion. You feel genuinely sad or happy when Goofy and Max are getting along, or when Goofy is trying. I actually felt sad when Max gets mad at Goofy for taking him to the Possom show. It's a great movie, and I highly recommend any fan of animation find it.My rating *** 1/2 out of ****. "},{"Title":"Huy-uck!!!!!","Date":"4 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Disney's 1995 animated feature, A Goofy Movie, had our usual Goof Troop characters in there - Goofy and Max, Pete and P.J., and more!!!!!In it, Max was in huuuge trouble at school, and Goofy had received a call regarding this (the principal's threat of I'll put him in the electric chair!!!!! was very original and quite hysterical, might I add), so he and Max went on a very long and exciting vacation through America. This whole film IS a whole adventure!!!!!I've seen this twice in the theaters in 1995, and I got the soundtrack to this movie in 1995 (This was my very first compact disc that I had ever had) because I liked it so much. I kind of wish that I could this film again; this sure was genius!!!!!A Goofy Movie is great for the Goofy at Heart!!!!! Heh heh heh...get it? Young at Heart = Goofy at Heart?????10/10 "},{"Title":"fantastic","Date":"27 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A goofy movie i think is a fantastic movie to watch for the kids and for the adults as well. This movie was made in 1995 with our character of course Goofy, I would have never thought that Goofy was a father as he was a father to his son caled Max, who is just a kid in this movie, The movie starts with Goofy wanting to have a jolly good time with his son max, as he decides to go on holiday taking max with him and enjoy a fishing trip. Max sulks as he doesn't want to go on this holiday with his dad, to me Max feels that his dad can be a big pain and can embarrass in front of his friends. The two mouses hardly get along when something happens which makes the who holiday from bad to worse, they finally make it up to each other as they both become like a proer father and son together. I give this movie 10 out of 10. "}{"Title":"what a goofy guy","Date":"21 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A goofy movie is truly goofy. i found that i like this cartoon, and love goofy! goofy is a dad, trying to make his son bond with him on the same day that max tells the girl that he likes that he is going to be in the concert with a mega superstar. the goofy guys go on the road, and goofy trys to be the coolest dad, while they encounter lots of goofy things. the movie shows that teens need space and dont need to be pushed all the time to show that they do care about their parents. and the cartoon is pretty funny and makes for a good hour and a half. (A- B+) "},{"Title":"Years from now, critics will include this in the Top 100...","Date":"21 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  They will you know. I have been thinking about this for a long time, and I have come to the conclusion that the greatest film of all time is A Goofy Movie!After watching it over thirty times, I now know the words to all the songs... that's how sad I am.Seriously though, next time you watch Goodfellas, watch A Goofy Movie right after it. The difference you feel in your shoulders and lower thighs is so much happier (probably, if that makes sense).I would happily rate this film amongst the ranks of Back to the Future, Gremlins and The Addams Family, except for the fact that it does not feature the voice talents of either Dennis Hopper or Randy Quaid. I realise the stupidity of that last remark, since none of the above listed films feature either of those guys.And that's what I think of the Goofy Movie. It has a bit of everything. A song, a dance, a laugh, a tear. And I want Pete's Winnebago. "},{"Title":"I liked it as a kid, and I like it for different reasons now","Date":"28 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I tend to like movies about fathers and their sons and I don't think there's nearly enough good ones. If you feel the same and you want a comedic take on this aspect, I think you will enjoy A Goofy Movie. It has some good, memorable songs, a lot of visual and cleverly written humour and a few touching moments too. The best part of the film is the really strong message about the importance of a relationship between fathers and their son(s) and how as the two get older that relationship needs to change and evolve for the bond to stay consistently strong. I like that the story is absolutely ludicrous. You might even call it goofy. I actually wish it was longer because there are a few scenes that feel like they're missing. Our two heroes are in one location and then it cuts to days later and they've traveled a great distance. I wish we could have seen that journey. As far as animation goes, it's not breaking any new grounds, but it more than does the job. There isn't a villain in this story, just the drama between Goofy (Bill Farmer) and Max (Jason Marsden) and the struggles come mostly from the fact that as boys grow up into men, the relationship between father and son shifts in unpredictable ways. It's earnest and heart warming but it doesn't feel cheesy. It's good enough to watch by yourself but it will be a lot more effective if you watch it with your old man for some nostalgic goodness or with your own children. (On DVD, July 9, 2012) "},{"Title":"My review on A Goofy Movie","Date":"6 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" SO this was on TV today on Five and I actually thought it wasn't that bad. The movie is about Goofy's son Max who is in love with a girl called Roxanne and wants to impress her as he wants to go and see Powerline the concert,but his dad Goofy(voiced by Bill Farmer) wants Max to spend some time with him so they end up going on a trip together to spend some time doing fishing. Of course Max doesn't want to and so he makes Goofy bring him to the Powerline concert so that he can be with Roxanne who will also attend the show. (Powerline is like Micheal Jackson if you don't know who he is). But will Max go to see Powerline or will he spend some time with his father and not go to Los Angelus to go and see the concert.The movie has a very 80s vibe about it even though its made in 1995. The animation is nice and the story was great too. Is it the best animated movie of all time well not really but I haven't seen that movie in ages until today so it was nice to go back to my childhood.Overall its a 6 "},{"Title":"Definitely goofy!","Date":"22 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I haven't seen anything from Disney forever, so watching this movie I had to make some choices earlier on with judging characters. Goofy is, well goofy! Max is a teenager. He likes a girl. It all works since it's basically a cartoon version of a dramatic high school story. With father and son troubles and other adventures.I find it amusing how goofy just never seemed to notice that his son wasn't happy, and when he did he misunderstood the sadness and tried to interpret it to his views. By the end of the movie, things are cleared between them and things seem well, even if it IS still goofy.I was pretty much fine with the movie as a while, since I haven't seen every show in the past and don't remember much, it's hard to honestly judge. But I say 8/10 to be fair. "},{"Title":"rich in content and exquisitely-colored, A Goofy Movie is a charming, underrated Disney gem with a touching father & son story","Date":"27 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" A Goofy Movie is certainly one of the most underrated films produced by Disney since the company's founder passed away in 1966. Everything about this sweet, tightly-paced, humorous, and touching little gem is enthralling for audience members of all ages. It produces the funny gags and smile-producing whimsies that are promised in every feature or featurette about that clumsy and lovable anthropomorphic character. But it contains something a little more than just that.The filmmakers in all their wisdom realized that a little more was required to expand a feature about Goofy from a seven-minute cartoon to a feature-length movie. And unlike other translations from cartoon-to-screen, it does it with intelligence and delicacy. The movie is a spin-off of the once-popular and wholesomely entertaining cartoon series Goof Troop. The big difference is that a few years have advanced since then. Goofy's son Max (voice by James Marsden) is now a teenager and not so close to his bumbling father anymore. Now Max finds his father as an eternal brand for humiliation and wants anything but to end up like him. Heartbroken that Max is pulling away from him, Goofy (voice by Bill Farmer) on a whimsy decides to take his son on a fishing trip. Much to Max's dismay, it's on the same day he finally sealed a date with Roxanne, the girl of his dreams.It promises lots of funny moments and A Goofy Movie delivers with ample satisfaction, but that is not why the movie has, I say, gone on to become such a beloved cult classic for those who have found the motivation to sit down and see it. As Gene Siskel noted in his great review of the movie, the charm of the film is that it is a father and son story, which is a rarity in animated features, especially these days. A lot of Disney movies about growing up seem to be about the young generation learning to live without their parents (usually because of parental death, et The Lion King). This film is about growing up, but at the same time, preserving a healthy relationship with one's elders. Like many teenagers in real life, Max is getting fed up of being treated like a child and is seeking his own life, and at the same time, not realizing what he is slowly losing. And poor Goofy, realizing this, desperately tries to reconnect with his son before it's too late. And the chronicle of their eventful and sometimes chaotic fishing trip is composed of a perfect blend of funny and touching scenes. Some moments are truly tear-jerking, but in the end, the tears are flowing with joy.Watching the movie again for the first time in years, I was initially fearful that the romantic angle (the scenes between Max and Roxanne) were going to be sappy, irritating, and tiresome. But no, their story is really very sweet and intelligently-written. In addition, this subplot also has something to say about maturing and relationships. So instead of bothering me or stopping the movie, the romantic elements are sort of personal favorites of mine.In an era where so many animated features are drawn sketchily and without any real vibrancy or imagination, A Goofy Movie glimmers like a jewel. One of the most enthralling elements about the movie is the fact that it is so darn beautiful and wondrous to look at and admire. Every single scene is painted with a wide variety of colors that prove that the animators were trying instead of sketching away and taking a check. Animators are seldom paid what their craft is truly worth, so it's even more admirable when we see them really shell out an effort. The drawing style is not only colorful, but smooth and the character design is brilliant. Goofy, his 'buddy' Pete, Max, and others resemble their classic versions from the Walt Disney era and new characters are also crisply-drawn. And I have to confess that Max's crush Roxanne is, as far as anthropomorphic dogs are concerned, pretty cute.Also worth mentioning are the musical numbers, some of which are pretty memorable. My personal favorite is On the Open Road as an ecstatic Goofy and a dismayed Max begin their trip on...guess where. Perhaps these songs are not Wish Upon a Star and The Bare Necessities, but they are refreshingly imaginative. The songwriters were putting up an effort, too.Bottom line, A Goofy Movie is a remarkably sweet and enthralling little jewel from the Disney company that deserves far more recognition than it receives. I'd seen the movie before as a kid, but it clutched at my heartstrings with even more emotional grip as an adult. It's a movie that people of all ages can enjoy and not just for what it is or the kind of movie that it is, but as a genuinely sweet story about a father and his son. And parents with children starting to grow up and seek a life of their own might want to talk their young ones into seeing this movie and considering it as more than just animated escapism.There is something really honest and wonderful about this film. "},{"Title":"Great for kids and teenagers!","Date":"15 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Wow, hard to believe that this movie came out the year I was born. When I was younger I loved this movie! I adored it purely for the fact that I loved Goofy and Max. Then I stopped watching it for several years. The year I turned 13 was a very difficult year for everyone around me. I was more moody, I was always upset and embarrassed by my single working mom. She bought me this movie as a Christmas present, in hopes of making me happier. Well I thought the idea was dumb. Sure I loved the movie as a kid, but come on I'm teenager for pete's sake! Well she conned me into watching the movie with her and by the end I was standing up and singing Eye to Eye and Stand Out very loudly! I love this movie and it is totally my favorite! I would recommend it to anyone, especially moody teens like me! "},{"Title":"A moderately funny and eventually touching animated feature from Walt Disney Pictures","Date":"29 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Goofy, a very famous character, was introduced in Mickey Mouse cartoons in the early 1930's, but finally got his own full-length film over sixty years later, this 1995 movie featuring characters from the short-lived early 90's TV show, Goof Troop. I remember seeing some of A Goofy Movie in my school gymnasium within the next few years after its release, but never saw it all until 2007, when I decided to rent it. When I first watched this Disney feature from beginning to end, I thought it was very good around the beginning (what I had remembered seeing before) and went downhill after a while, but was good overall. Since then, nearly three years have passed, but I rented it again last week for another viewing, and it may have improved just slightly this time.On the last day of school before the summer holidays, Max Goof, the teenage son of Goofy Goof, has a crush on a girl at school named Roxanne, and wants to impress her. His friends, PJ and Bobby, help him put on an unexpected concert at the school assembly that day. This wows the students, including Roxanne, and makes Max popular with the school, but Principal Mazur is not happy about this interruption, and the three of them end up in his office. It appears Max has won the heart of Roxanne, as his love interest agrees to go to a party with him, where the attendees will get to see the Powerline concert in L.A on TV. However, Goofy receives a call from the principal, who exaggerates what Max did, and warns the Goof father that his son could end up in the electric chair if he doesn't change his ways! Obviously not wanting this to happen, Goofy decides to take his son on a summer fishing trip to Lake Destiny, Idaho for some father/son bonding, which means Max won't get to attend the party. Before they leave town, the teenage Goof lies to Roxanne, telling her that his father is taking him to the Powerline concert, and he will be joining the artist onstage! The trip turns out to be horrible for Max with his father's antics and their conflicting personalities, and it obviously isn't likely that his girlfriend actually will be seeing him on TV at that party! I'm not sure what I think of the dream sequence at the beginning, but after that, it's usually pretty entertaining. There are occasional unsatisfactory gags, some around the beginning involving Bobby and his love for cheese, and the kid's Dork and Dork Junior comment at the possum-based amusement park is another low point (I don't know if that's supposed to be funny or not), but as a comedy, the film usually works. This is often because of the lovable Goofy's antics, and the funniest part might be the car radio scene. The animation and some of the characters also help the quality of the film, and the same goes for the well written story. None of the songs are among the Disney classics, but they are decent enough. As funny as A Goofy Movie can be, it's not all for laughs. The film eventually becomes touching, and it's a story with morals. Towards the end of my second viewing, I wasn't sure whether the feature was a 7/10 or 8/10 in my book, with all the things there are to like, and I'm still not sure.The release of this movie was followed later the same year by the release of another animated Disney feature, and sadly a far inferior one, Pocahontas. A Goofy Movie cannot match Beauty and the Beast, Aladdin, or The Lion King, three more popular 90's Disney flicks which preceded it, but it's much better than the company's other traditionally animated feature from 1995. I saw Pocahontas in the theatre, and even as a kid, I was not very impressed. Not much changed when I watched it again a couple of times, over a decade later. And yet, it seems more people have seen that mediocre film than A Goofy Movie (I didn't even know about this feature during its theatrical run), and I really think this earlier 1995 Disney release deserves more recognition. It's not a masterpiece and may be a bit more entertaining for kids than adults, but I think it still has enough for an adult viewer who likes this type of film. "},{"Title":"A Personal Favorite (SPOILERS)","Date":"17 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" SPOILERSThis is one of my personal favorite Disney cartoon. I have always loved this film ever since I was a child, even though this came out in 1995. I thought when I had seen it again I would not enjoy watching it anymore. I was wrong. I had as much fun as I have ever did watching this again. The ending is a bit cheesy, but there are some scenes in this movie that I will never forget. The Leaning Tower of Cheeza, the possum scene, and the Powerline scene.Here is the plot. Max Goof is going to go out with a girl named Roxanne to a party to watch a concert on TV. His father Goofy Goof forces him to go fishing after Max gets in trouble at school. Before they go Max tells Roxanne that he is going to the concert and he will dance with Powerline. On the fishing trip they get attacked by Bigfoot and Goofy's boss joins them. When Goofy is asleep Max changes the route from Idaho to Los Angeles, which is where the Powerline concert is. They make it to L.A. Then Max saves Goofy's life. They get to the concert and everything turns out just the way they wanted, somewhat.Overall, this is one of the best Disney cartoons out there. Speaking of Disney, I like the little Disney in-jokes, such as Donald Duck being Goofy's best friend, and Walt Disney being the person on the guessing game. I also think that the scene at the Possum yodeling place in one of the most disturbing scenes ever in a cartoon. It is just so bizarre and memorable. This film also has a pretty good score and soundtrack. Anyway, this is one very memorable movie for children and not to mention adults too.9/10Recommended Films The Lion King. "},{"Title":"goofy movie is great","Date":"18 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" i liked the goofy movie because i always watch it with my sons Liam 13 and Luke 10 and it always makes me laugh and makes me feel happy in the summer time we always watch it on the last day of term before the summer school holidays i especially like the music.me and my sons rate this movie as one of the best cartoons of all time because it shows the reality of a dad trying to understand the changes his son is going through but also trying to stay a father. i can also relate to this movie because i have sons that are going through the same changes and i sometimes come across as a bit of a goof, in the best possible way of course, anyway i recommend all fathers to watch this movie. "}{"Title":"One of the best Disney movies of all time!","Date":"4 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" How I came to seeing this movie is quite the story unto itself. I was 5 when my mother bought me a cassette that Disney had released that same year (Disney At the Movies Volume 2) and one of the songs from A Goofy Movie was on there. The track listing said On the Open Road, but that was a typo! The actual song was Stand Out! But regardless of the typo, I so wanted to see this movie after I heard that song. I didn't actually see the movie till about 4 years later. But after I saw it, I fell in love with it! I don't know whether it was the music that was catchy or the overall storyline, but it was a great movie. I especially like in this movie how Max aspires to take a chance and defy the loser label that schoolmates had placed on him for years. And in the end, I think he was successful. So if you want to see a Disney movie with great music and a great storyline, then this is a Disney movie you will want to see! "},{"Title":"One of the better Disney films of the past decade, with a good moral message","Date":"17 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Goofy (whose voice is provided by veteran Bill Farmer) has a son, Max, who is a teenager in high school. Max is a loser and is tired of not getting any attention, so one day Max hijacks a school auditorium announcement being made by the principal and lip-synches a popular song with the help of his friend (voice by Pauly Shore). This earns him brief popularity before he is threatened with possibly being expelled from the school.Goofy overreacts and thinks his son is on a slippery slope to becoming a criminal, so he decides to spend some father-son time with Max by going on a cross-country road trip. Along the way Goofy struggles with his son as their relationship is put to its test.One thing I've always enjoyed about this film is that - apart from its surprisingly good animation - it has a really strong story behind it. A Goofy Movie could easily have just become what its title sounds like - some lame excuse to see Goofy run around for 90 minutes like a maniac - but the whole story between Goofy and Max comes across as being oddly realistic for a cartoon.For a Disney film this is also surprisingly mature - it takes place through the perspective of a high-schooler, Goofy and Max get into plenty of arguments and there's a romantic interest for Max.The entire film has a good message behind it and could easily be translated to a live-action, non-Disney film and still work. The musical sequences are fun and lively, the story is exceptional for a film of this genre and the animation is above average.Perhaps not the most kid-friendly animated film, or something most Goofy enthusiasts would want to acknowledge, but for those with an open mind this is a bizarre production. "},{"Title":"Extremely Underrated Disney Flick","Date":"21 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" As an avid Disney fan, I feel that this is one of Disney's most underrated films. The score and songs are great, the characters are excellent and somewhat believable, and the animation is nice. I used to watch this movie daily when it hit shelves when I was ten, and I still love it as much as I did then. My entire family loved watching this movie over and over again. Younger people will relate to Max's struggles with popularity and teen life, while older viewers will enjoy watching Goofy try to reconnect with his son. I recommend this film to Disney fans, Goofy fans, Goof Troop fans, adolescents who hate their parents, parents, and anyone looking for a family-safe comedy. The comedy, while a little slapstick at times, works. The father-son message is great but never preachy. Max's love interest, Roxanne, looks realistic; she has wide hips, slightly tangled hair, a normal-sized bust, and is not a stick figure unlike Disney's Esmeralda and Pocahontas characters. As an added bonus, fans of 90's culture will be in Heaven while watching this movie. Several references are made to 90's culture, including several articles of clothing, songs, etc. Unlike timeless Disney movies such as The Little Mermaid, or Alice in Wonderland, this movie makes its era obvious. Nostalgia alert! Overall, highly recommended. One of Disney's best, and it also has high replay value and lots of 90's nostalgia. "},{"Title":"BRILLIANT!! but soo underrated!! Should of got more recognition!","Date":"13 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is such a underrated Disney movie!! It is definitely one of my top 5 favourites. This came out in 1995, when i was 5, so i grew up with it, and i loved it. The songs, the characters (especially max!) but until a few days ago, i hadn't seen it for a good 5 years. And it totally surprised me, that i still enjoyed it! it just reminds me of how things were in the 90s (rock on the 90s!!) and now I'm the same age as max was in the film, and i can totally relate to all the pressures he is under. I'm constantly singing all the songs (spesh open road!!) The little romance with Roxanne and Max is sooo cute!! I like the fact that she is normal, not a prep, goth, nerd.. just normal.Anyway, the story is, max, goofys 15ish year old son, has a mega crush on Roxanne, and is over the moon when she agrees to go on a date with him. However, after finding out his son has been in trouble in school, goofy decides to take max on a fishing/road trip across America, to stop him ending up in the electric chair. Max really doesn't want to go, as it will mean he will miss his date with Roxanne, and he is devastated when she says she will find someone else. So he makes up that he is going to see powerline in concert, to keep her keen. But the only problem is, he isn't, and he has to find a way to get to the powerline concert. Lots of arguments between goofy and max on the way, its fantastic!!!Seriously, watch this!! You'll prob like this better if you've grown up with it, but i bet those that haven't will like it too!! "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie","Date":"27 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Ill keep this short and simple. I am 22 years old and watched this movie with my 3 year old nephew. Being that kids love repeating movies over and over again, i have watched this movie over 10 times, and it still hasn't gotten old. The music is great, fantastic, and amusing. The story line is easy to follow and engaging. It has great dance and music scenes. i think this is a classic for family films and a must watch. I keep trying to find cartoon movies as entertaining as this one and still haven't come to anything close. The most entertaining part was watching my nephew trying to dance like max. People no matter what you hear, take it from me, its a great movie. You'll wanna watch this with your kids and keep it as a reminder of simpler better times "},{"Title":"Great Fun","Date":"23 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I really love his film! Big Foot looks so funny! I just love the bit where he's dancing to the bee gees!!! The songs are really catchy and clever and it sums up what its like being a teen in a funny way. It also shows a good father and son thing with goofy and a great embarrassing father.The songs are good with adventure like scenes of where they are 'on the open road' then get lost.very entertaining and funny, anyone will love this. The voices are so good, and the animation is great as well. It's got lots of action! Really really good fun! And I love that song at the end and when their dancing! Wow! So feel good! Bad BitsVery Few 1.its not the most memorable Disney thing ever made. 2. The plot could have been better. 3.Goofy looks so out of place looking sad! "},{"Title":"A definite classic in entertainment","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" A Goofy Movie has everything you could ask for in just fun times. I remember, when I was a kid, everybody was crazy for this movie, myself included. While it isn't the best artistic or literary piece of cinema, you have to remember one thing - it wasn't meant to be! There's really two field of film - pure entertainment, and actual storytelling. It isn't really fair to judge this on the same level as, say, LOTR, but then again it wasn't meant to be an earthshaking tour de force of filmdom like its Disney Masterpiece counterparts.Anyway, if you want just a good movie to sit down and watch, either with your younger siblings, your parents, girlfriend/boyfriend, or even just to remember what it was like to be a kid, this is perfect for it. Goofy's one of the most lovable characters in cartoon history, and this movie is just an irresistible family classic. "},{"Title":"a totally fab movie u must watch!","Date":"7 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" i love the songs from this film ,im sure you would too. The film itself it really funny and totally cool. I'm 16 and this is one of my favourite films of all time. The ending is soooo cool, and when they go to see power line in concert you fell like getting up and dancing! The plot is realistic and is as funny as the old Disney films (if not funnier) and goofies son max grows up a lot, along with his old mate PJ. If you like this film you could also watch the sequel an extremely goofie movie which i must say isn't quite as good, but tis still pretty cool ;)All in all THIS IS A MUST SEE! "},{"Title":"i love this movie!!!","Date":"27 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  i just want to start out by saying a goofy movie is the best Disney movie ever created! all those people who said otherwise need psychiatric help. this movie has everything you could want to see. it has comedy, fun, romance, and awesome music! some people may think the music sucks but i find every song to be super cool! they have the best lyrics and even better beats! i know all the words and always sing along! i love this movie and i watch it all the time. i feel sorry for those who don't agree because they cant have as much fun. i love Disney and cant imagine anyone thinking anything else. I'm 15 years old so don't think that I'm some silly child who obviously has to like Disney. every Disney movie is great in its own way but goofy movie takes the cake with its hilarious characters and the best music! hope my comments help! i have to go now... I'm gonna watch a goofy movie! )  "},{"Title":"The movie's insanity is a good lightener.","Date":"10 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Contains...small spoilers. Again.For reasons you'll never know, I was moping around my house, close to sobbing. I went down to my basement, popped 'A Goofy Movie' into my PS2 (it works as a DVD player), and stared at the screen. One minute my eyes were red with tears, the next I was hysterically laughing. This is, in my opinion, a good movie to watch if you're sad.I thought the funniest parts were when Goofy and Max were trapped in their car by Bigfoot, and Bigfoot started dancing to 'Stayin Alive' with headphones on (Chapter 9 on the DVD), and when Goofy and Max returned from L.A. (Chapter 19). The Powerline scenes (Chapters 3 & 18) weren't funny at all, but were just cool to watch. If you don't want to buy this movie, at least rent it. It's good. "}{"Title":"Entertaining and funny","Date":"15 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is like the first time disney animated films tried to be cool. Reflecting the life of teenagers in the 90's. When this movie first came out i liked it so much. cause i thought it was cool 2. and the sequence with the moonwalk during the assembly....classic.. "},{"Title":"A Really Goofy Movie. AND I LIKE IT LIKE THAT!","Date":"20 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is part of the coming to a close on the Goof Troop TV series that introduces Goofy Goof's 11-year-old son, Max.Max is now 15 and trying to impress the pretty and popular Roxanne. But, like they say in the trailer, It's hard to be cool when your dad is Goofy.The movie has some great tunes, like After Today, when Max dreams of what will happen after the day he finally impresses Roxanne, Out on the Open Road, where Goofy strikes up a show tune to entertain them, when they break the radio competing on what music to listen to, Lester's Possum Park a very unusual (and, according to Max, pathetic) mechanical performance at a run-down theme park, Nobody Else But You, where Goofy and Max finally TRULY bond. Then, of course, there's the PowerLine rock songs Stand Out and Eye 2 Eye.The movie has lovable characters, too. Goofy, the accident-prone early Disney character; Max, his rockin' teenaged son; P.J. (Pete Jr.), Max's best bud; Pete, the baddie type person who Goofy treats as a friend; Bobby, the unusual cheese lover, Roxanne, Miss Pretty-and-popular; Stacey, Roxanne's best friend, etc, etc, etc...In my opinion, I give this movie 2 Mickey Mouse ears UP! "},{"Title":"It's tough being cool when your dad's Goofy","Date":"21 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  High school student Max has a lot of pressure in his life  getting a cute girl to like him, dodging nosey Principal Mazur...oh yeah, and his dad is Goofy.It's the beginning of summer and Max is looking forward to a date watching a Powerline concert with popular girl Roxanne.  But Goofy has other plans--namely a fishing road trip with his best bud and no, it isn't Donald Duck.  Since he can't get out of this road trip, but doesn't want to lose his girl, Max makes up a story that Goofy knows Powerline and they are going to L.A. to be in the concert.One thing leads to another in this father/son bonding movie that finally puts Goofy in a leading role.  The story is fun and the songs are memorable, so you'll have a great watching this.Goofy was always the character that made me laugh and this movie keeps with that tradition.  It was great to finally see my favorite Disney character in a movie all his own!Also, check out the DVD which has the Goofy story--how Goofy got his start in the entertainment business.  It's an episode of the popular Disneyland TV series that Walt himself hosted. "},{"Title":"Disney's underrated 90's gem","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Walt Disney studios ran the gamut in the 1990s, from the sublime (Beauty And The Beast, The Lion King) to the banal (most of their late 90's epics and made-for-video releases).  Yet dollar-for-dollar and frame-for-frame, this unpretentious little 1995 film belongs in the same lofty category as B&B, Lion King, and Toy Story 2.  In fact, it is arguably the most underrated motion picture in the Disney catalog.Produced by Disney's B-team of writers and animators, A Goofy Movie is warm, sincere, thoroughly entertaining, and occasionally side-splitting funny.  Essentially an extended Goof Troop TV episode, the storyline is a clever hybrid of two ancient themes a slapstick 'road movie' comedy, and a father's coming to terms with his rebellious teenage son.This is not a typical Disney epic.  There is no showstopping musical number (though On The Open Road is quite well done).  No breathtaking animation. No climactic battle scene.  No scene-stealing villain.  In fact, there's no villain period!  (Does this make it unique among Disney movies?)What there is instead is excellent storytelling, likeable characters, simple but catchy songs, and a sincerity that has been sorely lacking in Disney's most recent animated...well, flops is too strong of a word, but disappointments isn't.  The studio needs to get back to its early 90s roots as storytellers first and foremost.  Michael Eisner can do worse than to have his creative staff sit down and watch this movie a few times to see what they've been forgetting.Technically speaking, A Goofy Movie is merely OK.  The animation is adequate.  The overall soundtrack won't make you forget Aladdin or Hercules, but it does offer up worthwhile tunes like After Today and Eye 2 Eye. Had Disney's A-team of talent done the technical work, A Goofy Movie would earn a rare 10/10 from me.  As it is, it's a strong 9/10.  "},{"Title":"A rich and textured treat!","Date":"25 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie extracts the best from all worlds, and still maintains a young audience appeal while leaving something for those seeking depth and a real message.  This movie is downright entertaining, funny, and the storyline flows like melted chocolate.  This movie left prints on me from back in the day when I first saw it, and seeing it again just brought so much nostalgia back to me.  It has an excellent soundtrack, brilliant voice casting, marvelous editing, smooth flow directed on screen.  This movie creates a home environment, and really places you in the story right at the get-go.  The character development is like that of a true Disney classic, and it really does deserve to be one.  Every element of this movie is pure gold, I can't seem to put it all into words.  I give this a 10/10! "},{"Title":"Loved it","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I loved this movie...it was too cute.  I just dug it back up again and realized how much I loved this movie.  Max and Goofy are the best father-son team in a Disney movie!  But I must say...curse Walt Disney for such catchy songs in all his movies! "},{"Title":"Definitely for all ages!!!","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is one of my few all time favourites movies, of any genre. It is well written, funny, touching, catchy tunes, and great voice casting.  The imagination brought into this movie is wonderful, the songs are great and toe tapping.  This is a movie I find hard to get sick of.  It's like real life issues with animated twist. Definitely for all ages!!! "},{"Title":"You can watch it over and over and over....","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is one of the finest Disney Movies ever made, i have seen it and i must say that it is really cool. Although it may seem a bit dumb, it is very good for children and for grownups, not only the story and animation but the jokes are quite clever. I have seen this movie a thousand times and never get annoyed, i recommend it to everyone who wants to see Goofy at his best. This one deserves 5 stars ;) "},{"Title":"A very fun movie for you or your whole family!","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  THIS REVIEW CONTAINS SPOILERSGoofy finally makes it to the big screen. And Max falls in love. They are going on a fishing trip. And Max has one, well, two problems with going with his dad. His dad is a little goofy, also he made a date with a girl, Roxanne.Well, before they go, he tells Roxanne that they are going to the concert of a lifetime. And they were going to dance on stage with him. Well, it almost doesn't happen. Because en route to the old fishing hole, they come across Bigfoot and much, much, more!!Now, they go to the concert, cause eventually Goofy realizes what Max wants, and they do crash the stage with Powerman at the greatest rock show in the world! Now, I have to give a goofy movie that wasn't goofy a very big, and a very well deserved 10 out of 10! "},{"Title":"Gawrsh! It's Goofy's First Movie!","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS         That loveable, incompetent cartoon dog Goofy stars with his son Max in their very first feature film. Max is 15 and tries to be cool, which is hard when your dad is Goofy.          Max wantsw desparately to impress Roxanne, a girl he's got a crush on, so he get's together with his friends P.J. and Bobby. They put on a concert in the middle of an assembly. Max dresses as teen rock sensation, Power Line. And it worked. Roxanne was very impressed--until Principal Mazur pulled the plug and Max and his friends were in BIG trouble.           Goofy get's word of what happens and tries to figure out what to do, so he decides to take Max fishing at Lake Destiny, Idaho, like his father did with him; Max became very popular with this stunt and was finally getting the recognition and respect he longed for---until Goofy announced they were going on vacation. Max refused to go, but Goofy forced him into their tiny car and took off. Max wants to tell Roxanne about his new plans, so he ends up telling a huge lie that he and Goofy were going to Los Angeles to the new Power Line concert and that Goofy and Power Line are old buddies.         The road trip was not uneventful. Goofy led a musical on the freeway, and Max was very much disgusted with the musical show at Lester's Possum Park. In the woods, Pete, Goofy's friend shows up with a hi-tech RV and Goofy and Max meet Bigfoot!          Goofy then appoints Max navigator of the trip, so he heads them to L.A. Goofy soon finds out and is quite upset. But when Max spills out his predicament, Goofy offers to help, so they make it to L.A. and do get to be on stage with Power Line (which wasn't easy). And when they got back home, Max was still popular, especially with Roxanne;        A very nice, very cute movie. It follows the TV series GoofTroop. Lester's Possum Park is based on The Country Bears at Disneyland. They've also got their own movie! A Goofy Movie was followed by a sequel An Extremely Goofy Movie which wasn't as good. So in conclusion, I recommend A Goofy Movie! - "}{"Title":"A Goofy Movie is the best!","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I love this movie! I also loved the plot and the characters, espesialy Max, who i totaly related with(He even sat like I always do it the Possum Park scene!). I fell in love with this movie when it came out in 1995, and I still love it after 6 years and counting! "},{"Title":"How many cups of sugar does it take to get to the moon?","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Well if a movie has Bigfoot (or Mr. Foot) getting lured by a steak on a fishing pole and then doing a puppet show with socks on his hands then it has to be good. This movie is very good! It is hilarious and I have to confess that I love the music! I mean I really really love it! It's just so catchy and fun. The movie has an interesting plot too. Watch it, you just might like it. ;-) "},{"Title":"This is a great family fun movie","Date":"26 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is a great family fun movie with the brilliant voice talents of Jason Marsden and Bill Farmer. I just wish all movies were this cute and fun! It has a great bopping soundtrack that will have you dancing till the small hours and a few very funny scenes which will leave you laughing for quite a while! I think this is a must for your movie collection and a great thing to watch to cheer you up! So go out and tickle your funny bone, rent A Goofy Movie! "},{"Title":"A story for all ages","Date":"19 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Not only is this movie one which will captivate any age of audience, but can also be applied for ages to come. Many people have been critics of Disney, and I feel much of this criticism is unjust. A Goofy Movie is surely the best Disney movie in a very long time, and my personal favorite.Children will not get bored with the movie as it is short and full of comedy (and I guarantee the comedy will get people of all ages rolling in the isles). Teenagers will most likely be disappointed in the movie without realizing why. Adults will be taken aback at the seriousness a movie with Goofy can manage.The first time I saw it and every time after, the movie has made me think of when I was younger, about the age of the main character Max. Everyone has had these rough spots in their adolescence, when you are trying to gain your independence from your parents. I didn't think the running time of the movie would allow for a serious depiction of this time in a person's life, but it does. Don't take my word for it, go rent it and watch. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly well done, very enjoyable","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I'd never had much interest in seeing A Goofy Movie; the television show (Goof Troop) was never a favorite of mine, and I expected another TV-quality cheapo movie. I finally watched this film at the urging of friends, and I'm sorry I missed it when it was in theaters several years ago. Frankly, A Goofy Movie has more genuine emotion, feeling, and heart than anything Disney's done in years. Superb character animation and touching, well-rounded characterizations of Max and Goofy really make this movie a treat. Very enjoyable, very funny, and always genuine.  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good and touching","Date":"30 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Seeing as how I thought the show Goof Troop was a terrible comedown after superb series like Talespin and Darkwing Duck, I had little enthusiasm for this film.However, I take it back.  This film is a superbly moving story of Goofy and his son, Max, coming to see each other in a new light when they go on a fishing trip against Max's will.  True to form, Goofy inadvertently publicly humiliates his son while Max makes no secret for his open disgust for his father.Max is the key character and is endearing for his insecurity. While Goofy, on the other hand, shows real depth of character which can be surprising, especially when he learns that he is being manipulated by his son secretly changing the trip route on him, knowing that he would be too stupid to notice.  There have been many expressions of Goofy we have seen, but slow burning anger and betrayal is certainly something new. In the end however, the pair will to come realize that there is more to each other than they ever knew and you will realize that even in Disney's low budget efforts, that essential intelligence and artistry is still present.The only flaw is the major female characters of the show,Peg and Pistol, are unaccountably gone. However, there are those two superb new female characters, Roxanne and Stacey, who have no trouble holding on to centre stage with their screen time.In short, a fine film for everyone. "},{"Title":"N/A","Date":"11 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is the best I have seen..I'm a major fan of Goofy, Max, and Roxanne.This is the most realistic animated movies about teens. "},{"Title":"Keep Up The Good Work","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  My sister and I pretend we are in this movie all the time. we do not do that anymore. Well Goofy and Max go camping with Goofy's buddy Pete and Max's friend PJ. Well Max changes the map to get to the concert. The vacation at first turns out not so sensational. Max falls in love with Roxanne. "},{"Title":"A surprising heartfelt movie","Date":"29 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" When I was younger there were a bunch of movies that I would watch and thought were spectacular! Problem was now that i'm older, i'm realising that quite a few of them weren't as amazing as I thought. So remembering the goofy movie and how much I loved it, I was afraid it wouldn't stand the test of time. But thankfully I was wrong. The movie actually has a really realistic setting. A father trying to connect with his kid, and a kid trying to reach some idiotic fantasy of what it means to be cool. It's funny, not the funniest animated movie i've seen but defernitally gets a few laughs. It has some good film techniques in it, and it can be a bit cheese at times but hey, it's Disney, that's kinda there whole selling point.So in short. The goofy movie is a surprising gem of Disney that adults and young people can enjoy. "},{"Title":"A Surprisingly Sweet Father-Son Movie,","Date":"28 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" A Goofy Movie is a great movie with a very well developed storyline and a terrific voice cast. It's an enjoyable, very quick ride, lastly only eighty minutes, but in this short amount of time we experience terrific character development between Goofy and Max, his son who is actually the lead role in this film despite what the title may suggest, it's a very sweet film about the complicated relationship between this father and son, as Goofy must cope with the fact that his little boy is growing up and is no longer interested in spending time with him, in the end the two learn that they both truly love and appreciate one another, and it is a lot more powerful than you would expect a movie with Goofy as a main character to be, I think the conflicted emotions between these family members can stand out as something very relatable to anyone. I do think that, for a children's film, it's a bit too depressing, the first fifty minutes of the movie is mainly Goofy and Max traveling across country together despite both having very different views on their relationship, there are moments where we see Goofy truly feeling like he hit rock bottom and has lost everything he's ever loved, this serves as a great story arc but I felt that it was s bit too dramatic at times and should have had more happy and upbeat moments in between to keep kids happy. The musical numbers in this film are outstanding, all of them have a really happy and feel good tune to it that you can't help but smile to, they also serve as great character development for Max and Goofy, particularly Nobody Else But You, a song that shows how much they truly appreciate each other, and that the father-son bond is still very strong between them despite the difficulties they've had in the past. Funny, sweet and filled with charming characters, A Goofy Movie takes Mickey Mouse's silly sidekick and establishes him as a 3D character, and I would recommend it to anyone looking for a good family film. After landing a date with the girl of his dreams, Max Goof is suddenly forced to go on a father-son vacation with his dad Goofy. "}{"Title":"Emotion, so much emotion","Date":"9 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" A Goofy Movie is one of these kids feature animations that I got back to watching out of sheer pleasure of nostalgia. I remember watching it on a plane, actually. Not all of it but some of it. But I had to watch it all again because I played enough 90's Mickey Mouse video games and was subscribed to Mickey Mouse magazine and I knew this guy who could totally do the Goofy owl so there you have it. I kept remembering how intensively emotional that movie was and watching it as a 23yr old man, yes it sure the hell is emotional. Not that it nearly made me cry like 'Still Alice' did but just so much father/son relationship emotions with excellent animated expressions and voice acting.What I loved about A Goofy Movie is just how 90's it is and how very very witty, charming and even mature it is in some parts. It's all about the teenager (Max Goof) who has become a teenager and wants to be a rock star and get the girl (Roxanne) who totally has a crush on him from the beginning of the movie which makes his devious teenager plan sort of pointless other than drive the narration of the movie about creating a stronger bond with his father (Goofy). There's also Pete (the big antagonist cat from the Mickey Mouse universe) and his son, P.J.Overall, it's a fantastic little movie with some typical Disney cheesy singing but if that's your thing, go check it out. "},{"Title":"An innocent silly movie","Date":"23 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I love Disney and I have never seen this film before as a child, until today...The movie was quite entertaining and gosh the Disney castle intro just brought back memories of my childhood! It was so good to have seen Goofy all these years like, I am such a big kid at heart like! Especially his son Max, I hadn't seen him since Mickeys Christmas Carol years ago. Oh how time flies when you suddenly realise that it was what you loved to watch as a child! This is speaking from a now 20 year old haha!Seriously though, I really watched this movie to see Goofy again. Of course, I wanted to see that Mac is falling in love with the cutie Roxanne! Man, they both should've kissed more rather then always on the cheek. They are just adorable! Go 1990s!! "},{"Title":"A Great Movie From A Generation's Childhood That's Completely Underrated","Date":"12 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie is a major part of my childhood, and is very dear to many people of my age group. Being eight years old, so hyped up that I was going to see this at a theater not five minutes drive from where I am sitting today. The movie did not disappoint then, and it still doesn't to this day.A lovely movie full of humor, heart, the difficulty of parents who grew up in a different time trying to bond with their children, and things not going as expected. And of course, the goofy and lighthearted situations that arise from all of the above.The songs were Let It Go level that got stuck in your head. They left you humming or singing them everyday for months afterward. And no matter how long it's been, the moment you hear them, you're hit with a blast of nostalgia all over again.This is a movie all parents should watch with their kids, as well as a must have for Nostalgia Nights when you reach back into the vault of your movie collection. If theaters had Nostalgia Night/Month with such films being brought back, It's a guarantee that attendance would boom.Thanks for reading. Have a good day. "},{"Title":"A style that Disney has lost","Date":"8 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" In 2004 Walt Disney was announcing that was closing the Traditional Animation Department. Sixty years of paper animation, tradition and more than that, magic, was coming to end. Home on the Range became the last movie made with traditional animation. This notice was received by the longtime fans as a bomb. Claiming that the style was no longer attractive, Disney forgot the past and looked for the future. But it was not just the style that Disney leaves behind, but the soul as well. This review it's about a movie that belongs to the Disney Golden Age and focuses in a character loved by generations the Goofy. The Goofy won his own series in the early of 1990 decade and also a son, Max. Goofy Troop made a great success with the kid and pre- teen public with creative stories and day by day situations. With the success, Disney decided to produce a movie focusing, only not in Goofy, but the relationship between him and his son that was not so developed on the series. But why I start this review talking about the Disney animation style? Just because The Goofy Movie it's that kind of film that Disney really doesn't can produce again, even with all the technology we have on these days. Directed by Kevin Lima, the movie was premiered on April 7, 1995 (in Brazil, the movie premiered on July 21, 1995) and made a good presence on the cinema raising more than $ 6,000,000 of box office on the first weekend. As a sequel of the series, the original characters come again. Max has now 14 years old and wants his own life without his father causing shame with his goofy way. He likes a girl named Roxanne, but don't know how to talk with her, freezing when the girl is close. After create a problem on the school, Goofy is advised by the school principal that he have to rethink how he's raising his son. Worried, Goofy decide to save Max of the electric chair, taking him to fish. And then, begins a travel of self-know where father and son will rediscover the meaning of fraternity, trust and love, even if the son grows up, he'll still be a boy for his father. This is the focus of the movie that has a simple and linear screenplay. A moral message at the end and followed by musical sequences closes the production. There's something new on this film? No, absolutely nothing, but this is exactly what makes difference. Sometimes it's not necessary produce a movie full of special effects, action sequences and all of these things. Sometimes, just a good and familiar story, with a soundtrack that really stays on the memory and charismatic and memorable characters really makes difference. And talking about soundtrack, A Goofy Movie has an incredible and memorable musical sequences. Performances by Tevin Campbell, music as Eye to Eye (I2I) and Stand Out is really great. Others, more slowly and sentimental as Nobody Else but You sang by Max and Goofy together have its presence. The final sequence when Goofy and Max really seen that the relation between father and son can really be fun it's beautiful and the stage performance with Powerline it's awesome likewise! But Stand out really stand out on this film! Twenty years. But unfortunately twenty years make a great distance between generations. A Goofy Movie with all its moral lessons and animation style has no place with the kids of these days. If you want feels the nostalgia of the old days, A Goofy Movie it's a nice choice. About the new generation, tries to show this movie it's a good thing, but it's possible that the expectation may be frustrated. But make a try, its praiseworthy! Styles that Disney really has lost of decade that cannot be forget. This is A Goofy Movie! "},{"Title":"One of Disney's Best. Highly Underrated!","Date":"19 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I cannot begin to express how much I adore this movie. I watched it practically on a loop when I was young, and still love to watch it today.First, I'll talk about the phenomenal songs this movie has to offer. Stand Out and I2I (performed by Max's favorite rock star, Powerline) are catchy as hell and stay with you after the movie is over. After Today, On the Open Road, and Nobody Else But You feel very musical-esque. And there's even the silly Lester's Possum Park, a hilarious little ditty.The film itself is very touching and I feel that Max is very relatable. Max is embarrassed by his father, Goofy, as a lot of teens are. Max pulls a stunt that makes him the coolest guy in school, only to be dragged on a father-son bonding road trip immediately afterwards by Goofy. Through the journey, Goofy tries to bridge the generation gap between himself and his son, but learns that the things he thought were great as a child aren't so impressive to the youth of today (well, of 1995).A Goofy Movie is a touching and fun movie that doesn't get nearly as much attention and praise as it should. I prefer this movie to the highly overrated Frozen. "},{"Title":"Near the top of my favorites list!","Date":"13 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" A Goofy Movie is one of greatest and most memorable Disney movies of the 90's time period, which is saying something considering the 90's was their best decade in movies! And hands down, one of the best soundtracks by far!Max is the son of Goofy, and is getting ready to make a big splash on the last day of school by doing a live spoof of his favorite singers songs, Powerline. Powerline is a mix of Prince and Michael Jackson and sounds like MJ, even doing a bit of a moonwalk type of dance. Max gets into trouble for this and while in the principals office, runs into his long time crush, Roxanne. She invites him to a screening of Powerline's concert at her friends house over the summer and he has to turn her down because of an impromptu decision by Goofy to take Max on a cross country road trip in a desperate attempt to connect with him. Max lies to Roxanne and tells her that he is going to be at the concert, and starts his journey with his dad.The movie is full of classic Goofy moments, awesome lessons on father/son bonding, hijinks and adventures. The best songs on the soundtrack are I2I, Stand Out, After Today, and Nobody Else But You...all of which will have you singing along after the first time you hear it! "},{"Title":"A great underrated kid movie classic","Date":"15 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" When I picked this movie all I could think of all the great memories that came along with it. Starting off with the great music that was in it. The catchy lyrics from After Today and I2I. I also still loved how maturity that could be found in this most simple parts. An example being with how Goofy reacts to finding out that Max, his son, lied to him. I love the way the worked in some light fourth wall jokes like having Donald Duck and Mickey join in on the song, All in All while being lost in the middle of the highway to The little Mermaid light switch. I also enjoyed how the growth of relationship between Max and Goofy. Overall I loved this movie and hope it becomes a real Disney Classic. I also enjoyed the music video with Lou Bega doing the cleaned up verison of Mambo No. 5. In short,a great movie and wonderful DVD release to boot! "},{"Title":"Cute and enjoyable. Lots of Disney references and jokes.","Date":"11 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Disney's A Goofy Movie may not be one of their best films but it still holds up to this day in my opinion. A funny movie about Goofy and his son.Poor Max is not very popular at school and he has a crush on a girl named Roxanne. He wants to be popular with his fellow students and Roxanne so he decides to dress up like his favorite singer Powerline and put on a show for the last day of school. He of course succeeds and everyone takes an immediate liking to him. (If life were really that simple) Max gets invited to a Powerline concert that will air on television by Roxanne but he has to cut it short when Goofy plans on taking him on vacation after his Principal insists that he is in big trouble for causing an uproar at the school. Goofy thinks that by taking his son on vacation and bonding with him he won't end up going down the wrong path.Unfortunately Max has to break his plans with Roxanne but before he leaves he lies to her about his dad knowing Powerline and that they are going to meet up with him.Max and Goofy head out and they get into a few adventures that make Max realize that his dad only wanted what was best for him. As for the rest I won't spoil it but it makes for a tearful happy ending.While A Goofy Movie isn't considered a masterpiece classic it is still worth watching and an overall enjoyable experience. "},{"Title":"It's hard to be cool - AND LIVE A LIFE - when your dad is Goofy!","Date":"16 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The tag-line couldn't be more appropriate! It IS hard to be cool when your dad is Goofy! Lucky he's not my father or yours, eh? Poor young Max! Goofy's cool dude 14-year-old son Max will go as far as taking it upon himself to ruin a school assembly by the principal to impress his bashful girlfriend Roxanne (Principal Mazor is the principal's name - WHY???!!! Something a little more fictitious would've been better I'd say). Even when he's in big trouble with Mazor he can only think of the fact that he's failed to impress Roxanne - he thinks! She loved his dance on the stage and would love to go on a date with him!... Not if Goofy's got anything to do with it! He is completely obsessed with his son 'Maxie' as he always patronizingly calls him and whisks him away from home to go on a holiday, against Max's will! Goofy doesn't give a toss about Max and his love-life and now Max is very much likely to lose Roxanne! To the end, Goofy is totally selfish and even reduces to taking enjoyment in cruelly humiliating Max at the most worn-down theme park I've ever seen! Luckily enough, the opportunity to break free of Goofy's clutches occurs when he goes to sleep in the car and Max has the map right in front of him! Max quietly makes alterations to the map taking them both to Los Angeles where Max intends to join a famous pop-star to make for a good enough excuse for missing his date with Roxanne. What else was the poor lad supposed to do?! I'd have done the same! So when Goofy finds out about Max's plan by looking at the map himself, he is in no position whatsoever of feeling angry with his son!...GOOFY You lied to me! MAX I had to - you were ruining my life! Why should anybody have their lives being ruined?! Anyway it all ends happily because Max both builds a bond with Goofy and finally wins his girlfriend over! "},{"Title":"most lovable and funniest Disney film","Date":"28 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I think this was such a really good movie it was funny and fresh like all of goofy's adventurers in Disney have never been good as this I like the road trip and the big foot was funny too when he goes in goofy and max's stuff and playing with them and when he crushes into the car was funny I have never watch A movie like this be for really good movie I had a good felling it was not going to turn out this bad When I watched it as kid when I got it out from the video shop along with Thomas the tank engine and the couples MAX AND ROXANNE is just cute they should never let max have another girlfriend I feel so glad that Roxanne came back in house of the mouse but that was in 2002 I still think they should of shown Roxanne in Mickey's twice upon Christmas but still I am going to be watch this movie I am not sure about the second one being that good as the first one but still this was a good movie I give this movie a 8 out of 10 and its great for kids and teenagers so if are a teenager like I am you will love this film and trust me I am really big fan of this film. very good "}{"Title":"A Goofy Movie = A Great Movie","Date":"5 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I remember the first time I saw this movie in theaters. It was the best thing I've ever seen. The funny thing is, I thought it was weird to hear a deep-voiced version of Max (opposed to him being voiced by Dana Hill in Goof Troop). All and all, this is one of my favorite movies of all time.Jymn Magon did a great job with the story and giving Goofy an emotional arc. I also love the songs, characters and Max's relationship with Roxanne. And looking back, I think this is what the 90s was all about.This is a gem that Walt Disney should truly recognize as a classic.9/10 "},{"Title":"Funny as you'd expect, with a surprisingly strong amount of realistic characterizations.","Date":"2 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Like the more lesser known DUCKTALES movie, this film is also based on a famous Disney TV show, GOOF TROOP, starring, naturally, Goofy. That said, A GOOFY MOVIE feels somewhat disconnected from the show, as indicated by the style of the animation and the lack of certain characters around. Not that it is a detriment at all, however; in fact, A GOOFY MOVIE is all the better for it.Goofy is cast as a suburban '90s father who bumbles his way through everything, including almost vacuuming up a prized cardboard statue and smashing a fence when driving his car out of the driveway. An admirer of old-fashioned things like Xavier Cougat, High Hopes, and fishing, he is a frequent source of embarrassment to his teenage son Max, who is going through that typical adolescent stage where girls, rock 'n roll, and social acceptance are more important to him. Smitten with one particularly pretty classmate, Roxanne, he plucks up the courage to ask her out on a date... but not before hijacking the last school assembly to put on an impromptu rock concert as his idol, a rock superstar named Powerline (Tevin Campbell, who gets to sing two of the movie's liveliest and memorable tunes, Stand Out and I 2 I). Max does this to both impress the girl and win admiration from his classmates (who think he's, well, a goof-ball), but the exasperated principal misinterprets his actions as a case of being on a road to crime, a point that he over-exaggerates in the extreme on a phone call to Goofy. Needless to say, Goofy is horrified by the news and forces Max to go on a cross-country vacation with him to Lake Destiny to reestablish their bond. Of course, what Goofy doesn't realize is that Max, who has no choice but to cancel his date, boasts that he will be on-stage at Powerline's newest concert in L.A. instead. This sets up a source of tension that escalates between Goofy and Max as they stop at rundown, cringeworthy resorts such as Lester's Possum Park (a very loose parody of Disney's Country Bear Jamboree) and even get into an encounter with Bigfoot. (The latter experience culminates with the beast dancing to the Bee Gee's Staying Alive on Max's headphones.) Amazingly, though, Goofy and Max begin to bond as their trip progresses; but Max is still troubled by his predicament, and, thinking his father won't understand, he decides to alter the map so that they can go to the concert instead... ultimately realizing that telling the truth is the better thing to do.Even with the presence of a iconic lovable bumbler like Goofy as the star, A GOOFY MOVIE is primarily targeted at teenagers, who will undoubtedly relate to Max and his adolescent struggles. On the other side of the fence, parents will also be able to identify with Goofy as he deals with his son's resentment about the vacation while trying to prove that all he really wants is for his son to be happy. It's not often to see such a complex development in a project which is disconnected from Disney's canonical features, much less one from a character best known for tripping on his heels or bungling simple tasks (ala the How to Goofy shorts). Ultimately, though, that's what gives A GOOFY MOVIE its heart. No character is portrayed as a purely perfect hero or a downright evil villain; they are surprisingly more multi-layered than what you'd come to expect. Critics have often dismissed this film as a lesser effort from Disney, but A GOOFY MOVIE has achieved a loyal following, purely because of the surprisingly realistic, honest depiction of teenager relationships with their parents. (It also marks the first time we've ever seen Goofy look genuinely crushed and betrayed, particularly when he discovers his son is manipulating him into going to some place other than their fishing destination, as well as having a heated argument with the boy immediately afterward.)One issue that I do have with A GOOFY MOVIE, however, may be that some of the newer characters introduced, from cheese-guzzling Bobby, to nerdy class president Stacey to Roxanne herself all don't have much screen time. Since all three come across as very appealing newcomers, it would have been interesting to flesh out their relationships with Max and Goofy. Particularly Roxanne, who, although sweet and insecure, leaves one wanting to see her on that special date with Max. This tease somewhat grates on me, although not enough to bring down the film.Technically, the animation in A GOOFY MOVIE (produced primarily in Paris, Sydney, and Toronto) isn't as richly detailed as most of the studio's other films; frankly, though, it is both above-average and very well-suited to this kind of cartoon. The soundtrack is also a lot of fun; aside from the aforementioned rock songs, other catchy memorable numbers include the exuberant After Today, the bouncy On the Open Road, and the heartfelt Nobody Else but You. Probably the only false note is the Lester's Possum Park singalong, but then again, that may be intentional, since the camp is supposed to be, as Max best describes it, pathetic. Carter Burwell's musical score is also quite good.All in all, A GOOFY MOVIE may not rank as one of Disney's greatest animated films, but it certainly deserves better recognition. It works very well as entertainment and as a character study, yet as a starring vehicle for Goofy it's something quite different from what one would be used to seeing. That it holds up well even after being released in 1995 is also remarkable. "},{"Title":"A very rare feel-good cartoon","Date":"20 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" We all love feel-good movies; they're fun, sweet, with an ending that just, well, makes you feel good. These films are, in themselves, quite common, but what is very rare is to find a feel-good cartoon (a good example is 'Happy Feet'). 'A Goofy Movie' is one of those rarities. Max Goof is just a teenager trying to fit in -- after performing a song by popular singer Powerline on-stage (without permission) at the end-of-year assembly, he quickly ascends from zero to hero in the school's eyes. When the girl of his dreams, Roxanne, accepts his invitation to go on a date to a pay-per-view screening of the Powerline concert, Max is floating on air. But because of his stunt at the assembly, his dad, Goofy, resolves to spend more time with Max to keep him from turning into a bad kid. Max is forced to break his date with Roxanne, but when she asks why, he tries to impress her by saying that Goofy was once in a band with Powerline, so they are going to see the live concert in L.A., and he will wave to her from the stage as he performs with Powerline. The rest of the movie is basically Max trying to Goofy to L.A so he can keep his promise, and deal with his dad's embarrassing nature. It's full of laughs, heartwarming moments, and the ending really pulls it all together to make a feel-good cartoon. Disney is, of course, famous for the show-tuney songs, and so there are some moments when characters randomly start singing, but the songs in 'A Goofy Movie' are really good. My personal favourites are Nobody Else But You (a great song on it's own) and After Today.I highly recommend 'A Goofy Movie'! It's great for the kids and there are plenty jokes that'll make even the adults laugh out loud. "},{"Title":"Modern-Day Disney at it's finest!","Date":"31 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" At first look, A Goofy Movie looks like just another kids movie. This thought is wrong because it's one of Disney's greatest masterpieces (Yes, it's a masterpiece)! The story is about Max Goof, who is trying to impress the girl of his dreams, Roxanne. Max is the least popular kid in school, and he tries to find a way to get Roxanne's attention. In this process, he and his friends, P.J. and Bobby, help him take over an end-of-school assembly where he lip syncs and dances to the song Stand Out by Powerline, a pop star that the students at Max's school idolize. He gets a date with Roxanne to go watch the Powerline concert on Pay-per- view at Roxanne's friend, Stacey's house. This is all stopped when Max's dad, famous Disney character Goofy, decides at the last second to take Max on a cross-country trip to go fishing. When Max tries to explain his conflict, Goofy still forces Max to go. Before they leave, Max stops by Roxanne's house to break off the date. When he leaves, he's promised that he'll be on stage at the Powerline concert in LA. The music is excellent with musical numbers like After Today and On the Open Road and power pop songs like Stand Out and I2I. I recommend this movie greatly! You'll be entertained from start to finish!8/10 "},{"Title":"A Goofy Movie is excellent","Date":"26 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" A Goofy Movie is a wonderful film. I love it! I remember first seeing it for the first time when I was 4 1/2. Now I'm 18 and I still think it's an excellent film! My favorite part is when Goofy catches Bigfoot and Max screams Dad! It's Bigfoot! And Goofy says Could you back up a bit Mr. Foot? You're out of focus! God! That was hilarious! Good characters, good story, and great animation A Goofy Movie is a true animated classic that'll be in the hearts of millions for generations. I just wish they would of dedicated it to Pat Buttram the voice of Posseum Park Emcee who died a year before it's release. This was his final film role! Oh well. I still think it's pretty good and recommend it for anyone. "},{"Title":"My Favourite All Time Film!!! Ever!!!","Date":"11 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Oh my gosh! This is ultimately my favourite film ever! Although Im sixteen its my favourite film... and always has been since i was about 6. Max is my all time favourite Disney Character, he is so cool! This also has a sort of love story and i am a sucker for good love stories! This is my favourite film. I would give it a big massive huge 10 out of 10! I wish i could meet the guy who played his voice, it sounds great! I have a lot of favourite films but this has got to be my all time favourite! I love it! Even though i love it, i still haven't got round to buying it on DVD! Haha! But i soon will. I have it in my mind though! I know it all of by heart! 10 OUT OF 10! "},{"Title":"Better than you might expect","Date":"15 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Raising children during the 1990's this was one of the Disney films we wound up buying on videotape and watching over and over. I expected it to be an extended TV show, stretching out Goof Troop into an overlong adventure.Instead, I was surprised at the well-written story about the struggle for parents and adolescents to adjust as they each grow older. The songs are very good, and the tongue-in-cheek jokes about Disney are pretty funny (Lester's Possum Park skewers the Country Bear Jamboree). The interplay between Goofy and his son Max feels real and the film does have some nice emotional moments that ring true.My (now) 18 and 15 year old daughters still love this film, and now I think the themes of the movie are much clearer to them. The animation is not as good as a Beauty and the Beast, but it's still among my favorite Disney films. "},{"Title":"A classic and a must see!","Date":"31 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" 'A Goofy Movie' is my favorite movie of all time. You may think that I am just saying that because I really like the movie, but I'm not. Maybe that is childish of me, but it is true. Max and Goofy remind me a lot of my dad and I. I highly recommend this movie to anyone who has forgotten what it is like to be a kid. Whether you are 5 or 85 you will laugh at some part in this movie. Also if you ever had doubts if Big Foot was real, this film pretty much puts that debate to rest. It is remarkable to me how as I've grown up this movie still makes me smile every time I watch it. I highly recommend you see this film, I promise you will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"A Childhood Classic","Date":"18 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie really is a real childhood classic or should I say a real 90's classic. I mean if you look at the movie carefully you can see why it is a real 90's classic. You don't see all the new high tech in the movie that we now have today. There were NO DVD's (only Video's), No HD TV, and mobile phones were bricks(and to who that remember owning their first mobile phone should know what I mean, when I said that mobile phone's were the size of brickes) And the fashion, I mean a lot of the characture's wore pants or shorts above their waists, big hair and really baggy clothes.So to me, this movie is like taking a trip through time itself and how life was like in the early 90's and for what I can remember and from the help of this movie... those days ROCKED!!! I always enjoyed the songs 'I-2-I' and 'Stand out' they were always my favorites as youngster! 10 out of 10! "},{"Title":"A great movie with great values!","Date":"16 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I love this movie. I recently watched it again for the first time in about 8 or 9 years and I loved it as much today as I did then. Let me be frank, I grew up on this movie, so I am really close with it. I think that it gives kids and young preteens and teenagers a good perspective on the value of family. I thought that the relationship between Max and Goofy rang true to the typical father-son-relationship. Plus, the classic character development of the guy trying to impress the girl and being accepted in school. The great 90's lingo and music is a great way to reminisce about the decade and the movie gives us a chance to re-examine our own family relationships. I think that it has good laughs and it would be a great addition to any younger collection of movies. Enjoy! "}{"Title":"crush on Roxanne","Date":"15 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Yes me to..i used to always watch it over and over again when i was a younger and I used to have a crush on Roxanne...*sigh*. Hey can someone tell me if I can still buy this movie and where? the first time i watched this movie was when i was 12 i think and I didn't know why but for some reason it made me cry but only at the start of the movie because when max had to go away on the trip with his dad and he missed Roxanne so much and kept seeing her (like in the water).....i don't know why but i cried. i would really like to see this movie again (i am really only 13)and i think i would still enjoy the movie Evan if i am a little to old to see it so again can someone tell me if I can still get this movie? "},{"Title":"For the first time ever, we're seein it eye to eye.","Date":"28 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is one of my favorite movies, (favorite Disney movie) and I would slap anyone who says it sucks just 'cause they're too cool for it.Goofy(Bill Farmer) takes his son, Max (Jason Marsden) on a fishing trip to Lake Destiny after getting the idea that he might end up in the electric chair. Max has other plans and keeps a sad face throughout the movie until he becomes navigator. He lies to Roxanne, the girl he tries to get in the beginning, and says he's gonna be on stage with Powerline, the famous rock star. Eventually, Goofy lightens up and gets Max on stage and everyone is happy! Personally, I think this movie is great and deserves much more then what it was given. The plot is great, music is awesome (I need to find that soundtrack), and is very funny. In fact, I just bought the movie yesterday and love it. It's a great family film and inspired, An Extremely Goofy Movie.Just to tell any of you who want to know where Roxanne went in the sequel, she's in one episode of, House of Mouse. "},{"Title":"Watching it now that i am older...this movie is better!","Date":"8 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" If you say this movie suck(z) its probably because-Cuz u tink ure 2 kool 4 it I am 13 and i just watched my copy of the movie, and I cant believe how much better it is now that I am older.This movie is extremely funny with a big foot dancing around disco style! I found myself singing a long to the songs that I used to love as a younger child.A touching movie with the perfect combination of tears and laughter...But maybe your head is to far up your own....that you think this movie is uncool and suckZ.So if you think your secure enough to watch this great movie... i recommend it to anyone. "},{"Title":"Fun Adventure, Deep Characters, is this really Goofy?","Date":"24 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The first time I saw this movie, I must've been about 9 or 10, back when my mother bought it on VHS. It was instantly one of my favorites if only because it was a fun adventure. Now, I'm 19 and I can still say that this is among my favorite films that was directed towards children, though at this age, one naturally appreciates the movie in different ways.It should come as no surprise after all these other reviews that this movie is about a vacation gone awry so I won't belabor that topic. Now that I've been through high school, I suppose I find some of the stereotypes employed throughout the film to be a bit aggravating. But past that, what we have is a movie that actually has a lot emotional depth to it. It is Goofy like we've never expected him to be before. While still being the klutzy, 6', anthropomorphic dog, he is now a family man and shows us that he can be everything from the goofyness we've come to love about him, to being genuinely angry with the frustration of knowing there are things people like his son, Max, aren't telling him. And isn't difference what we want from a movie? Max himself is no doormat. In fact, his character is significantly strengthened from way back when he was in Goof Troop, which honestly wasn't a very good show. As many others have said, his insecurity and angst is actually rather endearing. And that is what I liked best about the two Goofy Movies. They show us that, even for low budget attempts, Disney is actually quite capable of creating compelling characters and give heart to their movies. The tension between Goofy and Max can be felt. It's easy to sympathize with both characters. As with all Disney movies, there is a lesson to be taught, especially about lying. But thankfully, the movie doesn't make any attempt to slap it in your face so, at my age, at least I don't feel like I'm being taught to.The music and animation aren't spectacular, but they are pretty good. And the cutesy songs don't feel like they are being forced. The animation was a major improvement however over the Goof Troop TV show, which was loose at best and sloppy at worst.In my comment, I mentioned a lot about the main characters, but I feel that has probably come from being older than when I first watched the movie. Kids can watch this movie for the somewhat humorous gags and compelling adventure. But I think older audiences (older as in maybe earlier adult, I don't think grandfathers will be watching something like this) can appreciate the amount of depth Goofy and Max have been given and the amount of development they both go through as the story goes on. The DVD also has some nice extras such as an entire Disney episode from 1965, so if you want to get this movie, get the DVD. "},{"Title":"One of my favorites","Date":"1 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  When it comes to Disney movies of the now, I'm not too pleased. But A Goofy Movie is without a doubt a great one. Goofy and his son Max are two complete opposites when it comes to life. Goofy is a little bit country and Max is a little bit Rock -N- Roll as you would say. Goofy feels that him and Max need some time together in the country. When Max has other plans to try to go to a concert to impress a girl from school. They also have to learn how to deal with each other on the way there. And hey go through a giant adventure to get to both of their locations. This is a great movie. There are a lot of wacky characters that you will love. I would recommend this for actual Disney fans.9/10 "},{"Title":"I have seen better","Date":"29 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  With all the great animated Disney features from the nineties this is probably the least of all. Where movies like 'The Beauty and the Beast', 'Aladdin', 'The Lion King' and 'A Bug's Life' (just to name a few) where fun for children and adults, 'A Goofy Movie' seems to be mainly for children. I missed the funny supporting characters and the comedy they bring to other animated movies from Disney.It is definitely not a bad movie. Children will probably love it and I had some good laughs. There are little jokes about Walt Disney and cameo appearances from Mickey Mouse, Donald Duck and Chip and Dale. Those little things give the movie a nice touch. The songs were also nice, but again not as memorable as the songs from most other animated features from Disney. "},{"Title":"I have an extremely Goofy love/hate affair with this movie.","Date":"28 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  An odd movie, this one.Unlike the original staff of the traditional Walt Disney studios, I have never had *any* doubts that Goofy, my fave rave of all of Disney's comical funny animal characters, could carry an entire movie. I knew he could do it; he just needed a chance.A Goofy Movie turns out to be something of a mixed bag, and as a result there are things I love about the movie and things I can't stand about it. I don't consider it a successful piece, really, but neither do I consider it a disaster.The plot is very simple and revolves around an easily-relatable-by-the-audience misunderstanding due to details I won't take the time to go into here due to their being too numerous and too revealing, Goofy becomes convinced that Max is on the verge of becoming a juvenile delinquent while Max is convinced that being Goofy's son is a major threat to his chances of having a normal life. As a result, they end up taking a cross-country vacation as unresolved tensions pile up until the inevitable.As far as the plot goes, it actually works much better than paid critics would have you believe. The reason for this is because the tension's pressure cooker is depicted so superbly. Despite the gags, the tension succeeds in piling up worse and worse and WORSE to the point where you can't really relax watching the film. At one particular moment near the climax in which Max points out which way to go on a particular freeway intersection at the very last minute, you can cut the atmosphere with a knife. I mean, it is *awful*. But awful in a good, convincing way for the plot, if you know what I mean, not written terribly awful. You have to experience it for yourself to see what I mean.The movie is carried reasonably, and believes in its own concept enough to work. It also has surprisingly good songs. And it's heartfelt even if, like all of Disney's most recent input, it seems to merely walk up to the edge of the heartfelt emotions it's reaching for instead of bravely walking over the edge to grasp them and going for the gusto (the same problem that currently plagues such Disney projects as the Proud Family and The Emperor's New Groove). Goofy's appeal helps here, of course, and certainly helps carry the movie over the things in it I personally don't care for.Now as for what I didn't like there's a bit character here, a friend of Max's (I can never remember his name) who wears glasses and has a thing for cheese. I personally find his cheese antics so disgusting and repulsive that he single-handedly succeeds in sinking nearly the entire movie for me! He remains one of the main reasons why I won't actually *buy* this movie because he just makes me queasy with every appearance. Not only that, but this is the first animated film I've ever seen which actually succeeds in making pizza look gross to the point of being nauseating (a la Pizza The Hut from SPACEBALLS) and it's *really* saying something in my case, since I'm a *HUGE* pizza-lover, when I remark that I wouldn't touch pizza for a long time after seeing this flick.The animation is done smoothly and well-coordinated for the most part even though it was all farmed out instead of being done in-house. The draftsmanship, however, is simply atrocious. The animators here simply go through the motions with Goofy and the rest of the characters without making that little special effort to make them more visually appealing; the limbs, for example, are simply drawn as black hoses in Goofy's case instead of any attempt to add definition or figure, and they move like unjointed rubber instead of with the famous Disney Illusion of Life. In fact, A GOOFY MOVIE demonstrates well how carelessness in the draftsmanship can threaten to sabotage an animated film (by comparison, the Australian-based animation of Goofy on HOUSE OF MOUSE demonstrates draftsmanship constructed with genuine love and care it puts A GOOFY MOVIE to shame).Still, despite these quibbles, I do like the movie alright and rent it on occasion (once every few months or so) and enjoy it simply because Goofy's appeal and certain pluses in it outweigh the minuses enough for me to see it once in a while. I personally find AN EXTREMELY GOOFY MOVIE an improvement even though its draftsmanship isn't too much better. A GOOFY MOVIE isn't the sort of quality Goofy project I've come to expect from classic Disney, not by a long shot, but it's do. "},{"Title":"certainly amusing if not hysterically funny.","Date":"15 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" this first feature length film starring Goofy is not too bad.it has it's funny moments,to be sure.but it also gets a bit schmaltzy at times.and there are too many musical numbers for my taste.still,a couple of the songs are catchy.and though i didn't find it riotously funny,i will say there's e a scene near the end which is very funny.overall,though i'd say it's amusing straight through and certainly very entertaining.and there's even a lesson in it for the kids.it's worth the watch at least once,especially if you catch it on TV or as a cheap rental.whether it's worth a purchase or not is up to personal tastes.but for me,A Goofy Movie is a respectable 6/10 "},{"Title":"Not much different from a typical Goofy Cartoon.","Date":"10 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" My Take Pure Saturday-morning cartoon stuff, but kids will love it. Goofy's popular enough to get his own movie, so why shouldn't he? This 1995 effort to transport Goofy from your boob tubes to the big screen is exactly how a Goofy movie should be. The kids will love it, as will log time Goofy fans who might have thanked Disney for not ruining their favorite character on his way to the small to the big screen. Unfortunately still, it's way off a real theatrical effort. Sometimes, it feels like a longer version of a half-hour animated TV show.There's not much to extend to the story as Goofy (voiced by Bill Farmer) and his teenage son Max (voiced by Jason Marsden) going on a road trip. But Max, being a mature teenager of course, doesn't play along with Goofy's childish, silly likings. He, instead, wants to go to a concert and appear on TV to impress his friends and a girlfriend-to-be. There are some amusing moments of course, and the kids will love exactly what is coming to them. The animation is fine, and certainly lively and active. But, on the other hand, the story and characters need work. There's nothing really special about them.Rating **1/2 out of 5. "},{"Title":"Not as good as the old cartoons.","Date":"22 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  When I was 6 (When the movie came out), I loved that movie. But now I'm 10, and I don't like that movie that much. I still like the old Goofy cartoons.The movie is still funny. But it sucks! Like the stupid possum park.For God sakes, don't watch this film!!!!It suckz! "}{"Title":"Reasonable family fare","Date":"25 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  When Max gets in trouble to impress a girl, his dad, Goofy, decides to take him away on a fishing trip to bond and keep him out of trouble.  Max doesn't want to go as it requires him to cancel his first real date - but does it by pretending he's going to LA to be in a concert.  But will Max think of his dad or of himself?I'm not a big Disney fan but ended up watching this to placate the children. The animation is pretty good in terms of what it tries to do; it is very big and colourful - a far cry from Pixar but does what is required of it. The plot is reasonable enough and allows of adventures that will amuse children even if it will be of little consistent interest to adults.  The overall moral of truth and bonding is OK but maybe a bit too lost in a sea of songs and comedy antics.The songs are all pretty poor to be honest, they lack any spark and take the mould of trendy pop which must have seemed out of fashion almost as soon as it was made.  In fact the same could be said of much of the film - the young `trendy' characters are silly and even the pop concert turns out to be a guy that is some sort of mix between MC Hammer and Prince!  The voice work is pretty average all round and never really rises above TV cartoon level.Overall this should please young children because it is so bright, colourful and fun.  However for adults there is almost nothing to enjoy and it is just like watching a 5 minute Disney cartoon with forced `modern' touches and not really enough going for it to justify a movie.  Watchable with a group of kids you want to keep quiet though. "},{"Title":"A Goofy Movie","Date":"7 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I remember seeing this cartoon film from Walt Disney Pictures at least once when I was younger, but for some reason I forced myself into watching it again when grown up, probably just to get a definite opinion, but I knew it was going to be terrible no matter what. Basically school has ended and summer has begun, teenage Max Goof (Jason Marsden) wants to catch the eye of beautiful fellow student Roxanne (Kellie Martin), so he stages an impromptu concert at the final assembly. Max's father Goofy (Bill Farmer) gets a call from Principal Mazur (Toy Story's Wallace Shawn), he exaggerates events and warns that if Max's actions may one day have him facing capital punishment, Goofy has the idea to get Max away from everything by taking him on vacation. Max has succeeded becoming a celebrity and impressing Roxanne, she agrees to go to a party where a live performance by pop singer Powerline will be showing, but then Goofy blows his plans announcing they are going on a fishing trip together in his station wagon, following a map route to Lake Destiny, Idaho. Max is forced to call off the date with Roxanne, but he fabricates a story that his father knows Powerline and tells her that he will be with the pop star when they go live on stage at the concert. Max is miserable throughout the journey to go fishing, Pete (Jim Cummings) and his son and Max's friend P.J. (Rob Paulsen) join them on the way, Pete advises Goofy to keep Max under control, and of course, with Goofy around, the trip is full of disasters, including spending the night with Bigfoot (Scooby-Doo's Frank Welker). Stopping during the journey at night Max alters the route map to change the destination to Los Angeles, where the concert is being held, Goofy decides in the morning to make Max navigator, and allow them to stop along the way wherever he chooses. Pete on one of their stops overhears Max and P.J. talking about Max's change to the map, he tells Goofy, but he refuses to believe him, but looking at the map for himself he knows he has been duped. Goofy gets very angry when Max directs him towards California instead of Idaho, they fight and end up with the car crashing into the river, but they survive, they reconcile and Goofy understands Max wanting to impress a girl he feels for, and Max saves his dad from a waterfall death using a fishing technique he taught him. Goofy and Max make it to Los Angeles and the concert, through unintentional gatecrashing they both end up dancing on stage with Powerline during his performance, watched by everyone from school, including Roxanne. In the end, after returning home, Max tells Roxanne the truth, but she admits she always had feelings for him, since he said Ahyuck! (the Goofy laugh), they start a relationship, the car explodes and Goody falls through the house roof, this allows Max to introduce Roxanne to his dad. Also starring Kevin Lima as Lester, Florence Stanley as Waitress and Jo Anne Worley as Miss Maples. The film is essentially a film adaptation of the TV show Goof Troop (which I watched sometimes younger and liked), but with the kid character now a teenager, Goofy in this is unfortunately not suited as a dad, his chaotic antics are not as fun to watch as the original shorts from the past, in fact in this I found him highly irritating, and his teen son with an attitude is no better. In fact the entire film was irritating, only creating titters of laughs, and the most predictable and ordinary story, I knew it was going to be terrible, and it was, not one I'd even bother showing your children, a rather rubbish animated comedy. Pretty poor! "}]