[{"Title":"Mighty Aphrodite","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"41 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Hot on the high-heels of Showgirls comes Woody Allen's latest film, Mighty Aphrodite, named after the Greek goddess of love, another American film trying to interrogate the questionable mentality and dubious spirituality of the skin trade. A lot will probably be made of the fact that, not satisfied with merely pointing out classical references in his text, Allen decided to have a whole Greek Chorus (consisting of F. Murray Abraham, Olympia Dukakis, David Ogden Stiers and Jack Warden) filmed in an ancient outdoor amphitheater in Taormina, Italy (wearing masks, no less, in a nod to classical authenticity) and genuflect on the alter of genuine myth to underscore the tragic and comedic parts of his film. It doesn't matter how well- versed you are in the Greeks, you'll be able to enjoy what Allen has done with his approach, which is a very refreshing idea for film (bringing it all back home) and also a great surreal scaffold for the situation he presents. Purists be warned. Allen (Now 60 years old, but trying to play his role like he's not a day over 40) and Helena Bonham- Carter (29 years old) are happily married when one day Bonham-Carter's biological clock goes off and she wants to have a baby immediately. Allen hesitates so much at the thought of pregnancy that Bonham- Carter, who really can't wait, says, fine, let's adopt, then, which of course hits the raw nerve of Allen's masculinity as he defends his genes against the idea of having someone else's child join their family.Allen's character in this film is a sportswriter, adding another tough layer to his never-ending quiche of a meditation/angst-ridden search for definitive masculinity. Every scene where Allen suffers some sort of gender-related torment is set in a male arena When he's fighting on the phone with Bonham-Carter about the decision to adopt, the backdrop is a boxing club with every ring filled with sparring partners. Another scene where he contemplates his situation shows him pacing back and forth on the sidelines watching the New York Giants scrimmage in the Meadowlands.The couple finally decide to adopt a boy, and in one scene in particular I realized just how much Allen is stuck in a zeitgeist rut. In their uptown apartment Allen and Bonham-Carter bandy names back and forth for the new little tike as Allen, forever the cultural namedropper, comes up with the monikers of all of his heroes Django, Groucho, Thelonius. Bonham-Carter is oblivious to his suggestions as she coddles the baby and suddenly you realize that Allen should have made this film years ago, because the conversation sounds like something that was written for what would have been the sequel to Annie Hall. Now that he's twenty years removed from the carefree days of dynamic dialogue with Diane Keaton and the spark she brought as Allen's main female foil, Bonham-Carter seems unsure of herself, treating Allen as obligatorily as a father or uncle rather than her husband. Enter the plot.Bonham-Carter is being chased by Peter Weller (48 years old), a seductively sleazy art gallery owner, which sends Allen's mid-life crisis into an absolute tailspin as he begins wondering if he's really happy with his wife, and as he's looking at his newly adopted son he wonders aloud what the mother of his adopted child is like. Enter Cassandra and...you get the picture.One of the things I realized while watching Mighty Aphrodite is that Allen has spent a good portion of his career in film flagellating himself for not being the American Ingmar Bergman, when all the time he should have been luxuriating in the fact that he's the American Federico Fellini He has an uncanny sense for seeking out ripe minor actors, ready to be picked, and then letting them find the aspect of the character they're playing that makes them Characters rather than just parts played by actors. Even though I feel as if Bonham-Carter is not given nearly enough room to fully flesh out her character (which is a shame for an actress of her caliber), the film is really about Linda, the real mother of Allen and Bonham-Carter's adopted child, who turns out to be a ditzy porn star overflowing with spunk and zeal.Linda, played by Mira Sorvino (Quiz Show, Barcelona), Paul Sorvino's daughter, steals the film. Allen has tempted fate and defied the Greek Chorus' warnings by seeking out Linda, but since she's in the skin trade he arranges to meet her at her apartment in the guise of being merely a john. When Allen's reticence at wham-bam-thank-you-ma'am sex gets the better of him, he finally shows the age and mindset that he really is and turns into a grandfather before your very eyes.But, Linda is a ditz first and a hooker second in that she understands her victimization but also begins to realize that her situation is only as hopeless as her innate tenacity is boundless. In the most delicate scene in the film, and maybe the most poignant scene I've seen all year, Sorvino is in her bathtub-sized kitchen trying to defend her life to Allen, and as she keeps talking she realizes her own complicity until she finally mentions that she even had a baby once that she gave up for adoption. Allen gives her this scene by not entering the frame for what seems like a full minute. The direction in this scene alone, in Linda's chessily decorated flat complete with clocks of pigs in heat, shows just how gifted Allen is at being able to take an obscure actress, give her a two-dimensional role and have her find the heart and soul of the film on her own.Leave it to Woody Allen to deliver a film that is fascinating on many levels and is as beautifully structured as anything you're likely to see all year. I don't believe it's Best Picture material, but it does show a very strong return to form for Allen, no matter how unsure he is of reentering the war between the sexes. "},{"Title":"Superb balance between sophistication and corn","Date":"8 May 2003","Score":"36 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Spike Jones once said that his material was too corny for sophisticated people but too sophisticated for corny people.  Woody Allen's material can lend itself to similar critique.  Mighty Aphrodite has a superb balance between sophistication and corn.The Greek chorus idea is very well used, both at a sophisticated level - the film is essentially a modernised Greek drama - and at a corn level (when the chorus morphed into a more Broadway-style chorus Janie avoided the cheese by going into the kitchen and uncorking the wine). The Greek myth theme is well done throughout - I loved the appeal to Zeus especially.  Also the deus ex machina resolution was terrific fun, although I think not entirely original (I believe it was Cocteau who previously used the helicopter as a visual deus ex machina).  Fine performances - Mira Sorvino is a super tart with a heart.  Even Helena Bonham Carter is more effectively used in this film than in her standard Merchant Ivory roles, although I thought she lacked chemistry with Woody.  Good also to see F Murray Abraham as the leader of the chorus - why do we see so little of him these days?I'm a fan of Woody, but he has been patchy in the last 10 years or so.  With this one, he really was in sparkling form.  Well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"How close to home do you want to get?","Date":"4 July 2003","Score":"30 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I have just watched Woody Allen's magnificent movie again for the first time in almost 10 years and am more convinced than ever that it is one of his most under-rated films (but then, how do you judge an artist - by his individual works or by the overall body of his work?).  And if suddenly I feel I am getting too serious here, let's just say that this is a very funny film.By now there is no escaping the fact that Woody Allen's films are largely autobiographical in that he uses what is happening in his own life to fuel his storylines.  For an audience this is sometimes only apparent in hindsight as the tabloids are quick to exploit Woody's foibiles.  But he beats us to it, and for that reason Mighty Aphrodite deals us a killer blow - it is very, very funny but in dealing with adoption, children and in marriages on the verge it is also very moving.  I laughed till I cried (the juxtaposition of the Greek chorus with the contemporaneous is a brilliant device) and finally I just cried.As to the movie itself, it is beautifully photographed and brilliantly edited (and with some inspired choreography) and acted to the highest order (Helena Bonham-Carter standing in for Mia Farrow just as well as Kenneth Branagh stood in for the Woodmeister in Celebrity - and how incestuous can we get here).  But the final word has to go to Mira Sorvino who is funny, touching and inspired.  Sometimes (not often) the Academy gets it right and her Oscar was one of their finest hours. "},{"Title":"'When you smile (...) the world smiles with you'","Date":"23 October 1999","Score":"23 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I can say that Mighty Aphrodite is the film that made me really appreciate Woody Allen's films. His direction is great, and so is the screenplay in the majority of his pictures.The story of Mighty Aphrodite is magic, light, funny and beautiful. The idea of the Greek chorus is just incredible! All the cast is great, but the best one is really Mira Sorvino. She deserved her Oscar playing Linda Ash, a nice and ingenuous prostitute.So if you like Woody Allen's films, you'll surely love this one like I did.  "},{"Title":"Very funny and touching tale about damaged people","Date":"25 April 2003","Score":"22 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  A childless couple adopt a baby, but the father becomes curious about the real birth mother and decides to trace her.Good to see Allen returning to something like his best, probably because he is returning to his natural home The light comedy of domestic life and the embarrassing people that we have to deal with.The star turn is Mira Sorvino (the natural mother) as the tart with a heart (an update of the happy hooker?) who Allen gets to know by pretending to be a client. Great plot device, which shows  what Allen can do when he casts his mind wider than people  chatting around restaurant tables or at parties.Interesting to see how Allen has developed as regards sexual frankness and the use of four letter words. Strangely he is returning to the device of being sexually inept (something he had been moving away from) to gain extra laughs.For once he gives the best lines to someone else - and in Sorvino we have a great comedienne A really touching and funny performance. Another Oscar that an actor/actress would never have otherwise got without the magic pen of Woody - no wonder the guy is so loved in the business!Away from the main comedy the thing bumbles along. Wife Helena Boham-Carter is not faithful and they argue a lot. The usual hypocrisies, double standards and manners are displayed (for a WA film), but they don't stop the film as they do elsewhere. The Greek chorus asides - are actually fantastically funny and a real piece of comic invention.Thankfully we have a something to do and somewhere to go here, it isn't just people whining about their lives. Allen wants to improve the life of the hooker-come-porn-star and suggests hairdressing and teaming up with a half-wit boxer (who he met through his job as a sports writer) he thinks she will like. A very entertaining film and it is good to see that Allen can write funny lines for women - which I thought he was incapable of. Recommended.  "},{"Title":"Mira Sorvino","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  The writing, directing, and acting in this movie were fabulous.  The supporting cast is one of the best ever assembled, and heading this supporting cast is the breakout performance of the century.  Mira Sorvino as Linda Ash has to be one of the greatest comedic performances in the history of film.  She is charming, and sweet, and everything you would never expect a New York hooker and porn star to be.  She creates Linda Ash from lines and direction that could go either way.  She could have chosen to make this character a hardened, tough city chick.  Instead, she went a completely different route of innocence despite sexual experience and naivete in the face of New York attitude, and it won her a well-deserved Oscar.  She is also just as delightful and funny as she is touching and poignant.  See this movie, even if it is only for Sorvino's performance, ignoring the incredible and novel script, the presence of Helena Bonham Carter and other actors of her caliber, and the fact that this could rival Annie Hall for best Woody Allen film.  Great acting, great script, great comedy, wonderful movie. "},{"Title":"a trifle in Woody Allen's career, but a good and amusing one all the same","Date":"30 April 2007","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I don't think Woody Allen was aiming very high with Mighty Aphrodite, and it's just as well that his targets are lowered onto one of the most light comedies ever made about a prostitute and a sports writer, with a Greek chorus in tow. You know the Greek chorus, chiming in at those moments when drama might need a little heightening, and if needed adding some unintentional humor to the process of a story like Antigone (actually, it's not a very funny story, but besides the point). Woody Allen combines with a fair amount of his usual wit a film that plays upon the big moral quandaries that are juxtaposed by a it's own built-in audience within the story; occasionally, one of the Greek chorus members (F. Murray Abraham especially, in one of his funniest roles) comes directly to Woody's character telling him 'what are you doing?' in a scene of near-classic Woody-nervousness comedy. It almost leans on becoming a little too goofy to deal with, as the story itself should have enough weight on its own to go without a sidebar of fantasy. But it does help garner some big laughs; where else will you see Zeus with his answering machine on? Woody Allen plays the aforementioned sports writer, who's married to a preoccupied art curator (Helena Bonham Carter), and together with her has an adopted son. He starts to get curious about where his son originally came from, as he seems very bright and an above average kid even at the age of five. After some prodding and searching, he comes upon the mother Leslie, aka Linda St. James, aka Lucy C** (Mira Sorvino, in a somewhat deserving Oscar turn). A prostitute and sometimes porno actress, she soon goes under Woody's character as a new woman, breaking away- slowly and with some trouble with her business manager- into a normal life. Although Allen does go to some lengths to make Linda, and even Carter's character, pretty well-rounded characters, he himself sort of stays in a narrow role as either the usual Woody nebbish with many a quick wisecrack (i.e. first meeting Linda at her apartment, surrounded by a screwing pig clock and cacti with genitalia, and his run-in with her 'manager' at a seedy bar), or as the surrogate match-maker for Linda to go on with a new life with a new man.A lot of this leads to funny scenes, not least of which surrounding what is in the subtext rather sad, of the situation of how she gave up her son for adoption and that it's never said outright what the truth is about Woody showing up to her, and there's somehow through what is potentially troublesome material some laugh-out-loud scenes. A scene that is meant, conventionally, just for character development like at the race track where Linda bets on the Eager Beaver is a riot, as well as the arranging of the first date with her and Michael Rappaport's dim-witted farmer/boxer. And Allen even attempts for a wallop of whimsy at the end when irony is piled up high, and everyone is seen, simply put, being in a level of bliss with their respective lot in life. If it isn't totally focused as a better Woody Allen picture, it may be because it works a little better when around the Allen/Sorvino connection, as opposed to the whole side-story involving him and his wife, which could be picked out from any random Woody Allen movie (and not necessarily a very involving side-story either).There's a good few laughs, a couple of brilliant zingers, and better than average performances turned in. Like Bullets Over Broadway it's a successful attempt at presenting dramatic subject matter in a light-hearted fashion, if not as deep or layered as the former. "},{"Title":"Witty as always with a good variation on the usual Woody Allen themes","Date":"2 April 2002","Score":"13 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Sports writer Lenny Weinrib is married to Amanda.  Amanda decides she wants a child but can't afford to take a year away from her art gallery projects, so they adopt.  Over the years the child strengthens their marriage and turns out to be incredibly clever and gifted.  Curious about his parents Lenny sets out to find Max's mother (understanding the father to be dead).  Expecting her to be intelligent he is surprised to locate a hooker who aspires to make it to Broadway and is working her way their in adult movies.  He tries to get to know her and seeks to better her lot in life by getting her out of the game so that his son won't grow up to locate his mother to find she is an aging porn star.  This causes tensions between Lenny and Linda but also at home as the cracks in his marriage begin to show.Woody Allen's films do tend to be similar if not the same &#150; certainly the last few years have seen him return to a regular light comedy style (I'm not complaining).  However they potentially could be all the same.  Here he cleverly mixes Greek tragedy into the story to make it sufficiently different.  The story is certainly different, with a hooker taking center stage, however Allen's trade mark wit is still very much on show.  The Greek chorus line is merely a different way of delivering his usual one liners and funny observations and doesn't distract at all.  It's very straight forward, but the Greek touch makes it feel fresh and new.Woody Allen is as good as ever &#150; he maybe looks a bit old, but he's so good at what he does that after 5 minutes it doesn't matter.  Sorvino is excellent in a daffy role &#150; it's not the sort of role usually rewarded by awards but she deserved the Oscar for a funny performance.  Bonham-Carter is not very good as an `Noo Yorka' girl but luckily she has little screen time.  The support cast is full of quality and lots of well known (if not famous) faces in small roles, F Abraham Murray is the head of the chorus line but the support includes Peter Weller, Jack Warner, Tony Siricio (Soprano's Paulie), Michael Rapaport, Paul Giamatti &#150; the list goes on.Overall this is yet another quality product from Woody Allen, it's hardly ground breaking stuff but when someone can be consistently this good year after year then you've got to give him his dues. "},{"Title":"Charming, imaginative look at fate, heredity and love","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This is a charming movie - particularly the parts played by the boxer-onion farmer, and prostitute/porn star, and their two scenes together. Allen's character's efforts sense of what happier direction the prostitute's life could take and his efforts to reform her, are also  exactly what most of us would do if we discovered that she was the biological mother of our adopted child. Allen has such imagination - and such an understanding of how people of varying education and background, talk and move, and what they care about.I did feel the subplot involving Helena Bonham-Carter, her career and Peter Weller, was less imaginative, less interesting. I've always had trouble warming to Bonham-Carter - perhaps it's just how unlikeable virtually all her roles have been - and this role didn't help. Mira Sorvino's character sounds amusingly like Victoria Jackson from Saturday Night Live - her figure is so eye-popping, and her sweetness so endearing that she definitely is the memorable character for anyone who sees the movie. Oh, that's the one with Mira Sorvino is undoubtedly how people would remember this movie. However, the Greek chorus was a wonderful idea - and Jack Warner in a small role as a blind seer, and F. Murray Abraham as the principal chorus member/conscience of the movie is also wonderful. "},{"Title":"Woody tempts fate","Date":"29 July 2003","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Woody Allen gives us an unconventional friendship with a Greek tragedy (Or comedy) as its backdrop. Story is about a sports writer named Lenny (Allen) who is married to Amanda (Helena Bonham Carter) and she works in an art gallery but their marriage is on the rocks so Amanda suggests they adopt a baby but Lenny at first says no. After they adopt a boy they name Max it takes no time for Lenny to change his mind. As Max grows Lenny is very curious about who left him for adoption and he starts snooping around until he tracks down Max's real mother. Turns out his real mother is Linda Ash (Mira Sorvino) who is a hooker and sometimes porno actress and Lenny sets up dates with her (No sex) and gets to know her better. He doesn't tell her that he has adopted her son and a friendship develops between the two. Meanwhile, Amanda is having an affair with Jerry (Peter Weller) and she moves out. Lenny tries to help Linda improve her life and sets up a date between her and a local boxer named Kevin (Michael Rapaport). During the course of this film Lenny talks to members of a Greek chorus who chant out what he should and should not do and sometimes they break into song! Three of the Greek chorus members are F. Murray Abraham, David Ogden Stiers and Olympia Dukakis. This is one of Allens funniest films in years and Sorvino steals the picture. I could listen to her talk that dialogue all day long. One of the many lines that stand out is when on a date with Rapaport she tells him she dated a pinball champion, but two guys strangled him! Sorvino appears on the surface to be just another kooky hooker but as the film develops we start to really care for her character and Sorvino adds just the right amount of charm and realism without forgetting the comedic elements of her role. One of the reasons the friendship between her and Allen works so well is because Sorvino displays her own sharp and quick wit to their spirited conversations. Allen has never used four letter words in his films but he does here and it seems appropriate with Linda's background and the violent pimp that Lenny goes to visit. The cinematographer is the great Carlo DiPalma and he's shot several of Allens films as well as Blowup. The colors are interesting in several shots and the color yellow is very prominent. The focus of the story is about Allens character tempting fate by intruding in on Linda's life and trying to change it. This is clearly one of Allens best films and Sorvino is just terrific in a career making performance. "}{"Title":"a real aphrodisiac","Date":"26 May 2006","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" As Mighty Aphrodite shows, Woody Allen really works best when he goes for straight comedy. In this case, he and wife Helena Bonham Carter adopt a boy who turns out to be a genius. When Woody searches for the boy's biological mother, she turns out to be an air-head prostitute (Mira Sorvino).Yeah, it doesn't really sound like much of a story, but it is. The Greek chorus telling the story really helps the story (it's sort of like Oedipus). And you're sure to like the cacti. This isn't Allen's greatest movie by any stretch, but definitely worth seeing. Also starring F. Murray Abraham, Olympia Dukakis, Jack Warden and Peter Weller.The remote control. Ha! "},{"Title":"Miraculous, sad, and wonderful.","Date":"19 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Mighty Aphrodite is Woody Allen in a good mood; nice, considerate, thoughtful and completely engaging and delightful to watch. Taking major themes from Greek tragedies such as troubles of relationships and parenthood, Allen constructs here a tale that spins a story with its roots in Ancient Greek theater while maintaining his vintage Manhattan style.In true Greek form, Allen plays a writer who adopts a son with his wife and after finding out how gifted the boy is begins to track down his parents. He soon comes across the mother, a prostitute and porn star named Linda Ash who is sensitive, quick-witted, very charming and extremely attractive. It is in these scenes that we quickly realize two things Mira Sorvino is a delightful actress and her casting was a thing of genius, and Woody Allen continues to prove his hold on the title as best comedic screenwriter in American cinema. His dialogue is so clever and quirky, the characters wildly screwball yet utterly charming; he is a one of a kind. He also shows his ability as a director, utilizing these scenes to build on more comedic opportunities as well as show his philosophy of how life often throws unbelievable curveballs.All throughout this delightful story, a Greek chorus pops up routinely to comment and enlarge the story and explain more on what Allen is trying to say. F. Murray Abraham is terrific as the sarcastic leader and the whole chorus has some great lines and the choreography is wonderful. Some will criticize this move, thinking it stops the flow of the film. In terms of Allen's career, I found it refreshing to see that at this point in his career, he found a new way to hook an audience as well as continue to tell an interesting and entertaining story. I also must comment on the final 10 minutes, which is equal parts tragedy, comedy, irony and understanding. Life is a mysterious fig, and Woody Allen knows the best way to understand it is to laugh at its mysteries. "},{"Title":"A Showcase for Mira Sorvino","Date":"12 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" A cute, solid Woody Allen comedy that's not as good as many of the comedies that came before but is worlds better than many that came after.Allen plays a sports writer who goes searching for the mother of his adopted son, only to find that she's a prostitute. Played by Mira Sorvino, this character is one of Allen's most delightful creations, a Judy Holliday with a foul mouth. In fact, this is one of Allen's raunchier movies, but it's also one of his sweetest. Sorvino walks a tightrope between dingy and heartbreaking that deservedly won her an Oscar.Allen uses a Greek chorus to comment on the action throughout the film, populated with famous actors like Olympia Dukakis, F. Murray Abraham and Jack Warden. It's a typical Allen gimmick, but it wears thin after a while.Grade A- "},{"Title":"Of all human weaknesses, obsession is the most dangerous, and the silliest!","Date":"29 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Mighty Aphrodite (1995), Woody Allen's hilarious yet moving and surprisingly optimistic film can be viewed as a modern retelling of the ancient tragedy Oedipus. Like Oedipus in Sophocles's play who became obsessed with discovering identity of his real parents which led to the most horrifying results, Lenny Weinrib (Allen) wants to find the real mother of his and his wife Amanda's adopted son Max who turned to be a brilliant and incredibly gifted boy. The search brings him to Linda, a small time porn star and a hooker with whom Lenny becomes friends and tries to persuade her to change her life. Mira Sorvino as a naive dumb blonde with a high pitch voice is mighty fine and she more than deserved the Oscar for Best Supporting role. She is convincing and very sweet, and there is not a single wrong note in her acting. Once again, I am fascinated by Allen's ability to work with his actors and to bring the best in them when they perform in his movies. Allen was hilarious trying to resist Sorvino's advances in their first scene together. Not to let us forget that we are in the realm of Greek tra-medy, Allen employs the characters from Greek mythology who comment on and even participate in the events. Among then, the blind seer Tiresias who can see the developing problems in Lenny's marriage better than Lenny himself, Miss Party Pooper, Cassandra who was cursed to always predict the truth but no one would ever believe her, and the ancient chorus whose leader (Murray Abraham) desperately tries to stop Lenny from finding the truth by begging him in the best traditions of Greek tragedy, Lenny please don't be a schmuck! ) "},{"Title":"Warm & Fuzzy","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I liked this film a lot. It's a charming little comedy. Woody Allen is his usual mumbling self, coming out with some great lines. But the real star is Mira Sorvino. She stole every scene she's in. It's no surprise that the film picked up from her first scene onwards. Although she had to play the stereotypical 'tart with the heart' which we all love to hate, she was effortlessly pleasant and likeable. I think she deserved her Oscar. The Greek Chorus was also a nice original touch. "},{"Title":"A gem","Date":"16 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This movie is an excellent example of Woody Allen's sheer skill as a writer. Essentially a tale of a failing marriage, Allen frames it as a textbook Greek tragedy, complete with masked chorus and deus-ex-machina. To prevent this from being one long joke that outstays its welcome, he structures the movie brilliantly so that it becomes funnier as it goes along. It is a superb piece of writing, shot through with hilarious one-liners and sight-gags.Allen always gets the very best as far as acting talent is concerned. Blink and you'll miss Paul Giamatti, Olympia Dukakis, Claire Bloom... Among those with more screen time are F Murray Abraham, Michael Rapaport, Jack Warden, Danielle Ferland. But the acting burden falls on Allen himself, Helena Bonham Carter and Mira Sorvino. Allen is, as ever, endearing and irritating in equal measure. I think he knows that about his screen persona and mines it effectively here. Bonham Carter is an excellent foil for him. I'm not a fan of hers but she really is very good here, both vulnerable and pushy. But it's Sorvino, in an Oscar-winning turn, who steals the movie as a warm-hearted prostitute with whom Allen gets involved. The trope of the man who has mixed motives for trying to reform a sex worker is familiar from RAIN (Joan Crawford in 1932) aka MISS SADIE THOMPSON (Rita Hayworth in 1953) and also from NEVER ON Sunday (1960). Allen's take on it is pretty compassionate, creating a wonderful role in Linda Ash, she of many aliases. Sorvino does him proud.Having said that, sexual politics are not Allen's strong point. In his movies the women are more often the problem than the solution. This is true as long ago as Meryl Streep in MANHATTAN through to Rachel McAdams in MIDNIGHT IN Paris. Exceptions that prove the rule are Mia Farrow in ZELIG and Samantha Morton in SWEET AND LOWDOWN.Here, though, Allen gives his character a harder time than usual. This contributes to making MIGHTY APHRODITE more than just one of his comedy fantasies (like LOVE AND DEATH, for example). Visually it's one of Allen's flatter movies - straightforward, unflashy, even a little dull. But the screenplay and the performances more than make up for that. "},{"Title":"An agreeable, featherweight comedy from Woody Allen","Date":"25 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" An agreeable, featherweight comedy from Woody Allen it has some laughs, but other Woody films from the same period (Manhattan Murder Mystery, Bullets Over Broadway) are better. In Mighty Aphrodite, the story is slight, and the Greek Chorus gimmick, although clever at times and novel for Allen, also feels arbitrary because it doesn't really fit with any of the main characters' professions; it might have worked better if Allen played a writer, an actor, or even just a theater buff. The film does get a shot in the arm about 30 minutes after its start from the introduction of Mira Sorvino, who gives a knockout-breakout performance (and is also a knockout herself, in the more traditional sense of the word!). Jack Warden also steals his few scenes as the blind Tiresias. *** out of 4. "},{"Title":"Very good Woody Allen film","Date":"30 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Maybe not among his best films but is definitely among the better ones since Husbands and Wives. There are a few shortcomings here and there, the film does lose its momentum at times, there is a lack of chemistry between Allen and Helena Bonham-Carter, Bonham-Carter is a little stiff with an accent that can falter and while the Greek chorus is a great idea and are a lot of fun and at least serve a purpose sometimes it did feel like they were being overused. However, Mighty Aphrodite is a beautiful film to look at with sumptuous settings and cinematography and fitting costumes(apart from the slightly dishcloth-like ones for the Greek Chorus), not surprising as nearly all Allen's films are very well-made with some having some interesting images. The music is also very catchy while the script- very Woody Allen in style- is snappy and has a perfect balance of bawdy comedy that provides a lot of laughs and tragic drama which gives the film heart and poignancy. The story does a very good job at this also, it's fun and good-natured but it doesn't undermine the tragedy one bit. And it does fine with developing its characters who are neurotic(a deliberate choice that is often done by Allen, anyone who has seen an Allen film before should have no problem with this) but real and well-rounded. Woody Allen directs assuredly and gives a performance that shows great comic timing and is somewhat charming. He is well-matched by Mira Sorvino who has never been better and for me gave the best performance of the film, the chemistry between them was believable. The supporting cast are equally great, especially F. Murray Abraham and Jack Warden. Overall, while not among the finest from Allen Mighty Aphrodite is still a very good film and well worth the viewing. 8/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"My last line will do.","Date":"18 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Since I madly ADORE Woody Allen films, it will be considered very biased and redundant of me to write a review for this film and fill it up with eulogies no end.But even so, after so many reviews, much earlier than mine (I just saw this film, having missed it I don't know why) and also much better than mine, I still want to say that I loved it, although I found it a rehash of some previous films of his, but the charm is there, New York is there, his characters are always meaty and in this case, Mira Sorvino creates a Tsunami of sorts with her 'Linda Ash' impersonation, as forceful a creation as the one given by Giulietta Massina, that unforgettable 'Gelsomina', for La Strada, that Fellini masterpiece of yesteryear.To me, her interpretation is worth a TEN stars (not the film though)I didn't care much for the Greek Chorus... Could I have been prejudiced by the raggedy look of their costumes? they seemed to have been made with dirty dishcloths while the performers were waiting for them to be put together by rushed and long-suffering seamstresses, seating on those steps (here one seats and seats...) where they performed their musical numbers.If you saw a prehistoric movie Down to Earth (1940s) with Rita Hayworth, the Choruses costumes were... HEAVENLY! These ones looked out of The Planet of the Apes, Yuk!But in general it's a fun movie to watch. "},{"Title":"Is something eating away at these people or is it just another Cassandra Crossing?","Date":"29 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" In many ways Mighty Aphrodite is simply a piece of entertaining fluff dressed up with some of the standard Woody Allen neuroses (the path of true love not running smooth, the spark of passion, the yearning to make a mark) but in many other ways it's up there with some of his finest comedies.Woody plays the leading male role (as well as writing and directing, unsurprisingly enough), a man named Lenny who finds himself the father of an adopted child when his wife (Helena Bonham Carter) decides that they should have a baby but also knows that they're both very busy people. A few years down the line, with passion faded and life out of balance somehow, Lenny thinks it may be time to find out just who the real mother of his son is and the trail leads him down an unexpected path.With a full, masked Greek chorus playing around in between moments of reality (and, occasionally, one or two of the players pop up to help or hinder Lenny in his quest) it's obvious that Allen still likes to make his work appealing to those who keep their brain switched on but the character of Linda Ash (Mira Sorvino in an Oscar-winning turn), an aspiring actress and happy hooker, will appeal to everyone and allows Allen to use some choice selections of bawdy gags so it looks like our neurotic New Yorker can get the best of both worlds here.Which is kinda the problem. This is a movie all about a couple who decided to get themselves a baby and then one of them starts giving it some real thought when things have gone too far. Then there's the obvious complications that arise as Lenny finds Linda to be quite a warm, loving gal. Could he be tempted to stray? If he does then that's okay because his wife is being actively pursued by another man (Peter Weller) anyway. Which justifies the whole thing.If you don't think about everything TOO much then the whole thing is enjoyable, funny and a pretty feelgood film but if you DO think about everything beyond just what's on the surface then there's a lot here that leaves a bitter aftertaste. Considering that Allen likes his audience to think makes it harder to pinpoint exactly what he was aiming for. Yet I still can't help really liking the whole thing. "}{"Title":"Woody Allen's, yet another classic!","Date":"20 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Woody Allen is boon to Cinema. A blessed talent, a potential institution, who makes his cinema fun, with ease. 'Mighty Aphrodite' is a yet another classic from this genius. Humor, Romance and emotions are brought out with flying colors.'Mighty Aphrodite' is probably the funniest rom-com Allen attempted in the 90's. Allen plays a hen-picked husband, Helena Bonham Carter is his wife, who have adopted a son, who's mom is Sorvino. Allen adds in narrators in the name of F.Murray Abraham, and thus, starts this whacked-up journey. It's a terrific film, with a more-than-flawless culmination.Allen's direction & writing, as always, is perfect. I also loved Carlo Di Palma's Cinematography. In the acting department, Sorvino is marvelous. She deserved all the acclaim and awards she got! Allen is lovable. Undoubtedly, one of his best works. Helena Bonham Carter is superb as the bossy wife. F.Murray Abraham is flawless as the lead narrator.'Mighty Aphrodite' is a must watch film. It's a winner all the way! Hence. from my side, Two Big Thumbs Up! "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"21 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Sportswriter Lenny Weinrib (Allen) and his wife (Bonham-Carter) adopt a baby from an anonymous mother. After a few years pass, Lenny starts to wonder about the woman. Curiosity quickly gets the better of him, so he steals files from the adoption agency and sets out to find her. Lenny is dismayed, maybe even terrified, to find that Linda (Sorvino,) the mother, is a beautiful $200-an-hour prostitute. So that he can fashion the proper mother-son reunion and save himself from what fate seems to have in store, he determines to 'reform' Linda. Interwoven throughout the story is a Greek chorus (including F. Murray Abraham and Olympia Dukakis,) who add their own unique take on the proceedings.I've always preferred Woody Allen's comedies over his dramas. This one is probably one of my favorites. This film is a great example of Woody Allen showing no interest in convincing his audience into swallowing down some serious morals. It's light, fluffy, shamelessly sentimental and does not suffer a bit because of it. The plot is generally an uplifting tale of changing ones life for the better, and intertwined with this is some of Woody Allen's best humor. There are many entertaining characters, especially Mira Sorvino's prostitute and Michael Rapaport's dim-witted boxer, Kevin.The stand-out here is Mira Sorvino. She is absolutely enthralling, with her ditsy nature and confidence masking a timid vulnerability, all of which earned her a well deserved Oscar. Linda could have been an over the top, cartoonish character, Pygmalion on crack. But under the careful direction of Allen, Sorvino gives the best performance of her career so far, and one of the funniest performances ever. "},{"Title":"Mighty big laughs occur wherever this film is shown, one of Allen's best works ever","Date":"11 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Lenny (Woody Allen) is a sportswriter and lives in Manhattan with his lovely wife, an artist (Helena Bonham Carter). One day, over dinner with friends, Lenny's wife says she would love to adopt a baby. What a surprise! Lenny is given no time to warm up to the idea, as a baby boy is soon offered to the couple. They do it, they adopt the little guy and name him Max. As Max grows, it is obvious that he is a brilliant and very lovable kid. This gets Lenny to thinking....what are Max's true parents like? They must also be very bright, no? As it was a closed-record adoption, Lenny must break laws to discover Max's lineage. Eventually, he learns the name and whereabouts of Max's mother. But, oh, what a discovery. Linda (Mira Sorvino) is a hooker and an occasional porn star, and most important, she is as thick as a brick. Yet, her beauty and loving personality draws Lenny to her, to the point that they become close friends. Suddenly, Lenny wants to find Linda a nice husband and get her out of the call girl business. Any takers? This is a great film, with great being an almost insufficient word. The plot and script are ingenious, as clever lines abound everywhere and the use of a Greek chorus to further the story along is amazingly successful. Then, too, the cast is superb, with Allen giving one of his best performances, and Sorvino perfection itself as the dense but lovely hooker. Bonham Carter, Olympia Dukakis, F. Murray Abraham and others are on hand to delight us, too. The production is first rate, with fetching costumes, sets, and New York City scenery. Needless to say, Allen's direction is wonderful as well. There is a bit of rough language and sexual conversation, in a few spots, so do take note, if this is important to you. But, Mighty Aphrodite is one of Allen's best and funniest works indeed. If you want to perk yourself up with some mighty big laughs and a sweet story, to boot, get this one before the sun goes down. "},{"Title":"Allen and Sorvino work superbly together","Date":"1 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" SPOILERSOver the years, Woody Allen has written and directed some brilliant, mediocre or downright awful films. Luckily, 1995's Mighty Aphrodite is the former. Starring Allen in fine form and a worthy Oscar winning performance by Mira Sorvino, this film is a light hearted, fun story with some nice analysis of life.Lenny (Allen) and Amanda (Helena Bonham Carter) are a happily married couple who want to move their relationship up a notch. Wanting a child, Amanda convinces Lenny to adopt so that she needn't go through pregnancy. Eventually however, a curiosity pops up in Lenny's mind and he finds himself searching out for his son's biological mother (Sorvino).Arguably Allen's finest film since 1977's Annie Hall, this directorial, written and acted performance by Allen is hilarious, witty and superb. Playing his usual neurotic self, Allen comes out with some superb lines as he attempts to make a better life for the mother of his adopted child. Combining observational lines with jokes and the occasional slapstick, he paints a clever portrait of a man with an obsession to make a friends life better.Alongside Allen, the true star of this film is Mira Sorvino. In her finest performance, Sorvino is perfect as the squeaky voiced prostitute and porn star who wants to be an actress with a family. Combining a sense of hopelessness with dizziness, Sorvino gives a justifiably Oscar winning performance.As well as some superb acting, the best part about this film is the usage of Greek tragedy as a form of commentary. Lead by F. Murray Abraham, the Greek performers are all singing, all dancing, comedy in a can as they beg for Allen to be careful before eventually singing about a wonderful life.Mighty Aphrodite is a superb story about two friends who grow closer as one attempts to improve the others life. With brilliant performances by Allen in front of and behind the camera, and an Oscar winning performance by Sorvino, this film makes us feel good about life and makes us laugh. Allen's finest since Annie Hall (1977) and definitely in his top five of all time. Well worth a watch. "},{"Title":"Mira Sorvino.  Enough Said.","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Mighty Aphrodite is way down the list of great Woody Allen films.  In fact, by his high standards this is an utter disappointment.  However, Mira Sorvino saves this film and makes it appear better than it actually is.  Allen and wife Helena Bonham Carter adopt a son and when Allen becomes curious about the biological mother he hunts down the woman (Sorvino in an unforgettable Oscar-winning turn).  Of course, Sorvino is a hooker and glorified porn star.  Allen's screenplay is humorous and insightful, but some elements of this film just do not work (the Greek Choir in particular).  The direction also appears misguided and a good ensemble cast seems wasted at times.  Olympia Dukakis, F. Murray Abraham, and Peter Weller all just fill up dead time in the venture.  If Mira Sorvino's character had more screen time the whole film would have been better.  In short she is the only real reason to give Mighty Aphrodite any consideration.  3.5 out of 5 stars.  "},{"Title":"Instantly forgettable","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I couldn't remember the title of this Woody Allen comedy the morning after I watched it. It isn't terrible, it's not unfunny, it's just meager. At its core, the movie concerns Mira Sorvino as a nasal-voiced prostitute whose baby was adopted by Woody Allen and his wife, Helena Bonham Carter; curious, he tracks her down and she gets him confused with a customer. It's not enough to build a 90-minute movie on, nor is it helped by the padding (Woody's Manhattan marriage to Carter--a bad choice--and a literal Greek chorus who chime in once in a while). Sorvino won an Oscar, and indeed she really perks things up, but this is a silly role with few dimensions. Disposable Woody Allen used to be better than most other movies around, but here even the Woodman is down for the count. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"A lesser Woody Allen film","Date":"22 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Of all human weaknesses, obsession is the most dangerous, and the silliest!When you direct and write a film every year you can't expect to always deliver a masterpiece, and that is the case with Woody Allen's Mighty Aphrodite. It's a delightful and enjoyable film, but it doesn't seem to add up to much. When you compare it to his extensive filmography it wouldn't even land in the top half of his best work because it's far from being memorable. He's directed so many movies that several of them feel incredibly familiar and for that reason they are easy to forget. He repeats several of the same themes throughout his movies and Mighty Aphrodite isn't the exception, especially putting a lot of emphasis on love and infidelity which are recurring themes in Allen's films. At times his films stand out for simply capturing these human emotions in a new way, and at others they do thanks to a particularly strong performance. In this case it was Mira Sorvino's supportive performance as Linda Ash that garnered all the attention playing a hooker who isn't all that right in the head. The way she delivered her lines with her high-pitched voice contributed to the overall comedy of her character. If there is one thing that I will remember from this forgettable Allen film it's her Oscar winning performance. Despite her solid performance this is still one of the weakest Woody Allen movies I've seen.In Mighty Aphrodite Woody Allen plays Lenny, a sportswriter, who is married to Amanda (Helena Bonham Carter). In order to spark some life into their monotonous relationship they decide to adopt a son who they name Max. After several years Lenny is surprised to discover that Max is such a brilliant kid and so he decides to search for his biological parents convinced that they must have great genes. He visits the adoption agency and is denied the files, but his curiosity gets the best of him and he finds a way to steal them. He tracks down the biological mother only to discover that she is a prostitute who is now going by the name of Linda Ash (Mira Sorvino). Lenny sets up an appointment with her and is disappointed that she ended up being so dumb. Concerned with her lifestyle, Lenny tries to help Linda by reforming her and setting her up with some respectable man. Meanwhile, Lenny and Amanda are going through some marital problems of their own. The narrative is linked with a bizarre Greek chorus (led by F. Murray Abraham) that compares Lenny's story with the Greek tragedy Oedipus.Allen always delivers some witty dialogues and funny situations in his films which make them such an entertaining ride. Mighty Aphrodite has a few moments like this that work well, but as a whole it is a very forgettable movie. Allen plays once again a sort of neurotic character who is fascinated with discovering who his adopted son's mother really is. Sorvino's performance is brilliant and elevates the material, but there isn't more to it. Neither Allen nor Bonham Carter seem to stand out and their relationship isn't central to the film. The Greek chorus was far from interesting and only took away from the story by trying to hard to compare the modern tale with the Greek one. It's a light and corny film that is saved by Sorvino's presence and Allen's distinctive style of humor. http//estebueno10.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Mighty Aphrodite Is A Delight To Watch","Date":"1 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Woody Allen stars in his latest picture that he also wrote and direct as Lenny, a New York sportswriter bored by his wife and attracted to a hooker that happens to be the mother-though she doesn't know it-of his adopted son in this film,Mighty Aphrodite.Together in the cast with Allen are Woody Allen,Mira Sorvino,Helena Bonham Carter,Michael Rapaport and F. Murray Abraham.Lenny is trapped in a bad marriage to high-strung art dealer Amanda, but he finds solace in his relationship with his adopted young son. Indeed, he grows so fond of the boy that he decides to track down the boy's real mother, expecting to discover a brilliant professional. Instead, he finds Linda, a ditzy prostitute and porno star who mingles casual vulgarity with disarming innocence. Despite his initial disillusionment, Lenny soon develops a fondness for Linda and decides to play matchmaker, setting her up with a handsome young boxer who is equally good-hearted and scatterbrained. While the contrast between the free-spirited Linda and the uptight Lenny provides the bulk of the laughs, hints of Allen's more literary humor are also present, particularly in the scenes involving a roaming Greek chorus commenting upon Lenny's fate.This is a surprisingly sweet and brilliant film with great performances particularly that from Mira Sorvino,who portrayed a bubble-headed hooker and porn star.It has a nice combination of smart comedy and some of wacky energy.It is a delight to watch. "},{"Title":"Strange, but very funny.","Date":"14 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Woody Allen stars as an adoptive parent in Mighty Aphrodite. Mighty Aphrodite is a hilarious film, with many strange things in it. Kind of like Allen's 2006 film, Scoop. There are just many odd things about it. Including musical numbers. And things including Greek stuff.Allen's movies are usually very funny. and the man is a genius. The plot alone to this film sounds funny. The film has many good performances. But the one that was looked at the most was Mira Sorvino. I can only think of two films that she has starred in. I loved them both. She is terrific in this movie. So is Woody Allen of course. But Sorvino is something else. I mean she won the Oscar.Woody Allen and Helena Bonham Carter star as a couple looking to adopt children. They adopt a boy and name him Max. Years go on and they find out Max is a genius. So Allen's character goes off and tries to find the parents. He soon meets the mother(played excellently by Mira Sorvino) and finds out that she's a hooker and a porn star. He soon starts to get to know her, and his life kind of falls apart too.I don't know what it is with Woody Allen's films. But I can rarely ever find a flaw with them. I mean even his ones that didn't do well, such as Scoop and Whatever works. I just love them all. I have a hard time finding flaws with his films. The only flaw with this one is that there are some strange moments. There is. The same thing with Scoop though. I love Woody Allen's films. The guy may be a pervert, but his films are genius.Mighty Aphrodite A- "},{"Title":"Aphrodite?  She Bet on the Trojans, Didn't She?","Date":"13 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Woody Allan, sportswriter, is married to Helena Bonham Carter, art gallery director. They have an adopted son, Max, who is so bright that Allan is compelled to seek out his birth mother and see if she, too, is as awesomely brainy -- perhaps a math professor or some kind of Nobel Prize winner or a descendant of Kandinsky.After much effort, kept secret from his wife, Allan finally locates her. She's Mira Sorvino --a tall, tasteless, shrill whore. Allen spends most of the rest of the movie trying to liberate her from her business agent, a skinhead with an earring, but after a while complications arise. Allan eventually tries her out, and his wife has a tentative encounter with their friend, Peter Weller, all of which is kind of familiar Allan territory.I'm beginning to find these plots a little tiresome because they're so repetitive. A knot of New York neurotics forms an unbalanced system of attractions, and the stuttering Allan is in the middle of it all.The stories now depend more on the jokes and one-liners and the particular quirks of the performers than they do on the plots. If there's anything innovative, this is where it's liable to be found.Actually this one has quite a bit of novelty slathered over it. There's no sex of course but Mira Sorvino gets off some surprisingly frank lines. And some of the expressions are as amusing as those we've come to expect from Woody Allan. He makes my stomach sick to my stomach. And this time around there's a Greek chorus that mixes epic poetry with Yiddishisms. The chorus does what the original Greek chorus did, commenting on the action, but sometimes the leader, F. Murray Abraham, emerges from the group and in garish makeup follows Allan around and scolds him. There are also multiple appearances by Cassandra. And Jack Warden makes a couple of delightful short appearances as Tiresias the Blind Prophet. After the chorus introduces him a couple of times using his long Homeric epithet Warden comes up with something like, Oh, cut the crap and just call me Tiresias. I don't know why the characters always eat Italian when they could be gorging themselves on plump Kalamata olives and taramasalata. And I suppose the title, Mighty Aphrodite, is meant to suggest that everything we value rests on loving it without too much questioning.The movie's good for a couple of laughs and a more or less constant smile. There's nothing dull about it. It's not a knockabout farce or anything though and, if there's a message at all, I suppose it's that we're not supposed to mess with McFate. Allan has a brilliant son and he ought to accept this gift of the gods without questioning it. I have an adopted son too and I have to beat him half senseless to get him to do his homework. Allan's lucky. But, come to think of it, maybe if I looked up my kid's birth mother, I'd find she was the Empress of Korea or something. Maybe there's a couple of bucks in it. "}{"Title":"A Decent Story Featuring An Interesting Relationship Between Allen And Sorvino","Date":"3 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" In general terms, Woody Allen doesn't turn my crank that much. I know that many people think he's a film-making genius, but I've never been able to figure out why. Some of his movies are OK; most disappoint me. Mighty Aphrodite features pretty typical Woody Allen-style humour (which means that while I found this at time mildly amusing, I didn't find it outrageously funny) but I also found Woody's work here to be both less irritating and more normal than many of the routine, somewhat neurotic sex-obsessed characters he tends to play. Perhaps for that reason, I also found that I enjoyed Mighty Aphrodite more than I usually enjoy Woody's work. It features a pretty strong cast (F. Murray Abraham, Helena Bonham Carter, Mira Sorvino, Jack Warden and Olympia Dukakis among others) - a feature fairly typical of Woody movies - and in general they do a pretty good job with their parts.Here, Woody plays sportswriter Lenny. Lenny is married to Amanda (Carter), who wants to adopt a baby. Lenny objects but finally gives in. He falls in love with his son, and becomes obsessed with finding his birth mother, which leads him to Linda (Sorvino). It turns out that the boy's mother is a prostitute and sometime porn actress who desperately wants to go straight, and after a rather funny initial encounter, Lenny takes her under his wing so to speak and tries to help her move on in life. Woody's relationship with his female co-stars was strange. I didn't think he and Carter made at all a believable couple (I find it hard to find Woody believable with anyone in fact!) but somehow once she reappears after disappearing for the middle part of the movie they seemed more natural together, perhaps reflecting that both characters have had what might be called an epiphany experience, having strayed from their marriage. Woody's work with Sorvino was better, and Lenny's relationship with Linda was more developed (the central part of the movie actually) and I liked the somewhat paternal interest Lenny took in her (an interest not normally shown by Woody characters) although that made their eventual (and inevitable I suppose) sexual encounter more jarring. In the end things work out pretty well for everyone. Lenny and Amanda seem to get things back on track, and Linda ends up happy - although the end of her story is - to be honest - silly to the point of being totally unbelievable. Without revealing how it all works out, in the end the irony (as narrated by Abraham) seems appropriate to the story.That brief mention of Abraham perhaps gives reason to mention what (to me) was the most irritating part of the movie - the repeated scenes involving the Greek chorus at the temple (who eventually started popping up in the characters' real life situations.) It seemed to me to be a typical Woody device to make the movie seem - well - weird, which is often my reaction to Woody's movies, and to me it didn't at all help what was an otherwise pretty decent story, which I would give a 6/10 "},{"Title":"Sometimes funny and generally entertaining film","Date":"26 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" You have to like Woody Allen's sense of humor in order to enjoy this film. Quirky, neurotic New Yawkers. Fumbling to find sense, meaning in life and love. Good people trying to redeem mistakes and weakness.But it was a light, uplifting film in its own way. And I was delighted to watch this movie on a leisurely weekday afternoon. Mia Sorvino was terrific and there was so much irony in the story that you never knew what could develop next.Much has been said about the use of the Greek chorus. Viewers either loved it or thought it was stupid. I found them mildly annoying, wasn't quite sure what they represented or added to the story. It just seemed to be one of those devices Woody Allen is famous for and I let it go at that. "},{"Title":"One of Woody Allen's Best -- SPOILERS","Date":"23 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" From the opening scene with a masked Greek chorus to the final scene where the same chorus breaks into a Broadway song-and-dance routine, Mighty Aphrodite is a delightful riff on Woody Allen's usual shtick. Here Lenny Weinrib (Woody), a schlemiel of a sports reporter, and his wife, Amanda Sloan (Helena Bonham Carter made up and dressed like a Manhattanite aspiring to operate an art gallery of her own in fashionable lower Manhattan) decide, despite Lenny's initial resistance, to adopt a son because Amanda is too busy and self-involved to have a child the usual way. Eventually, mainly because his son is so smart and promising, Lenny sets out to find the birth mother who turns out to be a minor porn actress and full-time prostitute who goes by many names, chiefly Linda Ash (Mira Sorvino). Lenny's intentions toward Linda are non-sexual; he wants to probe her background. Meanwhile, Amanda drifts somewhat hesitantly into the arms of a New York sophisticate. Lenny receives the news from Blind Tiresias (superbly played by Jack Warden), a street beggar. Lenny thereupon has sex with Linda for the first and only time as a result of which she becomes pregnant with a girl. Afterwards, a repentant Amanda returns lovingly to Lenny and they resume a passionate relationship. Along the way, Lenny has tried unsuccessfully to match Linda with a stone-headed boxer who aspires to return to his brother's onion farm. Lenny tries in vain to conceal each one's background from the other, but it doesn't work. Eventually, Linda is rescued by a deus ex machina in the form of the pilot of a disabled helicopter that alights in a field alongside the highway which Linda is driving and she becomes a satisfied Connecticut housewife. Lenny and Linda encounter one another once on a shopping trip, he accompanied by her son and she wheeling a baby carriage with his daughter. The Greek chorus appears intermittently breaking occasionally into New York slang to superb effect. The chorus is led by F. Murray Abraham and includes Olympia Dukakis as Jocasta and other actors impersonating Cassandra and Oedipus. The film won a supporting actress award for Mira Sorvino and an Oscar for Woody for best screen play. The second of these awards was abundantly deserved. Mira is very funny as Linda but the award was something of a reach. This is one of Woody's funniest movies in many years. Though Woody plays his usual self, the film is highly original. Others have employed the Greek drama framework, of course, but no one has used it more productively. The scene between Lenny and Blind Tiresias is priceless, setting the denouement in motion. Try it. You'll like it. "},{"Title":"Another Winner from Woody...","Date":"20 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Woody Allen struck gold and made a star out of a second generation actress in MIGHTY APHRODITE, a sophisticated and engaging romantic comedy about an upwardly mobile New York couple (Allen, Helena Bonham Carter) who decide to adopt a child. Soon after, Bonham Carter drifts into an affair with an arrogant creep (Peter Weller) and they divorce, Allen then becomes curious about his son's biological mother and decides to track her down. She turns out to be a not-too-bright prostitute/porn star (Mira Sorvino). This is one of Woody's most enjoyable outings, seamlessly blending real life and fantasy as instead of Woody's usual voice over narration, the action of the story is actually commented on by an actual Greek chorus, led by Oscar winners F. Murray Abraham and Olympia Dukakis. Woody delivers an on target script and a charming performance and made a star out of Mira Sorvino, daughter of Paul Sorvino, whose charismatic performance as the dim-witted mother of Woody's son, won her an Oscar for Best Supporting Actress. A must for Woody-philes and for fans of sophisticated romantic comedy with Woody's typical warm ending with a twist. "},{"Title":"inspired film","Date":"5 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Woody has come up with some real gems. I've begun going through his entire collection. Right now, I'm probably 3/4 of the way through. Some are great, some are good, but I am yet to find one that is bad.Despite reading chilly reviews beforehand, I found Mighty Aphrodite to be among his better films. The star of the show is Mira Sorvino as a squeaky, vulgar and ditzy (and yet entirely lovable) prostitute/porn star.The second great thing about it is the way classic Greek myth is integrated into a modern Manhattan comedy. The chorus is an inspired idea.And this is an inspired film. "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece from beginning to end","Date":"23 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This is one of my favorite films. It is touching and hysterically funny all at the same time. It is literary, witty and succeeds on so many levels. It is a modern day New York Comedy juxtaposed with the elements of Greek tragedy complete with a Greek Chorus in an old ancient Greek Theatre and actors. The Greek tragedians keep commenting and interacting with the modern action and the result is amazing.It also compares the Oedipus Rex story with the modern day story of Lenny Weinrib who is searching for the mother of his adopted child. After much searching, he finds her and discovers she is a prostitute.Graciela Daniele (renowned Broadway choreographer) stages the Greek Chorus who sometimes anachronistically burst into musical numbers.Mira Sorvino won an academy award as the prostitute/ mother. This is a must see and one of my favorite films. "},{"Title":"One of the Good Ones","Date":"28 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Like many others posting comments on this film, I'm a bit of a fan of Woody Allen. His one-liners often strike a chord with me. However, also like many others, I find some of his films very ordinary. This is one of the better ones. Not right up there with Annie Hall, but high on the second tier with Sweet and Lowdown, Crimes and Misdemeanours and Hannah and Her Sisters.I like the way he takes a basic plot that could come from a Greek legend and very deftly adapts it to modern times. I like the way he uses the Greek chorus to voice the instinctive reaction of the observer who knows more than the protagonists about the significance of what they are doing. The jokes are mostly funny, unlike some of those in his weaker films.Very entertaining. Makes you think, though probably not for very long. "},{"Title":"Another Sleeper","Date":"27 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Well - I actually thought Sleeper was ridiculous*. And it took three tries to get past the 1rst 15 minutes of this one. But the wait was worth it. This movie is a sleeper, in the figurative sense. In the end I rate this as a fine movie. It's just, well, confused. And the plot is about just this, two people who are confused about their marriage &#150; and love, and &#150; well, what's new? Allen's approach is adorable as well as whacky but in the end says what you would really hope it would say. Life is beautiful, take what you have and enjoy it.* I'll have to give it another try. "},{"Title":"Don't overlook this film due to misguiding reviews.","Date":"11 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I am writing mostly because I've heard some things that could be terrible misguiding and I'd hate someone to pass Mighty Aphrodite up as the next thing on their to rent list. The Greek style performers are fantastic and not at all out of place. The director put it there, and when an old proven talent does something like that, it's up to you to understand it. It isn't up to him to direct down to your level. The movie doesn't meet standards of movie normalcy, and that will probably confuse and annoy those who aren't up to using their brains extensively while they enjoy a film.Woody Allen has become more challenging to watch as he matures, but as I get older and more observant I can find and enjoy more of the subtleties. When it seems like it's getting slow that just means he's setting you up for something grand. Mira Sorvino is good. Decent. But she isn't all that. She's great to look at. Is she the super-acting light in an otherwise dark cave of a movie? Absolutely not.Watch, listen. Enjoy! And remember, great movie makers are like great writers. You can't pick up a piece of Shakespeare's literature and go oh man.. This is crap. Because it's not possible. Come back to it later, when you are smarter.  "},{"Title":"A fun one","Date":"8 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I remember the critics were kind of hard on this movie.  I'm not sure why--it's a lot of fun, and has a happy ending (a rarity in a Woody Allen comedy).  It contains some really rude humor, another rarity for a Woody film.  Mira Sorvino was wonderful and hilarious, but I'm not sure if her performance was worthy of an Oscar.  I suppose having a famous father helps.  The scene in her apartment, when she meets Woody for the first time, is classic Woody comedy.  After the build-up of her character and the little boy, and Woody's reaction to her when he meets her, is as funny as anything in his earlier wild era movies. The musical interludes were a little surprising, but a nice touch.  The music in the movie must have been a warm-up for his next effort.  Good supporting cast too--the only movie besides RoboCop that makes good use of Peter Weller's deadpan style.  This is one of my favorite Allen films of the '90s.    "}{"Title":"Hilarious and Meaningful","Date":"18 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  A couple of people will say this is just a 'typical' Allen flick - they are wrong.  When I first saw this, I KILLED myself laughing.  In fact, I can honestly say it's one of the funniest Allen flicks I've ever seen. Basically, Allen plays a man looking for the mother of his adopted son, who turns out to be a prostitute played by Mira Sorvino in her best role ever. Woody's character, Lenny, is followed around by a Greek Chorus that comments on his predicament (a la Play it Again, Sam!).  In fact, the chorus really gives the movie glue - something that sets it apart from, say, Hollywood Ending.  Most of the good lines go to Mira Sorvino, although I got most of my laughs from the chorus.  Don't miss out on this one - it's a great intro to Allen's work, and the acting is superb.  "},{"Title":"Mighty Funny","Date":"18 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Mighty Aphrodite is a very funny movie with an amazing cast of characters. Directed by Woody Allen, Aphrodite centers on Lenny (Allen), who plays his normal uptight New York character. He and his wife Amanda (Helena Bonham Cater) adopt a young boy, as they watch the boy grow up Lenny begins to wonder what the boy's real mom is like. This is where the story gets interesting. Lenny meets Linda (Mira Sorvino), who is a prostitute. Knowing this he does not want his son to one day find out what his real mother does for a living. So he tries to help Linda settle down and turn her life around.  Mira Sorvino is excellent in this part. She is very funny and steals all of her scenes. She is the best part of this movie. Allen is always funny in his movies. Helena Bonham Cater turns a smaller role into one of the bright stops in the film. Also in two very funny supporting roles are F. Murrary Abraham as the chorus leader, and Michale Rapaport as Kevin, Linda's love interest. With New York as it's back drop Mighty Aphrodite is a simple film with many laughs. 2.5 out of 4. But because of Mira's performance 3 out of 4. (B-) Prostitute  "},{"Title":"You might too!","Date":"21 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Woody Allen portrays a person of wonderful character that just wants to change a womans life. He wants the actual mother of his adopted son to get what she wants out of life. If you had an adopted child you might want to find out more about their parent/s too! I know I would. Woody Allen is a talented actor and one of my FAVORITES!!!!! "},{"Title":"like a funny dirty joke","Date":"31 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Sorvino is the liveliest part of this movie from the minute she opens her door and Allen's character meets her, shattering his illusions of what he imagines her to be. Their chemistry is beautiful and they show genuine affection for each other that leads to one of the story's best plot twists. A rather vulgar screenplay for the Woodman makes it all the more hilarious because he never looks like the type of person who would use four letter words. (altho he did grow up in NY, so it's not too far fetched). The Greek chorus idea was used in one of Allen's earlier plays but is an hysterical device here,  almost acting out worst case scenerios of what might happen but never really do. They keep warning Allen to back off when him and Sorvino end up changing each other's lives forever. One of his best foul mouthed scripts is also one of his most touching.  "},{"Title":"Woody At the top of his game.","Date":"28 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This is indeed one of my favorite movies. Woody Allen's (Lenny Weinrib) trademark exasperation plays beautifully against  Mira Sorvino's (Linda Ash) combination of street savvy and naivet.   The jokes are quick and the plot is a cleverly devised mockery of the events and characters found in Greek tragedy. The opening tie-in to Sophocles sets the stage for the all the reversals that are to come. The Greek Chorus and their commentary on the action via Cole Porter tunes is in keeping with the lighthearted nature of the film, not to mention being wholly hysterical. Allen structures the film to have a two way commentary between the Greek world and the modern world, both of which serve to provide an interesting perspective on the plight of the characters. This is most especially evident when the Chorus cries out to Zeus only to get his answering machine.Jack Warden, a great character actor, is perfect as Tiresias, the blind seer. In fact the whole cast, both major and minor, come together to create a fine piece of comedy. I could go on about this movie, but all in all I can say it is a wonderfully funny film. I give/gave it 9 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Holy Hilarity","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I have seen this movie three times and each time I sat there and asked myself,  `How does he do this? How does Woody Allen manage to create films like these which leave me with little time to catch a breath in between laughing'? Woody Allen has such an in depth understanding of human nature that he is able to excoriate it on a very comedic and intellectual level. 'Mighty Aphrodite' offers a many variety of laughs, from poking fun at ancient Greek plays to seeing Woody Allen acting out that neurotic horny little hypochondriac that we see him as in all of his films, which are nothing less then comedic brilliance. Allen's slapstick and famous one-liners make this movie a hilarious must see. I can't give all the success of the movie to Woody Allen, because it's Mira Sorvino's portrayal of the compassionate, hopeless hooker that provides the movie with much of its wit and humor. This movie lives up to all of its well-earned high praise.P.S. Look forward to a hilarious cameo by Jack Warden as a blind beggar.  "},{"Title":"Not Bad","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I'm a fan of Woody Allen and Mighty Aphrodite wasn't a disappointment like a few of his other 90's efforts were.Allen is great with his Greek Tragedy mind! Backed up well with an okay support, Mira Sorvino in particular was really funny and deserved her Academy Award for best supporting actress! "},{"Title":"It appears that Woody Allen may have borrowed some of the comic touch of Mel Brooks.","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  The Greek chorus plays an integral role in this movie, but my wife and I both thought the antics of the chorus reminded us of the use of the same type of narration in Robin Hood Men in Tights.Nonetheless, this is an excellent movie and the chorus really adds spice to the show.  There are numerous references to the plays of Sophocles and they really add to the humor of the movie. "},{"Title":"Allen in good shape","Date":"28 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Woody Allen is back again, this time as good as ever. This sure is one of his funny movies, and Allen sure knows how what's he's doing. And yes, the movie takes place in New York,but an greek choir has an important place in the movieAllen is great at one-liners, and the dialogue between Lenny (Allen) and Linda (Sorvino) is great to see, Lenny is an educated intellectual while Linda has practically no education at all. Of course that results in misunderstandings, and very funny ones.Helena Bonham Carter plays Lenny's wife, but in some way i think they behave more like old friends then lovers.Mira Sorvino is great here, she makes Linda Ash an unforgetable character.In the end, a very nice little picture that gave me a lot of fun "},{"Title":"Funny, surprising and refreshing comedy","Date":"23 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  What a pleasant surprise it was. I thought it was going to be another Woody Allen movie with his ever-lasting neurotic character. Well, it was more than that. A creative mix between a modern comedy and a musical. The plot is about Woody who has an adorable adopted kid, incredibly gifted, and he decides to search for the child's supposedly genius mother. He more or less steals the legal documents, finds out she's a prostitute, decides to use her services only for talking and help her get out of it by helping her find a husband. It gets horribly wrong of course but ends quite happily.Believe me, the scene where Murray Abraham appears from Woody's sub-conscience as a ancient Greek philosopher to temporize him and ends up watching the corridor, while Woody searches illegally for the child's documents, is hilarious.And don't miss the ending, which is a wild musical finale in an Ancient Greek theater, with all the Greeks tragedy actors dancing and singing all over the place. Plainly surprising, funny and refreshing food for the mind. And it precedes the more commercial Everyone says I love you which extended the musical comedy insertions found in Mighty Aphrodite. "}{"Title":"Mira's voice","Date":"18 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I loved this film because of Mira Sorvino's voice. She was the antithesis of the Woody Allen woman whereas Helena Bonham Carter was trying too hard to be the generic Woody woman. I believe Mira deserved the Oscar.I thought the Greek chorus was a bit too much and there was a bizarre TV movie-esque plot summary (the scene with Woody and HBC in the cab) that really wasn't necessary. What was that about?  "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"6 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Excellent movie. One of my top ten. Great performances by Allen and HB Carter. It's an uplifting movie too - almost inspirational for forty-something men who are stuck in a relationship. OK - it's also a little sexist but it's still a great movie. "},{"Title":"Good Allen not Great; Sorvino deserved her Oscar","Date":"4 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I'm a big fan of Woody's movies, and I have to say that this is not among his best, but for Woody Allen a modest success would be a career pinnacle for most other writer-directors.  Certain of Allen's experiments in Mighty Aphrodite, such as the Greek Chorus, just didn't work for me.  Woody's dialogue is always funny, but when it's delivered by twenty people at the same time in a shout it loses something.  The chorus only worked for me when the soloists interact with Woody on the screen.  Woody is his usual unimpeccable self on screen - almost every man can identify with him immediately.  I remember a poll in the late seventies or early eighties among American men asking them with which movie character or star they idenitified with the most, and it wasn't Redford, or Reynolds, or what later would have been Bruce Willis or Schwarzenegger - it was Woody.  He brings the common anxieties of men to the screen in unexpurgated form, never diluted.  I think one of the secrets of his success is that he explores his own anxieties and experiences very closely, and much of what you see is at least a bit biographical.  The attraction to hookers appears in any number of his more recent works, especially Deconstructing Harry, just like the attraction to young girls appeared in Manhattan years before Soon-Yi became a household name.Allen has also adopted any number of children, most when he was with Mia Farrow, and this is clearly him playing out his own little fantasy of traipsing into their backgrounds to find out who was the sensational Mom who gave birth to such wonderfully smart children.  In this case his character, Lenny, gets the bug when his wife begins ignoring him and his young adopted son continues to dazzle him.  His detective work leads him to Linda/Leslie/Judy Cum played by Mira Sorvino, a porn actress and hooker who gave the baby up out of financial difficulty and doesn't know who the father is.  Sorvino pulls off the most unusual feat as an actress with Linda - she is dumb, shrill, judgmental, with quick vindictive anger - while at the same time becoming increasingly more real, human, and sympathetic at the same time.  Her voice is art - it is grating and annoying but somehow we come to look forward to hearing it.  A lot of people have written that the voice was offputting; look, if you don't like Joey Lauren Adams because of her little girl voice, then Sorvino's Linda will have you climbing the walls.  Sorvino won an Oscar for the role, and in spite of the fact that the Oscars are just a high school popularity contest and the real winner is rarely the one who deserves it, this is a deserving performance.  Sorvino is a knockout.Allen is Allen as usual (good).  Helena Bonham Carter plays Allen's typecast New York City careerist wife like the rest(okay); Peter Weller stares at Carter unabashedly as her boss and lover.  Allen even manages to sprinkle in his usual cast of characters - the mobster, the dumb guy, and uses the Greek chorus as Lenny's confidante.  It has a touching and unusual ending - Allen almost always knows how to end his movies on the right note.  It doesn't rank with The Purple Rose of Cairo, or Hannah and Her Sisters, or Crimes and Misdemeanors, or Everyone Says I Love You, or Manhattan, or Annie Hall, or Radio Days, or any of the other of his best films, but it's still worth watching.  It ranks closer to Deconstructing Harry, or Zelig, or Broadway Danny Rose, or Bullets Over Broadway.  Allen is indisputably one of the greatest directors of American (or any other) cinema and a national treasure, in spite of his well publicized foibles, and this is a good Woody Allen movie. "},{"Title":"Great Woody Allen Move","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  If you don't like Woody Allen by now, you certainly won't like this one.  If you appreciate his filmmaking, you will rank this one up there as one of his best.  Woody almost underplays this role a bit (for him), which is nice if you have become somewhat annoyed by his sometimes overindulgence in a constantly hand-wringing, whining persona.  Mira Sorvino is hilariously over the top.  I liked the Greek Chorus, too.     "},{"Title":"greek chorus, wow!","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  the funniest thing in a movie since years - at least as far as i remember - was the use of a greek chorus by woody. hilarious! for this idea alone he would deserve all the awards around.  "},{"Title":"pseudo-greek tragicomendy on love's inconsistencies","Date":"12 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This movie, without a doubt, is the best I have ever seen. The ways the plot twists and turns make it painstakingly clear that love is a feeling, not constrained by class or any other absurd social construct. It manages to do so inconspicuously, because you laugh, and laugh, and laugh. Mira Sorvino is incredible in this movie, and absolutely deserves the Oscar for her performance, even though the Academy has fallen in my eyes recently , particularly for their adoration of a specific sinking ship....  "},{"Title":"hilarious Mira Sorvino performance","Date":"6 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Lenny Weinrib (Woody Allen) is a NYC sportswriter. His curator wife Amanda (Helena Bonham Carter) pushes him to adopt. Over the years, their marriage hits a valley. Lenny finds little Max to be exceptionally brilliant and becomes obsessed with finding his biological mother. He finds that she is call girl and porn star Linda Ash (Mira Sorvino). While Amanda slowly drifts towards Jerry Bender (Peter Weller), Lenny tries to fix Linda's life and even sets her up with former boxer Kevin (Michael Rapaport). Throughout the movie, there is a Greek chorus which comments and interacts with the story.This is a fun little comedy highlighted by the high-nasal-voiced Sorvino. It's a brilliant hilarious character. She has never been funnier since. She is the embodiment of the hooker with a heart of gold. I'm not as enamored with the Greek chorus. They land a few jokes but they mostly take up space. This is generally fun and light which comes mostly from Sorvino. "},{"Title":"Woody Allen's Greek tragedy comedy","Date":"28 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This is a modern fable, that is narrated and commented by a Greek chorus.Sportswriter Lenny Weinrib ends up adopting a boy, Max, with his wife Amanda.In a few years they start facing some problems in their marriage, and Lenny wants to know about Max' real mother.To his surprise she turns out to be a hooker/porn actress.He gets close to her as a client, but all he does is talk with her.At first, anyway.Mighty Aphrodite (1995) is a Woody Allen film, where he also plays the lead.And he does it with the Woody-like style.And, like in any Allen movie, the rest of the actors are A-list.Helena Bonham Carter is terrific as Amanda Sloan Weinrib.Mira Sorvino is pretty fantastic as Linda Ash.Michael Rapaport is great as her dumb date Kevin.Then there are superb people, like F. Murray Abraham as Greek Chorus Leader.Olympia Dukakis is Jocasta.David Ogden Stiers plays Laius.Jack Warden is the blind prophet, Tiresias.Danielle Ferland plays Cassandra.Peter Weller plays Jerry Bender.Donald Symington is Amanda's Father.Claire Bloom, who turned 80 earlier this year, is Amanda's Mother.Tony Sirico plays the part of Boxing Trainer.Paul Giamatti is seen as Extras Guild Researcher.This is quite amusing Woody Allen experience.It's quite hilarious when Linda uses that language known from her films with Lenny.And when Lenny talks with the Greek chorus people.For Woody Allen fans this movie gives what they expect from the man.And that is a comedy with some wit. "},{"Title":"Fun and entertaining, but not Woody Allen's best","Date":"28 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This film is about a man's quest to change the life of the biological mother of his adopted son.Just like most of Woody ALlen's film, Mighty Aphrodite is quick paced, dialog heavy and witty. The characters are great, especially Linda Ash as is simple and naive but without her realising it. her lines are the best consistently throughout the film. Her pun about make it big and another remark about her husband having to be smarter than her are the most funny! Lenny's quick witted paranoia is entertaining. However, I feel Amanda is underdeveloped and underused. Amanda and Lenny does not look nor act like a couple, which undermines the credibility of the story. Mighty Aphrodite is watchable, but I think there are funnier Woody Allen films. "},{"Title":"A lovely Woody Allen comedy that is not to be missed!","Date":"7 December 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This movie is often said to be a 'miss' on Woody Allen's filmography, but I have no idea why. It is true that this isn't his best work (that would be Annie Hall), but it's certainly shouldn't be regarded as a blip. Like most of Allen's best films, this one stars the man himself in the leading role. I'm a big fan of Woody Allen as an actor; he's certainly not very versatile, but the character he tends to play leaves a lot of room for some very funny comedy, and that is capitalised on in this film. The story follows Lenny (played by Woody Allen) and his wife (played by the usually magnificent Helen Bonham Carter, that has something of an 'off' day here) who adopt a child that turns out to be a genius. Somewhat because he is bored with wife, Lenny decides to hunt down his child's natural mother, only to find that she's a dumb prostitute called Linda. Hilarity ensues, and Woody eventually decides to help her; maybe because he doesn't want his child to find out that his biological mother is a hooker, or maybe for some other reason...As usual, this film features Woody's trademark wit. When Woody is good, he's real good, but when he isn't he can be annoying; but suffice to say, the majority of the jokes in this film work, and the ones that don't can easily be forgiven for the ones that do. It's familiar territory for Woody, a man that is more than familiar with light hearted comedy, but this movie is somewhat different to his others, as the story is intertwined with Greek tragedy, and he has employed a Greek chorus line to play along with what's happening on screen. This makes the film surreal and also rather silly and for that reason I didn't like it at first; but I got more attuned to it as the film went on. The story itself is a good one, and one that has ample opportunity for comedy; but it's the subtext of it that's most important. Many themes are intertwined within the central tale, such as the ills of disturbing a sleeping dog, curiosity killing the cat, and there also seems to be a commentary on environment affecting a child's development. Whether or not this is intentional, I don't know; but it's definitely there. Allen has also soaked the film in irony, and the ending is superb in that respect.Of the sixteen Woody Allen films that I've seen so far; this is one of the best. It's not perfect, and there's things in it that don't work; but the dry wit will have you laughing out loud at times, and if you like Woody's style; I cant see any reason not to like this. "}{"Title":"Helena Bonham Carter","Date":"7 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Carter was terrific in this movie.  Playing another variation on Allen's  cold, shrewish wife, she found more heart than some of the women that have  come before her...and her American accent was flawless!  Who knew?!  This  was the movie that convinced me that she is a major talent, long before  everyone else figured it out with The Wings of the Dove. "},{"Title":"Mixed blessing, at the best some great laughs","Date":"27 January 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I really live some of Woody Allen's films, which are laugh out funny, or great. Others I really don't like. They are talkative, and boring if you're not in the mood.Mighty Aphrodite is a mixed blessing. The best are just great, but I'm afraid to say I think the film sometimes loses grip. It's a typical Allen film, with the annoyingly talkative Allen interrupting the women in his life, and this has a drive that many loves.I've got a trouble with the start, which is dull. The Greek choir in the beginning feels quasi cultural, and too often it takes over. Then the film loses momentum, even if there sometimes are funny parts. The plot is good, and Mira Sorvino went away with an Oscar for her role as the hooker. Some scenes are hilarious, and Allen at his bestI'll end the review with one of the great lines from the film, from Linda Ash - You didn't want a blow job, so the least thing I could do was buying you a tie!If you want to check out Allen's best, they are Loved and death, Small time crooks, Annie Hall and Match point. "},{"Title":"Mighty Aphrodite (1995) **1/2","Date":"17 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Woody Allen and his latest younger wife (this time played by stick of chalk Helena Bonham Carter) decide to adopt a newborn baby boy. As the child grows Woody becomes curious to find out who the real mother is and eventually tracks her down as a scatterbrained hooker and porn star (Mira Sorvino). I've tried watching this several times now and its got some laughs and charm, but it's still not amongst Allen's better comedies for me. I think Sorvino's prostitute character is initially ingratiating when she appears on the scene, but her schtick wears thin quickly. This obviously put-on performance was unworthy of the Oscar she received. And once Woody discovers her there's not much else of interest that can be done with the story. But the biggest turn-off of all is the damn cringe-worthy Greek chorus which pops up every so often to chant and sing the narration of what's transpiring in the movie, with F. Murray Abraham as the painted leader who visits Allen from time to time to counsel him, a la Bogart in PLAY IT AGAIN, SAM. Utterly unnecessary. **1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"good but not Oscar-worthy","Date":"14 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This is a very simple story that Woody Allen did not mess up by making it too artsy or introspective. It's a strange tale about a couple who adopt a child and the hubby keeps compulsively wondering what the birth mother was like. His wife, Helena Bonham Carter, doesn't care and gets angry at his obsessiveness.Eventually, Woody is able to track down the mother and it's Mira Sorvino (who won an Oscar for her rather broad performance). She's a ditsy woman who is somehow very attractive to Woody and he pursues her relentlessly.While Sorvino's dumb blonde character is kind of interesting, I found that a little of it went a long way. However, the story itself was very interesting and fresh, so it's worth a look. "},{"Title":"Diana Banana","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Woody frustrates me, so much so that I never go out of my way to see his work. This even though `Sweet and Lowdown' is on my short list of best films ever.It is because he is that sort of a jazz musician who plays for himself; who relies on past masters, liberally quoting them as a mixture of homage and ironic self-reference; whose interests are broad and apparently undirected; and who is usually competent and seldom brilliant.He doesn't really care about the audience, which is generally a good thing. But combined with his lack of genius, the end result is (except in the one case) not life-altering.One could take the time to tease out his interests at the time here Greek tragedy, there Russian expressionism, somewhere else noir. But that's just a parlour game.The interesting thinking about this film for me comes from considering Bonham-Carter. I think she is an intelligent actress, certainly in the top dozen to follow. I particularly look for situations where the director does not provide strong guidance, as I believe to be the case with her here. Then you can see what the actor creates for herself. Mira has the simple character here, literally and in terms of difficulty. In contrast, Ms Helena has a pretty tough space to fill -- and this must be done in the background, playing off of Woody. And he insists on sucking up all the oxygen in a scene.Viewing this a second time to just watch her, and one can see special ability the ability to act to ones self. By this time, she was already living with Branagh who also has this character.  "},{"Title":"Woody coming back","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I didn't expect to enjoy Mighty Aphrodite due to the very lukewarm-to-cool reviews it received, but was pleasantly surprised. The story line revolves around an adoptive father stricken with curiosity about the mother of his adopted son. He secretly locates her and finds that she is a hooker. The movie revolves around the comic antics that ensue when he attempts to turn the woman around and set her on the straight and narrow. The movie is much better than the reviews I read had led me to believe, with much of the old Allen gift for comic dialogue in evidence. It is certainly a better movie than Manhattan Murder Mystery, his prior effort, and in many ways reminds me of Broadway Danny Rose. The ending is - surprisingly - oddly touching and affecting in a bittersweet kind of way. I think this is one of Woody's better recent movies.One caveat; some of the humor of the movie involves parodying some of the conventions of classical Greek drama - the chorus, the masks, etc. etc. Knowing what 'deus ex machina' means really adds to the humor of one of the plot devices that helps to wrap up the story. Watch for Jack Warden in a wonderful comic cameo as a blind beggar (shades of Oedipus?). "},{"Title":"A Swift, Lighthearted Antidote to Woody's Own Perceived Pessimism","Date":"22 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Woody is a realistic idealist, because to persist making contemplative films is to assert how buoyant you actually are. His buoyancy is not to be associated with that articulated by his more hopeful characters. The average rubrics of idealism and cynicism offer fertile readings of several of his later films. How best to support such analyses? The views to be favored are those that fall back neither on some proclamation of, or biographical facts about, the creator, nor to the partialities of the interpreter. Allen's work helps us sidestep both of these moves the biographical myth and the reading of a connotation into the content instead of interpreting what it might have to say, because he presents the alternatives of optimism and pessimism in dramatic rather than discursive ways. This enables him to be detached from positions held in the material, clear in his practice of the drama of knowledge shared by the audience but not by all of the characters. It makes the assertion that getting on with one's life is a remedy for pessimism. Thus realistic idealism It's worthwhile to carry on.This modern playing-up of Pygmalion divulges its solemn undercurrents, with observations by the Greek chorus, which periodically bursts into song and dance, while in unison developing a plot that lends itself to farce, Woody playing a sportswriter who's initially opposed to adopting a kid despite his career-driven wife Helena Bonham Carter being unable to get pregnant for the sake of her job, yet she has her way and they adopt a boy they call Max. As Max gets older, it becomes clear he's exceedingly gifted, and Woody becomes preoccupied with learning the identity of Max's biological mother. After some tense scenes of farcical suspense, Lenny finally locates Max's mother, Linda, call girl and part-time porn actress. Lenny, never disclosing his real reason for seeking out Linda, swiftly becomes her friend and counselor, and sets about finding a nice guy for her to marry. Lenny recommends a young boxer he knows, a potato farmer from upstate, who is a good kid but not very smart.Although the increasingly colloquial Greek chorus might sound like a cumbersome adjunct to a Woody Allen comedy about contemporary Manhattan neurotics, it truly works properly. Chorus members including F. Murray Abraham, Olympia Dukakis and David Ogden Stiers make urgent notes of the choices Lenny is making, and their peculiar counterpoint helps Allen pull off some of the more clearly perfunctory plot developments. By the end of the movie, when the deus ex machina arrives from the sky in a helicopter, it feels like an stimulation rather than what it is, an expedient plot device.As Linda, then 29-year-old Mira Sorvino's voice is heavy Brooklyn lightened by helium and thus made comic, which mitigates the explicit casual vulgarity of her lexicon, making it seemingly nave. Her Oscar win has apparently been subject to the same come-on's and gimme-a-break's as Marisa Tomei's for My Cousin Vinny, perhaps because young bimbo roles, including those of Brooklyn spitfires, are often so two-dimensional, they're all taken for granted as precisely that. But known for being remarkably dignified and eloquent, Sorvino goes way outside the hooker-with-a-heart-of-gold peripherals of the part in developing a genuinely sensitive and charming character.Through events that I won't divulge, Woody brings us to an addendum set a few years later, when Lenny and Linda meet again, and there is a bittersweet development in both of their lives, although each of them is conscious of only half of it. The movie's closing scene is calmly, pleasingly poignant, and the whole movie avoids the snags of pessimism and becomes something the Greeks could never completely handle, an impending tragedy with a hopeful ending.Feels like Woody's just treading water here, but even when it becomes unquestionably frivolous, Mighty Aphrodite remains an attractively made, swift, lighthearted dessert that transpires as pleasant mid-range Woody. He's best known for this spirit of romantic comedy, having transitioned from broad screwball to more storied and romantic films. Mighty Aphrodite, during his freshly post-Farrow period of varied sorts of works, is generally inclined at a gratifying and more or less reliable reading. "},{"Title":"Mighty Mira, Flimsy Film","Date":"18 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This was a disappointment. Mira Sorvino is good, and lights up the screen, but... It's under-directed, some of the characters (eg. Allen's wife) struggle with the paucity of material, and sometimes it's just downright frivolous. This is a shame, because in some ways it reminds me of Crimes and Misdemeanors there's a married couple and there's a moral dilemma. But Crimes was much better than this, partly because Allen didn't take the weight of the acting so much on himself, and partly because it treated a serious subject with some seriousness. And sadly I'm not one of the three people on the planet who want to see Woody Allen kiss Mira Sorvino. "},{"Title":"Woody Allen at its best","Date":"17 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  One more brilliant film of a Great Film-Maker. Although, there are more than five years that I have seen this film for first time, I was very surprised (disappointed) with the negative comments I read about it and the low user rating. And its a pity, because with this film, Woody Allena)is not only telling us an interesting tragic-comic story,  depending on the side we are posed, in a unique way, b)is not only stretching his ideas of human relations much further than of his previous films, c)is not only presenting real people in real situations,(not an easy thing), but, above all, d)is giving us a lesson of life-or at least to those of us who can receive the message... "},{"Title":"Just see it!","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Great Woody, and I cannot recommend this film strongly enough.But...if you haven't seen the film, a little warning; the Greek chorus can be a little confusing, in a Tarantinoesque time jumping fashion.  You end up wondering what some guys in rags, prancing around some wasteground 2,000 years ago, have to do with 1995 Manhattan.  Well, they're pretending to be Woody's subconscious.  Don't pay them TOO much attention.  Just to spare everyone a little headache.Otherwise, excellent Sunday afternoon viewing.  Linda Ash (the prostitute) manages to upstage Woody's character, Lenny Weinrib, at nearly every turn. Allen continues his lifelong love affair with his native New York, and in keeping with the relaxing flavour of the film, a lot of less famous, but equally picturesque sections of the city are visible.  You can almost detect a sea-change happening to the city; it was filmed at around the time that Giulani's reforms started to turn New York around for the better.  'Mighty' is actually a feel good movie, but you don't get that nice, warm feeling until...well, watch the film, I can't give too much away!His characters in film are consistent, and reflective of his own persona; Lenny is a Jewish sports journalist (Allen is Jewish, and Jews, relative to their population, are disproportionately over-represented in Sports Management), his office is overrun with paper and contains no computer (Allen was 60, although it's still unrealistic for a publisher to do without one!) and, like his real life, he's forever involved with much younger women (both Linda and Amanda were 29, his secretary early 20's, and he remarried in 1997 to a 30 yr old!).Another warning on that note; watching Allen playing his role as if he were a hotshot 35-year old again is a little disconcerting.  You just get the feeling, sometimes, that he's too old to live his life at this speed. However, he does make a couple of acknowledgments in that direction.Finally, a bit of trivia for the buffs, for those who want to brag at dinner parties about the movie, and for lovers of Pellegrino water; the latter is seen twice during the film. "}{"Title":"Woody has done it again.","Date":"15 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Totally enjoyable. Clever writing. It all could develop this way or that way. Sorvino won an Oscar as she should have. I was captivated by Helena Bonham Carter. These Brits prove they can master our accents. I hope Woody has many more years in which to write and direct. If I were an actor I would plead for a part. Woody is AMAZING. Thanks. "},{"Title":"geeky tragi-comedy","Date":"18 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This is the first Woody Allen movie I really liked; The plot/situation just got to me for some reason. I rarely care for movies done in the stand-up-comedy style, so Woody is not really my cup of coffee.At first I really didn't care for the Greek Chorus, but I got used to it. Very different.The flaw I found, was at the end It was a very unusual, moving situation, but Lenny could have suspected that this was his daughter. Linda didn't know at that point, that Max was her son.Was this a great movie? Of course not - but I enjoyed it.pete "},{"Title":"Sorvino's acting saves this picture","Date":"14 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Mira Sorvino's fine turn as a ditzy hooker saves this film from mediocrity. While not a masterpiece, Woody Allen once again has constructed a solid, enjoyable, rather clever movie which features a strong cast.  Fairly average for his work, but of course better than most of the movies out there. "},{"Title":"Mira Sorvino is brilliant! 6/10","Date":"4 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Review I quite enjoyed this movie which, is written and directed well by Woody Allen. As usual, the only problem that I found with the film is Woody Allen's constant chatting about rubbish, but the concept was sweat and well put together. I loved the twists at the end, which were cleverly written, and Mira Sorvino's character was brilliant. The whole concept of Woody Allen finding his adopted son's mother and ending finding out that she was a prostitute, was refreshing compared to his usual troubled relationship movies. The quirky prostitute made the movie for me along with the great performances by all the cast. She stole the screen from Woody Allen in every scene and she totally deserved her Oscar for best supporting role. On the whole, the movie does drag a bit during the beginning, but once it gets going it was a joy to watch. Enjoyable!Round-Up I remember seeing this movie when it first came out in the late 90's, and now that I have seen it again, it's a timeless piece that has to go down as some of Woody Allen's best work. That is totally due to Sorvino and the way that Woody Allen wrote her character. Helen Bonham Carter was under used for the role as his wife but she was a good choice by Allen. Personally I think that the movie could have done with someone else playing Woody Allen's character and that Mira Sorvino should have had more screen time, but that just me being fussy.Budget $15million Worldwide Gross $26millionI recommend this movie to people who are into there Woody Allen movies about a man trying to find his adopted son's mother. 6/10 "},{"Title":"An antic Greek choir is a good idea, giving yourself the leading role not so","Date":"22 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" What's wrong with a director who cast himself in nearly every film he made? Nothing if your name is or was Charles Chaplin, Clint Eastwood or Gene Kelly. But in case of Woody Allen there's definitely a problem. He always cast himself in a role of a character he wishes to be. In Mighty Aphrodite he plays a sport journalist married with a pretty wife (Helena Bonham Carter) who is a designer. For sure it's a frustration for Allen to be born in a body that is anything but athletic and it's clear that he imagined this character to compensate for his physical shortcomings. A role as a real sportsman would be totally unbelievable so let's make it a sport journalist! At one day Lenny (Allen) en Amanda (Bonham Carter) decides to adopt a baby, or in fact Amanda takes the decision. After a couple of years their marriage is in trouble and Lenny starts a search for the biological mother of the toddler. As a viewer you're not sure what the reason is. He suspects Amanda of cheating on him so maybe he is looking for revenge or to raise his son with the woman he's looking for. Or it is just his midlife crisis. After some research he finds out that the mother of his adopted son is a hooker and porn star by the name of Linda Ash who also lives in New York. He approaches her as a customer but instead of having sex with her he tries to talk her into a more decent life. Of course Linda is very wary about Lenny's approach after the experiences she has with men but he succeed to win her trust and actually gets her out of her job and into a hairdresser training. In fact he is so concerned about her welfare that he tries to find her a decent man. Then it all goes wrong he thinks he's right about the cheating of his wife and the man he thinks is a very good husband for Linda finds out about her porn career.When both Lenny and Linda are at a low point in their lives they found comfort in each other and even end up in bed. But Lenny returns to Amanda who also decides that the lover who is after her isn't worth the end of her marriage.So not only gives Allen himself a role very close to something athletic he also give himself a marriage to the beautiful Bonham Carter and a good night with Mira Sorvino who plays Linda Ash. Not total unbelievable wasn't it for the fact that he portrays Lenny as a total neurotic and klutz. For a person who has a very social job and has a marriage which give him a lot of contacts in the art scene his clumsiness is far overdone. The scene where he first enters the apartment of Linda is so shamefully bad acted that it is painful to watch. Just like the scene where he tries to convince the pimp to keep his hands of Linda.Not to say that this is a bad movie. Allen good be quite funny here and he brings a brilliant idea to the script. An antic Greek choir which (with the assistance of some of the Greek gods) give comment on the story and the characters and on some occasions try to interrupt and talk Lenny out of his plans. This idea give the film a light tone against the neurotic acting by Allen and the heavy themes like abortion, prostitution and divorce. As a viewer you wonder when the real reason for Lenny's interest in Linda comes to the surface. That this didn't happen is a bit of disappointment because you're curious about the reaction of the two women in Lenny's life. But it also fits in the light mood of the film.So Allen puts a lot of good ideas in Mighty Aphrodite but it's a pity nobody convinces him to hire a good casting agency for the role of Lenny. "},{"Title":"Well written storytelling","Date":"2 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This is a fine writing and storytelling by Woody Allen. It's actually clever and humorous, despite situations that could be serious. This movie goes in more of a light-hearted approach. With a bit of fate and ironic circumstances thrown in, that works well as a whole. Even if some of the humorous parts, rely on dense characters a bit too much. When it comes to the ironic direction of the characters. Woody Allen plays this husband that is with a controlling wife that decides to adopt a baby. Later Woody Allen looks for his son's real mother, because of ulterior motives. And ends up controlling her, even if in his case he is doing it with mostly good intentions. But the ironic, clever, dense humors is blended in well and fits together with the story as a whole. Although it does get a bit self-indulgent at times. Mainly do to the fact that Woody Allen's character in this being the only rational or at least the smart one for the most part. While everyone around him is either naive or dense. Besides his self-conscious and imaginary sidekick. Overall I thoroughly enjoyed this flick and how it all played out. One of Woody Allen's good works. The term the curiosity killed the cat is a positive thing when it comes to this. And also one the best part about this movie is Mira Sorvino who just owns the role as Linda Ash. 7.6/10 "},{"Title":"A Chorus Line","Date":"23 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This is a very enjoyable film that takes its premises from Greek tragedy; that is to say, the gods are really in charge. They are the apotheosis of happenstance. The mixture of good intentions and fundamental humanity are portrayed here. We all want the best as does Woody's character. Mara Sorvino proved to be quite a wonderful choice for the seemingly scatterbrained, but very wise other woman. The chorus is hilarious with its askance a commentary. It all plays out, and without giving anything away, manages to trick the mere mortals. Woody's sense of humor is at work all along as he gives up himself in the presence of a strong woman. Not a major film, but well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Charming fiction adapted from a creepy real life","Date":"4 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Woody Allen's film about finding the birth mother of his adopted son is funny, and yet not particularly light-hearted. Not that it's depressing, but it has a kind of sad streak in it. Not melancholy or tragedy necessarily, but something subtly heartbreaking in the character portraits. But in the end it is an uplifting and hopeful movie.The movie is only held back by a few small things. There are occasional moments of unrealistic convenience to advance the plot. And there is a Greek stage ensemble which advances the storyline in certain parts. It becomes annoying occasionally and can break up the pacing of the film, but there are a number of hilarious lines and segments they deliver, so I see the necessity. It's also nice to see F. Murray Abraham in an Allen flick! And then there is a lack of chemistry between Lenny (Woody) and his on-screen wife, played by Helena Bonham-Carter. This is weird considering Woody's films are so carefully cast. It's possible that this inconsistency is because Woody was like 40 years older than her when making this film.Which creates a layered metaphor for Woody's personal life from this period. This is around when he left Mia Farrow and married her adopted child, Soon Yi, herself about 40 years younger than Allen. Haha, Woody's own life is creepier than his fiction! I guess that's the old adage though...Woody such a clever, creepy weirdo. A real character.6.5 "},{"Title":"Wouldn' waste my precious time...","Date":"29 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Only watched this film because of Mira Sorvino and I was not disappointed. She was good. Although she would have been a lot better had Woody Allen not been directing her. Had it not been for Sorvino, I'd turned off the film within the first five minutes. Just another moronic, third grade, sick humor, sexual fantasy from Woody Allen. He's not even clever.It's the usual Woody Allen drek. The man is sick and he has to vomit all over us. Don't understand what it is that people see in his inane neurotic idiocies? I just don't get it? I read two pages of reviews and people all think he's great. What am I not getting? What am I missing? Is it great to watch a sick neurotic go on and on in a boring way about his sex problems. I have much better things to do with my life.I'd not waste my money or time on this junk. "},{"Title":"Slipshod and unsatisfying","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Having used Shakespearean themes in films such as Crimes and Misdemeanours and Alice, with Mighty Aphrodite, Woody Allen turns his attention to Greek drama.  There is an amusing but, to my mind, irrelevant Greek chorus, that appears from time to time throughout the film. Allen seems to think that his slender story is the stuff of Greek tragedy but he is far from the mark in this judgement. Allen further indulges his penchant for having beautiful young actresses playing opposite him. Helena Bonham-Carter looks uncomfortable throughout in a thinly written part that has her, in a sub-plot, having an affair with her art-dealer boss but suddenly ending it to go back to Allen. Myra Sorvino, though visually stunning, adopts a high-pitched voice that is intensely irritating. It is difficult to believe that this performance won her a best supporting actress Oscar. Allen's attempted Pygmalion transformation of the young hooker is reminiscent of similar situations in Annie Hall, Manhattan and Husbands and Wives and Alice.Another aspect of Allen's life that is covered in the film is adoption. One would think that with his experience of Mia Farrow's adoptions, he would be technically well qualified to write about this subject, but the writing here, and throughout the film is slipshod. The themes are not fully developed and the film comes to a sudden end as if Allen tired of it. Although the verbal wit is, as ever, very amusing, the film as a whole is unsatisfying and, despite its critical success, a disappointing follow up to Bullets over Broadway "}{"Title":"Isn't life ironic?","Date":"21 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I've never been a big fan of Woody Allen, although I have seen few of his films. Mostly I feel like his performances get a little old for me, since he can only really play himself, in all his awkward, stuttering glory. He has a peculiarly dry style of humor that, to me, seems to get a little routine. He sort of satirizes the world around him as though consistently astonished at the strangeness of it all, dropping clever comments and observations as though by accident. He's not my favorite filmmaker, but one thing that seems pretty consistent about his films is that they are generally brilliantly written, and Mighty Aphrodite is no exception. I was a little put off by the intercutting to the bad performance art group, acting out Allen's interpretation of life's little absurdities on a decaying Greek amphitheater, and in increasingly modern and unpoetic language (Certain thoughts are better left unthunk!). Allen stars as Lenny, a sportswriter in a failing marriage with a woman named Amanda (Helena Bonham Carter), who thinks that if they have a baby it might save their marriage. The film opens with their conversation on the subject, in which they discuss all of the possibilities, including adoption, which Lenny immediately dismisses as unacceptable. All it takes, however, is one look at the cute kid from the adoption agency and his heart melts. Max, the new baby, soon grows up into a remarkable young man, and Lenny sets off on a personal mission to find his birth mother. He believes that any kid as smart as Max must have an equally brilliant mother, and he wants to know where the prodigal son came from. In Allen's illustration of some of life's great ironies, the birth mother that he discovered is a woman who calls herself Linda or Leslie, when she's not using one of the screen names she adopts in her performances in porn films, which she believes is just acting. There is a strange chemistry between Linda and Lenny, because she is so much younger and taller and sexier than he is, and because she's a prostitute and thinks he is just another paying customer. Quite the contrary, he is so astonished and horrified that he can hardly stand up. There is obviously a very strong sexual undertone in the movie, since Linda is both a hooker and porn star, and I've read reviews of the movie that suggest that even the graphic sexual descriptions have a sense of innocence, as if they are not really signifiers for the explicit sexual acts that they describe. I wouldn't quite say that. I think they take on that sense of detachment because Linda is so unbelievably dumb that she doesn't really understand the meaning of what she's talking about. She seems childish when she talks about it, which lends a sense of detachment, but I would hardly say innocence.Lenny's mission is to get Linda to clean up her life and become a respectable woman, like he imagined Max's mother to be. An intellectual giant is clearly out of the question, so he decides to settle for just getting her into a healthy and respectable relationship. His first attempt is a young boxer who dreams of moving back to his brother's farm and becoming a potato farmer. He is a match for Linda's diminutive intellect, and there is a touchingly awkward scene where he introduces the two of them in a park and then leaves. Both of them are clearly clueless about what to do.For almost the entire movie we're waiting to see when Lenny will tell Linda the real reason why he sought her out, especially when she emotionally reveals that she once had a child but had to give him up. The other revelation that we wait for is for Kevin, Linda's new boyfriend, to discover who she really is. Lenny had given him an impossible story about her, one which would fall apart the first time they had a normal conversation. When it finally happens, he reacts violently. Mira Sorvino's performance as Linda might be the most irritating performance that has ever been nominated for an Oscar. Her bizarre falsetto whine always made me think of the kind of voice that a babysitter might adopt to make the kids laugh when they miss their mom. Her mind is absolutely vacant and uncomprehending of the world around her, so it's hard to imagine her in a normal relationship at all, which may be why we never see that happen. She's also given ridiculous lines like Not a day doesn't go by that I don't wake up thinking about him. The double negatives render it nearly meaningless, but we can guess what she means.The film's biggest weakness, however, is the astonishingly obvious plot devices, which are so incredibly witless and weak that they stand out like big red flags in an otherwise well written movie. Linda's pimp won't let her quit but has an intense love of sports (I'd give my own mother for courtside Knick's tickets!). Lenny, conveniently, is a sportswriter. Or, my favorite, the movie spends all this time trying to find a good man for Linda, but when all efforts fail, Mr. Right quite literally falls out of the blue sky. Nice. Thankfully, the movie ends with an interesting twist of fate that calls attention to the movie's interesting assertions about the human condition. It's a strange tale of highly flawed people eventually achieving happiness. Maybe most people would choose a different form of happiness, but what they found this might have been the only kind available to them. "},{"Title":"Crude Allen!","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Mighty Aphrodite (1995) The more times I watched this movie, the more I was repulsed by the throwaway crudeness.In it,Mr. Allen investigates the whereabouts of his adopted son's biological mother and discovers that she (Mira Sorvino) is a prostitute/porno actress. Although Ms. Sorvino is admittedly good (she won an Oscar for supporting actress), the film is one of Allen's lessor works. The film never really goes anywhere & there is too much time spent with Sorvion's character going into graphic detail on her 'job' as a prostitute/porno actress. Definitely an experimental movie on his part.Don't get me wrong, if you're a fan of Allen's movies, I guess you'll like it enough. I mean, I've seen pretty much every Woody Allen and there really isn't one that I couldn't sit through the whole thing with the exception of the re-worked Japanese movie...I think it's the What's Up Tiger Lilly one...The one where they took an existing Japenese movie and re-dubbed it in English as a comedy. I mean it's okay and silly enough and probably would appeal to the college set, sitting around their dorm room drinking beers kinda thing, but if you're just planning on watching it alone, after a while it's kinda juvenile. Kinda sorta like that old Mystery Science Theater 3000 thing. You familiar with that? That's was a show on TV where they would run these old bad science fiction movies and at the bottom of the screen they superimposed this silouette of a guy and some alien looking thing supposedly sitting in a movie theater watching the movie and they make quote-un-quote humorous comments throughout the movie.Anyway, back to Aphrodite...Like I said, I've seen it a couple of times easy and I still say there's nothing very memorable about it. "},{"Title":"Mira Sorvino saves the day","Date":"18 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  At first this seemed like another meandering Woody Allen movie about relationships, and I was just about to give up on it when Mira Sorvino arrived on the scene with her funny, intelligent portrait of a sweet, not very bright girl.  Woody seems to have needed Mira's character as much as the audience needed Mira, as the writing became much funnier once he had something different to write about.  So if you're bored by the beginning, stick with it through Mira's first scene before you give up. "},{"Title":"A disappointment","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Being a huge fan of Woody`s films I still gave this a 6/10, but overall it`s one of his weaker offerings. The Greek chorus in particular is one of the main detractions from the film. It just missed the mark in my opinion. "},{"Title":"Thanks, but no thanks","Date":"12 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This is the movie that decided it for me - I am not a Woody Allen fan, nor will I ever be. The use of the Greek Chorus was meaningless, superlative and completely at odds with the rest of the film. This seemed to me to be yet another vehicle for Allen's therapy via widescreen existence. Why do all his films leave us feeling like we've intimately witnessed a day in Woody Allen's life? I would prefer if he had cast someone other than himself in the lead - so we may at least be distracted from the directorial techniques, or lack thereof in this particular film, and instead focus on the message he was trying to convey. Though, if someone figures out what that was - please let me know. I'm also trying to figure out why Mira Sorvino won best actress. I found her acting in this film to be annoying and unrealistic (although it's hard to be realistic in a contrived atmosphere surrounded by surreal wailing Greeks). Oh please! Definitely 1/10. "},{"Title":"What I learned from Mighty Aphrodite","Date":"8 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" the ancient Greeks dressed in rags, smeared chalk on their faces, and sang Cole Porter!...F. Murray Abraham has the scariest honker this side of Jimmy Durante!...New Yorkers think of a name for their baby after they take him home!...want your boss to help bankroll your gallery? Dick with his head (both of 'em)!...hookers get their interior decor from adult toy makers!...hookers will kick a client out if he just wants to talk!...hookers make sure to get exclusive rights to their porn names!...Clint Eastwood doesn't want to play hairdressers!...pimps can't get court-side seats to NBA games!...the f***ing Knicks suck!...boxers don't know their left from their right!...Zeus has an answering machine!...if a guy is upset his fiance is a hooker, he's uptight and repressed and doesn't accept her!...helicopter pilots don't own cell phones!...helicopter pilots dig hookers!...and, most importantly...want to score with a hot babe young enough to be your granddaughter? Cast her in your movie! "},{"Title":"One of Woody Allen's crude 90s misfires, artless in its delivery and unworthy of his talents.","Date":"18 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Woody's earlier classic efforts were clever, self-analytical, almost improvisational studies of the human social condition, with healthy doses of sexual innuendo spicing up the proceedings.  Annie Hall, Manhattan and even a couple of his later efforts like Bullets Over Broadway showed Woody the writer at his most brilliant.  But in the 90s it seems the Wood Man is trying to move into Farrelly Brothers territory.  Mighty Aphrodite is a prime example of the crass and unappetizing direction he has been taking lately (Deconstructing Harry is another) and its inferior to most of his other work.  For me, Mighty Aphrodite lands with one big thud. A new Woody Allen movie has always been a cherished event.  So there is nothing more indigestible than to hear our favorite neurotic and his co-stars spitting out needless profanity, while churning out obvious scenarios and sight gags geared specifically for titillation and sitcomy laughs.  The f*** word  may sound good coming out of Adam Sandler, but hearing Woody Allen say it (and worse) is almost sacrilegious.  Woody has always been an insightful master of comment and insinuation and to see him sink to this new low level is gut painful.  It is such an unnecessary, desperate measure and completely beneath him, I'd rather have him retire altogether than to spiral into mediocrity like this.  It's like listening to Stevie Wonder trying to sing gangsta rap.   It doesn't fit.  Do what you do best, man!This claptrap has Woody, of course, looking for happiness everywhere but in front of him.  This time he is on an obsessive search for his adopted baby's mother, which eventually leads him to hooker Mira Sorvino.  Sorvino is about the best thing in this film, which is not saying much, but I think her Oscar win (with all due respect to Sorvino) was undeserved.  Admittedly, she and Allen share a couple of fine moments especially with an endearing clod (Michael Rapoport), but its not enough to sustain the movie.  Most of the characters come off cruel, indifferent, obnoxious, and/or stupid.  A totally bizarre, confusing and unfunny Greek chorus (led by F. Murray Abraham) providing a commentary on Allen's trials and tribulations doesn't work either &#150; which is about par for the course.  The plot is incidental, the script is weak, even the music has little bearing on the mood of this piece, which is unheard of in an Allen film.If Mighty Aphrodite is any indication of where Woody Allen the screenwriter is headed, then gimme the good old days! "},{"Title":"Very bad, not funny....","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I rented this film because Mira Sorvino won an Oscar for her performance.  I generally don't like Woody Allen films, but I thought this one might be different.  Not only was the stupid voice Mira used a constant reminder that she was an actor badly playing stupid, but her whole character was totally un-likable.  The sex jokes were crude, even by Allen standards and the cut away scenes to the Greek Chorus were neither funny nor important.  I felt insulted by this film and didn't laugh once.   What a disappointment. "},{"Title":"Mediocre Comedy with Cliche Conclusion Life is Miraculous, Sad, and Wonderful","Date":"20 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  POSSIBLE SPOILERS INCLUDEDWhile the petty production value of Mighty Aphrodite reaches the unbearable level at times, it may be suitable to lead a cliche conclusion as Life is miraculous, sad, and wonderful. First, the director/actor Woody Allen presents middle-aged men's fantasy, having a platonic relationship with a hooker, and then doesn't forget having sex with her eventually, as an offering-everything-you-want entertainer.The Drawback List- Casting a Greek Chorus as a narrator role seems pointless, or even irritating, when it is terribly directed.- As the catalyst of the plot, Max, the adopted son of Lenny (Woody Allen), should be more involved in the drama--hooker Linda (Mira Sorvino) should come to know she is Max's mother. That would add the twisted meaning to Linda and Lenny's relationship.- The affair of Lenny's wife doesn't make any sense to the plot.- Allen's acting is arguably skillful to play a role of a loser (described by Linda); still some may find it jarring.- The rest of the cast is trifling, but it may work to yield deadpan humors.- Occasionally the camera does long takes with spatial depths; but with the imbalanced contrast to other average camera works, it ironically emphasizes the film's paltry value.- Preceding an ugly disaster, a nicely done romantic scene between Linda and her date Kevin wastes the viewers' emotions. I personally object to this type of usage of lovely scenes. "}]