[{"Title":"Englishfolks play Hamlet. Hamlet loses.","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"24 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Cliches be damned, this is a wonderful movie, all about transformations, change, and deciding what is really important. Everyone in this movie becomes a real person, moving away from the stereotypes presented in the beginning, and the comic timing is impeccable. (Don't buy the hype that Jennifer Saunders is a star of this movie, though; she's in it for maybe five minutes. Spend your time watching Richard Sessions' magnificently funny performance instead.) Branagh's Hamlet is dull, dull, dull; Branagh's movie -about- making Hamlet is another shade of wonderful entirely. "},{"Title":"Wonderful Underrated Classic","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"20 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This was a film that I wanted to see from the very second that I heard about it.  Unfortunately (for one reason and another) I missed it at the cinema and was forced to trawl the depths of video stores to find it.  It is a beautifully shot, subtly hilarious piece of cinematic history.  Anyone who has ever worked in theatres or have met theatre types will empathise with the characters immediately...and anyone who has never experienced the backstage goings on of theatres should watch this film to experience the endearing qualities of theatre in its extreme.Quite simply this film is wonderful and has made me a huge fan of Kenneth Branagh's writing and direction.My only complaint about this film is that it is impossible to find!! Why can't we buy it on DVD yet??! "},{"Title":"A great film to pick up your spirits","Date":"22 September 1999","Score":"20 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I selected this movie from the video shelf because the title seemed consonant with my mood.  My girlfriend had just dumped me, my best friend had just broken off with me, and it was raining.  The realisation that it was black and white throughout seemed to be perfect.  Yet the story, of a struggling actor's frantic attempts to mount a benefit showing of Hamlet to save a church, along with Branagh's comedic editing, begins as a farce, sails along with Coward-like snippets of conversation (along with the use of Coward's song The Show Must Go On) and develops facilely and elegantly into a moving portrait of the camaraderie of an acting company without one noticing.  I didn't realise I wasn't unhappy and in love with all these people until the movie was over and I was beaming quite sunnily (who needs friends and girlfriends anyway when you've got movies?).  Julie Sawalha's reading of the line Let's face it, we're all depressed may very well have saved my life. "},{"Title":"Gets ya where ya least expect it","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"18 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a movie that will make you see that when things look their bleakest, as in midwinter, you have to push on.  The characters undergo a long journey from strange actor-folk and emerge as people who are near and dear to us at the end.  They are the light at the end of the tunnel.  Anyone who's been involved with a difficult stage production will identify with this movie. I loved it!  Dear Hamlet, cast thy coloured nightie off...  -D "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece...and it hits so close to home!","Date":"28 October 1999","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" My wife and I saw this film a week after we completed a production of A MAN FOR ALL SEASONS.( I directed and she was Meg). We had experienced the disasters of Actors who couldn't remember lines,Tech problems, an Vain Egotist causing problems etc. What A joy it was to enter the theatre as see this Branagh gem. the script,acting and Direction were all flawless. ( for those who said the characters were cliche'  youve obviously never delt with actors!) the high marks were scored by Richard Briers as the older no-nonsense character actor, John Sessions as the queen gertrude , and the Highly underated Michael Maloney in the lead. Maloney has long been a favorite supporting actor of mine and its good to see him as the protaganist for a change. I cannot speak high enough of this film...and to answer Noel Coward's question why must the show go on?  because if it didn't we would be robbed of this films suberbly directed ending! BRAVO BRANAGH, BRAVO!! "},{"Title":"Why must the show go on? - Because it's really worth it!","Date":"10 January 2004","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a wonderful comedy about actors and the process of acting. A director, brilliantly portrayed by Michael Maloney, is desperate to find a remedy for his depressive mood and has no better idea than to gather unemployed actors around him to stage Hamlet in a church. The stunning cast adds a lot to the warm feeling that this movie leaves you with. It is a must-see and the videotape also makes a lovely Christmas present!  "},{"Title":"A perfect little movie to cheer our imperfect little lives","Date":"15 December 2003","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A perfect little movie, this tale of provincial actors struggling to deliver a production of Hamlet is one that will cheer your Bleak Midwinter if you have any heart whatsoever.  Definitely under-rated and one of Branagh's best, it is simply and effectively photographed in black and white, and features a witty, amusing, and at times, hilarious script performed by a stand-out ensemble cast.  Although its tale of backstage trials and tribulations will not appeal to all tastes, there is a lot of subtlety and truthfulness to the gentle, genuine sentiment on offer here.  Among very few false notes, only Jennifer Saunder's dire caricature as a Hollywood producer really disappoints.  The rest of the cast are just terrific.  Almost as good a Christmas movie as It's a Wonderful Life, I recommend it. "},{"Title":"Simply magnificent","Date":"4 January 2005","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Rating this movie, I gave it a 10 only because there wasn't a higher number allowed.Never having previously heard of this, I decided to take a chance on it one afternoon, though I generally avoid HBO, partly out of the lack of anything else important to do and partly because I saw Kenneth Branagh's name.How serendipitous.This almost perfect cinema experience moved me to tears, made me laugh, brought me to my feet applauding and cheering -- right here, perhaps foolishly, in my living room.Branagh is further evidence that God is no socialist Branagh has looks, talent, and now deservedly has money and probably all the romance he wants to handle. In other words, he has everything, while so many of us have nothing. Proving, as I said, God is no socialist, equitably sharing the wealth.The cast of In the Bleak Midwinter is just simply magnificent. I can accept a quibble that some performances are a bit stereotyped (and one director wrote in this forum that anyone believing that just needs to accompany a troupe), but even if true, so what? I love theater people.I love theater people and that is perhaps the main reason I loved In the Bleak Midwinter. As much as any film and more than most it shows stage actors in all their quirks and foibles, and in all their inherent humanity; it shows how the love for their craft, for their heritage and traditions, motivates them far more than does money or the chance of it, more than fame or the lack of it, and much, much more than does security.Actors portraying actors often can be seen shifting into another gear, but that doesn't happen here. Director Branagh and the excellent cast of superb performers provide a nearly seamless, nearly perfect production, beautifully written by Branagh.If there were room, each and every cast member should get a glowing tribute. Each and every one was great (even Joan Collins was great, though I can't help wondering Is she EVER going to show any age on her?), and each and every one was a standout -- which might seem to be a contradiction, a paradox, but watch In the Bleak Midwinter. You'll see what I mean.Bravo, bravo, bravo. In the Bleak Midwinter is simply magnificent. "},{"Title":"Intellectually genial comedy - a must-see for the cinephile","Date":"16 September 1999","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A marvelous comedy concerning a troupe of oddball, misfit actors who travel to a small village to stage a production of Hamlet. Director Branagh serves up some wonderfully heartwarming sentiments while managing to keep us laugh and on our toes. His excellent direction, a witty script, and stellar acting -absolutely stellar - by the ensemble, add up to an gratifying cinematic experience! Despite a few minor flaws, the film works about 75% of the time, and when it does, it's downright hilarious. Pay close attention to the dialogue - it's venomously funny; and the black and white cinematography, and the sets, are magnificent. Two special treats for the cinema connoisseur - a brilliant Joan Collins, and a surprise cameo from Jennifer Saunders. "},{"Title":"Hamlet as a comedy, what could be better?","Date":"22 May 2002","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I love this film.  It is small, and quiet, and it is rather unexpectedly in black and white.  It opens like a documentary, and then slips you right into the role of fly on the wall for the rest of the film. The ensemble is terrific and keep an eye on the facial expressions of the actors who are not actually speaking.  A lot of Branagh regulars make welcome appearances.  The look is wonderfully textured and layered, taking advantage of b/w.  Ironically, I prefer many of Joe's interpretations of Hamlet to the same scenes in the various film versions I've seen, including Branagh's epic version.  Of course, the version they perform is designed for the stage, with a mostly live audience.... My favorite aspect of this film is that it turns a production of Hamlet into a neo-pseudo-Shakespearean comedy.  The parallels between the characters in Hamlet still exist in the players in A Midwinter's Tale. They've been updated and personalized so that Joe's comment that the play is about loss works equally well for the film.  But, just as almost everyone is dead at the end of a Shakespearean tragedy, everyone is paired up at the end of MT.  Of course, as a modern work it can't just end in weddings, but happy endings abound for everyone. The cleverness of this all is that there is naughty, campy, frivolous humour which hides deep emotional pain, uncertainty, and even tragedy. Anyone who is familiar with Shakespeare's comedies will be familiar with that dark edge which contrasts the joyous romping.  Then there are the requisite farcical elements to make the parallel complete. The only unresolved issues I had at the end of the film/play were how will Molly handle the fencing scene? and how is it possible for Henry to be both Claudius and the Player King?   But I'm not about to gripe about these little points when everything else is tied up so neatly and well. "}{"Title":"..a group of (I suspect) mad, but passionate people","Date":"29 June 1999","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  What a joyful romp!  This is one of the most entertaining films I have ever seen.  Anyone who's ever participated in theatre will feel right at home! Imagine trying to put on a play with only 2 weeks rehearsal....imagine trying to put on Hamlet, with virtually no budget and only 2 weeks rehearsal! Filmed in black and white, the movie very easily translates the bleakness of the situation, but the diverse group of actors learning to relate to each other, their characters and life in general is heartwarming, and at times heartbreaking. Featuring a marvelous ensemble cast with such stellar performers as Richard Briers, Joan Collins,  Nicholas Farrell, Celia Imrie, Michael Maloney, and the inimitable John Sessions joined by the enormous talents of Hetta Charnley, Mark Hadfield, Gerard Horan, and AbFab's Julia Sawalha. The film is written and directed brilliantly by Kenneth Branagh.  "},{"Title":"Shakespeare For Beginners","Date":"29 October 2003","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a brilliant, totally overlooked film.If you are new to Shakespeare and do not get the passion for his works, this is the one to see. A fine introduction to the various people that are touched, moved and amused by Shakespeare.Brilliantly written, brilliantly acted, brilliantly photographed. The best Christmas film ever.10/10 "},{"Title":"Pushed All the Right Buttons","Date":"4 October 2000","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This wonderful little movie pushed all the right buttons for me.  It's about actors and the miracle of drama.  It's about people rising to insuperable challenges.  It's about people who don't fit in, the misfits and nutters, managing to coalesce into a unit.  It's the history of a dramatic production from casting through rehearsals to performance, with all the reversals and unexpected problems that always arise.  And it has Shakespeare.Sound familiar?  It should.  This movie shares all the above characteristics with Shakespeare in Love.What Shakespeare in Love has, besides all that, is a pretty predictable love story and some gorgeous sets and costumes.What this film has, besides all that, is a lot of laughs and a theme that flows through every frame.  Part of it is stated in the real title of the film, In the Bleak Midwinter (Why must some stupid American constantly insist on changing book and movie titles, usually sacrificing subtlety in favour of inanity?), and its reference to Holst's sad little Xmas tune which turns up in the score when the emotions are running high.  The bleakness of the depressed characters is underscored by the black-and-white film, the lack of camera tricks or even motion, and the low-budget feel of the film which corroborates the low-budget production of Hamlet.The other part of the theme is rather emphatically indicated as they all pull into the village (I think it's a sign! Yes, a road sign, love.) of Hope.  The script is full of puns about those who have abandoned Hope, reminding us of Dante's Hell.  The awakening of a new hope in the darkest hour of the year when everything is at its bleakest is the message of Christmas, and this is a Christmas story in the deepest sense.It's probably just a coincidence that the first episode of the world's most famous sci-fi trilogy was called A New Hope.The acting is practically flawless.  Julia Sawalha is perhaps a bit weak in spots and is filmed in an extremely unflattering way at times, but she more than compensates with a marvelous snippet of Ophelia which is in itself worth the price of purchase.Many of these actors worked with Branagh on Much Ado and Hamlet; they are obviously having fun and the result is brilliant.  Branagh's direction is characterized by unobtrusiveness and understatement which might surprise some.For most folks out there this will be a funny, feel-good picture which is well worth seeing.  If, like me, you believe in Shakespeare, acting, underdogs, Christmas or light at the end of the tunnel this might be the best movie you've ever seen. "},{"Title":"One of KB's best to date","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Bizarrely, given its small scale, this may be Branagh's best film to date. Shorn of the over-ambition which hampered Frankenstein and Dead Again, this minor masterpiece (which almost looks made for TV) will be a joy to anyone who's ever worked in under-funded theatre (excuse the tautology).The cast are in fine form, and the photography is suitably glowing - but the film's greatest strength lies in its witty and accurate script. Obviously born of years of painful experience, the dialogue sparkles with insight and humour. Why the hell doesn't Branagh write more of his own material? Subtly directed, cleverly structured and superbly performed, this is recommended to all Branagh followers, all theatre lovers, and all fans of grown-up British humour. 9 out of 10.PS The connections with Branagh's own version of Hamlet are obvious, but who is Dylan Judd, who gets offered a three-film sci-fi deal? Could it be Liam Neeson or Ewan Macgregor? Answers on a postcard to Shepperton Studios... "},{"Title":"Written and directed from the gut","Date":"2 May 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" In every writing class the teacher tells you to write what you know. Never has this been so true as when Branagh 'knocked out' this little gem.At the time Branagh was deep into pre-production of his own monumental film version of Hamlet and all the niggling questions he was asking himself about casting and directing choices were exorcised in this film.Branagh had just gone through a separation from his wife and long time collaborator Emma Thompson. All the Woody Allen-like angst the character goes through about his own recent break-up are the result of this.Rumors were rife all over the Internet about Branagh having meetings with George Lucas about playing Obi-Wan Kenobi in Star Wars The Phantom Menace... He was asked about them and denied them repeatedly. Branagh has some fun with all that as well.The director-writer dug deep and came up with a truly wonderful Christmas gift for movie-audiences. A charming and un-pretentious film that celebrates every person's need to be loved. "},{"Title":"Sparkling. Witty. Vicious.","Date":"9 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I love this film -- to my mind it has only one flaw and that's the otherwise delicious Jennifer Saunders' off-the-mark attempt at an American accent.Well, there's a second flaw This film isn't available on DVD -- and my VHS copy is nearly worn out! This is a film that will be funny to just about anyone, but it will have special resonance for theatre folk. The only other film to so expertly skewer a genre of the dramatic art is Waiting for Guffman What that did for community theatre, this does for Shakespeare.Branagh did an extraordinarily fine job of casting the film using a mix of actors ranging from the VERY well known to the soon-to-be well known. Each of them is playing at the top of his or her game. "},{"Title":"A love letter to theatre,Acting ,Shakespeare & Love","Date":"1 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Coming off the financial failure of two big films and the end of his marriage to Emma Thompson, Branagh wrote this witty, touching, and funny ode to the madness that goes on into putting on a show and acting, and the pure joy when ,against all odds, it turns out better than you could ever hope.Produced by Castle Rock and released on VHS by Columbia(after a small but critically successful theatrical run in the U.S. as MIDWINTER'S TALE), this is a film that deserves rediscovery and a decent DVD release. Seek it out. If you have any love of the theatre, this is a must own.The cast is full of familiar British faces,(Branagh himself does not appear,content with doing an admirable job of writing and directing) who all make their wonderful eccentric characters real and lovable.The nicest discovery is just how marvelous Joan Collins is at comedy. "},{"Title":"A Shakespearean Feat","Date":"19 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" One of my all-time favorite movies. Anything Kenneth Branagh directs is magic, and this is one of his finest. Clearly based on his own experience as an avid Shakespearean actor and director (He was a member of the Royal Shakespeare Company before forming Renaissance Films.), he too has often said I saw Hamlet when I was fifteen, and it changed my life. As a group of misfit actors (including a male homosexual Gertrude)struggle to get their play, William Shakespeare's Hamlet, ready to perform for the children of a small town, they encounter many problems, but in the end find love and the true essence of Shakespeare. Magnificent! "},{"Title":"Ya gotta love Shakespeare! No matter how it's twisted, it's great.","Date":"20 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Nobody does Shakespeare better than Kenneth Branagh, and this time, he's taken it to a whole new level. Putting together one of the Bard's best works with no money in a cold, damp church at Christmas may sound like a greater tragedy than the play itself. The frustrated actor/director, the cast composed of a band of merry misfits, Joan Collins playing an agent (!) and the god-awful ideas for unique sets and costumes only add to the already engaging tale of passion and deception that is Hamlet. You can't take it too seriously. But the script is intelligently funny, the experienced cast hits their marks, and even those who don't like Shakespeared will be entertained. It's a comedy, it's a mystery, it's a classic...all rolled into one. "},{"Title":"Wonderful film","Date":"20 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This was really good. The coming together of a number of people who create a 'family' is so positive in an, at present, negative world. They support each other and offer positive strokes  So much film and tv portrays our planet's inhabitants as violent and unpleasant. Children must have a strange idea of the environment in which they are to grow. This did have witty dialogue and no special effects because it had things to say and slightly exaggerated characters who were different from each other. Although it is British it is about eternal values of persistence, commitment which is not financially motivated and thinking about others beside self and therefore applicable to humanity generally. It certainly wouldn't do any harm in our modern world. It did no damage to the image of theatre and film either. No guns or knives, no car chases, no police or ambulances, how quaint, how rare but harder to write. "}{"Title":"dude!","Date":"13 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  My parents bought this movie, we watched it with the extended family at christmas(we traditionally provide the obscure filmage) and since then i have watched it more times than i can remember. I thought it was brilliant the first time i saw it. Then I made a spoof film of hamlet with my friends and i got so much more of it. I felt like joe through most of production(there was a lot of screaming on my part. My actors kept throwing me new scheduling difficulties every day, it was impossible to keep them focused, and i thought we were going to run out of time). I loved this movie's interpretation of certain scenes in the play. Like the very first bit with the machine gun. hehehe Not to mention the fight between Hamlet and Laertes. (I actually took my cue from that one and made my version like a sporting event, with commentators and all.)  Their actors put a lot of emotion into the performance. I loved the actors themselves, they were such a weird bunch thrown together and the development of their relationships was fun to watch. And it worked well in black and white. I just really like it. "},{"Title":"Bleak without, cheerful within - I loved it.","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Branagh made this around the same time he made Hamlet, and released it just beforehand.  It's a movie entirely about directing a production of Hamlet. He knew his subject, at any rate ...  In fact, this film is a good deal better, and certainly more heartfelt, than the Hamlet that followed it. It's hard to know why this should be.  Branagh is almost invariably brilliant.  His previous Shakespeare movies were the best of their kind. I presume it's more or less impossible to care about directing Hamlet without caring about Hamlet itself.  Yet there we have it Branagh's Hamlet is just a tad soulless, while his film about how to perform Hamlet in the face of overwhelming odds is heart-warming, and crackles with energy. (You'll note that there was an omen.  The performance we see of Hamlet in this movie, although it moves the audience, is dreadful, and belongs to the let's put Shakespeare's play in any setting but the correct one school of thought.)A number of people - including those I saw the film with - complain about this or that cliche.  These complaints strike me as being misguided.  Is it a cliche to have the production threatened?  Maybe; but any movie about people fulfilling a quest would be senseless if there was no danger of them failing to fulfil it.  Is it a cliche to have actors fight each other behind the scenes?  In a sense; but I fail to see how any but the dullest of films could result if they didn't.  In short, these kinds of complaints are complaints against the necessary mechanisms of the play about a play.  If they were just they would damn everything in the entire genre.  People who make such complaints MAY be saying that in this instance Branagh presented all the necessary elements without verve, or boringly, or something of that kind; but then the charge is just obviously false.By the way ... I'd like to protest against the use of the inferior title, A Midwinter's Tale, in Australia (and, I gather, in the USA).  In the Bleak Midwinter says it better.  I trust Branagh himself had nothing to do with the change. "},{"Title":"LIVING Shakespeare","Date":"17 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" To see Hamlet, you can see Branagh's celebrated production starring himself, John Gielgud, Derek Jacobi, Julie Christie, etc etc. And it is, in and of itself, a treat.Far better though to choose this unheralded gem, and see how Shakespeare really has an impact on people.The enthusiasm is palpable. It changed my LIFE, Joe protests to his sister Molly in defending his decision to stage Hamlet, and indeed, you can't help but see his point. When the play cuts too close to the bone for Terry, for example, reminding him of his dysfunctional family situation. Or when the audience gasps in horror or delight during the actual production of the play.Branagh and the actors here really, truly believe that Hamlet is alive and relevant, even today; and watching this quite wonderful film, it is hard to disagree. Watch it to see Hamlet not for itself (Branagh's production, or Olivier, or numerous other spectacles will give you that), but for how it matters to us even today, and to understand why low-paid or unpaid actors are nevertheless willing to give 132% to present it all to us. "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Grossly underrated movie, showcasing some of the best performances of an excellent cast. Shows beyond a doubt that B/W movies are not passé. Kenneth Branagh is smoking as the director of this movie about a group of has been/never will be actors, putting on Hamlet during christmas in a church, that has clearly seen better days. The movie is a great piece of evidence, that CG has not replaced proficient acting, and hopefully never will (hint to independence day) "},{"Title":"Entertaining look behind the scenes and the masks","Date":"2 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The plot of this film &#150;  a random team of dwon and out actors produce 'Hamlet' under impossible cirumstances and make it a huge personal success - is predictable. But the characters are as convincing as they are endearing, and this look behind the scenes and the masks is extremely entertain "},{"Title":"Midwinter Hamlet Not So Bleak","Date":"17 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It seems Director Kenneth Branagh has the immortal Dane on the brain.  The video even comes with the trailer for Kenneth Branagh's bigscreen Hamlet.  This minor canon Bard is a tale of a motley troupe recruited by Joe (Michael Maloney subbing for Kenneth Branagh) to save an ancient church in obviously-named hamlet of Hope.  Troupe features nice performances from Richard Briars (veteran of big budget Hamlet), Nick Farrell (same; and was Horatio to Kenneth Branagh's Laertes in 85) and mum & daughter Julia Sawalha and Jennifer Saunders (affecting a gawdawful Southern accent) to assure comic impact.  The black and white lensing gives a nice indy feel, but the lovingly shot stained glass looks lacking.  Joan Collins does a nice turn as Joe's agent. "},{"Title":"Beware of a possible cut","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When this film was televised in the UK as the US 'A Midwinters Tale' version, the very affecting scene in which Julia Sawalha explains why she does nothing about her shortsightedness, was cut.In case this was made by the producers rather than the broadcaster, and for anyone did not get to see this scene Her reason was that living in a world where everything was blurred, made it easier to cope with the grief of losing her husband - when he was killed, she could not bear the starkness and clarity of the world she found herself in. "},{"Title":"A hugely enjoyable comedy-drama","Date":"15 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The first film directed by Kenneth Branagh in which he did not appear, this is an extremely funny, heartwarming and occasionally moving comedy-drama. It concerns a depressed, unemployed actor named Joe Harper (played by the underrated Michael Maloney) who returns to his childhood home of Hope at Christmastime to help his sister save a local church by staging a production of Hamlet. The am-dram play's cast is populated by eccentrics, almost all of whom are depressed for some reason. The film was made in black and white, though for artistic reasons, on a low budget over the course of 21 days and was funded by Branagh personally using his money from Mary Shelley's Frankenstein.Branagh wrote the script himself and it remains his only film as a director with an entirely original storyline as all of the others have been based on preexisting works to some extent. It is a very keenly observed story. The am-drama play's idiosyncratic cast are exactly the kind of people whom you would expect to populate a production where they may not even get paid! It has an extremely strong cast including Maloney, Branagh's mascot Richard Briers, Julia Sawalha, John Sessions (a laugh riot as the drag queen playing Gertrude but equally good in his more serious scenes), Nicholas Farrell, Joan Collins (perhaps a little too glamorous to be Joe's agent), Celia Imrie, Gerard Horan and Jennifer Saunders. Incidentally, the following year, Maloney, Briers and Farrell starred in Branagh's version of Hamlet as Laertes, Polonius and Horatio respectively while Maloney also played Rosencrantz in Franco Zeffirelli's 1990 version.Overall, this is not one of Branagh's absolute best films but it is great fun and rather uplifting. It's the kind of comedy-drama that I hoped his previous film Peter's Friends would be but that film turned out to be a very depressing affair. "},{"Title":"Much Ado About Itself","Date":"13 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I love self-referential movies. I love Shakespeare. I love this little film.The movie itself isn't so great by itself. Alone, it is a quaint dredging up of an old story and a catalog of petty conflicts and emotional turns.The context is that this is what Branagh did to prepare for his own Hamlet, after the disaster of his pretentious Frankenstein. That film became a Frankenstein's monster. Here he purges his palette.One stationary camera is used. Middle shots only. Black and white. Adopting all the shorthand of Woody Allen so that there is no originally at all in the filmmaking proper.The story is what an actor does to collect people and center down for a particularly true Hamlet. And that is precisely what the film is for Branagh, (one of) his methods for centering in on the (particularly true) Hamlet that follows. The few real scenes of Hamlet here are tantalizing.The Claudius here is Branagh's Polonius, the Hamlet his Laertes (and Zeffirelli's Rosencrantz). I saw this right after seeing Pacino's `Looking for Richard,' which attempts much the same. But this is graceful, generous to the actors in contrast to Pacino's selfish grab.I am skeptical of turning Hamlet over to actors to construct from their own relatively small desires and visions. But this convinces of at least powerful contributory effect, both in the story and the existence of the film itself. "},{"Title":"Not the right title","Date":"22 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A wonderful, life-affirming tale that every young actor should see.  Released in the US under the title of Midwinter's Tale "}{"Title":"A real joy to watch.","Date":"11 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I love British film, comedy, theatre and probably because of the intellectual content. It isn't mindless. I watched this with my family and we were all alternatively laughing, crying, laughing. The best bit is the machine gun. Trust me!The video cover had publicity stills in colour. It was a bit worrisome when it presented in glorious black and white. But you get used to it very quickly.My daughter hunted out the video, bought it and it is regularly viewed. The performances are very, very good. Especially Richard Briers, Michael Maloney and Julia Swahala. Jennifer Saunders grates and grates and grates.Watch this film and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Final quarter doesn't totally work but still very funny","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A struggling actor decides to put together a small group of actors to put on a version of Hamlet in a rural church.  Despite low ticket sales he carries on and encounters many problems with the various luvies he has assembled.   This opens with one of the cast doing a short comic monologue to camera.  This immediately made me think that this was going to be Kenneth Branagh's Manhattan - a Woody Allen style comedy set around Hamlet.  It is a bit like that but it's more than the monologue suggests - instead it draws comedy from both witty lines and funny situations.  The film continues a little dangerously - it brings in lots of luvey-style actors which often means I'll hate the characters, but what this does for the most part is make fun of the actors, makes fun of the whole acting process.  It does this to the extent that even if you hate luvies you eventually are won over by them, so that when the plot kicks in and the comedy doesn't flow so quickly, you still like the characters (regardless of how ridiculous they are).   Branagh's writing and direction is brilliant - he clearly has experienced this sort of performance!  The ensemble cast are great - however the big names that have smaller roles seem out of place - Joan Collins is pretty good, but Jennifer Saunders doesn't fit in.   Overall the comedy is very sarcastic and cutting towards and between the group of actors and it's all very funny.  The final third is a little less fun that the rest because the plot that was merely lets put on a play is expanded out to bring in decisions, conflict, drama and romance.  But it all still works. "},{"Title":"It's heart belongs in the theatre","Date":"19 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Kenneth Branagh tries hard to shift the essence of a theatricalproduction onto film, and succeeds in some parts but fails inothers. The film concerns the lives of several dysfunctional luvviesbrought together by unemployed actor Joe, played by MichaelMaloney. Producing a Christmas-time Hamlet seems a labour oflove for Harper, and the pragmatic approach to the broadening ofShakespeare brings together quite a mixed-bag of personalities.Briers and Sessions stand out as the unlikely 'bedfellows', with theemphasis on theatrical camp. Briers has the best lines, andSessions overacts with apparent glee, but several of thesupporting characters seem lightweight in comparison. There isthe usual mix of tragedy and comedy, but at times it does all ratherseem cliched. Basically, they are all good at heart, but strugglewith personal issues that somewhat sidetrack from the plot. Inplaces it is highly amusing, but some of the gags fall flat on film,better suited to the extravagance of a stage production. There is apantomime quality to the production, and the black and whitepresentation is perhaps an attempt to tone down the charactersand the unreality of the situation. All in all though, the film is aboutsacrifice and the unravelling of egos. It will certainly help brightenthe odd gloomy evening, but realistically the film lacks bite andcredibility.  "},{"Title":"A truly grim experience","Date":"21 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Am I the only person in the Universe who hated this grim clichefest of a movie? Full of gangrenous, decaying ham, tiresomely twee, this horror ends up celebrating the ghastliest form of luvviedom that it should be sending up. The real mystery is how come so many people liked it. Is it the case that there are a lots of Americans out there who are taken in by this poor-man's Ealing-comedy as something terribly, authentically, 'English'? Could it be that having Kenneth Branagh in it is enough? No idea why this should be - the man is a booming, ghastly luvvie who can't act and can't direct. It was billed I seem to remember as a 'gentle comedy', two of the most terrifying words in the English language. Terrible terrible terrible. No more needs to be said. "},{"Title":"weary, stale, flat, and unprofitable","Date":"2 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  What is it with Kenneth Branagh?  Why does he fall to pieces every time he steps away from Shakespeare and tries to handle modern stories?  Like Peter's Friends this is an obvious cartoon about trivial people.  Once again, the script is a failure - every plot turn is visible from miles away, like a train wreck at the end of a 5-mile stretch of prairie road.  The story, to begin with, is a stale rehash of the let's find ourselves a barn somewhere and put on a show! theme.  Every character is a cliche, from the nervous little nobody who gets her big chance to play Ophelia, to the outrageous queen who gets to be a literal queen, namely Gertrude.  As rehearsals continue, everyone's feelings come out into the open, and it turns out that these earnest thespians may be laughing on the outside but (surprise!) they're crying on the inside.  The conventions are dragged out one by one  the two antagonistic actors who find they share a love for David Garrick, the homosexual actor whose son can't accept him, along with the inevitable reconciliation, and of course, the driving force behind the production, the show's Hamlet, who on the eve of the performance must decide whether to leave the show for a once-in-a-lifetime chance to play a big role in America, or stick with his plucky little group of misfits and sacrifice ambition for Art.  The only thing that is watchable in this mess is the actual production of Hamlet - even with minuscule sets, a jumble of props (including machine guns!), and set in a church, the little bits of the play we get to see are mesmerizing.  This is where Branagh shows himself to be a genius - when he is doing Shakespeare, he pours his heart's blood into his work, and it shows.  Unfortunately, the less than 10 minutes of Hamlet are not enough to compensate for the rest of the movie.  "},{"Title":"Over-rated (MINOR SPOILER)","Date":"27 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw this is France in midsummer.  It was a profound embarrassment, especially as the French audience saw it (like many other reviewers here) as a charming little film that essentialises their perception of Englishness. This is correct only if you accept that England is entirely populated by middle class amateur dramatists.  I warn you now, this film features the most punchable cast in all British cinema of the 90s Michael Maloney, who's jaw-droppingly excruciating performance in 'Truly Madly Deeply' will not be forgotten on Judgement Day; Richard Briers, who desperately wants his son to love him despite his homosexuality, resulting in an astonishingly lame reunion scene at the end.  Briers plays the straightest gay man ever, but still manages to fall back into shocking tics of campness.  The less said about Julia Sawalha, Celia Imrie and Jennifer Saunders' hilarious cameo the better.  Let's face it, this cast is just Branagh's chums having a private love-in.  And Branagh, as temporarily blind critics and audiences will one day realise, is the man who has managed to churn out a whole series of Shakespeare adaptations which strip the original texts of all their allegorical, subtextual or political functions in his quest to make them accessible.  Is anyone else patronised by the fact that the boy thinks that the most widely-read author in history needs to be made accessible? And how appropriate that, with this film, he should find empathy with a group of talentless amateurs, secretly yearning to crack Hollywood, who reduce Shakespearean tragedy to a stilted pile of family entertainment. RICHARD BRIERS Ken, where are you? KENNETH BRANAGH I'm in the kitchen. RICHARD BRIERS Can I be in it too? "}]