[{"Title":"Jeffrey not just for gay people-it's a story of awakenings","Date":"27 March 2005","Score":"21 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I watched Jeffrey with my Husband earlier tonight. I had meant to watch it for years, but it was a gay film, a genre which I love, but often eschew because these films always make me think--even La Cage aux Folles had a deep and abiding lesson or two hidden inside.) The themes often involve intolerance, and the traumatic impact of AIDS on the entire gay community; even if the film is a comedy, I find these themes fill me with empathic pain and frustration. I decided to brave those themes despite my female tear ducts this evening, and I was glad I did.This film was silly. This film was witty. The dialogue is sparkling. All those things made it wonderful to watch. The characters we meet are intriguing, and though the 2-dimensional stereotypes are made for laughs, we get the feeling that we are laughing at the strange mix of truth and falsehood many of the stereotypes possess; we are laughing not at people who are flaming but at characters who are exuberant, joyous people, trying to squeeze every bit of joy and delight that they can out of every moment.I won't spoil the journey through this story with any specifics, let's just say that Jeffrey doesn't quite get it. It is both painful and joyful at turns watching the character navigate through a turning point in his life. I laughed, I got choked up, and then I laughed again, and again ad infinitum. This is not a gay movie. It's a character driven story that we can all identify with, if our minds and hearts are open. "},{"Title":"Better than the critics say","Date":"11 April 2005","Score":"17 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is one of those movies that I confidently predict will wind up being considered much better as time goes on than the critics said at its inception. It's especially funny (and biting on occasion) if you happened to have lived through the first rush of AIDS deaths and the fear that engendered. This whole movie is a send up of that, and revels in the idea that sex and life go on even in the aftermath of terror. The Hoe-down fantasy sequence with its overtones of Busby Berkley and Oklahoma is hysterically funny. As for the acting, it's purposely broad with Patrick Steward playing against type, both in his role of Picard and in his many Shakespearean ones. Steve Weber is a hoot and there is no doubt in my mind that the other actors had a blast working in this flick. Many of them appear to have that look you see when actors are performing for their peers and enjoying every moment of it. The Pink Panthers moment alone lets Stewart shine. Are there flaws in the movie. Yup! The dialogue is sometimes stilted and jokes occasionally are dumped in rather than flowing from the plot, but overall it's witty, biting, and downright rapier-like on more than one occasion. All in all, Jeffrey is fun and worth an hour or so of your life. "},{"Title":"Lighten Up...","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"18 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I've noticed that many of the people who really didn't like this film  were taking it way too seriously....Either that or they were expecting too much.  Its a comedy, (with some serious underlying issues)...It doesn't pretend to be anything else.  I found it fun, light-hearted and adorable.  Michael Weiss is yummy as usual, Patrick Stewart adds flair and finesse, Nathan Lane gives yet another spunky fun performance, etc..  If you have high expectations for the film, you're going to be disappointed.  If you want to have a good time and a good laugh, give it a go.   "},{"Title":"I just adore this film","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I first saw this film on TV, and was gobsmacked (a British expression!) at Patrick Stewart's performance- this is totally unlike anything else I have seen him in.However, I soon discovered that there many more superb performances in Jeffrey... from the smallest roles (usually played by bigger names than you'd expect!) to the main roles entrusted to Stephen Weber & Michael Weiss. I managed to have a marvelous time just star spotting!I found this so hilariously funny in some scenes, and yet full of pathos in others that I ended up laughing & crying at the same time. In the end I just had to buy it, so I can watch it as often as I want. Be broadminded, and give this film a go... it won't disappoint.  "},{"Title":"Laugh when you're scared","Date":"4 April 2005","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is the movie that I always say is the funniest one I've ever seen. It's funny because it doesn't rely on Ashton Kutcher or bad parodies or stupid clichés -- the jokes are tight, unique and, most importantly, have meaning. Any comedy that can make us cry at the death of a Broadway extra from Cats (the poor much maligned Cats) but have us laughing at the one man's desire that he feels he can't have, gives us a depth of meaning not seen in comedic film in quite a while. We've become to dependent on having comedies without a meaning, or a point, or a way of laughing at something as terrifying as the AIDS crisis. Sometimes we want to laugh at that which scares us -- it gives us power over it. "},{"Title":"Awesome Movie!","Date":"20 April 2005","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is one of my favorite movies. This movie takes a very serious subject and presents it in a very light-hearted manner. There were times when I wasn't sure if I should have been laughing or crying. My favorite scenes had much to do with the quasi-comical nature in which AIDs is presented, and how each character acts, reacts, and is affected by the sickness. Rest assured, this movie will keep you interested not only with its story line but with the surprise cameo appearances by some of today's best actors. Patrick Stewart gives an outstanding performance as Sterling, however, it is Michael T. Weiss who steals the show! Not only does he look incredible in white spandex, but his performance is incredibly believable. Whether you are a Weiss fan or not, this movie is a must see! Lanie, NY "},{"Title":"It didn't get the credit it deserves.","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Jeffrey is the story of a young gay man, who, in this day of AIDS, decides to give up sex, and the very next day meets the hunk of his dreams. Steven Weber, Michael T Weiss and Patrick Stewart give Oscar worthy performanscs in a film few even know of. It is not truly a 'gay' film , but one about the confusion of true love and the heartbreak of loving some one who is ill. It will bring you to the brink of tears, and then make you laugh. I highly recommend it as a must see. "},{"Title":"A touching AIDS comedy? Sure, why not?","Date":"12 March 2005","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a very silly movie. If you don't think that a movie about AIDS can be silly, you need to see this movie. Susan Sontag would be very happy to see a movie that defies the thought that AIDS=death, and that AIDS (or the fear of it) doesn't stop love or life. Jeffrey is a gay man in New York City who suddenly decides to stop having sex. His plan goes well until he meets a gorgeous man in the gym that he can't stop thinking about. The more he tries to maintain a sex-free lifestyle, the more he thinks about this man. His feelings for the man is complicated when it it revealed to Jeffrey that the man is HIV+. It's as smart as an ironic romantic comedy can be and as funny as a movie about life can be. Personally I think that Patrick Stewart was directed to be far to gay than he needs to be (Not all gay men are limp-wristed, Patrick.) and the world doesn't need another gay priest joke, but you can't take this movie to seriously. After all it's a romantic comedy! "},{"Title":"It should have been a major massive blockbuster!","Date":"31 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Jeffrey should have been a major massive blockbuster, a sure-fire smash hit, just take a look at some of the names on the cast, Christine Baranski, Patrick Stewart, Sigourney Weaver, Kathy Najimy, Nathan Lane and Olympia Dukakis, yet it failed to set the queer or the straight world alight. Jeffrey a gay romantic comedy from America came out in 1995/6 and was based on a Paul Rudnick play about a young gay New York guy who considers sex is too dangerous in the days of AIDS and commits to a life of celibacy. Just to throw a spanner in the works and pad the film out another hour he meets the man of his dreams, whom surprise surprise just happens to be HIV+.It starred Steven Weber who was nice enough as the insipid Jeffrey an actor/waiter who is supposed to be AIDSaphobic, which just does not wash. Michael T. Weissis handsome and some nice eye-candy but you just wish he would get on and so something, anything as this film drags on and on and ever on. It would have been a total flop and dire mess on the floor of movie history were it not for the dozens of big names doing small cameos - Olympia Dukakis, Robert Klein, Nathan Lane, Kathy Najimy, Kevin Nealon, Ethan Phillips, Sigourney Weaver and Christine Baranski for example. Read more and find out where this film made it in the Top 50 Most Influential Gay Movies of All Time book, click this link.http//www.amazon.co.uk/dp/B007FU7HPO "},{"Title":"Entertaining, if not great cinema","Date":"25 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" When Rudnick's right, he's unbeatable (Addams Family Values, In & Out) and when he's not, he reeks (Isn't She Great). Not having seen Jeffrey as a play, I can't attest to its workability in that form, but as a film, it never really gets off the ground. But as a series of loosely-connected vignettes, it's entertaining.The cameos by various stars are very good; Patrick Stewart's performance outshines the vehicle; and a number of trenchant points about America's ongoing confusion about sexuality are made.I have to keep writing because there's a minimum number of lines of text, which is a completely stupid rule. "}{"Title":"Meeting Mr. Right","Date":"6 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" When a movie sports supporting (and even bit players) who are more interesting than the schmuck who happens to carry the load of an entire plot, something is sorely missing. Even so, a movie has to be made, and men like the title character -- Jeffrey (Steven Weber, looking at ease in a part that gives him one note, that is, to look and be lost and drowning in self-pity) -- do exist (I have known several and the only thing to do is to run the opposite direction and never look back in case one turns into a pillar of salt) and their drama, or lack thereof, is the stuff that could induce anyone to plant a bullet through their temples to be done with the pain.Now, let's see. Jeffrey's pain is that he's sworn off sex altogether. About this time he meets the Man of His Dreams (Michael T. Weiss, oozing dark masculinity). The catch this Man is HIV-positive. So the dilemma lies to be with a man who may or may not survive such a deadly disease (and risk his own life, since a moment of passion may be the dividing line between life and death) or to turn around and continue looking for Mr. Goodbar, even when Mr. Goodbar is right there for the asking.The premise makes for a a story that should be much, much darker and introspective, but Paul Rudnick has decided to make it a romantic comedy, and it works for the most part. Again, and going back to the top of this article, it's the supporting characters and bit players who make the adventures of Jeffrey worth experiencing consider one surreal scene where Jeffrey calls his parents, who are extremely, implausibly, hilariously in tune with the times (when in fact they shouldn't) and go into frank discussions about Jeffrey's (lack of a) sex life. Looking at them, all 1950s excess, yammering in gay lingo, is enough to have anyone rolling on the floor.Other scenes are of equal hilarity Patrick Stewart interrupting Kevin Nealon (as a reporter) announcing the sex change of a bit player (then unknown Gregory Ibarra) whose mother (Olympia Dukakis) has a whale of a time posing for cameras, and Nathan Lane as a priest who (unsuccessfully) tries to seduce Weber at church in a rather bizarre moment. Of the cast, however, Bryan Batt is the one who almost walks away with the movie as Stewart's lover, also dying of AIDS, and has some pretty outlandish scenes which make his character memorable. And of course, any movie that lampoons Mother Theresa has to have my vote, especially when it manages to pepper an erstwhile campy romance scene. One of the better entries of the Nineties not to feature gay men as unable to have sex lives and wallowing in corners, and a hoot to watch. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"18 August 2014","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Jeffrey is the story of a gay man decides to give up sex to avoid AIDS but meets the hunk of his dreams. The film is unrelentingly dark, both in camera action and in storyline. From an artistic standpoint, there were plot elements and character developments I didn't think were needed; they do, however, drive the story, which seemed to be their purpose. Weber, Weiss and Stewart give Oscar-worthy performances. It will bring you to tears and make you laugh. It's the kind of film that proves that a small story can be much more meaningful than a larger one. This film was nearly perfect, but sadly still not made for everyone. It's an important film, as well as very entertaining. "},{"Title":"There are millions of stories in the gay naked city, and this is one of them....","Date":"29 June 2013","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" New York City, mid 1990's, the heart of America's theater community, a mecca for artists, and thus, filled with a gay population that is certain to be over the rumored 10 percent. For handsome Steve Weber, frustration with his sex life and lack of a romantic life, his decision to concentrate only on working out is stalled with a handsome spotter (Michael Weiss) who happens to be HIV positive. This at first isn't an obstacle for the somewhat neurotic Weber but when it comes to making it to their first date, he can't bring himself to go there. So what does Weiss do? Call him up and ball him out? No. Go to a bar and drink to forget? No. He cries a little, dances around the room to get over his hurt, but then picks himself up, dusts himself off, and starts all over again. But like Dudley Moore and Liza Minnelli in Arthur, Weber and Weiss get caught between the moon and New York City, and thanks to some very understanding friends (among them, acerbic Patrick Stewart), come to terms with their differences, all with humor and tears, and only a bit of pathos.Gay camp humor is abound here as you have Sigourney Weaver as a self-help guru (she can spot a homosexual and a heavy-set woman with low-self esteem immediately in her audience), Christine Baranski as a socialite hosting a Hoe-down for AIDS, Olympia Dukakis as the mother of a transsexual lesbian (shades of her character from Tales From the City) and Nathan Lane as a show-tune singing priest. Stewart offers both bitchy humor (Does this scarf make me look like some gay super hero?) and wise father-like advice as he deals with his own crisis (his dying lover, a chorus boy from Cats who shocks Stewart by revealing he has no idea who Ann Miller is!), while a cigarette smoking Mother Theresa look-alike keeps popping in and out. There's wonderful sights of New York's Greewich and West Village (Sheraton Square and Washington Square) and a disturbing gay bashing scene (where one of them appears to be hiding his own sexuality), plus a starry finale that might appear over the top and unrealistic, but certainly every romantic gay man's fantasy. So this isn't a picture perfect adaption of a hit Broadway play, but it is totally entertaining and fast moving, one that may satisfy more for its moments than its total structure. The acting is first rate, although some of the performances are often characteratures rather than fleshed out individuals. This makes it a bit sitcomish in spots, but in the case of this film, that is not an obstacle to enjoying it, only a minor snafu. "},{"Title":"My All-Time Favorite Movie","Date":"6 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is, and has been since 1995, my favorite movie. Jeffrey, staring Steven Weber, Michael T. Weiss, Patrick Stewart and Bryan Bratt, also has many, many parts played by extremely well-known actors. Kathy Najimi, Kevin Nealon, Olympia Dukakis, Sigourney Weaver, Christine Baranski, Victor Garber, Robert Klein, and Camryn Manheim, just to name a few. To sum it up, it shows how important friends are in our time of need. This is one movie I can watch over and over, and I have seen it probably two dozen times or more. The writing, acting and music are flawless, you'll laugh, you'll cry, you'll love it! This is the one, single movie I can quote the most amount of lines from. "},{"Title":"It's Still Our Party","Date":"8 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The world is a scary place, and serious contemplation of that could be enough to cause anyone to shut down. So, what happens when, in the face of the AIDS tragedy, one handsome, young gay man decides that he'd rather be celibate than risk it all? Worse yet, what happens when he then meets the man of his dreams who turns out to be HIV positive? Rent this little gem to find out.Jeffrey (Steven Weber) is a handsome, young, single gay man in New York City, who is letting his fear of AIDS run his life. In fact, he is so afraid of AIDS that he has decided that celibacy is the only way to protect himself from it. And considering the kinds of sexual encounters we see him engaged in during the opening sequence of the film, that may not be such a bad idea. His closest friends, Sterling (Patrick Stewart), a wise old decorator, and his partner, Darius (Bryan Batta), a dancer in the musical Cats, don't necessarily agree with Jeffrey, but they remain supportive. And then one day at the gym, Jeffrey meets trainer, Steve Howard (Michael T. Weiss), a very handsome man who is very interested in Jeffrey. After agonizing over the decision, Jeffrey agrees to go out with Steve, but before their first date, Steve tells Jeffrey that he is HIV positive, and Jeffrey cancels. As the movie goes on, Jeffrey experiences several life changing events which cause him to question the wisdom of his insistence on celibacy, and to wonder if a life without risks is a life worth living.It's rather a delightful script, full of wit and silliness, and flights of fancy. But underneath it all, there is a seriousness to the message, which only makes the comedy that much funnier. And its message about taking risks in life is one that should resonate universally.The acting was superb. Batt's uneducated, kept dancer is nicely done, in that we see that he's not stupid, he's just not sophisticated. Stewart camps it up with hilarious results, and yet his serious scenes show just how much range and talent this fine actor has. Weiss gives a nice performance as a man with a confident exterior who is still quite vulnerable underneath. Weber plays Jeffrey's uncertainty very well, and is surprisingly good as a gay man.Fun little film that shouldn't be taken too seriously, but which still has a serious message. And one well worth watching. "},{"Title":"Hysterically funny and sad in the same breath","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Hey Michael, I'm not sure what these folks are talking about, but I've seen Jeffrey tons of times, and I enjoy it more each time.The characters are well defined, and the issues that are dealt with are not only serious, but very, very real.  One thing I must say, is that there were several points during the film that I was tempted to laugh, but the serious undercurrent made me unsure if I was supposed to be laughing.By the way Michael, nice white shorts in the gym scene.)  I think the characters were fun (especially Patrick Stewart......not without socks Mesha...), but Steve, with all his crazed and overpowering emotions held my attention the whole time.love ya Michael. "},{"Title":"A funny little gem","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Contrary to most viewers, I found Jeffrey to be a singularly pleasant experience all the way through. It sags a bit in the middle, but then, please name a movie that doesn't?It starts off like a protracted confessional; gay waiter Jeffrey (Steven Weber) waxing neurotic (in some telling vignettes) about the danger of having sex in the age of AIDS. He decides to work out instead. Meeting Mr. Exactly Right in the gym gives him pause, though. Especially when the guy is the delectable Steve (Michael T.Weiss), all muscle and chiseled grin. Jeffrey's friends advise him to reconsider his celibacy, and give it a go. It takes Jeffrey around 1 hour and 20 minutes of screen-time to do so. Had he succumbed to Steve right away, there would have been no movie! There is a sitcom-like feel to this story; obstructions and cracks are neatly wall-papered over in the name of light-hearted comedy. Darius' angelic reappearance towards the end smacks of opting for the easy way out. How else would Jeffrey have seen the error of his ways? It's the least convincing scene in the movie. Still, everything else is both funny and touching. The fantasy game-show is nice, the Hoe- Down for AIDS is a scathingly funny piss-take on charity-events, while Sterling's banter and relentless quips are wonderfulMartha Stewart says that as long as you can make a nice, dried flower arrangement - nothing else matters!!Darius is a believable character, Steve is the hunk of the year, and although Steven Weber doesn't set the room on fire as Jeffrey, I found him to be exactly in character. After all, Jeffrey is SUPPOSED to be a rather ordinary guy. Why Steve would go for him, though, is a bit of a mystery. Their subsequent affair would make for an interesting sequel. It would probably all turn sour in the end. Then again...   "},{"Title":"OK but lacking","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This takes place when AIDS was still killing guys left and right. Gay Jeffrey (Steven Weber) loves sex but is terrified that he'll get AIDS. So he decides to give up sex completely. Then he meets handsome, hunky Steve (Michael T. Weiss) and falls in love. Michael feels the same way...but he's HIV+. Can Jeffrey fight his fear?First off, the play was better. Some of the humor that worked so well on stage fell flat on a movie screen. Second, Weber is miscast. He's handsome, muscular but he can't act. However, I give him credit for playing an openly gay man so easily. Third, the direction is really off. I don't recognize the director's name, but comedy is not his forte. His direction really destroyed some of the jokes. Other than that, this is an OK movie. Michael T. Weiss is beautiful (and hunky) and one hell of an actor. Patrick Stewart played a gay older man to perfection--I couldn't believe it when I found out he was straight. Also the scenes with Olympia Dukakis, Sigourney Weaver and Nathan Lane are great! Also a great romantic ending with a few nice, long kisses. So, worth seeing but no great movie. If only they had a better leading man and a better director it might have worked. "},{"Title":"sexy and hysterically funny","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  My sister introduced me to Jeffery a year or so ago and I immediately loved it!  The movie is so funny!  And Michael T. Weiss of course is the sexiest man alive!  Patrick Stewart is phenomenal and the relationship with him and his partner was so touching.  Personally I thought that Steve Weber and Michael T. Weiss had tons of chemistry.  Just the way they looked at each other was so sweet.  Anyway, the whole movie was so funny.  I still laugh hysterically when I think about how nobody showed up for the black gay republicans section of the gay pride parade. "},{"Title":"A funny movie!","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie yesterday and I just can say that it is funny movie but it is also a movie about you have to think. It is not only about sex, in my opinion it is about love. The actors did a great work. Michael T. Weiss is one of my favourit actors and I think he is very good in this movie. This film is realy worth to watch! Unfortunately I saw the film in the german version - I can imagine that it would be twice good in the original version. "}{"Title":"I don't write this because of the name!","Date":"9 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Although, I do write this because Jeffrey is the greatest movie I think I have ever seen! If you are a person living with AIDS then you probably know what I am speaking of... To walk a mile in the shoe's of an AIDS patient...Then you know what it is to live life to the fullest. Survived I lost another friend today Is there anything I can say Tears and years of loss Inscrutable at all cost Would you know what to do Guilty existence Heavy on my soul Not hard to hold back Will not even be sold I have yet to say good-bye move forward as I may try I have heard words from the other side Caressing me while I cried Don't blame yourself You are the one who survivedCopyright ©2004 Jeffrey Paul Hellewell "},{"Title":"Great movie, made even better by great music!","Date":"28 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I met Jeffrey quite by accident, when I was searching frantically for anything by the late cabaret singer, Nancy Lamott, whose On the Way to your Heart is a brief, but outstanding song among many in the film. Nowhere could I find that she had recorded this song to CD, so I purchased the movie, just to obtain the song. What a terrific find in every way! The story and performances are wonderful, and every piece of the music is to die for. (I later located and purchased a CD of the Jeffrey soundtrack, and also bought another copy of the movie - as much as I have watched and re-watched, the first one is sure to wear out!) While I don't think Jeffrey is considered a musical in the true sense of the word, I would classify it as that, just because the music is such an integral part of the story and serves as a perfect bridge from one scene to the next.If you are a Nancy Lamott fan or just love great music (there is also an especially memorable performance by Connie Petruk, among others), I highly recommend you look into Jeffrey. For me the movie was a bonus; a real treat that I didn't even think I'd be interested in. It's now one of my all-time favorites and I'd love to let everyone in on it, not only because it's a great movie, but also to continue to share the musical legacy of the beautiful and amazing Nancy Lamott, whom I discovered only about two months before her untimely death in late 1995. Get the movie (and the music). You won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"One of the great movies of our time","Date":"14 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Jeffrey is a film that has you laughing one minute and wanting to cry the next.  The dialog is fantastic in its ability to generate pure emotion, but it is the emotions that cross the actors faces that really makes the film truly a classic.  I cannot say too much about this film.  Everyone should see it if not to laugh then to get a sense of what it is like to be gay, dating and falling in love in the age of AIDS.  Truly moving!  "},{"Title":"My favorite movie","Date":"4 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Realistic, humorous and heartwarming treatment of the AIDS plague. Patrick Stewart is wonderful in the role of a gay man. "},{"Title":"It has some insightful things to say, but it's too silly...","Date":"1 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Almost a breakthrough for queer cinema a homosexual cater-waiter in New York City swears off sex in the AIDS-era but soon finds himself falling for a hunk who is HIV positive. Paul Rudnick adapted his own play for the screen, allowing his gay characters to act upon their desires and not just whine about them (which is what cramped the film-version of Torch Song Trilogy). Yet, the tone of the picture wavers as if the filmmakers weren't sure whether they were doing a fanciful comedy, a satire, a tragi-comedy with pathos, a revue, or a love story in the more traditional sense. The central leads (Steven Weber and Michael T. Weiss) are handsome and charming, but the intrusive star-cameos (directed broadly for big laughs) do not work. A semi-serious movie about tentative gay love can always stand a sense of humor (self-effacing or otherwise), but hamming and camping gets old pretty fast. ** from **** "},{"Title":"A very good film and a rare gem!","Date":"7 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This was a very well thought out, film and one that deals with a tough subject quite soft-heartedly, but at the same time giving it the gravity that it requires. The acting I found to be very good, with convincing performances all round and great kudos to those who took part.This film is IMMENSELY funny and had me in stitches,something that has not happened in a long time! I would recommend the film for that quality alone, however the fact that interwoven in the humour are also some very hard hitting scenes, the death of Darius and the attempted queer bashing for example, to name but two. Both scenes make one think what one might do in that situation, especially the queer bashing scene. What would I say if in that situation, the pain resulting of saying the truth or the pain of not admitting it? A thoroughly enjoyable film, I recommend it very much to fans of this genre! A real gem! "},{"Title":"A must see! (Note watch for SPOILER warning towards end of text)","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie was good all around...acting, casting, script, etc. It intertwined comedy and drama without missing a beat, while dealing with a very taboo subject in our society. I have seen a few other movies that focused on gay relationships but they didn't seem real to me. They seemed to focus on either the stereotypical lifestyle, on portraying them as victims of society, or were over-dramatized. Watching Jeffrey allowed me to feel the emotions of the characters and get pulled into their lives and issues and feel their highs and lows right along with them. The characters were going through everyday emotional relationship ordeals that I could relate to as a heterosexual as well as some specific issues that homosexuals face. I highly recommend this movie...it is interesting and different. SPOILER AHEAD! SPOILER AHEAD!--->I've never seen a movie before where I was passionately rooting for two men to get together and kiss. It's not because I have a closed mind but I was never able to connect to the characters enough before.<-----END OF SPOILER "},{"Title":"An alternative perspective?","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Having just watched this movie for the first time, some six years after it's making, I will say that I thoroughly enjoyed it.  Patrick Stewart almost steals the show with his impeccable delivery of the acerbic wit written into his character.But what I really want to talk about is the strong resemblance of the story, in its flavor and its excesses, to a story originally written by Damon Runyon known to most people today as the Broadway musical Guys and Dolls.  Both stories come across via the broad strokes of a comic book come to life. And indeed, one wonders that Frank Loesser and Abe Burrows couldn't take Jeffrey and work it over into a '90s Gays and Dolls without too much trouble.  The movie already has its start in that direction with the rodeo dance number serving as the dream ballet sequence requisite of every self-respecting stage musical.The point I'm making is that every fictionalized reality (an oxymoron if there ever was one) requires to some extent or another, a willing suspension of disbelief.  Watch Jeffrey with the same perspective you sat in the audience and enjoyed Guys and Dolls with  Don't look too hard for subtlety here.  Just sit back, relax, and enjoy the story.  After all, even a comic book can have insight and a message.   "},{"Title":"A Steven Weber Feast!","Date":"30 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'm a HUGE Steven Weber fan.  This is one very talented man.I'd have to say he's in my top ten,  and he doesn't disappoint in JEFFREY.  A funny quirky film with some top flight performances,  writ by the very talented Paul Rudnick,  this is a fun evening parked in front of the tv.  Grab your girlfriend (or boyfriend-  or both)  and enjoy... "},{"Title":"Can love among gays be carefree?","Date":"19 October 1998","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie vascillated wildly from being maudlin to hilarious. The one thing it proved was that television talent doesn't always translate to the movies. Steven Weber was wooden, but Michael Weiss sexy and believable.  Nathan Lane as a gay priest was funny as was Sigourney Weaver.  Patrick Stewart was the best thing about this movie- his wisdom and composure at the illnes and death of Darius showed remarkable understanding of the condition of life and death in today's gay community.   "}{"Title":"Chirpy post-Aids romance","Date":"24 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This chirpy post-AIDS romance is a hit and miss affair and seems embarrassingly dated in the new millennium. Steven Weber's Jeffrey is like a male Carrie Bradshaw neurotic yet lovelorn; a navel-gazing New Yorker. The film also feels like Sex and the City (hereafter SATC), even though it was filmed two years before the first series of SATC began. It has that exaggerated, perky comic-realist feel that feels more like a TV movie than a real film. Like SATC, it revels in stereotypes which its core audience might find offensive, depending on their political persuasions, of course. But it's sad that an indie film of this stature did not make any attempt to challenge gay stereotypes. A missed opportunity. "},{"Title":"Not bad...","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I had very mixed feelings about this movie.  As a comedy, it was fairly pleasant, and occasionally very funny, although some comedic scenes simply did not work at all.  As a drama, it was somewhat effective, but these scenes seemed a little out of place.  But in general, I'm still glad that I saw this film.  While the end result was only moderately satisfying, I still admire this attempt to make a generally light-hearted movie even though it focuses on a very serious subject. "},{"Title":"simply positive","Date":"6 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Just saw Jeffrey and it was absolutely brilliant, to see straight guys playing a gay part and being totally cool with it. now I must say that I'm a bit of a Weiss fan and he looked absolutely fabulous. If you want to see a good movie about some gay guys this is the one! LOVED IT! "},{"Title":"Nice easy-viewing flick","Date":"5 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It may be because I'm too positive about movies on TV that I like.. probably because there are so few of them.. but this one was definitely worth watching. As it started out, I was immediately captivated by the funny, easy-going style, even though the subject is not something people freely talk about. Jeffrey renouncing sex, and immediately afterwards looking hard at a tourist... the irony is layers thick and predictable, but nice all the same. The happy mood lasts about half the movie, then it's suddenly gone. You wonder what happened to it, and why the movie has taken such a serious turn, until near the end, Darius explains to Jeffrey. After that it's When Harry Met Harry, as the movie itself states. 4 out of 5 for the pure joie-de-vivre, shown in the first and preached in the second part of the movie. Also Patrick Stewart was adorable in his pink shirt and matching beret. "},{"Title":"A sleeper classic","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is well worth watching. The film is low budget. The lead (Steven Weber) is less than believable; and the chemistry is sometimes lacking between Jeffrey (Weber) and Steve (Michael T. Weiss). However... The first time you see Steve (Weiss), as he turns around and smiles, it's worth the price of the movie. Mr. Weiss does an excellent job with his role. Patrick Stewart's over the top portrayal makes the movie. This is a very tongue-in-cheek look at gay life and love in the face of the AIDS epidemic. It has rough spots, but this movie is full of humor and good acting. The hoe-down fantasy scene was great. (Who knew this was a musical?) If they were aiming for realism they missed, but realism is much overrated. "},{"Title":"Catches the spirit of the age.","Date":"26 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Jeffrey is not a great film, the central character is weak and the direction unsure. Where it scores however is in catching the spirit of AIDS/gay men in the 90s'. It is hopeful in the face of disaster, funny in the shadow of death. It has been criticised for it's treatment of AIDS, but, speaking as someone with an intimate knowledge of the cursed disease, Jeffrey managed to acknowledge the tragedy of AIDS and celebrate the humanity of people with it. I loved Jeffrey; sexy, fun and irreverent it is a winner, and Patrick Stewart has never been is the quintessential gay man! "},{"Title":"Horrible and Idiotic","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This garbage film shows what happens to decent writers when they live in a ghetto. Anyone who thought this film was realistic or depictive of gay life in any way is obviously from another planet. It was a bad play to begin with, and the movie is even more insipid, insulting. Some of the cameos are mildly amusing but it's not worth sitting through the rest to get to them. The lead male is horrible and the words Is this right for my career? may as well be tattooed on his forehead. The scene in which he gets gay bashed in front of Barracuda Bar in Chelsea was so ridiculous and implausible that I actually laughed out loud during it. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"20 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I loved the movie. Michael T. Weiss, Patrick Stewart and Bryan Batt were very believable. Nathan Lane and Sigourney Weaver were just funny. I´m just sorry that the lead wasn`t as well chosen as the other roles were.The scene in the gym was one of the most funniest scenes I ever saw in a movie.  "},{"Title":"Fun - Interesting - Good, but not great.... Enjoyable...","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film is fun.....I like when the characters talk to the audience - it enhances some films....This was interesting for gay viewers - and also good for straight viewers - I especially enjoyed all of the cameos by famous actors.....I loved Olympia Dukakis and her son and Nathan Lane was fantastic as the typical Catholic priest...... "},{"Title":"Low budget and it shows!","Date":"27 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie was made on a low budget and it shows.  It looks like a film made for television.  There's even one scene, when Darius (Bryan Batt) is going off to heaven, and you can see the boom mike at the top of the screen! The film, however, does have it moments, but the script is extremely uneven. It played much better on the stage.  "}{"Title":"Angst and sex don't mix","Date":"17 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I found this movie very trite. Steve Weber was not believable. Michael Weiss was both sexy and convincing, and so were the other players, the director just needed to get a better lead. the gay scene was believable, just not the wimpiness of the  main character.... and dying from aids is not so neat..... I know my brother showed me how it's done...  "},{"Title":"Trite charity flick not worth watching.","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film views like a bad high school play.  Its adaptation from stage to screen should have been better thought out.  Acting and writing designed to translate 200 feet across an auditorium is awkward and awful on screen. Directly addressing the audience is difficult to pull off &#150; and this film does not even come close to making it work.  The worst part of this film it its Hollywood-charity feel.  A sort of  `Lets use our big names to make a quirky AIDS public service announcement!  Isn't showbiz funny?!!'  It was slow, heavy-handed, preachy, and worst of all poorly written.  If you are a washed up Hollywood wanna-be you might think this film is funny &#150; if not, don't waste your time. There are hundreds of gay cinema titles to choose from that won't treat you like a idiot  `All over the Guy',  `Beautiful thing' or  `Get Real' are in my top ten.  Leave `Jeffrey' on the shelf.  "},{"Title":"I'm sorry, but don't waste your time.","Date":"5 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was hoping for a good movie, but unfortunately it was just really bland, plus it displays a few gay stereotypes. And all the way through it I was like Oh God, give me a break! Giving up totally on sex and love and shunning a brilliant prospective life partner JUST because of the AIDS epidemic?! Get a life! Sure, I understand Jeffrey's fears with the epidemic, but constantly pushing away Steve, his prospective Mr. Right, just made me want to slap him. Sure, there are good moments, such as people readily accepting homosexuality and the thugs who threatened to beat up Jeffrey acted beautifully, cruel and hatable, but beautifully nonetheless. But overall, this was nothing that special to see, and why include Mother Theresa? I thought it was somewhat awkward to put her in this movie. And at the end, I don't think that Steve would really forgive Jeffrey that quickly, if at all, after all that Jeffrey did to him. Please, don't waste time with this movie. "},{"Title":"Jeffrey","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  With the exception of the excellent performance by Stewart as a friend of the title character, this film version of the successful Paul Rudnick play doesn't work for the screen, with Weber looking nauseous as the title character, a gay man looking for love and happiness, even though he has sworn off sex. Appearance by Weaver doesn't help the films' chances.  "},{"Title":"Frivolous Candy Floss","Date":"13 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I saw the trailer for this film on another DVD and ordered it on the strength of that. Unfortunately, I was pretty disappointed throughout, save for the enjoyable camping by Patrick Stewart and an all-too-brief appearance by the always deft Nathan Lane.I think the film is best enjoyed by a female audience, the whole thing plays to camp stereotypes and I think many gay guys will find it insulting. (At least if they're sober..) Certainly Patrick Stewart seems to be enjoying the role, in his pink beret and flouncing neckerchiefs, but generally I'm left thinking it's the woeful product of a straight person's impression of the gay world. Its self-indulgent, self-conscious, smug and embarrassing. Sorry. "},{"Title":"The Pink Panthers! <cackle-cackle snort-snort>","Date":"3 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Things you should know about Jeffrey--*The Wings guy sucks face with the Pretender guy... why would anyone suck face with the Wings guy?*The Wings guy gets totally upstaged (Eric McCormack-style) by the far more interesting characters that surround him (note to Mr. Weber never star opposite children, animals, wallpaper or oxygen)*The Pretender guy's dance scene is performed with all the rhythm and agility of a flu-stricken Henry Rollins stuck in a k-hole.  And on crutches.*The Wings guy has all the charm of a wad of wet Charmin stuck to the side of a men's room urinal*The Pretender guy finds the Wings guy attractive. This could only happen in Gay Hollywood, and it's about as believable and convincing as a Guy Ritchie plot-line or Madonna guitar riff*Olympia Dukakis is our patron saint. The pill is far less bitter when washed down with just a swallow of Olympia.  The woman can spin dung into daffodils, and her Adam's apple and Swamp Thing-hands just make her all the more enchanting  *Patrick Stewart totally owns this movie... and why would anyone suck face with the Wings guy?    "},{"Title":"This is what happens when straight people make a gay movie","Date":"31 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What an awful movie, I have never seen such utter tripe. i am not sure what it is that impressed me the least, the sub-standard plot, the awful acting (see Patrick Stewart) or the patronising way that Hollywood screenwriters treat gay characters. Save yourself 2 hours of your life and get Billy's Hollywood Screen kiss or Trick instead. "},{"Title":"Recommended For Gays Only","Date":"5 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In New York, while having sex with his partner, the condom bursts and the gay waiter and unemployed actor Jeffrey (Steven Weber), afraid of AIDS, decides to have no more sex in his life. In the gym, he meets the handsome gay Steve (Michael T. Weiss), who is HIV positive, and they fall in love for each other. However, Steve does not want to have an affair, believing that sex is dangerous. Jeffrey is a dramatic romantic comedy, with a very well structured screenplay, good cast and direction. However, this low budget movie is recommended for gays only. I read many good professional reviews about this film, and I decided to watch it. I recognize it is a good movie, but not for my taste. My vote is five.Title (Brazil) Jeffrey, De Caso Com a Vida (Jeffrey, In an Affair With Life) "},{"Title":"Try not to recast it in your mind","Date":"23 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  As you watch this movie, you will be amazed because the leading guys are so awful, so miscast, and have no chemistry whatsoever.  Anyone else would have been better than Weber & Weiss.  Thank God Patrick Stewart and Olympia Dukakis are aboard to get the laughs; Sigourney Weaver is also very funny. Look for a cameo by Victor Garber. "},{"Title":"Annoying, agitating, dumb and tacky","Date":"4 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Have to say that I felt sick after watching this film.....one big fat fluffy mess. Its just jumping on the band wagon of the caring 90's fad of political correctness. Not even Sigourney Weaver could save this celluloid abomination. What a waste of time. It was disturbing to see elderly parents discussing gay saunas with their son....Im not a puritan at all....but it was just stupid and not even funny. The actor playing jeffrey...whoa..... was one of the worst performance I've ever seen !....I was told by a friend who is HIV positive that he actually walked out of this film at a screening 15 minutes into it because it was so agitating. I decided to hire it and see for myself why so many people, mostly gay, say that this is the worst movie they have ever seen.....now I know. Watch The boys in the Band (not really AIDS related) and The Band Played On (AIDS related) if you want to see something thats decent and at least watchable. Avoid this one....Im sure the director gets embarrassed when he looks back and realises what a mess this stupid film was. "}{"Title":"Sad...","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Why did Patrick Stewart lower himself by taking on this incredibly liberal, preaching garbage. We all know Pat is an extraordinary actor and the reasoning behind taking this role is beyond me. Perhaps their was a little voice in his head that wouldn't leave him alone unless he took it. Hopefully, he took it because he owed a friend a favor or something.I watched the show, and true, it's semi funny and witty throughout the movie, but its still 'Pat' playing the role of a homosexual. The only reason I watched it is because he was in it. I guarantee nearly 100 percent of the people that watched it, watched it because of him. He obviously was making a statement by taking this role. Oh well. I'm going to try to pretend like I never heard of this movie. "}]