[{"Title":"Like an ol' familiar song, done with some twists.  Nice casting","Date":"5 July 2004","Score":"45 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Barry Sonnenfeld was and maybe wasn't the right choice to make Get Shorty.  He's a great visualist, and his films (Adams Family, Men in Black) are also very funny, but it's hard to say whether or not another director might've taken Elmore Leonard's sly comic novel more seriously or with less depth.  As it is, however, Get Shorty is a cool little treat that doesn't over-stay its welcome, and provides its cast a plethora of witty dialog.  John Travolta brings on some sharp attitude, knowing the angles and wanting, as his character Chili Palmer, to get into Hollywood and out of loan sharking.  Gene Hackman's funny as a fledgling producer with his first, true big hit in his lap.  And supporting parts from Delroy Lindo, Renne Russo, Danny De Vito (as 'Hollywood' as you'll ever see him), and James Gandolfini, are all very worthy.  It's a worthwhile watch, with a dead-on score from John Lurie.  But I would reccomend Out of Sight or Jackie Brown to Leonard fans looking for a great adaptation.  It's a very good Hollywood picture (reflective of what it's about), though it's not a masterpiece.  A- "},{"Title":"Get Shorty stands honorably tall.","Date":"3 July 2005","Score":"39 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" John Travolta followed up his Pulp Fiction comeback with Get Shorty, in which he plays Miami hit-man Chili Palmer. Moving to Hollywood to collect a debt, he finds that show biz isn't much different from the mafia, and he decides to get involved. But of course, once there's anything mafia-related involved, things start to get ugly. Not that they weren't already seedy.This movie has its strengths mainly in the script, but also in the strong performances from Travolta, Gene Hackman, Rene Russo and Danny DeVito. I guess that any time that someone gets a chance to show Hollywood's unseemly side, they take it. Of course, there's plenty of reasons to do so. The sequel, Be Cool, wasn't quite as good, but still worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Funny, with a terrific Travolta","Date":"24 February 2004","Score":"41 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I am not sure whether I liked the movie or just John Travolta and his character Chili Palmer. I had a lot of fun watching 'Get Shorty', based on the novel by Elmore Leonard, so it doesn't really matter. The movie is about a mobster from Miami, Chili Palmer, who ends up in Los Angeles. After meeting a movie producer named Harry Zimm (Gene Hackman) he gets interested in the movie business. This is the main story, but this movie is based on an Elmore Leonard story so there are a lot of sub-plots with lots of interesting characters, all with great dialogue.Besides Chili Palmer and Harry Zimm we meet Karen Flores (Rene Russo), an actress known for her screaming, Martin Weir (Danny DeVito) who is the hot actor of the moment, Ray Bones (Dennis Farina) who wants to collect some money that Chili has, Bo Catlett (Delroy Lindo) who wants money fro Harry Zimm, Bear (James Gandolfini) who was a stuntman but now is Bo's bodyguard, Leo Devoe (David Paymer) who stole the money that brought Chili to Los Angeles and Doris (Bette Midler). All characters are colorful, have great dialogue and an interesting part in the story, but all those great things are there together with Chili. For every nice moment Travolta is present.The actors play their characters very well. Again, Travolta is great and owns the movie, but especially Farina and Hackman do a great job as well. The movie is well directed by Barry Sonnenfeld (from 'The Addams Family'), knowing how to avoid boring moments. The story with its dialogue would be enough to make a nice movie out of it. Fortunately we have the actors and direction to make it even better and definitely more entertaining. "},{"Title":"Smart, funny, devastating satire of the Hollywood scene","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"33 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This film is based on the Elmore Leonard book of the same name. This is a hilarious satire of Hollywood. Chili Palmer (John Travolta) is a loan shark from Miami tracking down a deadbeat who has run off. Palmer's travels take him to Hollywood, where he meets Harry Zimm (Gene Hackman). Zimm is a producer of major motion pictures (read B horror flicks). His lover is Karen (Rene Russo). His meetings give Palmer the movie bug.Already a huge movie fan, Palmer decides to produce Mr. Lovejoy a script that Zimm proclaims will be hs Driving Miss Daisy. The plot centers around efforts to raise the necessary money and land Martin Weir (Danny DeVito) in the lead role. Fortunately Weir is Karen's es-husband. And Palmer has access to $300,000 generated from Las Vegas winnings of the missing deadbeat, Leo. As a further complication there is a drug dealer (Delroy Lindo) who has invested in one of Zimm's pictures. But he has gotten in trouble with his supplier for $500,000 and a missing nephew.DeVito does a wonderful job playing the self-involved, pretentious Weir. There are wonderful comments about screen writers. Spelling is optional, not necessary. The role of a screenwriter is just to put the commas in where they belong. Travolta is delightful as a nice guy wiseguy. In fact, the entire cast is just great.The plot lines never overwhelm the film, and they fit together like a jigsaw puzzle. (Note Thanks to Pulp Fiction, studios are willing now to use non-linear plot lines on occasion.). The ending is terrific (watch for the cameo by Harvey Keitel). I saw this in the theatre and have seen it several times on video. This one is definitely a keeper. "},{"Title":"Mafiosi love movies too!","Date":"24 March 2004","Score":"19 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Elmore Leonard's books must be loved by film screen adapters. His characters translate very well from the written page to the moving picture. Get Shorty is one of Mr. Leonard's best stories and it gets a very good treatment in the hands of Barry Sonnenfeld, its director, with the help of Scott Frank, who adapted it for the screen.The casting of the movie was it's greatest asset. John Travolta is so cool as Chilli, the mafioso who loves movies! In his scenes with Gene Hackman, he demonstrates what a good actor he is. On the surface, he appears to do nothing; he works with an economy that is very hard to imitate. Granted, after Mr. Travolta's amazing appearance in Pulp Fiction, this was a confirmation and validation of his talent.It was surprising, since I didn't remember his appearance on the movie, to watch actor James Gandolfini, prior to his recent fame. He plays a stuntman turned wise guy. Mr. Gandolfini must have gone through a great dental cosmetic transformation, unless he was made up to look very ugly, as Bear, in the film. I have greatly admired his work before his TV series, as a fine character actor, which he demonstrates here the potential he had and was not discovered until much later.Delroy Lindo is also excellent as one of the bad guys in the film. This actor, who is as great in films as in the theater, deserves much better. He is a man that always gives an honest performance. Not being a Danny DeVito fan, I must confess that he was very restrained here. He can do very good work with the right director behind him, as he shows playing the egotistical actor, Martin Weir.Also excellent, Dennis Farina. It's unfortunate he doesn't get better choices because he is always very effective in whatever he plays. In this film, he is hysterical as Ray Bones Barboni. Rene Russo, as the bit player with a heart of gold, is good. What can be said of Gene Hackman that hasn't already been said? His Harry Zimm is so accurate that we believe he is this sleazy Hollywood producer. Mr. Hackman is a consummate performer who keeps getting better all the time.If I had enjoyed the film the first time, looking at it a second time was a revelation. "},{"Title":"often hilarious","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"18 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Smart, funny mobster comedy/satire based on the novel by Elmore Leonard. Travolta is well-cast in one of his very best roles as a slick Miami loan shark/enforcer who travels to Los Angeles to cash in a loan, but instead ends up teaming with B-movie writer/producer Hackman to fulfill his dream of being connected to the movie business. Before he can however, he must deal with bumbling mobsters, white-collar criminals, and the anxiety of trying to find the right leading man. Crackling, hilarious dialogue, well-drawn characters, and clever insight into the movie business run rampant in this snappy little comedy. Maybe not for all tastes, but well-made and a definite must for Travolta fans. *** "},{"Title":"An engaging caper movie that also satirizes the Hollywood scene&#133;","Date":"25 May 2007","Score":"19 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I saw this movie in 1995 when first released, but never got around to thinking about a review until I saw it again a few weeks back on late night TV. I'd forgotten just how good it is...From a novel by Elmore Leonard, this story is arguably the best satire about the Hollywood dream factory yet done, for two reasons it savagely exposes and lampoons the behaviors of actors, writers, producers and directors and it implicitly compares that business with the business of small time hoodlums and loan sharks. So many times during this story does Chili Palmer (John Travolta) announce, in a bemused fashion I can't believe how youse guys do business out here... Chili, as we learn very early, is a loan shark from Miami who is ordered by Bones (Dennis Farina), his new boss, to recover a $15,000 debt from Leo (David Paymer), a loser with a garrulous wife, Fay (Linda Hart) who's helped Leo fake his own death on a plane crash and collect $300,000 as a settlement from the airline. Fay, of course, can't keep her mouth shut and tells Chili that Leo scammed the money and was now living it up in Vegas. Chili, in Vegas, finds out that Leo has gone to LA. But Chili also makes a score a Vegas casino owner asks him to lean on an LA movie producer, Harry Zimm (Gene Hackman) for $150,000 still owing.So, off to La-La Land goes Chili, and that's where the fun really starts...The plot then changes direction, almost completely Chili, after recovering most of the $300,000 from Leo (and letting him off lightly), gets involved with Harry in two ways &#150; first, convinces him to take on Chili's own idea for a movie production and second, fend off two investors (who just happened to be drug pushers also) who want their money back from Harry who &#150; you guessed it &#150; is late in getting some other movie off the ground, and has spent all their money.However, those two pushy investors, Bo Catlett and Ronnie Wingate (Delroy Lindo and John Gries), have another problem the $500,000 drug money that they can't retrieve from a locker box at LAX and which Chili sees as an opportunity to make more profit. That idea, however, is blown away when Bones &#150; who would like nothing better than to see Chili dead -- arrives from Miami looking to muscle in on Chili's business in LA.How all that threads together into a gloriously comedic and ironic slice of Hollywood life and death is a testament to Leonard's brilliant story, a great screenplay and cinematography and tight editing &#150; not to mention the almost flawless acting by actors who are continually taking the mickey out of the whole business, right up to the final scene.There's no doubt that this is Travolta's comeback movie. The guy just oozes dangerous cool and --- ooops &#150; chilling competence as he maneuvers between the high and low life of a strange town, with some very strange people and even stranger business practices. But, kudos also go to Dennis Farina, Gene Hackman and Danny DeVito as the klutzes they portray; and Renee Russo is suitably decorous as Chili's love interest. Watch out for cameos from Bette Midler, Harvey Keitel and other Hollywood luminaries.And, here's the supreme self-referential irony there really is a real Chili Palmer in the movie; he's one of the actors who has a bit part as one of Bones' buddies! What a gag...Finally, note the title Get Shorty. That's Elmore Leonard's delicious swipe at the whole gangster genre. Remember Get Carter (1971)...? Ho-ho-HO-ho-ho! Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Outstanding - from start to finish","Date":"1 January 2007","Score":"18 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Anything involving something by Elmore Leonard is generally very good, in and of itself. But when coupled with performances like those of John Travolta and Gene Hackman in this picture, the result is a superb piece of entertainment.Danny De Vito, Dennis Farina and Rene Russo all deliver outstanding performances - but all pretty much convey the types of personas, on-screen, which you'd expect from seeing their other work.However, of all actors today - young or older, new or veteran -- there are no two who are more convincing, in everything they do, than Travolta and Hackman. Serious or funny, crafty or clueless, hero or villain - - each has been completely convincing in every role, and seeing them together, one would like to see them teamed again.In this movie, both are funny, and both have their roles nailed Travolta as the confident tough guy, completely in control; and Hackman as the B flick producer, operating on the fringe of the Hollywood scene and life in general.As much as I liked this movie, I first saw it in a St. Louis hotel suite, where we selected it from the PPV menu. I was fried from a day-long business meeting, and fell asleep early into it. The next day, my wife insisted that I catch it (she's one of those people who has perhaps only wanted to watch one or two other movies a second time, ever), and I was glad she did. It's an outstanding film, and one which entertains thoroughly from the outset to conclusion, with not a single lapse between. "},{"Title":"A Touch","Date":"29 May 2003","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Spoilers herein.I do not expect Hollywood to ever bowl me over; I depend on other film communities for that. The Hollywood machine is so preoccupied with avoiding risk via lowbrow entertainment that we usually end up without intelligence or cleverness in our lives with them. But there are a few figures connected to that machine that I can rely on. DePalma for an intelligent eye; Ridley Scott for managing time; Soderbergh for framing and so on. But the influence of these folks rarely extends to the project as a whole.That's not the case with Danny DeVito. Forget his acting; as a director or producer you can always count on his intellect and sometimes we also get a coherent film out of the deal. In other words, we get something that conforms to the Hollywood principles (fun, exploits actors in the best way, solid production values) and at the same time has enough intellectual depth to allow some sun to shine in through cosmic windows.This film is one of those. It is not on my `must see' list, but it is one of the best Hollywood productions of the last decade.The setup is like `The Player,' a film about the writing of itself, about how life copies film and vice versa. Along the way, it subverts gangster pictures in a slightly different way than `Pulp Fiction' of the previous year - also produced (and significantly influenced) by DeVito. I really appreciate `folding' like this, and make a study of them. I already have a database of nearly a thousand examples of folding. It is a fascinating phenomenon, but rarely is it sheer fun.This one is folded and fun.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 4 Worth watching.  "},{"Title":"One of the best Elmore Leonard adaptations; vintage Travolta and game cast = fun & funny","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  GET SHORTY (1995) ***1/2 John Travolta, Gene Hackman, Rene Russo, Danny De Vito, Delroy Lindo, Dennis Farina, James Gandolfini, David Paymer, Martin Ferrero, Bette Midler, Linda Hart, Bobby Slayton,  Harvey Keitel (cameo), Penny Marshall (cameo).  Funny and entertaining adaptation of Elmore Leonard's crime novel about Chili Palmer (Travolta, perfectly charming) a loan shark from Miami who heads out to LA after a pay cheat and winds up in Hollywood teaming up with horror schlock producer Hackman and B-film screamer Russo pitching a story and avoiding some not-so-pleasant criminal types along the way.  Great satire and excellently keen in keeping Leonard's dialogue intact with some dead-on spoofing of Tinsel Town in particular De Vito as a Method actor run amok.  Look for director Barry Sonnenfeld as a parking valet and also the real Chili Palmer as one of Farina's dinner companions at the film's pre-credit sequence prior to Travolta punching out Farina.  "}{"Title":"Wise Guys Go To Hollywood...","Date":"2 June 2003","Score":"16 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Get Shorty is a movie to sit back and enjoy for the ensemble of casting in it.  Take one shylock from  Miami (John Travolta), add one B grade movie producer Harry Zimm (Gene Hackman), mix with a less-than-sharp wiseguy (Dennis Farina) and move the gang to Los Angeles.  Once there meet Karen Flores (Rene Russo) and the star of the moment Martin Weir (Danny DeVito) and mix well. This movie is entertaining and the hysterical humor in it works. Hackman is hilarious without trying as Harry Zimm, a B grade producer Chili Palmer pays a visit to and decides to stay. Chili Palmer (Travolta) is a wise guy who finds his real calling is in producing  movies.  Look at me is Chili's attention getting tag line that soon everyone who meets Chili starts using to sound as dangerous as Chili acts.  Dennis Farina plays Ray Barbone, another wise guy who, by default, becomes Chili's boss and is after money owed to him.  Farina who used to be a real life cop, is both comical and in his element in this movie. Delroy Lindo is cast as a wannabe producer and hitman with great style and aplumb not to mention a dazzling, colorful wardrobe. James Gandolfini is very convincing as Lindo's sidekick Bear with a southern accent, who happens to be a stunt guy too.  As all these ingredients come together, a great and worthy movie comes together as all key characters plot and plan to help Zimm (a great comic turn for Gene Hackman who never let's his audience down) get a large movie produced and made.  Danny De Vito, as always, is a fine actor who, despite his small stature, can fill a big screen as the big star of the moment in Hollywood in Get Shorty. This movie is Goodfellas meets LA Confidential.  The casting is superb, the supporting cast is a must have ensemble and this movie takes off superbly from the opening scene in Miami and continues with a blast to Los Angeles where Chili decides he wants to be a movie producer and what Chili wants, Chili gets. Travolta's Saturday Night Fever swagger is alive and well in this comical wiseguy Hollywood movie. His maturity adds depth that was lacking in my opinion during his Fever days.  Travolta is a superb actor, second to none and Get Shorty is a clever, well-acted movie worth keeping for a second look because it is such a pleasure to watch the first time.If you're up for some great acting by Hollywood's finest, and want some hysterical laughs, Get Shorty is for you. Hey, look at me! I give this movie a 9 out of 10 for it's humor, it's plot, it's casting and it's ability to flat out entertain you. If you need to dissect a movie to see what makes it tick, I suggest Das Boot but if you want a great movie with lots of laughs, this one is for  you.I also recommend Pulp Fiction and yet another Travolta vehicle Primary Colors.  Travolta has grown into his acting and is natural on the big screen as both a great character actor and a movie star, able to combine humor with incredibly convincing roles.  Broken Arrow and Face/Off are two more examples of the phenomenal Travolta who is one of few that crossed over from teen sensation to major movie star with staying power.Get Shorty is a must see movie with plenty of action and non-stop laughs.  "},{"Title":"One of my favorite comedies","Date":"9 August 2010","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I realize some will disagree with 10/10.Given that this is one of my very favorite comedies, I had to do it.The best parts of this movie are the dialog and the mood.A lot of the dialog is lifted from the novel if memory serves. It's intelligent and funny. Almost no dialog falls flat.The mood, as I would call it is amazing. The jazz score sets a nice tone as does the overall style and the pace. It's cool, to use an overused term.Chili Palmer amazingly played by Travolta reminds me a bit of Bugs Bunny. Totally in control at all times, with everyone else looking a bit silly. Like Bugs Bunny, it's the total fantasy of being totally in control. Probably one of the more appealing aspects.The cast is full of stars who are given great lines to deliver as well.The characters are all fun.In short, I can't think of too many movies that are this enjoyable over the whole movie.I own the book, and have read part of it (it's signed by the author.) The movie is so good, that the book never quite holds my attention long enough to read it. I think if I had read the book first, maybe I would feel differently.Someone suggested watching Jackie Brown rather than this movie. They are both great, and totally different. I suggest seeing BOTH. "},{"Title":"Elmore Leonard's Favorite adaptation","Date":"12 September 2006","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" After hearing, I can see instantly why this is the author, Elmore Leonard's favorite movie adaptation from his writing. First of all John Travolta was a solid-standard, as Chili. If you're a Travolta fan, this is an instant classic performance for him!! He personifies East coast attitude and 'M.O'. His breeze onto the scene and in control persona are a part of this movie that would have collapsed it, had it not been an ingredient in this mix of action, sarcasm and loan-sharking gone amok. Chili is superior. Gene Hackman, is an attempted to be cool, b-movie director, who hasn't had a hit in years, and you can feel it. Gene's man Harry is so played-right it's embarrassing. I know people that are like that. I was laughing till it hurt, from the familiar pain, of the ones who reminded me of the great Harry Zimm. Hackman is astounding.Before there was the Sopranos there was James Gandolfini as 'Bear' Bo's handy-man, his fix-it guy all around. Bear reminds me (sort of) one of my cousins. Ha, take that home with ya in a doggy bag!Danny Devito, is a great self-conscious (and to others feelings) selfish and unconscious, totally absorbed actor, who is about the way it is with many of the actor types, who let it go too far. Danny is the man!Rene Russo is the lovely, Karen Flores of course and she is as pretty in pictures as in 'Real' life. I got to meet her in 1992, and got a really great hug from her, she's very thoughtful and talented, with much more talent to follow after this great film.The way the story was set up and progressed with, makes me love this and puts it in a special place in my entertainment library. This is a fun 'You gotta see it and experience the mood and all the other emotions that follow' type of movie madness that makes watching some movies, very worthwhile. This is a high rater!!! (*****) Caution Language rating pretty bad!! "},{"Title":"An inside joke","Date":"16 February 2000","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Not a bad film, but very disappointing. It plays too much like a Hollywood inside joke that not enough of the audience is in on. Travolta is his usual charming personna, but Rene Russo is badly miscast. Gene Hack seems to be having the most fun by doing a great take on schlock director Ted V Mikels, down to Ted's trademark horn necklace. I did enjoy the poster of Danny DeVito as Napoleon.  "},{"Title":"One of my favorite comedies","Date":"30 January 2012","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This movie is highly underrated. Maybe people because of all the commercial shitty comedies forgot what a real good comedy really is. Travolta was definitely the right guy for the main role, and the other also very well known actors did their very best in making such a good savurous crime/comedy movie. The story isn't complicated at all, although because of how things evolve it gets more messy, and what at the beginning of the movie should had been something simple and straight forward gets far more twisted in the end. Of course is one of those productions where the good guys end well while the greedy get punished, but after all it's a comedy and the main thing with this kinda movies is that they should be fun to watch and make you laugh or at least smile a bit. So I strongly believe Get Shorty does exactly what it supposed to as a fun entertaining movie to see. "},{"Title":"Hilarious.","Date":"5 September 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Get shorty is a hilarious film with a lot of brains. It's one of the funniest films ever. It has so many good performances, including John Travolta as Chili Palmer and Denis Farnia as Ray Barboni. A.K.A. Ray Bones. Chili Palmer is a more likable bad ass type character while Ray Bones has a lot of bad luck and is a foul mouth. Saying f*ck the entire film. Farnia does many things to Chil and the two are big enemies. For instance, there is a scene where Chili is in a restaurant and Ray Bones takes his jacket. so Chili goes to his apartment and breaks his nose. And still gets the jacket back. Chili Palmer is in the movie business. I am not going to get to much into the plot. I have liked every one of Barry Sonnefeld's films. Yes, I even liked Men in Black II, sue me I don't care. But films like Get Shorty and Big Trouble were my favorite of his films. Both films were very funny and clever. The first Get shorty film, is genius. The second one, not really that smart. Chili Palmer is a cool cat who should stay in the movie business. Every performance in the film is fantastic. But I really thought that Denis Farnia and John Travolta did the best. It's a fact, they were the best. Don't deny it.Get Shorty ****/**** "},{"Title":"Muddled and sparsely entertaining, there will be those that 'Get' it much more than I do but it remains only moderately pleasing fare.","Date":"12 October 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" With the benefit of hindsight, you might say 1995's Get Shorty plays a lot like one of those Coen brothers features that come along every few years or so and end up being a lot less than the film it wants to come across as. The idea usually reads well on paper, the film feels like a good idea at the time; sees some scenes work better than others and while it doesn't really know what it wants to be, it's almost as if that in itself is part of the charm - it's only afterwards when you think back that you shrug, adopt a ponderous tone and wonder whether it was really worth getting excited about. Get Shorty's like that, the film is an interesting mess and that's the best thing you can say about it; it doesn't know whether it's coming or going, it doesn't know what it's about, some characters are more interesting than others, some don't work at all but like something like 2008's Burn After Reading, it has a charm that works in the moment and only when it isn't bothering itself with either narrative or large amounts of substance.For a film to so heavily involve the notion of filmmaking, it's only natural I suppose to note how even its title possesses a sense of deeply rooted sense of cinema; of which are infused in the form of 1971's Get Carter, itself a film about a hardened gangster travelling a large distance so as to get a job done with various parties and elements getting in the way. Get Carter had something about it, something solid and central and it maintained enthralling and gripping throughout. Here, it is the antithesis several tangents as well as supporting characters, whom the film makes the golden mistake of making either ten times funnier or more interesting than the lead, are all going off at once thus creating a muddled and only marginally interesting piece. Was the film about a Florida based loan shark out of his element but falling in anyway with the crowd around him? Was it about a Miami mob boss who's owed money and wants it back? Is it about a heist? A con? Filmmaking? Gangsters? Is it a love story? A pair of hoods whom have a stake in a film company? The short and long of it is too much of too many to be deeply involving, not enough of one or two to be deeply affecting.The best thing about the film is quite easily Dennis Farina's initially Miami based mobster Ray Barboni, nicknamed 'Bones'. Most of the scenes in which Farina's angry, foul mouthed, border-line scociopathic gangster is around present to the audience the best material and the biggest laughs, with his lack of presence greatly diminishing the film. He gets agitated when Travolta's Chili Palmer flies out to Los Angeles so as to collect a debt following complications with a mob boss, eventually taking it upon himself to fly out there too so as to clear everything up. His exodus is because of Palmer's newfound sense of existence amidst the higher-ups of America's filmmaking industry, and his friendship with American B-movie filmmaker Harry Zimm (Hackman) whom it's established is a bit slimy and who makes, judging by the titles, some equally slimy films. Meanwhile, Delroy Lindo's L.A. based gangster Bo Catlett and beefy accomplice Bear (Gandolfini) have their own problems involving South American drug barons and stakes in the industry themselves, as actor and actress Martin Weir (DeVito) and Karen Flores (Russo), two character's we might have done without, hover around.The film begins on a gloomy day in Miami, Palmer's fondness for film established by way of a rueful tone regarding a local disused cinema which he believes it would be fantastic if it were up and running. The kind of guy, in Palmer, that we're informed to be dealing with is put across in his attitudes and reactions to Bones' waltzing over with two cohorts. The threatening behaviour and petty jibes twinned with the taking of Palmer's coat on the way out of the diner they're all in means little to the man, the nervous reactions of the clerks in regards to Bones further adding to the strength and reputation the man carries. For Palmer, it means little and a later visiting to Bones' house along with the taking of everything in his stride aids in getting across what kind of person Palmer is for later skirmishes.Therein the word skirmish lies the problem, Get Shorty effectively being a series of moderately entertaining, even more-so when Farina is on screen, bits and bobs sequences together that work on occasion but not enough to get truly excited about. The pithy self-aware jabs at the film industry and those within it in Palmer's dismissive talk of film producers and Catlett's equally dismissive talk of screenplays in their usually error ridden forms are amusing, but don't contribute to the greater extent of anything. The film is ultimately less interested in something that I had more of an interest in, in its noirish tendencies, and ended up more interested in something my attention waned in relation to in its filmmaking sub-plots; the systematic rejection of which is evident when a low level hood is disposed of at a character's luxurious home only for dialogue about movie making to immediately succeed the event and the fall out which it spawns. Its underlying idea that anybody, in this case quite literally, regardless of their past can waltz into the American film industry and lobby for some success is generally scathing in an understated sort of way, and there is, ultimately, enough to get caught up in for Get Shorty to work in the long run. "},{"Title":"One of John Travolta's funniest","Date":"14 December 2004","Score":"14 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The film Get Shorty relates to the novel in everyway, it is interesting, takes quite a bit of thinking to understand and is in some ways hilarious. Chili Palmer, the infamous Miami beach mobster who gets himself involved with the movie business, that is something you don't see very often in a gangster film.John Travolta's previous movies like the Look who's Talking series were very funny but Get Shorty has to be the funniest film he has ever been in. I personally think so anyway. However it is not the best he has been in. If you haven't already, see the film Swordfish a very powerful, action lovers film. "},{"Title":"Great characters, simply a good comedy with a waterproof plot","Date":"19 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Get Shorty is a celebration of that usual Barry Sonnenfeld style of film making. Great characters, done by a great cast including John Travolta, Gene Hackman, Rene Russo, Danny DeVito, Dennis Farina, Delroy Lindo and.. Well the list just goes on and on. A perfect mix-up of that so called character-comedy, a movie progressing and dependant on the characters, making it hilarious comedy chaos.The best thing about this film is obviously the whole cast, John Travolta as the smooth bad ass Chili Palmer, Gene Hackman as the hectic Harry Zimm. A bit unusual role from Hackman, which also makes the character so hilariously surreal. Rene Russo as the girl Karen Flores, Danny DeVito as the movie star Martin Weir with a huge ego, Dennis Farina as the loud mouth usual himself Ray 'Bones' Barboni. Delroy Lindo as the tough Bo Catlett and James Gandolfini as Bo's bodyguard, failed stuntman Bear. Everyone just simply click together, which makes the movie even better than it actually is. It's just all about the characters. Chili Palmer must be one of the coolest characters ever seen on the big screen.Like mentioned before, Barry Sonnenfeld is the director of the movie and I honestly can't imagine anyone else directing a movie with a screenplay like this except Steven Soderbergh, the director of for example both Ocean's Eleven and Ocean's Twelve. I think that Sonnenfeld's and Soderbergh's styles connect together, they are very similar. And if they'd do a British version of the movie, the director would be Guy Ritchie without a doubt. If you recognised both Soderbergh and Ritchie, then you know the style I'm talking about and if you like both of their movies you should see Get Shorty. The other thing similar between these three directors besides the directing is the music used in their films. It's that usual horns and trumpets, giving that funky and exciting feeling for the film. It just fits for movies like these, creating that what is needed for the style. It also connects with the cinematography as well; Sudden movements of the angles, sudden stops, shots really close of the faces in these specific angles and when you add the music to that it's voilá.Get Shorty is all in all a great comedy with a plot that doesn't go over the silliness level. Sometimes movies like these go over that level, which usually make them funnier but also makes the whole story so unbelievable that it just isn't enjoyable as a movie anymore. Well the movie itself isn't THAT serious, it's a comedy after all, but it's definitely some quality entertainment. It includes a nice storyline, great characters and directing that just doesn't let you down. I recommend this movie to everyone once again. It's not amazing or phenomenal, it's a nice piece of entertainment, keeping you glued to your sofa throughout. What more can you ask for a boring Friday evening? "},{"Title":"When mobsters come to Hollywood.","Date":"11 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I absolutely loved this movie when it first came out. It has an amazing cast, a pleasant light way of storytelling and a cleverly written story, featuring some great stereotypical gangster-type of characters.So, ever wondered what would happen if gangster interfered with producing Hollywood movies? See Get Shorty if your curious about the result. It's an unusual original story about tough gangster put in an unnatural environment, who thinks that are making movies is the same as any other criminal activity.The movie is cleverly written with many different characters, that all follow one and the same plot line. All characters have different motivations but they are all cleverly connected to each other. The many characters often mix and meet each other in the events, which also causes all of their motivations to mix. The movie is really cleverly written and executed. It perhaps sounds like a complicated and hard movie to follow but it really is a light, great written and pleasant one to watch.The movie also works because of the many fine characters and of course the actors that portray them. Basically every character in the movie is deliciously stereotypical, from the Hollywood-producer to the stunt guy and from the successful acclaimed Hollywood actor to the mobster boss. The movie is well cast with actors that are obviously not cast because of their comical talents but purely because of their acting skills. The cast is one to kill for. John Travolta of course knows how to play a cool and likable gangster. Gene Hackman also plays one of his most fun roles as low-budget Hollywood producer, who thinks that he is going to make it big time. Danny DeVito is great as an Hollywood-actor and Dennis Farina, Delroy Lindo, Miguel Sandoval provide the good gangster parts of the movie. David Paymer also does what he can do best; playing a guy with a hat. The movie is filled with many more well known actors in small roles, such as Bette Midler and James Gandolfini and even small cameo appearances such as Harvey Keitel makes.Also mainly due to the movie its professional cast, this is not an hilarious type of movie but more the sort of movie that has a constant pleasant and light atmosphere that will surely put a smile on your face. The comedy is more of the subtle kind, that everybody should be able to appreciate. Nothing in the movie ever feels forced, no matter how crazy and mixed up the movie and its situations ever get.As far as the '90's go; this movie is about as cool as they could get. This movie was the definition of cool in the '90's, at the time of its release. Of course times have changed now but the movie still has an overall cool atmosphere and pleasant way of storytelling. It's a light fun movie to watch and re-watch over and over again.8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "}{"Title":"A smart funny movie -- a gem","Date":"17 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" One of my favorites. The dialogue is clever, the casting is terrific and the acting is superb. Even the soundtrack -- heavy on Booker T and the MGs -- is absolutely perfect. This movie manages to do what The Player wanted to do and couldn't... expose Hollywood's dirty little secrets in a funny and intelligent manner. Chilly Palmer goes from Miami-based mob collections guy to movie producer in a way that doesn't seem as crazy as it sounds. In Get Shorty Hollywood is a town where the cool show business types drive mini-vans and anybody can write a script because the just have hire someone to put in the commas and stuff. Scenes and characters flow from one to the next creating a kinetic energy that is a hallmark of Director Barry Sonnenfeld. Actors in simultaneous story lines cross paths and seem to hand the batton to one another. Dennis Farina just about steals the movie as a dimwitted mobster. In early discovery roles Delroy Lindo and James Gandolfini both show why they are now A-listers. Repeat viewings don't disappoint and, if anything, reveal even more details. Far superior to the sequel, Be Cool but I think that Elmore Leonard knew that going in. Get Shorty is brilliant and deserves a lot more attention. "},{"Title":"One of the best 90s films.  Farrina and Travolta deserved Oscar buzz for this one.","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Good to see Elmore Leonard becoming a well known film adapted author!This is my favorite Elmore Leonard novel and the film worked quite well with the book for the most part.  I remember laughing aloud while reading the book.  I could not stop laughing during the film.  Great performances all around.  But the stand outs were definitely John Travolta who in my opinion plays his best role (as Chili Palmer) since Black Out!  Also, Dennis Farrina should have gotten Oscar buzz, I think he is THE BEST BLACK COMEDY ACTOR in the business!  His performance here is only outshined by his role in Midnight Run.    All in all this is the kind of film that makes going to the movies a hoot!  Smart, biting black humor with great performances.  Definitely in my top 25! "},{"Title":"Perfect movie","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Got a chance to see this movie again last night and it was just as good as I remembered it. For me this is John Travolta's best movie by far. He is perfect. I grew up in Brooklyn and have had many experiences with people who were in the mob. Many people have played very good tough guys in the movies, but Travolta's performance was the best I have ever seen. Gene Hackman was great. Without him this would have been a good movie, but he made it a great movie. Harry Zimm is one of the all time great movie characters and he fit like a glove with Travolta. Rene Russo and Danny DeVito also gave great performances but Dennis Farina, Delroy Lindo, and James Gandolfini gave the best performances of their lives. Watching these people having fun with this gem of a movie was one of the best movie experiences I ever had. Like the film Player this movie has fun with the Hollywood condition, but the actors in Get Shorty make it something really special. If you ever wanted to be in film or if you like great acting, look at me, see Get Shorty. "},{"Title":"Worth your time","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Please ignore all the negative comments from other people, this was a very entaining movie.  The plot has your mind wondering who is back stabbing who, and the characters will keep you laughing.  Dennis Farina gives a short, but very funny performance as collector, John Travolta does one of his best performances, and Gene Hackmen was probably the best of everyone.  I read this book first, and it is once of my favorite books.  Usually I see a movie after I read the book and I hate it, but this is a rare exception.  This was a GREAT movie. "},{"Title":"Where's my money?  Where's my @#$*ing money?","Date":"3 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Based on the best selling novel by Elmore Leonard, Get Shorty is a movie about Hollywood society, about the underworld, but most of all, it is a movie about movies.  It parodies several facets of the motion picture industry from the B-horror movies produced by Harry Zimm (Gene Hackman), to the Hollywood star who is dwarfed by the size of his ego, in this case Martin Weir (Danny DeVito), to the underlying mob connections to the industry.  Every character contributes to the plot in a significant way, including Zimm, Chili Palmer (John Travolta), and Karen Flores (Rene Russo).  Which brings us to Ray Barboni (Dennis Farina).  The jive talking, wise cracking, smooth operating tough guy from Miami is a ruthless gangster who is out to get Chili, but you can't help but like his character.  Some of his lines are among the best in the movie - after punching a woman in the face, he says I want us to be friends, and both you and I know that friends...don't hit each other - and the scene of him sitting on the toilet when the phone rings is, in my opinion, easily the most powerful in Get Shorty.  Also keep an eye on the subplots involving Yayo, Momo, Bear, and Bull, not to mention the cameo appearances by Harvey Keitel, Bette Midler, and Miguel Sandoval.  It may take a couple times of watching the movie to figure out exactly what is going on, but that also means more opportunities to watch Ray Barboni torment his chauffeur about the smog being the reason for the beautiful sunsets. "},{"Title":"No great depth or real big laughs to it but it is slickly entertaining and cool","Date":"19 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" When his boss has a heart attack, mob hard man Chili Palmer finds himself working indirectly for Ray Barboni. Barboni's instance on picking through his books and finds the case of a dry-cleaner who owes money but is dead. With pressure to cover the debt himself, Chili sets out to find the man who he knows isn't really dead &#150; his search takes him to LA where he follows up another debt in the form of Harry Zimm. Zimm is a producer of trashy movies and Chili sees him as his way into the movie business and out of loan sharking &#150; businesses that he realises are actually not that different.With the release (and drubbing) of the sequel, I decided to take the chance to watch the original film again and review it because I hadn't seen it since it first came out a decade ago. The story is potentially quite messy as it has quite a few threads with different characters coming and going quite quickly and it is to its credit that it manages to hold it all together and bring it off satisfyingly well. It doesn't have a great deal of depth of course but it only aims to be slick and it manages to do this pretty well considering. The script has plenty of injokes to match the slick dialogue and narrative and the story does move along in a manner that is enjoyable on several levels. I think claims that it is hilarious is maybe taking it a bit too far because it isn't really laugh out loud funny more than once or twice but it is entertaining in a stylish and slick way that makes it quite fun to watch.The cast really help and the majority of them give enjoyable performances even if the aforementioned depth isn't there for them to do a great deal with. Travolta enjoys a funnier version of the role that gave him his mid-nineties comeback with Pulp Fiction and he handles himself well &#150; as slick as he is sleek and with a really cool presence that is important since the character is nothing more than cool presence. De Vito does really well sending up movie stars (specifically, if we are to believe all we read, Dustin Hoffman) but Russo seems to be an addition with nothing specific to do despite her still being enjoyable. Farina can do mobsters in his sleep so at least here he gets to enjoy himself at the same time; Lindo is a good match for Travolta and is a good bit of casting with good support from Gandolfini. In joke cameos are take it or leave it so they are not critical to the film but Keitel, Baldwin and Marshall stand out as being in there.Overall this is not a film that is hilarious or one that has great character development. Rather what it is is a slick story told with style and swagger &#150; much like Chili himself. The plot threads are helped by not ever having a lot of detail behind them to be picked up but they are still potentially messy and the film does well to bring them all together in a pleasing and knowing fashion. The starry cast is good value and all in all the film is entertaining; which was all I really wanted from it in the first place. "},{"Title":"reality disguised as fiction disguised as reality...","Date":"30 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" One of the great mysteries of all time, right up there with Area 51 and the Da Vinci Code, is why the film industry, now into its second century and -- as you read this -- consuming on a relative basis more bandwidth than any other form of media, cannot produce consistently decent product? Now don't misunderstand. This is not to say that most movies are inherently bad, for that is not true either. However one of the dirty little secrets of the industry is that the breakout ratio is around 201. That is, for every 19 forgettable products that are churned out -- products that keep the cable and streaming media pipelines full, and keep food on the table for all the electricians, caterers, and Best Boys -- about one actually is memorable enough to attract a permanent audience or become near-iconic. Not a very efficient ratio! The late Marshall McLuhan tried in his lifetime to develop the notion of media ecology, essentially the premise that the cultural output of a society was no less important than any other industry output, and therefore an effort should be made NOT TO WASTE THE RESOURCES or (simply put) produce junk. Like the infamous joke about about the Nietzsche graffiti (first line God is dead - Nietzsche. Second line Nietzsche is dead. God) that attempt did not turn out so well. McLuhan is gone, and the ratio has arguably gotten worse, because there are now many more pipelines to fill. Which brings us, belatedly, to GET SHORTY, not only a great film (one of Travolta's best performances, so effortless you wonder if he phoned it in, and Pixar just added a body) but one of Hollywood's most inside scripts ever. (Comedians have inside jokes. Hollywood has inside scripts.) The premise here is that the making of a movie has little to do with the movie, and everything to do with egos and business capabilities of the people making it. The idea that a professional mobster could stumble into Hollywood and suddenly realize that making a film is no different than planning a hit, or a robbery, is sheer brilliance. And very close to home. In the history of the medium, it is one of the only movies to deal with the delicate (and unpopular) issue of ... why so many bad films have to be made, simply to produce one good one...? "},{"Title":"A satirical look at the movie making business - absolute gold","Date":"16 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Now what does one make of this rather strange movie. What is the plot and if there is a plot, what is it? Get Shorty is not a mindless action flick, that is not what I am referring to when I am asking about a plot. Most action flicks generally have a plot, even though they are probably extremely shallow. Get Shorty, on the other hand, has a rather strange plot with some even stranger events.Chilli (John Travolta) is a loan shark who has been upset by another mafia boss in Miami named Ray Babone (Hal Linden). Chilli breaks Babone's nose and then shoots him just to let him know that he is not in the mood to be pushed around. Unfortunately Chilli's boss, Momo, dies in Brooklyn when he walks into a surprise party and has a heart attack. Babone then convinces him to go to Los Angeles to chase a laundry operator who owes him $300,000 after he allegedly died in a airplane crash. When Chilli gets to Los Angeles he is also asked by somebody in Las Vegas to get some money from a movie producer (Gene Hackman). When he breaks into the producer's house, he is struck with the movie making bug and decides that the current events would make a good movie. Thus he begins to try to drum up interest, mostly from a famous actor named Martin Wier (Danny DeVito) and gets involved with Wier's ex-wife who is an actress (Rene Ruso). Meanwhile another loan shark is after the producer for money that was lost at a casino.Pretty twisting little plot I thought and there were some quite funny scenes in the movie. It is the twisting plot that makes this movie shine. The major thing with the movie is a satirical look at Hollywood and the loansharking business. All of the films mentioned have really corny names suggesting the meaninglessness of the movies that are made. It is also shown as a bug that influences everybody that comes into the scene. Chilli and the LA loanshark are both caught by the producing bug and want to get into the film industry. Martin Wier is a typical actor and his personality is also satirised. He is shown Chilli's rent-a-car and decides that he likes it so much that he buys one himself. When they are having lunch, he orders everything for everybody and eats none of it suggesting that the actor always wants to be in control of the movie, even though it is the producer and the director that run the show. Then there is the ending where Ray Babone goes to the locker at LA airport and is caught by the DEA agents. This is twisted around in the film being made replacing the agents with Chilli, somebody much shorter, and a bad imitation of Babone. This goes to show the delusion that Hollywood creates. In a true story, the people become vague caricatures of the people that they are based upon, and are twisted to allow the famous actors to take the spot. Martin Wier is nothing like Chilli yet Chilli knows that to capture an audience, one must turn to a famous face.Then there is the film studio ending, the removal of the veil that shrouds Hollywood. It is revealed that all it is is a movie and any bad ending is meaningless because the antagonist is only an actor who walks away afterwards. No matter how evil this bad guy is and no matter how much he is hated, what happens in the movie is only an illusion. The bad guy is only an actor and his apparent death is just some ploy shot in front of the camera. In the end, they will all pack up and go home.Thus Get Shorty is a very intelligent and satirical movie. The bad guys are not threatening, but rather a caricature of the typical Hollywood villain. The movie is focused entirely on Chilli who is fearless and able to bend even the most intimidating person to his will. The most outstanding part of this movie is Gene Hackman's role. When I do not recognise the actor then that actor is doing a very good job. This was the case with Ed Harris in The Truman Show, and it is the case in this movie. Hackman has a famous face, yet it was a face that I did not recognise in this film. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable crowd-pleaser...puts Travolta's charm and talent to good use","Date":"8 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Elmore Leonard story about a modern-day runner for a Brooklyn mobster, freelancing after the mob boss dies of a heart attack, relocating to Los Angeles to collect on a debt from a low-grade movie producer, who himself owes a bundle to Las Vegas hoods. Pitching a story (a factual one, it turns out) to the producer about a schnook who collected illegally on an insurance claim, the shark manages to infiltrate high-rolling Hollywood. Super-slick, easy-to-take gangster-lite. In the lead, John Travolta does some of his best under-playing ever, nearly disappearing into this role as too-cool Chili Palmer (if Travolta hadn't already made a comeback, this performance would have accomplished it for him). Surrounding Travolta are some mercurial, colorful hams Delroy Lindo as the Vegas snake who practically slithers into a room, Gene Hackman as the movie producer who can't keep his mouth shut, Danny DeVito as a (short) Method actor, James Gandolfini as a stuntman turned roughneck. They're all originals, and the movie crackles with both humor and mobster heat. Followed by Be Cool in 2005. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Clever Elmore Leonard Movie","Date":"7 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Elmore Leonard novels seem to be coming to the screen in a rush at the moment, and it's amazing to observe the different results from different directors. Quentin Tarantino's Jackie Brown was a dark, serious film about double-cross that was rich in Tarantino's trademark vocabulary. Get Shorty is a light yet black look at the underworld and the movie scene that is rich in humour. Sonnenfeld has done a very good job bringing Leonard's satirical novel to the screen.Adding enjoyment to the entertainment are John Travolta, marvellous as the disenchanted mob thug who takes a shine to Hollywood, Gene Hackman as the hack director who has run across the most unlikely of investors, and Dennis Farina, who is perfect as the inept crime boss who chases a bad debt all the way across the US. Rene Russo and Danny De Vito also star as divorcées who influence the path of the film in different ways.Add a clever script and you've got a fun night's entertainment.Friday, November 19, 1999 - Video "}{"Title":"A misnomer....why is this flick called Get Shorty?","Date":"5 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" It's a fairly funny flick. Travolta is steadfast and mature...though his 'comeback' flick was definitely Pulp Fiction, he manages to carry the movie with help from a pretty solid cast... and he's believable. It's quite a twist to see Gene Hackman playing a wimpish producer, but he shows he has a flair for comedy...and that's what this film is...comedy, and a lot of fun. Travolta is a real control freak in this one, but gets caught off the mark at one or two critical points. But with Wise-Guy bravado, he navigates his way through the likes of Dennis Farina, Delroy Lindo, and Mike Gandolfini among others. The switch from juicing and loan sharking to movies comes about as quite natural for him, though he does have issues to settle before he can nestle in to his newly found occupation. I only recently saw the movie (2010), and I always thought that it was called Get Shorty on account of the presence of the diminutive DeVito...but that is not the case. The title must be an inside joke to some in the industry, but it threw me for a loop, and I determined I did not care to watch it. I am glad I finally did run across it on an old VHS...it is a worthwhile watch even if the title is somewhat mis-leading. "},{"Title":"Hollywood and the mob make a good team","Date":"16 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The mobster flick mixes with show business in Get Shorty, the mob comedy from The Addams Family director Barry Sonnenfeld. The two (mob movies and Hollywood) have always gotten along well together from The Godfather to Goodfellas, so Get Shorty taking the humorous business angle is only a natural evolution. Starring John Travolta hot off of Pulp Fiction, it's an enjoyable film for those who love movies and those who love the mob.Get Shorty is mostly about the former. Chili Palmer (Travolta) is a loan shark/shylock who flies out to Hollywood to collect a debt and partly to avoid his new boss, Ray Bones, the perfect jerk with a foul mouth played by Dennis Farina. In LA, Palmer meets producer Harry Zimm (Gene Hackman) and becomes fond of the movie business, offering to help Zimm get some lenders who've invested in one of his films off his back.There's some strong irony between the movie business and mob movies, e.g. Chili pitches the story of why he's out in LA as a movie idea to Zimm who thinks he's got something, but its the rock solid performances of Travolta, Hackman, Farina and Delroy Lindo that sell you on Get Shorty.Film-lovers will appreciate many references from Touch of Evil to Three Men and a Baby as the movie takes plenty of shots at the industry. Those more into the mob angle will enjoy how everyone's out to get everyone -- some for legitimate reasons, others because they want in on the movie business. It displaces the gangster movie from its cozy home in New York, Boston or Miami and drops it into the glitz of Hollywood where it fits well seeing as the industry is not exactly the cleanest.Get Shorty is not overly impressive, maintaining interest through its performances and our wondering just when one of these guys is going to up the stakes and off someone -- such are the thrills of a mob movie. Its lack of a definitive objective and therefore constant evolution into a story about something other than what it started as definitely holds it back, but not beyond of the point getting to enjoy it. ~Steven CVisit my site at http//moviemusereviews.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Travolta shows why he's a star","Date":"3 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" A Miami mobster (John Travolta) discovers that the Hollywood movie business isn't that far from what he's doing Florida in Get Shorty, a 1995 film based on the novel by Elmore Leonard.Travolta is Chili Palmer, who is sent by a thug named Ray Bones (Dennis Farina) to Las Vegas to collect on a bad debt. While in Vegas, a casino boss sends Chili to Hollywood to collect on a bigger debt from a low-budget horror film producer, Harry Zimm (Gene Hackman). Chili actually has an idea for a film, based on a true story. He soon finds himself involved with drug dealers, the producer's scream queen star (Rene Russo), a short but big star with a tall ego (Danny Devito), who is the scream queen's ex, murder, money in an airport locker, the Feds - in short, it's business as usual. Chili decides that his skills are a great match for Hollywood and decides to become a producer.A very funny send-up of the movie-making business, with a terrific cast and several cameos by people such as Penny Marshall, Harvey Keitel, and Alex Rocco. Bette Midler has a small but showy role as well.What makes the film is John Travolta's performance as Chili. Easy-going, smart, and personable, with solid rock underneath, Travolta is fabulous and the anchor of the film. The dialogue is crisp, and the cast helps to create some strong characters, and there is great pacing by director Barry Sonnenfeld.Recommended. "},{"Title":"Never Mind Shorty, Get the Money.","Date":"18 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" A thoroughly enjoyable comedy/thriller about a connected loan collector, John Travolta as Chili Palmer, who is sent by his boss, Dennis Farina, from Miami to Los Angeles to collect $300K from a drug dealer who has decided to keep the payment for himself by hiding it in a locker at Los Angeles International Airport. What Farina doesn't realize is that Travolta is a stone movie freak and is converted by the seductive movie-making atmosphere of L.A. from a semi-hit man into a would-be producer. The money that Travolta intends to invest may still be sitting in that gym bag in LAX, surrounded by ill-disguised DEA agents who are waiting for someone to try to get it, but everyone knows the money exists and they treat it as if it's not just real, which it is, but readily available, which it's not.It reminds me of the fiscal situation on Yap, an island in Micronesia. The Yapese have a kind of money too. Huge stones, laboriously carved out of a mountain on a distant island and carefully shaped, then shipped hundreds of miles to Yap. In one case, a monstrously heavy stone fell from the canoe offshore and fell to the bottom of the ocean. But it was still counted as being in circulation because, after all, all the Yapese had seen it and knew it was there.The story in this movie is more complicated and involves a dozen or more characters, all of whom would love to get their hands on that money. Some want to use it to make a lousy movie -- with Travolta cheer leading this contingent -- and others want it because they figure it belongs to them. Some die but no one mourns them. The deaths may be richly comic.What makes it possible for us to enjoy this story of bullying, threats, violence, greed, lust, and murder is its cheerful acceptance of the philosophical propositions of moral nihilism.When Travolta is confronted by a muscle man, James Gandolfini, he kicks him in the shin and sucker punches him without adumbrating the act. When Gandolfini hits the ground, groaning in pain, we can afford to laugh at it because the values behind the movie have given us permission to do it. Travolta squats next to the supine figure and begins chatting with him about the movies in which he's been a stunt man. Sixty movies. Oh, yeah? asks Chili, which ones? And Gandolfini modestly begins mentioning some, dismissing their quality over Travolta's objections. The two chat as if the assault had never taken place.Nothing is good or bad but thinking makes it so, said Hamlet. We're on the side of Travolta, of course, because he's the unpretentious hero captivated by movies, just like the rest of us, but a guy who can handle himself too. And he convinces us, just as he convinces the others, that an entertaining movie can be made from this lousy script he's come into possession of. He cares nothing about other people, just movies. But at least he cares for movies. That's good in a film like this. It's constructive and Travolta's motive is passion. The bad guys just simply want the money because it's coming to them, and in some cases they're right. The Latino gang has taken a risk by shipping the drugs into the USA. They have a legitimate claim to it because, as one of the four factors of production, the entrepreneurs, they've earned it. They may be right but they're still bad in this context.The friendships and affairs mirror the moral nihilism of the other narrative strands. Nobody's in love. Nobody really cares deeply about anybody else. Allegiances shift like the wind. Betrayals are commonplace. And it's all so boldly stated that it comes out amusing.The dialog is pretty sharp and the characters well observed. The egocentricity of celebrities and the rich and powerful is used for laughs. Tiny Danny DeVito sits down at an al fresco café and orders the waitress to bring an omelet, but it has to be made with only egg whites, and the shallots have to be only slightly browned -- not too much -- and then he leaves before it arrives. When an acquaintance addresses him as Marty, DeVito smiles in a friendly way, nods, and corrects him -- Martin.Dennis Farina arrives at LAX, strides purposefully to the sidewalk, arriving at a right angle to the curb. A taxi sits a few feet away to his left. Without looking, silently, Farina snaps his fingers and the driver pulls up until the rear door is directly in front of his fare. The cab driver is a non-person to Farina. So is everyone else, to everyone else, except to the extent that they can be useful.It's a movie that's almost completely without heart. It is to empathy what the Marx Brothers were to social niceties and that's what makes it so funny. "},{"Title":"An Excellent Reminder","Date":"13 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" To me this movie reminds me of why some people love John Travolta. He has made a lot of mediocre movies like The General's Daughter, Battlefield Earth, Sworfish, Domestic Disturbance,Lucky Numbers, and Basic. But for me none of that matters because Pulp Fiction is one of my favorite movies of all time. Travolta easily carries the movie and makes it very entertaining and funny. For me this is Travolta's best movie after Pulp Fiction. Hackman, Russo, Devito, and everybody else give wonderful performances. I went to a nearby movie store and saw that this was only 2 dollars and decided to buy it and was very happy about it. In my opinion this is one of the most entertaining movies of the 90's which is saying a lot! This is a must own if your a fan of Travolta or if you are just a fan of movies in general. "},{"Title":"Not Short On Goodness","Date":"28 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Sometimes all you have left to play is attitude. With a lot more than attitude to play, this film starts with attitude, stirs in some laughs and then adds quite a lot of good actors. Based on the novel by Elmore Leonard, Get Shorty is a delightful, well written, smart film with loads of plots twists. The pace is deliberate and the character studies are fun and well thought out. The character study for John Travolta comes one year after his comeback role in Pulp Fiction with Quintin Tarentino.The main character is Chili Palmer (John Travolta) who works as as loan shark and part of a group of mobsters out in Miami. Chili has become tired of his mob life and when a job comes to him that enables him to perhaps go to L.A. and try another line of work, he seizes the chance. There Chili meets up with B-movie mogul, Harry Zimm (Gene Hackman) who owes quite a considerable debt.. Zimm agrees to help Chili get a project off the ground with the help of his girlfriend, Karen (Rene Russo) and they suggest casting academy award nominee Martin Weir (Danny DeVito), while Chili also tries to get his immediate job finished. Director Barry Sonnenfeld provides a film that takes the idea of loving movies and its tongue-in-cheek gangster characters in stride as if that idea is simply a starting off point. He doesn't rely on conventional clichés of the criminal underworld and tells this search for a new career in a refreshing new light. Even when the characters are not the most likable they are still very entertaining. The added bonus that Chili is such a movie fan makes him doubly likable in the film.This film is a totally character driven film and everything in the film is for the characters. The combination of John Travolta (won Golden Globe, Best Actor), Barry Sonnenfeld and Elmore Leonard's words are a wonderful ebb and flow of comedy and drama. There are some terrific L.A. spots and locations that are also highlighted. The location which is also my favorite movie mogul office of all time is Harry Zimm's office. "},{"Title":"Razor-sharp dialog in sizzling spoof of Hollywood","Date":"27 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The dialog in 'Get Shorty' is razor-sharp with John Travolta at the height of his powers. He seems to be having great fun playing Chili Palmer, an ultra-slick debt collector who travels to Hollywood and decides to make a movie. Gene Hackman is simply hilarious as a low budget producer who's forced into helping Chili. Rene Russo is good. Although basically a sizzling spoof, there are some violent scenes specially involving Dennis Farina. All the actors join in on the fun with Danny DeVito, James Gandolfini and Bette Midler having brief but great roles. Highly recommended.Overall 9/10 "},{"Title":"Cool, funny pulp tale of Tinseltown's back street dealings","Date":"26 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" As a friend once said to me, 'you need to see this film just to watch Travolta walk down a flight of stairs'. Indeed Travolta had just gone from forgotten yesterguy to one of the coolest Hollywood properties almost overnight with Pulp Fiction. This is a perfect follow up, a similarly obscure ensemble yarn but (based on an Elmore Leonard novel) that much more mainstream for those unwilling to gorge on Tarantino's bloodlust.That's not to say that Get Shorty is all about Travolta dancing to the mezzanine and back while delivering great one liners. This is a rough film, whose arm twisting is offset with panache and black humour. Gene Hackman seems to have a whale of a time as the cranky producer Zimm whose incompetent wheeler dealing sets Travolta's slick debt-collector in pursuit of his own production ambitions. Dennis Farina is a favourite wiseguy of mine, at once menacing and very funny, and Gandolfini is (necessarily) an unusual henchthug. Rene Russo is also very cool and needs to be to keep pace with Travolta's moves. It's not a satire but it might as well be. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Crane. Pan. Zoom. Boom!","Date":"27 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" If you like movies and Elmore Leonard novels, it's hard to imagine you walking away unsatisfied from Get Shorty.A deleted scene puts it best, when producer Harry Zimm (Gene Hackman) is telling a young director (Ben Stiller) why he doesn't want a big crane shot in his latest B-movie horror thriller. It has to do with a scene in The Way We Were he once heard a woman telling a clerk about in a Pick 'n' Save.You know what she didn't say? Zimm says. 'What I loved was the way the director moved the %&@*ing camera around and made me seasick.In Get Shorty, director Barry Sonnenfeld moves the %&@*ing camera around like nobody's business, and it's terrific. Terrific at setting up and underscoring the drama of a lesser Leonard storyline, to the point where it feels right up there with Dutch's best work. Terrific at giving John Travolta, as lead character Chili Palmer, his best vehicle for wall-to-wall cool without undermining his considerable charisma. Terrific at giving Hackman, Danny DeVito, Dennis Farina, Rene Russo, and Delroy Lindo, among others, ample chance to shine playing various Hollywood topcats and leeches.The thing that makes Leonard so readable is normally the same thing that flummoxes those who try to film his work, with a few exceptions. His quick changes, his disinterest in setting scenes for the sake of setting scenes, his fast action, all seems to trip up most directors trying to do justice to his work.Not Sonnenfeld. He just has fun capturing on screen the way Leonard playfully turns the tables on his readers, mimicking that displacement with the odd camera turn or the long pan on a twisty stairwell where Chili grabs a big guy and throws him over like a bag of potatoes. You know, for a guy his size that's not bad, Chili says about the fall, and the charm's in the genuine appreciation, not gloating, Chili shows for his fallen victim.Leonard can sometimes annoy a reader with the way his protagonists anticipate every adversarial move, but Sonnenfeld turns it into an in-joke we share with Chili, a wink of his eye or the way he punches our shoulder in appreciation after watching, for the umpteenth time, Orson Welles telling Marlene Dietrich she did him wrong. You're going down, Orson! And so are we, willingly.That is, if you are a film fan. If you aren't, you may find Get Shorty a tad smug. Even though it clearly makes fun of its Hollywood milieu, and the way we expect (and get) a happy ending even after all we've been through.Me, I will always love this film for the way it showcases Farina as the ultimate good bad guy, at least in the unintentional comedy division, barring only Larry Linville as Frank Burns on TV's M*A*S*H. When I say jump, you say okay his Ray Bones Barboni tells Chili, striving to sound threatening while mangling another tough-guy cliché.Or How'd know he's dead, did he tell you?Yeah, he told me that he was dead.Personally?Ouch. Do yourself a favor, and see Get Shorty before someone does that to you. "},{"Title":"Great Elmore Leonard adaptation","Date":"22 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Based on a novel by Elmore Leonard ,Get Shorty provides John Travolta with another brilliant part after the success of Pulp Fiction the previous year.As Chili Palmer,Travolta is a charming,energetic and cool hood wisecracking his way through the jungle of Hollywood-deal-making. It's quite a biting satire of mobster movies and Hollywood in general. Travolta is surrounded by a terrific cast which all our tops,especially I enjoyed Dennis Farina's hilarious part.James Gandolfini is fine as the gentle bodyguard,once stunt-man, years before he gained fame as Tony Soprano.There have been other movies made of Elmore Leonard's hardboiled novels,Jackie Brown (1997),Out of Sight (1998),and this is just as good a movie as the other. I had a great time. "}{"Title":"As Good As The Book","Date":"2 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Smart Slick satire on Hollywood? Hell yes. This is a very very good movie and much better than the sequel Be Cool. Johnny T is super cool as ever as the slick Chilli Palmer. Rene Russo plays the standard female lead role and an ensemble cast with Gene Hackman, Danny Devito and Dennis Farina fill the scenery with memorable characters none more than Ray Bones. Foul mouthed gangsters don't come much better and Dennis does a great job here. As a film lover, a satire on the world of Hollywood should be a pet hate but i cant hate this movie. I love at the end how Bones takes the key opens the locker and supposedly gets arrested by the cops. But he turns around, instead of Farina it's freaking Harvey Keital and were on the set on Harry's latest movie. Brilliant! 8/10 "},{"Title":"Great Movie~","Date":"16 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I have to say as soon as I saw this movie I had to buy it. It's a must for your collection if your a John Travolta fan.I love to watch John Travolta! He makes his roles really come to life and Rene Russo and him made a great couple on the screen. John Travolta always has this toughness to his roles but at the same time this sweetness and cuteness.Get Shorty was an awesome movie and I watch it over and over again all the time. It is very funny and serious at the same time. I do recommend that you add this movie to your collection. ~Kathy "},{"Title":"Short and Clever","Date":"2 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This movie has terrific character acting. And a very sharp screenplay. In fact 90% of the humour in this movie is the banter between groups of people who are not happy with each other.In my opinion the funniest scene was when then movie producer, Gene Hackman, tries to pretend hes a tough mob type guy and gets a real mobster to come out and invest in his movie. This ends with the mobster beating up Gene with his own telephone. At which point a second mobster comes in to the office to harass the producer and ends up getting shot by the first mobster. The first mobster then looks down at the producer, whose head is under his shoe, and asks him not to puke on his shoe.Plenty of dramatic irony, fast dialogue, Renee Russo. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"Ever thought of changing professions?","Date":"8 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Hilarlious and quirky. Chili Palmer(John Travolta)is the man to go to. Not slight on ego, Palmer is a Miami loan shark enforcer sent to Los Angeles to collect on a gambling debt from movie producer Harry Zimm(Gene Hackman). After a little personality posturing, Chili discovers that loansharking is not all that different from making movies. Maybe in Hollywood you need to be more cutthroat...hell, Palmer can do that. This cute comic crime caper has an impressive list of co-stars Danny DeVito, Rene Russo, James Gandolfini and Dennis Farina. DeVito has the talent of being wickedly funny...just change the character's name and Danny is ready to do his thing. Russo is strong when she needs to be. Farina IS Ray 'Bones' Barboni. GET SHORTY seems a quick change of pace. "},{"Title":"Funny, entertaining comedy with style.","Date":"11 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Chili Palmer (John Travolta) is highly into movies. He's a super-cool guy and he always knows what to say. So through his connections he tracks down a Hollywood producer by the name of Harry Zimm (Gene Hackman), wakes him up in the middle of the night and tells him that he has an idea for a movie. That is the first time Chili sees Karen Flores (Rene Russo) and is attracted to her right away.So Chili and Harry agree on what actor they want in their movie. It is none other than the famous Martin Weir (Danny DeVito). Martin agrees with them to make this picture. Harry is still wondering if he should make this movie with his new friend, Chili, or the selfish Bo Catlett (Delroy Lindo), who wants nothing more than to get rid off Chili.However, Chili's issues aren't over, because a tough guy, Ray 'Bones' Barboni, (Dennis Farina) that's never been out of Miami is looking for him to collect his money which Leo Devoe (David Paymer) has stolen.Other supporting roles are Harvey Keitel as himself and Bear (James Gandolfini) as Bo's bodyguard.If you liked Out Of Sight and Jackie Brown, which are also novels by Elmore Leonard, you'll enjoy Get Shorty.There's lots of humor in here and some funny scenes for example when Gene Hackman calls Dennis Farina and tries (tries a bit too hard, which is the fun part) to act tough over the phone like Chili does in real life.Overall, good cast, enjoyable movie.Rating 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Travolta is a great mobster","Date":"8 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" John Travolta really made this a great dark-comedy work. Usually I don't like his over-the-top seriousness when he likes to get serious, but in this movie he's (ha!) getting shorty...whatever...let me move on.Get Shorty is the title of Travolta's made-up film about his connections in the mafias around town. He gets to this point through a shady deal with some other mobsters to come up with some cash to pay them back after the leader goes down...that was my recollection. Honestly I wasn't able to follow this plot because the film was kind of always transforming and adding characters in from nowhere, and you weren't sure if you should pay attention to one set of people or the next. It's a dark-comedy because it's not really totally humorous, but it has a light tone throughout the film even when there's dying and serious moments.Travolta was a pretty good mobster in this film, I must say, and the rest of the cast did equally great jobs...especially Danny DeVito's performance of trying to get the right face down for his job as a Hollywood actor turned mobster. The film was a great idea to transition someone like Chili Palmer (Travolta's character) from a mobster to a movie exec.I gave it a 6/10, though because everything stopped making total sense for me, and I had a hard time following the plot. I enjoyed the performances, though. I would definitely rent it before buying it, or going to see its new sequel Be Cool. "},{"Title":"Far better than the book it's based on","Date":"2 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I can't believe this movie came out ten years ago. It doesn't seem that old, and it certainly doesn't play that old. I think the reason I never went to see it in the first place is that while I really like Elmore Leonard, I had read the book, and frankly, the book stinks. Knowing that most bad books make worse movies, I stayed away from the film, forgetting that in fact sometimes weak books translate pretty well up on the screen (such as Sharkey's Machine).Shorty follows the story of Chili Palmer (John Travolta), a mob tough from Miami who gets involved in the movie business almost by accident. Along the way he hooks up with an over the hill director, Harry Zimm (Gene Hackman) and his ex, Karen Flores (Rene Russo). Chili ends up insinuating himself in Hollywood and becoming a major player - but not without a few bumps along the way, most of them provided by local thug Bo Catlett (Delroy Lindo) and an old Miami rival, Ray Barboni (the ever-terrific Dennis Farina).While the entire cast gives pretty good performances (including Danny Devito as a self-obsessed movie star, Martin Weir), the movie really rests on Travolta's shoulders. While I don't consider Travolta one of the great actors of our time, I do feel when he is particularly suited for a role, he shines. Chili was tailor-made for him and he seems so comfortable in the role he makes it look effortless. Only Farina's dopey, almost parodic mobster comes close to stealing any thunder away from Travolta, but the big man is so at home at the center of this film that he's just a joy to watch.Shorty has quite a few really good laughs in it as well, from Chili's manhandling of the local muscle to his one liners to a great scene where the weak-willed Zimm tries to act tough over the phone. Farina is always a source of merriment and Leonard's patented brand of cynical ironic humor shines through here far better than it came across in the book.Get Shorty is worth a look again, not only because they've released a mondo edition with extras (not the version I saw), but because a sequel, Be Cool, is due out soon, and if it's even half as good as this movie was, it should be worth your $7.50 at the metroplex. "},{"Title":"a fast, entertaining and a very enjoyable flick (8/10)","Date":"10 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  another one of those flick that just keeps getting better every time you see it, as yesterday was probably the 4th or 5th time I watched it . that's how u can know when  u really like a film. Adapted from an   Elmore Leonard novel ( I just love reading his books)get shotry is in my opinion one of the best adaptation for his books (only to be outmatched  by  Jacky brown). chili palmer (john travolta) is a smooth talking  (`look into my eyes') sharlock   ,who's infatuated by films,  is out on a job to  collect a debt in Hollywood when he comes across a failing producer, harry  zimm (gene hackman) .chili , wanting to get  a taste of Hollywood, tag's  along harry and help produce his film, when the  two  has to deal whith many obstacles on the way . 'get shorty' has a great story to it  and a terrific cast which includes Rene russo,james Gandolfini , Delroy Lindo and Dennis Farina ( who plays a hilarious character as a gangster called  ray 'bones'). Filled with references from the movie world 'get shorty' is a fast, entertaining and a very enjoyable flick (8/10)       "},{"Title":"They say the smog is the reason for our beautiful sunsets.","Date":"13 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The star of this movie is definitely the casting director. John Travolta, Gene Hackman, Danny Devito(who also produced), Dennis Farina, Delroy Lindo, and James Gandolfini (albeit in a somewhat small role) shine in parts that were seemingly written specifically for each one of them. The script was well written with smooth dialogue and some great one liners. The plot flows quite well and in the end, tells quite an interesting story. Overall a very enjoyable film. 9/10. "},{"Title":"Humorous but Serious","Date":"20 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  They casted this movie extremely well, as I am a big Travolta villain fan. He plays a very amusing mobster who is serious almost all the time, but has a soft spot for movies.  The movie is witty, while maintaining the standard mob theme.  It's not quite a satire, and it's also not quite a hardcore mob movie. It's a little of both worlds, and it's a whole lot of fun. "}{"Title":"An often confusing story line, but a fun, entertaining dark comedy, Travolta is the real star.","Date":"4 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  John Travolta plays Chili Palmer, a Florida gangster who gets sent to Hollywood to retrieve a man and his money after faking his death in an airplane crash on takeoff. He didn't hear the reboarding call and was drinking in the terminal when the plane crashed. The title refers to later when a film producer needs to get Shorty (Devito) as the actor to make his venture succesful.Chili is a delightful gangster. He smiles, has fun, treats others nicely, is a movie fan, especially the old movies. However, he is the only smart gangster and he is constantly outwitting the others to dodge danger. When someone crosses him he can be devastatingly brutal. So, you're a stunt man. A good stunt man? Then this won't hurt much! as he throws Gandolfino down a flight of stairs. Later, in a parking garage confrontation, Chili has to beat up the same guy, then kneels down besides him and asks, What movies were you in? Yes, I might have seen you, I see lots of movies, genuinely interested in him. You know, we have jobs to do, nothing personal. Dark comedy.Dennis Farina plays the complete opposite. He is a bitter man, barely tolerating anyone he has to deal with, Just take me to the fuc$$ng airport, ok?, he says to the cabbie when he gets in. Where Chili is smart, this gangster is dumb. The film ends with him getting caught trying to retrieve drug money from locker 18B at the airport, then it cuts to an actor playing that role during filming. Chili had used the events depicted in the movie to write the identical story, and they were now filming that movie. The strat of his new career. A movie of a movie within a movie. Master Baiter Goranson probably loved it! "},{"Title":"simply hilarious","Date":"10 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Get Shorty is a slick, clever look at the Hollywood scene and the things some go through to make it into the movies. John Travolta is very cool as the ambitious enforcer Chili Palmer, and Dennis Farina is a comedic standout as Ray Bones. Packed with great comic skits, and one memorable line F**k you, f**kball! Don't miss this one! 3/4  "},{"Title":"Ummm, no it's not funny.","Date":"11 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Wow, and I laughed hysterically at crap like Jane Austin's Mafia, Dirty Work, and Airplane 2. You can't even call this a good dark comedy because the characters are played too real. The plot is almost interesting, and I'd say it probably is somewhat original. However, I felt like I wasn't watching a story unfold, but more like John Trovolta and the rest of his gang showing off how cool they are. "},{"Title":"Sharp, Smart, and Hilarious","Date":"9 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The running joke throughout `Get Shorty' is that there's virtually no difference between Hollywood and the Mafia.  Both places involve lying, cheating, threatening, and constantly dealing with lowlifes in order to get ahead.  It's no surprise, then (although it's certainly funny) that a formerly `connected' loan shark and legbreaker becomes an overnight Hollywood success story.The loan shark in question is one Chili Palmer (John Travolta), a tough guy with a passion for movies who's sent to Hollywood to chase down a guy named Leo (David Paymer), who owes the Mob a lot of money.  While in Hollywood, Chili decides he's no different from the rest of the Hollywood moguls, and starts putting in motion an idea for a film &#150; the story of a loan shark hunting down a guy in Hollywood.  Real life and fiction start blending in seamlessly with each other, as Chili starts pushing other people's buttons to see how he can improve the `story' for his movie.`Get Shorty', which is faithfully based on the Elmore Leonard novel of the same name, is a film that crackles along at a good pace, moving along and weaving together a half-dozen entertaining subplots with incredible ease.  The characters and the dialogue make the film great as well &#150; `Get Shorty' is a comedy, but while the characters say a lot of funny things, they treat each other and the events of the film quite seriously.  Also, the dialogue's so good, it can been savored like a fine wine.  (Example  `How'd you get in my hotel room?' Chili Palmer says at one point to mob lieutenant Ray `Bones' Barboni (Dennis Farina).  `It was easy,' says Bones.  `I told the front desk that I was you, and I lost my keys.  I acted real stupid and they believed me.')  Sharp tongues rule in `Get Shorty', but those tongues have a lot more to say than just acid wit &#150; Palmer's relationship with the actress Karen Flores (Rene Russo), for example, blossoms into something quite sweet after an initially rocky start.Travolta's terrific as Chili Palmer, putting together the right mix of laid-back coolness and serious intensity.  It's funny to watch other characters treat his threats as a joke &#150; ironically, Chili Palmer's probably the most honest person in the film, even though he's the one considered the criminal.  Gene Hackman is also quite good as Harry Zimm, the Roger Corman-esque producer of B-movies who likes to consider himself a Hollywood power broker, even though he's not.  The one weak link in the cast is probably Danny DeVito as the Hollywood mega-star Martin Weir &#150; it's not so much DeVito's performance so much as he's simply miscast.  Martin Weir is supposed to be this all-powerful movie star (and a short one at that &#150; hence, `Get Shorty'), but he never really exudes the magnetism or charisma that Weir's supposed to have.  It would've been interesting if a real Hollywood star could've been convince to play `himself' in place of the Martin Weir character (a la John Malkovich in `Being John Malkovich') &#150; Bruce Willis or Tom Cruise might have made interesting alternatives.With its great characters, razor wit and out-and-out laid-back charm, `Get Shorty' is a fantastic, funny film (and one of John Travolta's best).  Go watch it!  Grade A-  "},{"Title":"A very cunning and wickedly funny movie.","Date":"1 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"     Watching Get Shorty reminded me of Midnight Run, the two differences is the film's length and pace.    The film is based on a novel by Elmore Leonard and it's wonderfully adapted into the screenplay by Scott Frank and is directed by Barry Sonnefeld.    It's a great tale of Chili Palmer (John Travolta in a great performance), a patient mob enforcer who is sent to Las Vegas to collect a debt from a deadbeat who faked his death.  Then Chili is sent to L.A. to collect another debt from a B-movie producer Harry Zimm (Gene Hackman), who's living on hard times.  Once he's in L.A., Chili tells Harry that he wants to make a movie.    After that scene, the rest of the film goes in a patient pace as Chilli and Harry get help from B-movie legend Karen Flores (Rene Russo) and big-time movie star Martin Weir (Danny DeVito) while Chili deals an old mob rival, Ray Barboni (Dennis Farina) and Bo  Catlett (Delroy Lindo).   The film's cinematography is great as Sonnefeld's direction of the film.    Besides Travolta, Hackman, DeVito, Russo, Lindo, and Farina also give very good supporting performances.     Harvey Keitel and Bette Midler also appear in the movie uncredited.   "},{"Title":"Get smoothie","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Get Shorty is set up like a gangster movie, it even has gangsters in it but delivers more like a comedy about how to make a movie in Hollywood, involving gangsters and an ex-loan shark. The movie starts off about a Chili Palmer the loan shark that has been sent to Los Angeles to collect a debt from movie producer Harry Zimm. Palmer has an idea for a movie, which is based on real life recent events; the only problem is the real life recent event has not been concluded in real life yet. John Trovolta is smooth as always the character of Chili Palmer, really suited him. Gene Hackman was great as the producer, and Barry Sonnenfeld actually directs a decent film. "},{"Title":"From the makers of a movie comes another...","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Get Shorty was one of those few rare flicks that I thoroughly enjoyed, although it was a short-lived enjoyment. The movie is fast, reasonably short in duration, and very, very, very entertaining! The performances are brilliant, extremely entertaining and hilarious to say the least!Travolta shines as Palmer, Russo is fantastic as always, Hackman and the bad guys are absolutely terrific, and DeVito adds his two bits, and there's a winning combination if there ever was one! If you're in the mood of a short, smart movie, you cannot be disappointed with Get Shorty!Oomph!-meter (from 5) ***1/2 "},{"Title":"Funny, smart, satisfying comedy.","Date":"27 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  My Age 13Chili Palmer, played by John Travolta, is a Miami mobster.  His boss, Momo, dies from a heart attack, and his new boss becomes Ray Bones Barboni, played by Dennis Farina, whom he doesn't like.  Bones sends him to a casino in Vegas, where they tell him to collect a debt from low-budget horror-film producer Harry Zimm, played by Gene Hackman.  Chili gets swept up by the whole movie business, and tries to get shorty, Martin Weir, played by Danny de Vito, in a new Harry Zimm film, with the help of Karen Flores, played by Rene Russo, the leading lady in most of Harry Zimm's horror films.  There is also the matter of the money in a locker, which Harry could use for his next film.  But not everyone in Hollywood is nice.  Chili soon meets Bo Catlett (the money in the locker is his), played by Delroy Lindo, and his band of cronies, who are sponsoring Harry's next production, and Bones is back in town.Get Shorty is a very satisfying comedy.  It is funny, it is smart, it isn't too complicated.  The acting in the film is great.  John Travolta is very good in his Golden-Globe winning performance as Chili Palmer, and Gene Hackman, Danny de Vito, Rene Russo, Delroy Lindo and Dennis Farina are all good also.  It is based on an Elmore Leonard novel, so you can be sure that there are interesting characters, which there are, just like in Out of Sight.  Overall, a very satisfying comedy which I recommend.Australian Classification MA 15+ Medium Level Coarse LanguageRating 77 out of 100 "},{"Title":"Perfect book into a perfect screenplay with a perfect cast makes a perfect movie.","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The first adaptation of an Elmore Leonard book that actually carries his magical dialogue.  Travolta leads an all-star cast through an witfully funny story of a mobster who thought he had his problems in Miami.  Being a toughguy is nothing compared to trying to make it in Hollywood.  Just a purely fun movie.  Look at me Harry.  "},{"Title":"This hilariously satirical flick just OOZES coolness","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The entire cast is excellent.  The satire of Hollywood is skewering. Barry Sonnenfeld's direction is suave, assured, and eye-catching.  The script is on-the-money and hilarious.  All this from a film starring John Travolta... and Gene Hackman... and Rene Russo... and Danny DeVito... just to name a few. Travolta holds the film in the palm of his hand it seems, as his Chili Palmer is wise, slick, and serious. The actor reflects this expertly and gets great help from his major supporting players.  Hackman plays a shnook movie producer, Russo his girlfriend, and DeVito as Hollywood's biggest actor.  All are superb. With cameo bits by Bette Midler, Penny Marshall, and Harvey Keitel, this movie doesn't disappoint.  In fact, repeated viewings just reinforce the film's crispness and coolness. Some of the best moments come from Dennis Farina's Ray Barbone, as a son-of-a-gun wiseguy.  David Paymer and Delroy Lindo are also fine in their roles as a thought-to-be-dead husband and a West Coast loan shark, respectively.  Even James Gandolfini (from HBO's The Sopranos) and Martin Ferraro (the T-Rex's lunch in Jurassic park) are enjoyable in their small parts. This is certainly Barry Sonnenfeld's best and funniest work to date;  the movie confidently gels from start to finish.  Great music, as well, by John Lurie.  Entertainment just doesn't get too much better than this.In my opinion, one of the most amusing and well made films of the 1990's.  "}{"Title":"fairly acceptable comedy that misses the key point of the novel","Date":"30 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Happy, however, that another Leonard masterpiece-about-the-land-of-love-and-money is filmed, one cannot help but feel that the movie totally misses the novel's key psychology.As hard-boiled as Leonard and his characters may seem, Leonard is a humanist down to the core. Of course Chilli is portrayed as a sympathetic mobster, but the key problem for the hero is that he is acting cool also in areas where he shouldn't. He is hiding himself behind the mask of coolness, and this is his tragedy. He will have you solve this play - and find an ending to his masquerade - before he can find himself and love the women he desires. But endings are not as easy as they seem ....He is in many ways like a child - overdoing his toughness and letting himself be controlled by fiction (i.e. his world of movies, movie history). These means may be necessary to get along in his line of profession, but his personal development is halted by his play-acting. Karen, however, sees right through his deceit, and only after that, he realises his own fatal problem. Palmer is thus the male counterpart of Jackie in Rum Punch sharing the same tragedy.This vital aspect of the novel is underacted - if captured at all - by the movie. As a consequence the relation between Travolta and Russo does not really develop to reach the level of intimacy of e.g. the relationship portrayed by Tarantino in Jackie Brown.However - as Leonard himself has admitted - the film is funny. To me especially the Catlett character played by Lindo is great play. He has a lightness and naturalness about his own character that even surpasses a brilliant Travolta. "},{"Title":"Why didn't the AFI put this in the top100?","Date":"20 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The AFI must not get the point of the movie!  Travolta plays Chili Palmer, the knee-breaker who was never really into it.  But it's not Travolta who make the film a classic, it's the smaller roles  the nephew of the Columbian drug czar, the ignorant actor who gets the best roles, the b-movie producer who wants his one big movie, the idiot who steals from a Miami boss, the actress who wants her big line, the drug dealer who is starved for something to do, and of course, the Miami boss who meets with Palmer's fist and gun.  This movie is one that should be studied!  See it now, no matter what time it is, or where you are! "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"17 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  What two things can you put into a movie and make it great? How about loan sharks and movies. John Travolta plays Chili Palmer straight but funny. And Gene Hackman with the assistance of Danny DeVito are great supporters in this film. Plus with the love interest of a one Rene Russo puts this film over the top. A must see for everyone. Even if you see it only once. "},{"Title":"Great satire, great wit, great dialogue","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  There are inevitable comparisons to Pulp Fiction,  which features cute dialogue and Travolta playing a similar character. But in my opinion, this film is much better than that over-hyped mishmash of ridiculous scenes.This is a great satire that doesn't take itself too seriously. Who couldn't be amused by the idea of brutal, heartless mobsters and drug dealers dying to get into the movie business? The dialogue is dead-on. This movie is not knock-down funny, but its steady flow and subtle black humor is a winner. "},{"Title":"The ultimate chill movie","Date":"18 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  If you want to see the best movie about movies, well, see Get Shorty. This should be in everyone's video collection.  The plot line was excellent and the acting was what grabbed my attention.  At first I thought that John Travolta couldn't pull off his role, but he did with style.  So far, every one of my friends who've seen it, enjoyed a lot.  I gave this one ten stars. "},{"Title":"Very light, very enjoyable","Date":"14 September 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  There are a thousand funny moments in this movie and everyone gives a great performance, especially Rene Russo, who is at her best.  The best scene is when Travolta goes to the movies to see A Touch of Evil and knows the text by heart.  A genuinely good movie, which anyone would enjoy watching, at least once. "},{"Title":"Get Shorty","Date":"26 April 1999","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Witty film from Elmore Leonard novel with all the main stars doing perfect. But the film really belongs to Dennis Farina, playing a sort of caricature of his usual mob boss personas. Sonnenfeld's direction is quick with a lot of snap to it.  "},{"Title":"Get Travolta.","Date":"19 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Get Shorty (1995) Dir Barry Sonnenfeld / Cast John Travolta, Gene Hackman, Rene Russo, Danny De Vito, Delroy Lindo Interesting film with an awkward title that leaves much to be desired. It stars John Travolta as Chilli Palmer who arrives in Hollywood to collect a debt from filmmaker Gene Hackman. He takes interest in a script and convinces Danny De Vito to star. Others also seek the script and will resort to any means to obtain it. Interesting and detailed plot although the conclusion is questionable. Directed with insight by Barry Sonnenfeld with great insight into Hollywood backlash. Winning performance by Travolta who switches gears when applying his skills within the realms of Hollywood. Hilarious turn by Hackman as a producer owing much and may have a way out through Palmer. Unfortunately the methods applied are questionable. De Vito is funny as the hottest actor in Hollywood who is taught to act by Palmer in a very funny sequence. Rene Russo is effective casting as Hackman's mistress. The issue is that the role is somewhat a con yet she is actually the bait to Palmer's charm. Delroy Lindo technically plays the film's villain as he forces his demands in the business outskirts. Well made film that has its flaws yet counters them with witty dialogue and an engaging theme. It regards Hollywood and the dark side of its competing nature. Score 7 / 10 "},{"Title":"Relies heavily on its actors","Date":"14 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Get Shorty has a pretty sweet set-up. A loanshark mobster named Chili Palmer (John Travolta) has to travel from Miami to Los Angeles in order to collect a debt for his new boss. There he finds out that the movie business doesn't really differ all that much from what he has done successfully all his life, and thus he decides to produce a movie while he's at it. Very nice idea. Just exaggerated enough that no one will take it too seriously and the jokes practically write themselves.Which makes it all the more baffling that I didn't really laugh while watching the film. I enjoyed its plot a lot, but its humour didn't connect with me at all. I enjoyed the suaveness of John Travolta and all his serious scenes a lot more than I enjoyed any of the jokes the script had him say every once in a while. And that's basically the movie in a nutshell. It has a really good cast of actors, all of them charismatic and able to play their characters to perfection, but the script doesn't give them all that much to work with, meaning that they're not all that funny. Perhaps this would have worked better as a drama film with a humorous undertone. More drama than comedy, whereas in this case it's the other way around.Then again, perhaps it's just me. I've heard a lot of people say that this is a really funny film, so it might just be that it's not my cup of tea. Wouldn't be the first time when it comes to comedies. And, as stated, the film works very well as a story about a mobster that decides to do Hollywood. The characters are interesting, the various plot twists are just convoluted enough and the plot has a good structure.All in all I have to rate the film as just slightly below average because for me it doesn't work as a comedy. Still, definitely worth a watch if you're more omnivorous when it comes to comedies, because even if the humour doesn't hit you, at least you'll get a pretty decent mobster film out of it. "},{"Title":"Travolta's Transition From Pulp Fiction","Date":"14 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" A mobster (John Travolta) travels to Hollywood to collect a debt (from Gene Hackman) and discovers that the movie business is much the same as his current job.Following Travolta's role as a hit-man in Pulp Fiction (1994), he got a sudden boost in popularity. Today (2015), this seems to have waned again. But anyway, at the time it made sense to put him in a similar role and it pays off. He comes across as a really good enforcer, who also happens to be passionate about movies.The ensemble cast is also incredible. Beyond Hackman, you have Danny DeVito and a fine role from Dennis Farina. The story is great, and it draws a nice parallel between loansharking and Hollywood, but this cast really sells it and it is just fun watching them interact. "}{"Title":"It's all about the acting, silly !","Date":"30 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Such a silly movie with a silly plot, silly characters and silly dialogs.But I never enjoyed a movie more, and never before was I so engrossed in watching John Travolta on the screen.Truly the difference is in the acting.Travolta single-handedly turns this silly movie into a delightful movie.Its a Travolta show all the way. All the other actors would have sunk with the movie if it had not been for 'Chili Palmer'.Travolta proves he is a brilliant actor. He actually manages to show that a brilliant actor needs absolutely no support but can actually sustain a movie on his own.No other actor has been able to do this, ever. "},{"Title":"Elmore Leonard via Barry Sonnenfeld...","Date":"29 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Arguably one of the funniest movies about the machinations of movie-making, courtesy of the late Elmore Leonard. John Travolta is laid-back cool as Chili Palmer and Dennis Farini as Ray Bones is near to bursting with pent-up resentment; but theirs aren't the only noteworthy performances in the film Gene Hackman as schlockmeister Harry Zimm, a movie producer of very few scruples, and Delroy Lindo as a loan-sharking dealer in narcotics who's dying to produce a movie in Hollywoodland, deliver the goods as well. Sonnenfeld's direction couldn't be improved upon (at least, not in my opinion). To hear these characters- especially the career criminals, like Travolta and Lindo- talk at length about movies is worth the price of admission (and I thought so back when I saw this one when it was first released). Hackman offers this tidbit to Travolta I once asked this literary agent what kind of writing paid the best. He said, 'Ransom notes.' Later, having sat through a showing of TOUCH OF EVIL, Travolta tells Rene Russo Sometimes you do your best work when you got a gun to your head. "},{"Title":"Breezy Jazzy fun movie","Date":"12 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Chili Palmer (John Travolta) works for the mob. He's volatile, intense, and extremely street smart. When Ray Barboni (Dennis Farina) takes Chili's coat, he promptly punches Ray in the face to get his coat back. Too bad for Chili, his boss dies and he has to work for Ray's crew. He's collecting from producer Harry Zimm (Gene Hackman), and ends up getting into the world of movie making.This is from an Elmore Leonard novel, and the sharply written characters are a testament to that. Whether it's Leonard's words, the top actors, or the flash of Hollywood. There's an artificial sense. It's light. It's breezy. It's jazzy. The movie is having lots of fun. It makes for a cute movie. "},{"Title":"Entertaining Comedy!","Date":"24 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" John Travolta, Gene Hackman, Rene Russo, Danny DeVito, Delroy Lindo, James Gandolfini, David Paymer and Dennis Farina star in this 1995 comedy based on the novel. This focuses on Miami Loan-shark, Chili Palmer (Travolta) who decides to go into the movie business after he's sent to L.A. to collect a debt from producer, Harry Zimm (Hackman). Chili works with Harry on a script based on actual events of goofy dry-cleaner, Leo (Paymer) who scammed $300.000 off an airline he miraculously survived from. There's also a bag full of drug money hidden in an airport locker that becomes eyed by Chili and others. Russo plays actress, Karen Flores who falls fro Chili, DeVito plays her ex-husband & actor, Martin Weir, Lindo plays Harry's crooked investor, Bo Catlin who wants to work on Harry's new script, the late, Farina plays Miami collector, Ray Bones Barboni who doesn't get along with Chili and the late, Gandolfini (The Sopranos) plays Bo's associate, Bear who is an actor/stuntman. This is an entertaining film with a great cast I recommend. "},{"Title":"Sonnenfeld & Co. nail it","Date":"5 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The guy who wrote GET SHORTY gets Elmore Leonard's sense of humor and style, and that's one of the reasons I love this movie. That high concept of making a mob guy seem normal in the crooked movie industry. And the cast on this bad boy is just incredible. Travolta is cool as ice, Russo is damn sexy, Hackman, Farina and Devito all play great assholes, and it's rounded out by plenty of familiar faces (Delroy Lindo, David Paymer, Martin Ferrero, Uncle Rico from NAPOLEON DYNAMITE). And on top of that, the dialog is hilarious. It's a one-liner factory- They say the f**king smog is the f**king reason you have such beautiful f**king sunsets- Who the f**k is Momo? Where do you people get these names?- Nice necklace, Doris- Well what is that, a Wop 9? F**kin' Fiat of guns, always jammin' up on you at the wrong time- It's the Cadillac of minivans- Rough business, this movie business. I'm gonna have to go back to loan-sharking just to take a restJust a very slick and highly watchable flick, and one of the great Hollywood satires. A high point of the '90s, and Travolta at his most likable.8/10 "},{"Title":"Too Derivative of Pulp Fiction","Date":"24 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I just heard an interview with Doug Ellin - I guess he watched this movie 200 times. I like Entourage, so I figured I'd watch this movie again if he likes it THAT much. I probably saw it 16 years ago, but I don't remember much of it.It was entertaining, but it felt extremely derivative of Pulp Fiction in style, characters, casting, even performance. John Travolta's character here is just too close. The problem here is that Pulp Fiction is such a superior movie, this just felt like a me too type flick...plus Pulp Fiction came out only 1-2 years before. I'm just not sure how you could watch this and not think of Pulp Fiction the whole time.Nerd Nit-pick - James Gandolfini throwing the screws from the railing after killing the Delroy Lindo character seemed kind of ridiculous, especially after they just tried to be so smart about forensics in a previous scene where Gene Hackman was made to fire Dennis Farina's gun. Gandolfini's prints would be on the screws, the screws/railing wood wouldn't show fracture/tears, and removing top little wood piece on the railing wasn't really necessary to push someone over it. Kind of a big scene and pivotal plot moment not be thought through a bit more...I wonder if the novel was this careless. "},{"Title":"I didn't like it before - now I do","Date":"12 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" It's funny; I used to really hate Get Shorty. Well, perhaps hate is too strong a word &#150; I simply disliked it. I didn't get it. Everyone always praised it for being so hip, smart, and clever; I thought it was just a distasteful stab at Hollywood, a one-joke pony with a Tarantino complex.It wasn't until I watched the film more recently that I realized just how well made it actually is, and how the humor &#150; which is never really as outrageous as it is subtle and chuckle-inducing &#150; is perfectly pointed and aimed squarely at its target the film industry.John Travolta plays Chili Palmer, a Mafia loan shark collector whose boss dies of a heart attack one unexpected night. Positions change and soon Chili is working for Ray Bones (Dennis Farina), a dim-witted-but-violent madman who orders Chili to collect life insurance on a guy who died in a plane crash before paying back his loan. Chili talks to the widow and finds out the guy is still alive, hiding out in Vegas with his fortunes, gambling it all away.Chili makes the trek to Vegas and is directed towards Hollywood to collect a debt from a Hollywood Z-grade movie director named Harry (Gene Hackman). Chili decides to throw Harry a pitch for a new movie based on his own recent adventure, and Harry loves it &#150; they decide to try and finance the film together, but first they need a big-name star. So they attempt to hire Martin Weir (Danny De Vito), a hugely successful Oscar-nominated movie star. That's where the whole Get Shorty part comes in.This movie is very confusing on first viewing as it moves around so quickly. It's based on a novel by Elmore Leonard, and if you've read anything by Leonard, you'll already be aware his strengths are his plotting, characters and dialogue &#150; Get Shorty has all of this.Travolta delivers his coolest performance ever as Chili, who can stare at a person and tell them everything he needs to just with his eyes. Travolta's dialogue is the best, with lines like I won't say any more than I have to, if that. Gene Hackman gives one of his funniest and sleaziest performances and is really fun to watch.The entire cast is superb and Dennis Farina is an absolute scene-stealer with some of the most memorable one-liners, including my personal favorite, I.e., e.g., screw you! Only he doesn't say screw. Get Shorty is very heavily influenced by Pulp Fiction (which had been released a year prior) and in fact Quentin Tarantino was the person who told Travolta to take the role because he thought it might further his career even more. He was right. Pulp Fiction and Get Shorty are the two defining films of Travolta's career in the 1990s and it proves that Travolta is at his best playing characters like this. It's unfortunate that he now seems to strive towards mediocrity. Even the sequel to Get Shorty, named Be Cool, was worse than the book, which was pretty bad to begin with.But Get Shorty is good. Very good. It's fun, it's hip, it's dark and it's got a great script. It's not a substantial masterpiece, but it's hugely entertaining, and a spot-on parody, and I think that's all that matters. "},{"Title":"Often hilarious, lightweight Leonard","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Great fun little piece this, lacking the harder edge of Jackie Brown and Out of Sight and going for the gentler, more comic side of Elmore Leonard. Travolta is resplendent, in a full post-Pulp Fiction high, supercool as the shyster heading for LA to pick up a debt and finding himself drawn by the mad movie world. Alternately mocking the extravagance and self-absorbtion of LA and the staples of the gangster genre, this is a great little bit of fun featuring a superb cast, some nice camerawork and a groovy pace and soundtrack, Get Shorty is a great bit of entertainment, without so much of the cinephile stylings of Soderburg or Tarantino's work but holding its own as a more comic, less violent spin on the genre.  "},{"Title":"Good Cast","Date":"18 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" A Miami loan shark ends up in Hollywood, hobnobbing with B movie personalities. Leonard, who has had a prolific and varied career, provides a script that is generally entertaining, but there are too many plot threads and it doesn't all come together as well as it does in the best comedies. The cast is terrific Travolta is believable as a tough goon, Hackman is smooth as a producer of schlocky movies, Russo is sexy as an actress past her bimbo prime, and DeVito is a shallow movie star (and title supplier). However, it is Farina who steals the film in a hilarious performance as an insecure mobster who's always left holding the wrong end of the stick. "},{"Title":"Tight Script","Date":"30 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" In film writing seminars, they tell you to include nothing that does not advance the story. The same should hold true for a well paced novel (alhough seldom does). For Elmore Leonard the rule was gospel. You may or may not like his stories but you will never fall asleep because they are too slow. With a good solid script; great actors; competent direct and tight editing; Get Shorty moves with a speed that will not leave you any breaks to make a head call or a popcorn run. It is full of humorous anecdotes and just enough action to keep the action fans awake. Story synopsis is included in the main reviews of this movie, so I will skip that. You can get a copy to see at most of your local video stores or by ordering through netflix (not available through streaming at this time ) "}{"Title":"Very entertaining (if you forget the toxic sequel ever happened)","Date":"15 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Get Shorty is a pretty pleasing film as long as you stay clear of its poisonous sequel that came out last year, Be Cool. That being said, in the first film, John Travolta's character Chili Palmer, a loan shark for the mob who's a huge movie buff at heart (How can I resist that?), is a classic character with all the right moves. Palmer is sent to Hollywood to do what he does best and gets wrapped up in the showbiz while he tends to his business. He meets a lovely leading lady (Rene Russo) he already admires and tries to get his own film made with the help of a monster movie director (Gene Hackman, who I think got his acting inspiration from Wes Craven), all the while avoiding goons played by the explosive Delroy Lindo and the hilarious and fast-talking (as he is in Snatch.) Dennis Farina. My favorite scene is Lindo's gang's first encounter with the new guy in town at a two-story restaurant when pre-Sopranos James Gandolfini, as a stuntman/hired-hand, takes a spill down the stairs, courtesy of Chili. Gandolfini nearly steals the show as a strong guy who turns out to most of all be a strong dad, but Travolta is having too much fun to have a movie swept from underneath him this time. Forget Be Cool ever happened, if you can; Chili Palmer and his world were best when he loved movies. Ahh, that sentence felt good to type. "},{"Title":"The Best Movie About Movies... Ever!!","Date":"30 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" As the title of this review clearly states, this movie rocks! Every actor is absolutely brilliant! Easily Travolta's best movie, and even easier his best character. Dennis Farina... Jeeze... just thinking about Ray Barbone cracks me up... it's probably my favorite comedic performance ever. Gene Hackman is hilarious as the idiot Hollywood director... Delroy Lindo is great as the villain, and as much as you want to hate him, you gotta love his character. Rene Russo is great as the washed up B-movie actress who can't get a break, Jacob Vargas is undeniably hilarious... Danny DeVito's character is completely annoying, which is the entire point of his character, he pulls it off wonderfully. James Gandolfini is involved in on of the funniest part's in the film, that's not bad for a guy his size. David Paymer is great as Leo... it's a small part, but as hilarious as anything you're likely to see. Speaking of hilarious, this film features an amazingly funny performance from Jon Gries, who is, in my opinion the best supporting, and most underrated actor in the world. This film is full of solid comedic performances, and just overall awesome acting.For as great a movie as this is, it really puzzles me as to why it was nominated for no Oscars... it should have gotten a Best Picture nomination, a best adapted screenplay nomination as well as a Best Actor for Travolta, and a Best Supporting Actor for Dennis Farina... and the IMDb rating doesn't make sense either... 6.9? In my opinion, it very well deserves a spot in the Top 250... yes, it is this good people! So if you haven't guessed by now, I can't sing high enough praises for this film. If you haven't seen it, GO AND BUY IT NOW! If you like movies, which I assume you do, you will L-O-V-E this film! Avoid the sequel Be Cool(see my review) at all costs!!! But do yourself a favor and check Get Shorty out... now! 10/10 - ****/**** "},{"Title":"Brilliant, Sattirical, funny, did I mention Brilliant??","Date":"15 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Well another surprise from left field for me. I just found another of my favorite movies of all time and this one has been hiding on me since 1995...11 freaking years!! I finally got around to watching Get Shorty and didn't stop watching it until it was done and over with and then I wanted to watch it again!! Get Shorty reminds me of Ocean's 11 in the way that it brings together some Hollywood elite for a good time and better yet an amazing story and interesting film. I have yet to see the sequel but now I absolutely cannot wait another minute to see it!! John Travolta plays one of the greatest characters in film history...Chili Palmer. A loan shark/gangster who ends up in Hollywood while on a collection run for his new boss who he hates. Taken in by the Hollywood glam Chili meets up with a starlet and a down on his luck director in order to bring his own personal idea to the big screen. Travolta's tough guy is the best of the best...hey, hey look at me goes down in my books along with You talking to me? and I'll make you an offer you can't refuse. Travolta plays the greatest anti hero, he's mean and a bad ass and yet you love the guy and root for him. He's smart too and always outsmarts his adversaries and he has a few!! Enter the amazing Gene Hackman as the director Harry Zimm. Harry has the worst luck and it gets worse when Chili Palmer enters his life. Hackman is terrific and it's not often you see him getting beaten up, shot at, stepped on and it makes for some funny moments. Hackman should have gotten award nominations as should have Travolta. Rene Russo does what she does best...support. She's a support actor and she does well doing that. She has had scenes with more top leading men than any other actress in Hollywood and she's glamorous and does a good job. Her character Karen Flores is a little empty, there isn't a lot to it but she certainly plays her part. Danny Devito is Hollywood legend, two time Academy Award winning actor Martin Weir. Part of the sarcastic comedy is the idea of this little man being such a huge Hollywood player. His self involved, womanizing Weir is wonderful and fun to watch. Devito impresses!! Dennis Farina plays Ray Bones Barboni. I've always considered Farina as more of a TV actor, he never really opens himself up to greatness but he is pretty good up against Travolta as his nemesis and new boss. He's violent and cruel and he's stupid and Travolta gets the better of him every time. He adds to this cast for sure!! Delroy Lindo is even better as the maniacal Hollywood mobster Bo Catlett. Lindo would have made an even better villain if it was just him. The story is pretty complex and intense and has so much going on so his true acting brilliance as Bo Catlett gets buried a little but it's still great. Finally Mr. Soprano himself James Gandolfini is Bo's henchman and former Hollywood stuntman Bear. Nobody plays the tough guy better but he plays his own tough guy role to a bit of poking fun as he gets beaten by Travolta badly every time until finally he ends up on his side. Gandolfini is a great villain, always has been (check out the brilliant The Last Castle) but he's even better as a brooding sidekick.Director Barry Sonnenfeld is no stranger to comedy but most of his comedies before this and since this have been pretty juvenile. This is without a doubt his best work and probably always will be. Get Short is the exact definition of black comedy. It's funny but in a weird, twisted way and it's satirical and really pokes fun at Hollywood and stereotypes in general. The story moves so quickly and there is so much going on and so many characters but you never lose grip on any one of them and all the stories are intertwined perfectly and at the heart of it all you have the amazing Chili Palmer who Travolta embraces and creates as his own. It's a Hollywood film, heist film, comedy, gangster, buddy film, romance...you name it...it's everything and it's now probably one of my top ten favorite films of all time. Why did I wait so long?? Oh well better late than never...go see this one, rent it, buy it, it's an absolute film must see!! 9/10 "},{"Title":"A really great and fun movie","Date":"10 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is just a great movie and one of Travolta's best. Great performances from Rene Russo, Gene Hackman and Denis Farina as well. Great cameo by Bette Midler. In fact I would have to say that Ferina's Ray Bones was perhaps the most unforgettable character after Chili Palmer. I can't remember a movie that is just so filled with so many memorable and hilarious lines as this one Ray Bones hey look, its chilly outside and its Chili in here, (after walking up to Fay andpunching her in the face without warning..) Fay, I want us to be friends, and we all know, friends don't hit friends. Unless they have to.. they say the f***** smog is the f***** reason you have such beautiful f***** sunsets out here ... I'm gonna ask ya again, then I gotta kill ya...Ray Bones ..you must be one of those quick draw artists cuz of the way you got your gun tucked way down in your pants like that.. Bo's goon ...yah, well what's that, a 'wop 9'? The Fiat of handguns, always jammin' on ya... Ray's Beretta Bam! Bam! Bam! Bam!Bo ..and besides, there was a gazillion DEA agents out there... Mr. Escobar a gazillion, hey, that's a lot...Just an unforgettable movie I even love seeing it over and over, just a really fun movie with a great cast. "},{"Title":"Goodfellas meets Hollywood!","Date":"20 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Man, I loved Get Shorty! To be honest, there was no way I would've had an interest in seeing this movie if were not for my mother, because I mean, John Travolta as a hit man? For me it didn't work. But my mom insisted that he and the rest of this brilliant cast, Renee Russo, Danny DeVito, and Gene Hackman, were just great and I should give the movie a chance. I was glad I did, the plot worked so well and this movie just kept me on my seat wanting to see the next scene.John plays Chili, a mob hit man, who is on his way to Hollywood just to catch a run away with his boss's money, but he has a better idea. Chili goes to Gene who plays Harry Zim, a B-movie director, and Chili tells him an idea for a movie of the same plot that he came here to do with the run away. Everyone thinks it's a good idea for a movie, including a B-actress Karen Flores, played by Renee, and an Oscar nominee Martin Weir played by Danny. But when Chili takes the run away's money to invest in the movie instead of coming back home with it, the mob families are not so happy and come back for the doe.Get Shorty is a great movie, especially if you're into the mob films. It adds some great twists and just great comedy that a great cast brought. It was great entertainment and I would recommend this for a watch. I think you'll have fun, anyone can with this movie.8/10 "},{"Title":"Very Funny!","Date":"18 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Another Travolta hit I presume. Yep! It's Get Shorty. Here you have it, John Travolta as Chili Palmer. A hood who knows how to play it cool. I liked the part where Ray Bones Barboni(Dennis Farina) takes Chili's coat home, and Chili has to track Bones down to get his keys. He succeeds in tracking Bones down, but has the opportunity to smash Bones' nose in. Good work, Chili. Then when Bones wants revenge on Chili, he was waiting and willing to part Bones' head in with one smooth shot to the head. And Bones is screaming Call 911, call 911! Chili Palmer is the untouchable! Enough with Chili, let's get to cast. You got Gene Hackman, you got Danny Devito, Rene Russo, Delroy Lindo, could I say more? This movie was well casted, well plotted, and I can also say well performed. It didn't need anything else to make it better than it is. When you look at Chili Palmer you look at him, or else you just get it. Do I have to say any more? Rating 4 out of 5 stars! "},{"Title":"Travolta continues to be the King of cool","Date":"23 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILERSOne year after Pulp Fiction, John Travolta continued his route to becoming the ultimate King of cool. With a supporting cast of amazing actors, Travolta stars in Get Shorty, a film so cool that it's practically a Tarantino feature.In Get Shorty, John Travolta plays Chili Palmer, a shylock who searches for a missing laundrette manager and some missing money. Eventually arriving in L.A. Palmer encounters Harry Zimm (the awesome Gene Hackman), horror film producer who is looking for a new project. With random obscure money transactions amongst different gangsters, money is changing hands faster than in a Poker game. Despite all this chaos, all Chili really wants to do is to produce an idea he's had.In Get Shorty, Barry Sonnenfield has obviously taken a hand out of Quentin Tarantino's book. With an amazing beginning to the film involving the development of Travolta's character, Sonnenfield has a brilliant film here which keeps the audience entertained from start to finish.As well as it's excellent plot, the other positive which Get Shorty has going for it is it's support cast. With Gene Hackman, Danny DeVito (also a producer), Rene Russo and Dennis Farina in support, Travolta is supported by a group of actors who play their roles to perfection. Ultimately though, this is Travolta's feature.Finally, one of the best things about Get Shorty is the soundtrack. Simply put, it's quality. Another indication of the follow on from Tarantino's style, as the members of this cast walk across a room there is a sense of cool about them, enhanced by the excellent background sound.All in all, it's hard to fault this film. It might not be a Tarantino, but it's nearly as good as. With Travolta continuing to dominate the screen, this film gives the impression that the guy is unstoppable in the film industry. We will have to wait to see how history looks back upon him. Watch this film and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Dennis Farina is Genius!!!","Date":"18 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the funniest movies Ive seen In my life.  Dennis Farinais hystericle as Ray Bones, a mobster trying to get the best of JohnTravolta.  The movie is about a mob collecter(Travolta) who finds hisway into the movie buisness.  He tries to collect money on a B movieproducer (Hackmen).  It all goes nuts when Ray Bones comes in havingno idea what is going on.  If you like Farina in Snatch or MidnightRun you will agree this is his best movie.  The movie is based on the Elmore Leonard novel whose other movies on novels are Out of Sight, and Jackie Brown.  Out of all the films based on the Leonard novels I must say that this is the best out of all of them.  "},{"Title":"Okay, so Tarenteno did an excellent adaption of Elmore Leonard's Book and Travolta IS Chili Palmer!","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  John Travolta IS Chili Palmer in this fab film adaption of Elmore Leonard's Get Shorty.  This film is great to watch just for the lines, which are all pearls shot at ligthening speed. The charactors and names are as colorful as Miami and Hollywood can be. Chili, Moe-Moe, Bones, Yayo, Bear, Beau and Harry Zimm. As the guy said, Where do they get these names, anyway? In this film Travolta is Married to the Mob but he wants to star in Hollywood.  This video is in my time to pop this baby in the VCR, cuz I gotta laugh myself out of this blue-funk file. Try it when you need a laughter treatment. "},{"Title":"Well written, fun movie","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is a great movie. It sealed John Travolta's comeback (although he really has made many dogs since) and is unique, fast-paced and funny.When you look around the IMDb and see how many countless directors there are, you get a sort of empathy for Harry Zimm, the low-life horror director at the centre of the movie. Gene Hackman shows true acting genius by portraying this hackneyed drek-meister with dreams of winning an Oscar - making a movie that crosses him into legitimate Hollywood if such a thing exists. At the other end is Martin Weir, an A-list actor played by Danny DeVito, who Hackman wants to star in his film. An ego-maniac of epic nature, Weir wants another Oscar nomination and another hit film, but at the same time barks out lines that leave you unconvinced he cares about his craft.Then there is Bo, the loan shark who wants money from Harry - money that Harry took to Vegas and lost - Money that Harry hoped to use to buy the script to make the film that would star Martin.This connects them all to Chili Palmer, a mob enforcer who comes to collect the Vegas debt from Harry and gets caught up in all these people lives. Chili loves movies and sees his meet-and-greet with Harry as his big break.Travolta plays Chili with an aloof confident swagger, short on words an big on presence. His immediate acceptance by folks like Weir reminds me of Being There - if you act in a certain way, people will simply make judgements about you that in turn enter a room before you do.Get Shorty's movie-within-a-movie plot may seem confusing, but it is enjoyable and very watchable. Every role is played perfectly, most notably Dennis Farina as the foul-mouthed angry mob underboss who can't keep his underling Chili in Line. Also watch the role of Bear, played by the theretofore relatively unknown James Galdofini.I highly recommend this film, especially if you liked The Player. Well done from every aspect. ***1/2 out of ****.  "}{"Title":"Good Movie","Date":"6 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  John Travolta lands one of his best roles and Barry Sonnenfeld does his finest work in this 1995 adaptation of the novel by Elmore Leonard.Chili Palmer (Travolta) is a Miami loan shark who travels to Hollywood to collect on a debt from Z-grade movie producer Harry Zimm (Gene Hackman). Instead, he decides to help get the mob (namely Delroy Lindo) off his back and help him produce the film that will be his Driving Miss Daisy. Along with the help of Karen Flores (Rene Russo), they try to woo eccentric thespian Martin Weir (Danny DeVito) to the role. Trust me, this is the bare essentials of the plot, which turns out to be a maze of twists and turns.Travolta is terrific as Palmer, delivering a cool attitude and working with a terrific supporting cast. Hackman, DeVito and Dennis Farina are all devilishly funny and Rene Russo, Delroy Lindo and James Gandolfini are excellent. Coupled with sly cinematography, a good script and great music, Get Shorty is easily the best film Barry Sonnenfeld has done. Its tough to see how he could go from this to the woeful Wild Wild West.Get Shorty is a rare superior Hollywood production that deserves a look. A fine dark comedy full of surprises, humor and flavor. Good movie. "},{"Title":"Another Tarentino-esque picture","Date":"20 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is actually quite a good movie.  it's enjoyable, It's got a good story and good acting, and I actually like the directing. The plot is a little thin sometimes, but it's good, not great, but good. Travolta is a great actor, and is good in all roles that he plays, this is no exception. If you like witty comedy/thriller type movies, I think this should suit you well. "},{"Title":"John Travolta at his best","Date":"9 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is a great film.  One of my personal favorites.  John Travolta is perfect as Chili Palmer, the good bad-guy, a hilarious portrayal of a loan shark who wants to be a movie producer.  His fellow actors, Gene Hackman, Rene Russo, and Danny DeVito, to name a few are also great.  Every character in the film is absolutely perfect and hilarious, from Momo to Ray Bones. This movie will make you laugh every time you watch it.  A classic American film. "},{"Title":"Get Shorty","Date":"26 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Witty film from Elmore Leonard novel with all the main stars doing perfect. But the film really belongs to Dennis Farina, playing a sort of caricature of his usual mob boss personas. Sonnenfeld's direction is quick with a lot of snap to it.  "},{"Title":"Some funny things happened on the way to Hollywood","Date":"18 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  At last it happened. A novel by Elmore Leonard made justice as a movie. It's been tried before but with more or less poor results.  (Stick anyone?) The actors are absolutely perfect. Even the cameos are brilliant. The script is unusually faithful to the novel. As well as a far fetched story about petty gangsters, it manages to strike a minor blow at the superficial Hollywood lifestyle. Sonnenfeld has guided the actors and the story along in a very comforting stride. Great entertainment.   "},{"Title":"Witty, enjoyable, fine translation of Leonard to screen.","Date":"30 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Very nicely brings Elmore Leonard's talents to the screen.  His quiet wit and brilliant dialogue are fabulously handled by an excellent cast.  John Travolta especially is charismatic, appealing, and convincing.  Until Out of Sight, and perhaps Jackie Brown, this is undoubtedly the best Leonard film. "},{"Title":"no fun in funny movie, no realism in realistic movie, no action in action movie","Date":"21 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" First I thought this was a funny movie, but the total amount of fun in this movie isn't so big. Then I thought it was realistic, because I can imagine that movie producers do not always get their money from boring, wealthy investors that wear a pearl necklace or a three piece suit. But I don't think it is realistic that these cool aggressive people that become killers every once in a while, are also smart, witty and charming, especially to each other. And then I thought it was an action movie. But there aren't even any chases in the movie. You simply travel to one of the biggest cities in the USA and find the person you are looking for in his office, as if he was waiting for you. There is no suspense in this movie either. So how will I remember this movie? Maybe it's better I don't. Still I vote 6 because the actors are some of my favorites. "},{"Title":"Not as great as I remember","Date":"23 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Now don't get me wrong, I thought this movie was very good, but having now seen it again after not having seen it since it's release 10 years ago, it wasn't quite what I remember. I think what bothered me was that the film was too short. I felt like there could have been more done at the end of the film instead of the way it ended. There were good performances all around, not to mention a great script, but the end just didn't do it for me. For instance, near the end of the film, when Barboni comes to LA and finally meets up with Chili Palmer, the way it worked out with Chili just giving him the key to the locker. I'll admit, it was a great way to Barboni to get what was coming to him, but there could have been more worked in there before that whole scene transpired. For me, the ending just seemed to come to fast, but maybe cos I like the rest of the film so much. Nevertheless, I'm looking forward to the sequel. "},{"Title":"what a bad movie","Date":"12 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  A boring movie with no story... no fun at all. Travolta plays a bad role, bad script, I would say a 3 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Eloquent and witty, but fails to capture my interest","Date":"1 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This film is about a man who gets involved in the film industry. Along the way, he gets involved with various illegal sources of income.The film revolves around the main character, played by John Travolta, who is very eloquent and persuasive. The film is dialog intense.However, I think the film lacks an intriguing plot. The humour fails to work in many cases. Nothing really happens in the film. It fails to capture my attention and interest. The intense dialog becomes a showcase of John Travolta's characters' wit, which alone is not enough for a film to work. I would have preferred more action, and less talking. "}{"Title":"Funny, Cool And It Has Attitude!","Date":"30 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This was a good movie with attitude! John Travolta play Chili Palmer, loan-shark who takes a trip to Hollywood to collect a debt and takes an interest in the movie business. While doing so, he finds the movie business is quite similar to his work in the mob! What I liked about this movie was it was able to appeal to people who like many different genres. For example, if you liked comedy, this movie was full of it, if you like drama, this movie had a good amount of it, if you liked mob movies, this movie definitely would have had your attention. It even had a touch of romance, but not an overwhelming, annoying amount. John Travolta plays one cool cat, and does a good job of it, too. What did I like about this movie so much? Well, it discussed movies, which I liked seeing, I am a movie fan and it isn't extremely violent, which I thought it might have been. To put the cherry on top, it had my favorite actor John Travolta in it. I think this movie will appeal to many different movie fans. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite movies of all time!","Date":"17 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I love this movie. Travolta's character Chili Palmer is one of my favorites! I try to channel Chili Palmer whenever I am involved in a sales pitch or business meeting. The confidence it gives me has helped my sales career immensely! Look at me I'm the one telling you the way it is! Fantastic! Hackman is great as always. When he shows up at the restaurant all bandaged up and wired shut, it always cracks me up. I've probably seen this movie 25 times at least! Gandolfini and Lindo are great together. This was my first exposure to James Gandolfini. His threatening manner in this movie must have been what first gave the producers of The Sopranos a hint that he was going to be their man. But Travolta is at his best in this movie and he truly is the star of the show. I can't wait for the sequel! "},{"Title":"Get Shorty, Get this movie","Date":"22 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is one of those sorts of movies you just cant help but fall in love with. This is mainly down to the awesome cast John Travolta, Gene Hackman, Danny Devito, Rene Russo, James Gandolfini(pre-sopranos), Dennis Farina and Delroy Lindo. The movie is about a loan shark called Chilli Palmer(Travolta) who flies out to LA to pursue a guy who claimed to be dead but soon begins to think that the movie business maybe a better investment then loan sharking when he meets a top Hollywood director(Gene Hackman)but Hollywood movies maybe even more riskier than loan sharking. John Travolta is great as Chilli Palmer and Rene Russo and Danny DeVito are also good. Gene Hackman is excellent along with Delroy Lindo and the always reliable James Gandolfini, but this is Dennis Farina's movie and every time he appears on screen as mobster Ray Bones he provides the best laughs. An absolute gem of a movie go buy now "},{"Title":"A storytelling delight, a visual triumph.","Date":"4 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" A plot full of sharp turns, great actors, and visual skill, this picture is a joy to watch.  It's vicious wit permeating the story and the sum ending up as a completely fulfilling movie experience, especially since the movie is about a potential movie that becomes an actual movie.  Travolta is actually a bad guy, but easy to like. James Gandolfini is 10000 miles from Tony Soprano. Danny Devito and Gene Hackman are priceless in their comic roles, particularly Hackman and his difficulties with a neck brace while slurping a Bloody Mary.  Rene Russo is actually a sexy, refined 'B' movie actress (in the movie, NOT in real life)!  Dennis Farina and Delroy Lindo are such good actors, I'm shocked that I haven't seen them more.   This is a great slice of Hollywood reality; don't miss a chance to see it! The director and some of the actors follow-up in 'Big Trouble', also set in Miami.  WATCH CAREFULLY. TRAVOLTA'S MINI-VAN IS A GREAT VISUAL GAG ALL THE WAY TO THE END!!   "},{"Title":"John Travolta is so cool & the director is so genious in this film...I'd rank this as one of the best cool movie in my LIFE!!!","Date":"17 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  John Travolta's acting as a cool guy is so cool, I started to like John after this film. I actually HATED him seeing disastrous flicks like 'Three guys and a baby' 'Look who's talking'The director is so genius in this film. This is the best work for director Barry Sonnenfeld so far. I didn't much care for 'MIB' and stuff.I'd rank this as one of the best cool movie in my LIFE!!!I hear a sequel is coming out!!!! I hope two things. One, the sequel is as good as the original. Two, a better DVD of Get Shorty.  "},{"Title":"Mildly Entertaining","Date":"19 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  An OK film. A disappointment for Travolta, after his career-resuscitating role in Pulp Fiction. The other characters were pretty good, and Rene Russo is stunning, as always. I'm just not that big a fan of Elmore Leonard. If you want to read comic crime fiction try Donald Westlake. Grade C "},{"Title":"A movie you can watch every month and never grow tired of it.","Date":"30 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The characters in this pic are priceless, starting with John Travolta's and proceeding through Hackman, Russo, DeVito, Farina (especially) and the rest. The plot is convoluted enough to keep you interested.  The dialogue is terrific and punctuated with sight gags galore.  It's a pleasure to watch this very funny, entertaining movie. "},{"Title":"Nice surprise","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I hadn't seen Travolta in a decent role for a long time, but Get Shorty managed to grasp my attention and I really enjoyed watching this film. It's full of Hollywood satire, irony, funny twists and it has an original storyline.Rating from the Dutch judge 8 (out of 10).  "},{"Title":"What great characters!","Date":"20 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  John Travolta is amazing as the tough mobster, Renee Rouseau is wonderful as the sarcastic and savvy female lead. A refreshingly unique storyline rounds out the experience well. This is one of those movies you can watch over and over again. "},{"Title":"Great Cast, Great Script","Date":"11 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  What can you say about a comedy flick which boasts a cast that includes John Travolta, Gene Hackman, Rene Russo, Bette Midler, Danny Devito, and a host of other extremly good character actors?  Not to mention a script by Scott Frank.  Not much.  Watch this film! "}{"Title":"This movie should be called GET REMOTE (to turn it off)","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Does this movie even have a plot?  For 30 minutes I saw scene after scene that didn't make sense.  This has to be Travolta's worse movie yet and I feel bad for Gene Hackman who took a major blow to his brilliant career with this bomb.  After 35 minutes, I got the remote and GOT ALEVE! Out of 5 stars, I rate this 0. "},{"Title":"Get 'Get Shorty', Shorty!","Date":"16 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I loved this movie!  The plot was awesome, the acting was great, and the story unfolded at a fast pace.  A must-see.Go to the bathroom before you see this one, 'cause you won't want to stop once you've started. "},{"Title":"Travolta cements his comeback","Date":"30 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  John Travolta stars as a hit man who goes to Hollywood to collect a debt.While he is there he discovers that he is in the wrong business..he should be in pictures..Travolta is brilliant in this excellent adaption of the Elmore Leonard novel..this is a bright sharp witty satire of the hollywood scent that probably hits dead on..On a scale of one to ten..8 "},{"Title":"A classic","Date":"20 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This one is one of my favourites. Many good actors as John Travolta, Gene Hackman, Danny DeVito and Rene Russo. I´ve seen this movie about 15 times. If you havent seen this movie do it now. Delroy Lindo is great as Bo the bad-guy. There are 2 bad-guys in this movie but Ray Bones is more like the funny man. Travolta is very very good as Chili Palmer. He got the golden globe for this role. Harvey Keitel has a very little role in the end. This one is a classic. No question about that. It is 8 of 10. "},{"Title":"Look at me!","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is indeed a masterpiece. Rarely are so many clichés crammed into one movie this beautifully. John Travolta mean and lean (well not that lean) as ever and Dennis Farina in the role he does so much better than anyone. It even has a morale Don't squint at a mobster without being one (preferably bigger too) yourself!One scene beats them all When Gene Hackmann points Bones' gun at Bones' lower parts only a true mafioso would carelessly move the gun like Farina does. Very nice. "},{"Title":"the Cadillac of mini-vans","Date":"10 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  cooler than cool. wonderful soundtrack.  Barry Sonnenfeld really nailed it with this film.  stylish, slick.  the best movie about moviemaking since the Player.  best part DeVito trying to get the look of the shylock. Elmore Leonard never had it so good.  Travolta continues his return to cool. makes me wonder why H-wood lost him in the middle part of his career.  (too many baby movies and Staying Alive.) at least he is back. "},{"Title":"If this film were any more laid back it would fall over","Date":"19 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  If this movie were any slicker Dupont would have to cancel teflon. This is the coolest of cool I own Get Shorty and Jackie Brown and I hope to buy Out Of Sight. These characters are the best written ever... well second only to Pulp Fiction they all have witty dialogue and good music and all can be watched if only for that.   "},{"Title":"Awesome.","Date":"11 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Get Shorty is a great movie. John Travolta is the coolest he has ever been in any film. The role of Chili Palmer is perfect and I loved Gene Hackman in his role as down and out movie producer  Zimm. Barry Sonnenfeld has made a masterpiece. This is a great adaption of the Elmore Leonard novel. The music is also very good and fits the mood of the film. One of the best films of 1995 and Travolta was robbed of the Oscar in my opinion.  "},{"Title":"Very slick, with awesome music.","Date":"19 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is great fun.  I can watch it over and over, just for the music. I suppose with Travolta & DeVito being joisey boys I'm a little partial, but hey, you got a problem wid dat? "},{"Title":"bad bad bad","Date":"30 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  only watch this movie if you are a fan of watching Travolta play the same sarcastic bitch character he always plays.  Story is lame, Russo is annoying, Travolta is a shell of the actor who brought vincent to life in pulp fiction.  Rent anything other than this movie.p.s. Only reason to watch is to see Gandolfini give the absolute worst Cajun accent in the history of film. "}{"Title":"Just not good enough with so many top actors","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  It's sometimes funny, specially some dialogues. But overall it didn't really grab me. We get John Travolta, Gene Hackman, Rene Russo and even James Gandolfini (Tony Soprano with beard!) but it's just not that. OK, the plot is nicely done. With the actual movie going together with the making of the movie by Travolta and Hackman. And there are some good scenes like the one were Travolta gives Danny DeVito acting lessons in how to look mean. But mainly that's it. I think they could have done more with such a top cast. 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Get Shorty","Date":"26 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Witty film from Elmore Leonard novel with all the main stars doing perfect. But the film really belongs to Dennis Farina, playing a sort of caricature of his usual mob boss personas. Sonnenfeld's direction is quick with a lot of snap to it.  "},{"Title":"disappointing...","Date":"9 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  another great book turned into a mediocre movie.  I had hopes for this one, considering the last few Elmore Leonard novels-turned-movies turned out great, but this one was a constant disappointment.  Rene Russo did a pretty good job as Karen Flores, and Travolta did ok as Chili, but other than that I think every character was mis-cast, and because of it, most of them fell flat and lacked depth.I have to recommend that you read the book, and steer clear of the movie, or check out one of the other movies based on Elmore Leonard books, like Out of Sight or Jackie Brown, both of which were much better... "},{"Title":"Get Shorty- Another Damon Runyan in the Negative? **","Date":"18 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" To me, this was still another take off on Damon Runyan. The latter always was able to bring in two diverse groups in his stories. This yarn seems to follow that pattern with mobster Chili Palmer, a heavy smoking John Travolta, going to Hollywood and seeing for himself mob-like activities in tinsel town as well.Travolta is very good in the part. What became of the David Palmer character in the film. He had stolen $300,000 from the airline who had paid his family, not realizing that he had taken himself off the plane before it crashed.Dennis Farina, an ex-policeman in real life, is terrific as one of the mobsters and Gene Hackman is a riot in a different type of performance for him as a producer who is in the thick of things as well.I wish that someone could explain to me the role of Danny De Vito here. As a two-time Oscar winner, De Vito's role should have been expanded here. This is also true for Rene Russo. "},{"Title":"Pretty okay but somewhat over-rated.","Date":"14 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I remember when this came out in '95 it was another in a string of Travolta comeback vehicles. Again he was playing a Tarentino-ish baddie, w/ cool dialogue and many nods to past genre flicks abounding all thru-out. It didn't get old then and it's still fun to watch him come alive in a well-written movie. He's perfectly fine as Chili Palmer.What didn't work so well? I thought the plot-line got too confused in who swiped what money from who, the myriad relationships and etc all doubling back amongst themselves. That loopy kind of plot line gets tired, quickly.Delroy Lindo was solid as the baddie, Gandolfini as 'Bear' shows promise, Rene Russo plays herself rather well, DeVito apes DeNiro/Hoffman, Hackman is somewhat mis-cast as a Roger Cormen-ish genre directer. Dennis Farina was dead-on as the Goodfellah out to get his.I liked the Harvey Keitel cameo at the end too-that was funny.I'm giving it about 2.5 outta ****, I think it's worth watching but don't be fooled, it's not a classic and you will note it's pretty dated. "},{"Title":"Why I love Get Shorty... Yeah, an' who really gives a-","Date":"25 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I'm not going to gush about this film...but I will say this. I have seen it in excess of forty times. Why? I can hear you ask. one's love of something is not always easy to quantify. The truth is, there may be somebody out there in the ether that truly feels in his gut that Freddy Got Fingered is pure unadulterated genius, (and that person needs to be locked up for psychiatric evaluation.)The Big Point is I get this satisfied feeling at the end of Get Shorty every time I watch it. I have the movie on VHS and DVD, and still I'll watch it on TV when I catch it on.Some have called it dark, Tarantino-esquire, witty, sharp, blah, blah blah. All it is is a Hollywood fairytale, but I like it. I treasure it. Is it Citizen Kane? No. Is it The Shawshank Redemption? No. It's the story of a mob loan shark turning into a Hollywood movie producing, and his sly adventures along the way. It has a good beginning, some humorous complication, and one of the coolest ending ever.Look at me. If you haven't seen it, see it, capishe. So what if you don' like, you mook.Hey, who doesn't like a gangster with a heart a' gold anyway. "},{"Title":"Could Use Bogart's Sam Spade","Date":"6 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Elmore Leonard books have been around for a while. I haven't indulged because essentially they are genre books, detective, gangster yarns. However, they adapt nicely to film Jackie Brown, and now Get Shorty.John Travolta, Gene Hackman, Danny Devito and other Hollywood or gangster types give a modern characterization of sleazy schemers. The gangsters are portrayed not unlike Hollywood producers or actors. They are all ruthless and money grubbing. Power and egotism is all that matters. Life is cheap. Yet this is a comedy, a satire. Travolta is playing a parody of his Pulp Fiction character. Danny Devito isn't very convincing as an actor though he is an actor. Get the joke? Here's the problem it's funny at times, but in the end, nobody cares how cool Travolta is. Nobody is sympathetic. We don't identify with thugs and slime. Call Sam Spade if you want something more. "},{"Title":"power brokers","Date":"18 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I'm not a Travolta fan. I would never have rented this. As it turns out, some scripts are just actor-proof. Gene Hackman as the most clueless Hollywood outsider is the reason to see this. He's so good as an unreasonably cocky idiot. It is a beautiful thing to watch him flake his way through power-brokering scenes, while all those around him cringe & roll their eyes. A few scenes really sell it; the acting lesson with Danny DeVito. The It's the Cadillac of mini-vans. line. etc. Structurally it's a lot of fun. The possibility that Russo would have been the incompetent Hackman's girl prior to Travolta is a bit of a stretch.Hollywood makes about three comedies aimed at intelligent adults a decade. This was one of them from the 90s. "},{"Title":"Look At Me...","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  	A loan shark from Florida, who loves movies and winds up in Hollywood on a collection job, decides to take a shot at the movie business while he's there, in `Get Shorty,' directed by Barry Sonnenfeld.  Dark humor and richly textured characters drive this story of Chili Palmer (John Travolta), the shylock from Miami Beach who aspires to a life beyond keeping a book for thugs, in this faithful adaptation of the Elmore Leonard novel.  When circumstances take him to Las Vegas to look for one Leo Devoe (David Paymer), a dry-cleaner in debt up to his eyeballs who blew town after an airline scam, Chili goes on to Hollywood to do a favor for the casino operator who tipped him off as to Leo's whereabouts.  The `favor' is contacting film director Harry Zimm (Gene Hackman) who has payment overdue on a note issued to him by the casino.  Zimm has made a name for himself (at least in his own mind) by directing horror movies; but he's not the sharpest tool in the shed.  Ultimately, Chili gets involved with Zimm and actress Karen Flores (Rene Russo), who has starred in some of Zimm's horror flicks, as well as with two time Academy Award nominee Martin Weir (Danny DeVito), the `shorty' of the title.  Chili is finally in his element, but his Miami Beach days are not yet behind him; there's still some settling up to do according to one Ray `Bones' Barboni (Dennis Farina), owner of the book kept by Chili in Florida. 	Travolta not only goes the distance here, but creates a definitive character in Chili; even as Sean Connery is James Bond, and Basil Rathbone is Sherlock Holmes, Travolta `is' Chili Palmer.  With nuance and charisma, he does this guy from the inside out.  He has the look and the mannerisms; he walks the walk and talks the talk.  And nobody in the history of the cinema has used a cigarette as a prop better than he does in this movie.  It's a commanding, Oscar-worthy performance, every bit as good (possibly even better) than the role of Vincent he created in `Pulp Fiction.'  His presence simply dominates the film, and he's up against some stiff competition, because this movie is filled with great characters.  Not only Hackman, who does a terrific job as Zimm, but Russo, who sizzles, and DeVito, who adds some real flair as the `Movie Star,' and Farina, whose toughness and lack of wit make him a memorable character.  Also exceptional are Delroy Lindo, as Bo Catlett, a thug and wanna-be movie producer, James Gandolfini, as `Bear,' a stuntman who works with Catlett, and Jon Gries as Ronnie, a `Hollywood' style tough guy who also works with Catlett. 	Sonnenfeld did a great job of bringing this world of `Get Shorty' to life.  The story is interesting and delivered with outstanding dialogue and plenty of action, all of which Sonnenfeld keeps moving at a perfect pace and with impeccable timing.  This is one thoroughly enjoyable, funny movie that absolutely begs for a sequel.  In recommending it, I have to borrow one of Chili Palmer's best lines  `Look at me.'  Because that says it all.  This is one movie you don't want to miss.  I rate this one 10/10.        "},{"Title":"A great movie based on a great book!","Date":"15 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Get Shorty-1995-John Travolta, Gene Hackman, Dennis Farrina, Renne Russo, Delroy Lindo, James Gandolfini, Danny Devito, Bette Midler, David Paymer, Miguel Sandoval, Harvey Keitel and Penny Marshall.This film is about loanshark Chili Palmer (Travolta) who is eating at a restaurant and his rival Ray Bones (Farrina) steals his jacket, so he goes to his house and breaks his nose and later almost kills him by shooting him. Chili goes to try to get an idea for his movie done by director Harry Zimm (Hackman). To be in the movie, they need a great actor, so they try to get Martin Wier (Devito). Chili soon falls in love with Zimm's client Karen Flores(Russo). It is a hilarious adventure that ends with Harvey Keitel and Penny Marshall in a cameo. Bette Midler appears hilariously as Zimm's dead friend's widow trying to be sexy. Ben Stiller appears in the director's cut as a director. The most hilarious seen in the film is when Martin gets into character as the shylock in Palmer's picture.4/4. R for language and violence. "}{"Title":"What happened to Shakespeare?","Date":"18 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  You want to know what happened to Shakespeare? Aristophanes?  They've obviously passed on the torch and the Muse of comedy is still alive and kicking.Great works of music are meant to be listened to again and again.  So are great works of film meant to be seen again and again.  This is one of those works of film.Sure, it's just a comedy, but it also has the rhythm, the sense of style, the perfection of art, yeah, art.  A flowing canvas of psyche that will make you laugh.Barry Sonnefeld also directed 'Big Trouble'.  It didn't do as well at the box office, but it is just as perfect. "},{"Title":"A plot full of twists and weirdness.","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Maybe it's me. But this movie left me mostly going 'What the hell?' Performances range from excellent (John Travolta, Delroy Lindo) to disappointing (Gene Hackman). At times, it seemed like there were plot twists going on for the sake of plot twists, and following the convoluted twists and turns made my head hurt. Byzantine is one thing, but -needlessly- byzantine is another. Bonus points for the ending, though. "},{"Title":"ZZzzZZzzZZz","Date":"1 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I wanted to write my best review ever on this movie but I fell vastly asleep. Though I would like to add that I predicted the ending very accurately after I woke up.  "},{"Title":"Boring, shallow, pointless.","Date":"3 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I haven't read anything by Elmore Leonard, so I can't comment on the book-to-movie aspect.Seemed like it might've made an amusing book, but it didn't really (IMO) translate well to the big screen.I liked the idea of comparing mobsters to Hollywood insiders and there were some amusing moments (like Chili's minivan), but it just didn't do anything for me.The glib chatter just didn't interest me, maybe it tried too hard. The loose plot of movie w/in a movie was too weak and tried to do too little with too much. The actors seemed like they were phoning it in. Devito & Hackman & the guy that played Leo were pretty funny, but nothing special. Russo was just there as the one-dimensional girl. Travolta's a brainwashed cultist (Scientology) who had basically one line look at me&#133;. so I just tried to pretend he's not in the film. Dennis Farina, though I like him on Law & Order was cringe-ingly awful and hammed up. I just kept thinking, OK, stereotype of mob guy, stereotype of Hollywood, stereotype.... where's the humor?I've seen a lot worse so I won't say avoid.... Watch if you're really bored... but don't expect much.I can not understand the hype around this film. "},{"Title":"Unremarkable","Date":"22 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  A few amusing characters and even fewer amusing scenes save &#145;Get Shorty' from total oblivion. John Travolta (as Miami debt collector Chili Palmer) visits Los Angeles B-movie producer Harry Zimm (Gene Hackman) who owes money to the mafia. Chili finds that his childhood dream of producing movies has been resuscitated, and teams up with Zimm and his star actress Karen Flores (Rene Russo) to ward off a host of angry loan sharks, and catch the attention of self-centered Hollywood celebrity Martin Weir (Danny DeVito).The upfront, ten-minute sequence that opens the film is humorous. Yet it is a stark contrast to the remaining 95 minutes, which follow an intricate but mechanical script that fails to develop a host of otherwise appealing characters. The actors try to project, but they have not much by way of screenplay or direction to stand on. The film is thus forgettable and unremarkable, though it will entertain for the best part of 2 hours. Five stars out of ten.  "},{"Title":"Boring violent criminal movie","Date":"20 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I'm not sure who decided criminals and their deviant lives are entertaining but this movie has a lot of both. Travolta plays the cool 'shylock' a criminal loan shark who works for some mafia type criminals in Miami. There are some of the usual tough guy threats, beatings and shootings *yawn*. Travolta, as Chili Palmer, flies across the country to track down some guy and somehow ends up in LA with movie director Gene Hackman who's involved with some criminal types - drug dealers - who do some violent things and shoot some people. Travolta out-toughs them by doing some violent things, then his boss shows up and puts the director in the hospital after killing one of the bad drug dealer guys. In short, it's a pretty sick film.There are a few funny lines. Travolta says look at me about 50 times. and then the other characters start imitating him *yawn*. The plot is pretty thin, but in the end the bad guys get killed or arrested and the good guy - Chili - gets the girl and gets to make his movie. "},{"Title":"Great flick, steer clear of the awful sequel though","Date":"8 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" John Travolta (who's extremely uneven about the quality of roles he picks) is thankfully great as Chilli Palmer, a mobster who's interested in breaking into the movie biz in this great adaption of an Elmore Leonard book. I was always a fan of Elmore's stories, but in the mid to late '90's Mr. Leonard was golden movie adaption-wise as well, with this movie, Jackie Brown, Out of Sight, and his TV film Last Stand at Saber River, and Gold Cost. Sadly the adaptations of the new millennium leave MUCH to be desired thus far. But back to the movie at hand, the acting by Travolta, Hackman, Russo, Dennis Farina, and Gandolfini are all pitch perfect. While Devito and especially Bette Midler leave a bit to be desired. All in all a fun dark comedy. Hard to believe that Director Barry Sonnenfield ever did anything good as his other films are so bad. So i'll put all the credit on Screenplay writer Scott Frank, and of course Elmore Leonard himself. Followed by Be Cool a dreadful movie.My Grade B 2 Disk Collector's edition DVD Extras Disk 1 Commentary with Barry Sonnenfeld; and a Trailer for Be Cool Disc 2) 2 featurettes (Look at Me, and Wisguys & dolls); talking about and showing the deleted Graveyard scene; out-takes; party reel; Be Cool sneak Peek; script to screen; photo gallery; Theatrical Trailer; a compilation Trailer; Trailers for The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly and Fargo It also cam with a free ticket to Be Cool, which may be the first free thing I give away LOL "},{"Title":"let's throw some talent on the window","Date":"1 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The movie is less than mediocre. A big part in my disappointment had the actors playing this movie. Travolta playing a gangster? I've seen Pulp Fiction, so I figured it will be another mind blowing piece of acting. But no, not far from it. De Vito in a gangster movie? We'll all laugh together, I'd say. Gene Hackman? The blonde hot woman named Ruso? I thought how could I have not seen this movie...After seeing it, I wonder want did all this great names said to each other at the first film visualization. I bet it was a festive set, with all the producers around. I have a close idea about what went through their minds. How the did I played in this movie? Can I afford to pay the producers not to distribute it? Is this the end of my career? Another Ford Edsel? All my saying lead to the only conclusion. The movie is rubbish!! I have barely kept my self aware. Now I think it would have been be more satisfying to sleep. The script is terrible. The actors had nothing to act. A law should prevent this for happening. Good actors should never be allowed to play this kind of scripts. Rubbisshshsh!!! "},{"Title":"This movie was not  the best movie that i've seen, but it was not the worst","Date":"6 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This movie didn't come out to the theaters until the year 1995. I only watched this movie because I wanted to watch every movie that the actor, The Rock, was in at the theater and he happened to be in the sequel to this movie, Be Cool, and thought that since I was going to the theater to watch Be Cool, that I might as well watch this movie, Get Shorty.Not knowing what this movie was about, I got the movie from my local public library on DVD and put it into my DVD Player. Right away, the movie got my full attention; not that many movies do. What I don't understand is what the movie title has to do with the storyline. Anyway, there is as much action as is with the movie Cradel 2 the Grave. I would highly recommend, if you enjoyed this movie, Be Cool, the sequel to this movie coming out to the theaters March 04, 2005. "},{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review  too arty for me","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Get Shorty wasn't exactly bad, but it was campy without having that zing that turns a campy film (Beverly Hills Cop,Monty Python and the Holy Grail) into a cult classic. I felt there were too many Hollywood in-jokes and the acting (and these are good actors, so I'm sure this was deliberate) played their roles without a lot of tension. So the suspense sort of fizzled.That would all have been OK if a lot of stuff was blowing up. I am an action movie buff, first and foremost. But it was only OK.Who should see this film-- Drama types who are closet action buffs and don't wantanyone to know-- Action movie buffs on a rainy day with nothing better to doand only if you'll get it about HollywoodI'll give Get Shorty a 5 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Get Shorty is the movie equivalent to Getting an STD","Date":"20 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" John Travolta, Rene Russo, Gene Hackman, Danny DeVito, Dennis Farina, Delroy Lindo, James Gandolfini. The only name that mattered was on the signature of their checks as distributed by over rated director Barry Sonnenfeld. Now, I have no ax to grind, and watched this at home twice over 12 months to ensure I wasn't angry at the world the first time. No, I'm just disappointed that I wasted roughly an hour and a half (twice) waiting for this diarrhea to gel into a reasonable movie. How can you expect to have any suspension of disbelief belief when the dialog sounds like it's written by idiots like me? There were a few instances where a funny line should have been inserted as when Gene Hackman was reduced to eating through a straw, but all that was uttered by our leading dud was, suck hard. That line sums up the movie experience "},{"Title":"Too Tarantino","Date":"29 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  When GET SHORTY was released in 1995 all the critics were expecting the movie to clean up at that years Oscar ceremony and there was a collective gasp when the film didn`t recieve a single nod . After seeing the film for the first time tonight I`m somewhat suprised what all the fuss was in the first placeGET SHORTY is by no means a bad film in my opinion but nor is it Oscar worthy material either . The problem I have is that it lacks an identity of its own . From Travolta`s smooth gangster to the pastel coloured lettering in the title credits this has  Tarantino wannabe  written all over it . I mean look at the scene of the funky black geezer ( I guess Samuel L Jackson turned the part down with the fear of type casting ? ) walks through the airport terminal , it`s like the opening scene of JACKIE BROWN . And being similar to Tarantino we have to put up with people getting blown away in a darkly comical manner and insults like  I`ve seen better film on teeth motherf***er Okay it`s certainly watchable but tell me is this a darkly comic thriller or is it a satire on Hollywood ? If it`s the former then stop ripping Tarantino`s overrated style and if it`s the latter then someone should have employed Robert Altman as director which would have led to certain Oscar recognition  "},{"Title":"Did I miss something?","Date":"25 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Following all the good comments on IMDb about this movie I decided to watch it before going out to see Be Cool, the follow-up.To cut a long review short, nothing happens in this film, other than a lot of talking about nothing interesting. Comedy? I think I chuckled a couple of times. As usual, Gene Hackman should stay away from comedy films as he seems to pick the worst ones. Travolta tries his best with at best a rubbish script.Maybe a lot of people brainwashed themselves before seeing it and thought with the cast that it had to be good. Watch it again, nothing really happens... "},{"Title":"Too Silly To Watch !!!","Date":"10 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I love Barry Sonnenfeld as a nice crazy director, although all of my friends dislike a lot of his work but I've always loved his distinctiveness and advanced capabilities in not too many movies like (Men in Black - 1997) or (Wild Wild West - 1999) or as a producer of the brilliant TV-Series (Secret Agent Man - 2000). Yes, he is not one of the greatest NOW but I think he hasn't had the REAL BIG chance to prove that he could be one of the immortal fun makers.. BUT HERE ..It's simply his worst.I want to know indeed what's in here to be watched ??, where is the plot ?, what's about ?, and what's the beauty of it (if there is a beauty in it at all ??!!). I've read that John Travolta after he came back to life by the force of (Pulp Fiction - 1994), he was agreeing to whatever Quentin Tarantino strengthened to him !!..and I'm not sure about Tarantino's kind of taste !! So it's nothing unusual to have a movie by Travolta like (Get Shorty) ! Not only because the stars in it I've watched THIS for 3 times !! But mainly to understand why on Earth they made it ?? It's not a crime comedy and of course it's not a thriller (like you will read in the column of genre at the main details page in our very site !), and it's not originally a drama with meaning ! So who's Shorty ?, and why would we get him ?? OH it's a complete waste of time with a lot of after the strange success of Pulp Fiction's ego or false confidence which produced very empty movie like this.The only thing that have been saved and deserved watching was  the scene in which Rene Russo takes off her clothes and we get to see her long beautiful legs and her colored panty as well !! Plus that other scene where Bette Midler tempted Gene Hackman.. Though unfortunately both of the 2 scenes had been deleted from the movie by our censorship !! So for me, watching that movie was nothing but searching for something which's non-existent, and I mean fun ..by every sense of the word. "},{"Title":"WHAT A PIECE OF POOP!!!!","Date":"25 September 2003","Score":"5 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is simply TERRIBLE!!! It's another one of those movies people rave about because it got a ton of hype being it was Travoltas next big project after the success of Pulp Fiction. Travolta in fact didn't even want to do this picture! From its poor story line to its really bad scenes I couldn't hate this movie more!!! The worst part of this movie is...well all of it!! But anyway the worst scene of the movie is when another mobster shows up to kill Travoltas character and is shouting and announcing himself before getting to the room Travolta is in. Travolta then shoots a shot that basically no man on earth could achieve!!!! Grazing the guys head leaving a bald stripe down the center of his hair!!! This movie was so far from reality in every sense!!! ONLY A GULLABLE CHILD WOULD BUY INTO IT!! But then again that's exactly who Hollywood has spent the last ten years specifically catering to and targeting. Naive children with no sense of reality!!! Even Sonnenfeld greatly regretted making this movie before it was even finished. This movie actually had a point which it in fact completely seemed to miss with its poor humor and overdone scenes. I guess there's enough sheep in this world to convince this movie was quality entertainment whith a solid story line when in fact it has niether! It's like Meryl Streep. If everyone is saying something particularly popular and powerful people, the group of mindless people who can't think for themselves, others will agree and run with what they are told to not be outcast and simply suck up and fit in. Finding others with no real sense of who they are or what they like so to fit in they go with the majority of mindless nonpersonality drones that are following someone else without a clue. I'll give it to Travolta because the only thing this movie had going for it was him and his performance which in fact is very good. I give this film the STINKER of the decade award for movies that were supposed to be a top box office release. PEE UUUU!!! "},{"Title":"A Perfect Example Of How Out-Of-Touch Critics Are","Date":"3 October 2007","Score":"11 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" How many times have you read rave reviews - one after the other - and then seen the film and discovered it was horrible? How many critics favorites are total bombs with the public? (Answer thousands.)This is Exhibit A of that, a terribly incoherent, unappealing, slimy mess of a film that did very poorly at the box office....and was loved by the critics, of course. Sick, not slick is one adjective to describe this Tarantino-wannabe crime movie. It also smacked of too many in jokes in which these snobby Hollywood elitists got their jollies. FACT - Film makers don't care if the public likes their films, only if their peers do. This is why you get so much of this unpopular garbage cranked out every year - they don't care! That's especially true about films in which Hollywood is part of the story, like this one involving screenwriters.Gene Hackman is one of the finest actors of his day but dark comedy, obviously, is not his forte. Rene Russo's resume says all you need to know about her hard-boiled personality and character as a human being. Ditto for John Travolta, a good actor but a man who will never be mistaken for someone of strong moral fiber. He can smirk, however, with the best of them....as he does in this film.With a hundred f-words and 30 blatant abuses of the Lord's name in vain along with other comedic touches, this is real classy material. As one reviewer here aptly puts it this is trash culture at it's peak. "},{"Title":"The worst movie I have ever seen in a theater","Date":"5 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"     I walked out of this movie to go play video games (and I never play video games) outside, walk around, people-watch, whatever.  Anything was better than sitting through this phony, hollow piece of trash.  This is, without question, the most overrated movie of my lifetime, and the worst I have ever seen in a theater.   "}]