[{"Title":"More Nays than Yays","Date":"13 April 2004","Score":"22 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance","Review":"  People who experienced this intimate musical off-Broadway, and in local community theater productions around the country, will rightly be disappointed and even horrified by this film effort.Gone is the magic, the delight, and the imagination of a creation designed for small spaces, interaction with audiences, scant scenery and loads of beautiful melodies and poetic charm.They've taken a concept geared for a cabaret and ballooned into a huge overblown, literate production that comes off as strange and even weird.  They've juxtaposed and cut great songs, and tried to make a small ensemble effort into a large Hollywood extravaganza.  I agree this is one misfire that simply should have stayed on the shelf and not released--just written off as a tax loss.  "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"12 September 2002","Score":"15 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance","Review":"  Given the resources and talent involved, one would have hoped for much more, but the movie lacks the sparkle of even a mediocre stage production.Joel Grey as Bellamy phoned in his performance.  Even making allowances for the fact that he was 63 when he made the movie, his performance was remarkably lifeless and his singing was unremarkable, even strained at times.  Brad Sullivan as Hucklebee was even worse, flat performing and flat singing.  Joseph McIntyre as The Boy turned in a passable performance, though he didn't really do the role justice.  Jean Louisa Kelley as The Girl was perhaps the brightest spot in the lineup, delivering an adequate if not inspired performance.Jonathon Morris was sadly miscast as El Gallo.  He had the agility and strength needed for such a physical role, but lacked the proper menacing  look needed.  His acting was, if not totally flat, at least rather plastic.  And the one song he needed to really carry -- Try to Remember -- he didn't have the voice for.The staging was the most inspired part of the movie.  Simply filming the minimalistic stage production wouldn't have worked, but the movie's set -- two homes and a carnival set in the prairie -- was sufficiently minimalistic to honor the play's concept while still bending to the requirements of the big screen.  This facilitated devices that helped to  flesh out some of the more ambiguous scenes in the play.The script was unfortunately a Bowdlerized version.  The song substituted for The Rape Ballet was incredibly uninspired and inconsistent.  It was almost as if the writer wanted the substitute to be bad, in retaliation for pulling the original piece.  In addition to The Rape Ballet substitution, several other songs were changed from the original, generally not for the better, and the delightful Plant a Radish was omitted entirely.Perhaps the saddest change of all from the stage play was that the role of The Narrator was essentially omitted, and with it some of the most enchanting poetry in the script.  "},{"Title":"As I figured...","Date":"8 October 2001","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance","Review":" As I am reading the comments here I am finding that they are just as I has thought. Some are voraciously against this adaptation, these all seem to be those that are purists of the original stage play. Some are rabidly in love with it, these are primarily families and those that love Joey (sorry, Joe) McIntyre. But the majority, of which I include myself, simply like it.I watched this with an open mind since I love the original play and had to watch it a second time to really see how I felt about it. Some of the modifications are admittedly baffling, such as the rewrite of Metaphor, but by no means really detract that much from the original. If there is one thing you can see from this production it is that Hollywood does not know how to deal with a musical anymore. They all panic about marketability and political correctness which can ruin a great show. That being said, I still really enjoyed this production. The addition of the Carnival allowed for a fanciful feel while still grounding the main characters in reality. The character of El Gallo is allowed more freedom to orchestrate the romance between Louisa and Matt by taking a theatre convention of the omniscient observer and applying it to a film. We in the theatre are used to seeing a character come on and off stage, setting scenes and so forth, yet it is a convention rarely used in film but can be done far more effectively since the character does not have to worry about getting set pieces on and off and can simply be a mystical figure. The performances are wonderful, though Joel Grey is woefully underused. Jean Kelly is fabulous as she always is (Uncle Buck, Mr. Holland's Opus). Joe McIntyre is not the greatest actor but his lack of skill adds to the awkwardness of Matt that is revealed once reality sets in. Jonathon Morris is a fabulous El Gallo, much more charming and witty than some of the salesman-like El Gallo's I have seen. All in all the things that differ from the original play do not detract from the film itself. All they do is differ from the play. Would that this filmed production were done on stage it would be a mere shadow of the original stage version, but that is why this is a movie and that is a play. "},{"Title":"Respect your material","Date":"30 May 2005","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance","Review":" This is a film that could have had a lot going for it. I liked the set, which was a clever solution of how to film a play with such a minimalist set.But how could they destroy the material like this? This is one of those handful of musicals (Oklahoma!, Fiddler on the Roof, Guys and Dolls are some others) where everyone knows the opening song. Try to Remember is totally eliminated at the beginning, and at the end, El Gallo sings only two of the three verses. Plant a Radish, one of the show's highlights, is totally gone (except on the DVD as an extra). Some of my favorite moments on the CD are Jerry Orbach's poetic narrations, especially You wonder how these things begin. Here, only one of the three--or rather half of one--is preserved.There should be a rule somewhere that if you don't like the original you shouldn't get to film it.Would it be too much to ask if "},{"Title":"The Impossible Film","Date":"5 May 2001","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance","Review":"  I think the defining moment of The Fantasticks is the presentation of the song, It Depends on What You Pay.  In this film, that title is the only line from the original song that makes it into the film.  That's because an alternate title of the original song is Rape, the word being defined in the musical as abduction, not the darker meaning.  That explanation, curiously, remains in the film, but the other lyrics, describing different kinds of rapes are excluded.  The exclusion of those lyrics is not surprising--what seemed only risque in 1960 now seems not only politically incorrect but surprisingly callous and insensitive.  The fact, however, that one song from a 1960 Off-Broadway musical cannot fit into a 1995 movie, doesn't necessary mean the rest of the musical can.Much of what was classic in the past no longer fits into contemporary thought.  Updating, however, cannot necessarily preserve what made it into a classic in the first place, and it is not just It Depends on What You Pay that's been updated.Speaking of the original Fantasticks as a whole, the score is something I fell in love with 34 years ago.  The simplicity of it--scored basically for harp and piano--was a revelation compared to overscored Broadway shows.  It also accentuated the music's occasional harmonic surprises, which seem to look forward to Stephen Sondheim.  More than this, the minimalist staging--no real sets or props--also was very foward-looking, and assisted in making more timeless what might now seem like a very timebound story.  I think the fact the original play has run non-stop for 41 years verifies this.All this is lacking in the film.  Jonathan Tunick's updated orchestrations are good, but they blunt the impact of the score.  In place of a bare bones stage, we now see location shooting and a huge carnival set.  Other songs are abridged, and dialogue omitted.  Maybe this had to be done to adapt the musical into something that didn't seem just a filmed stage event and adapt it for modern audiences, but it isn't really The Fantasticks anymore, and it shows on the screen.  The film comes off hopelessly hokey and contrived.  Worse, it comes off as the very thing I believe I remember Luisa asks God not to make her in the play's introduction to Just Once ordinary.Perhaps this is a film that should never have been attempted.  And perhaps someone will have the foresight to release the 1960's TV version on video soon.  "},{"Title":"Doesn't live up to its source material.","Date":"5 March 2001","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance","Review":"  I am the world's biggest fan of this stage show, having seen it three times.  This is a weak and butchered rendition of my favorite musical, but it still retains enough charm and humor to convey the perfection of the original. The excision of three songs is bad enough, but the removal of a verse of one song (I Can See It) and the replacement of a verse of another (Metaphor) is downright bizarre; in Metaphor, the entire rest of the song depends upon the rewritten first verse, and so it makes no sense, and in I Can See It, much of the dramatic tension is lost with the missing verse, which they seemed to have cut because they couldn't figure out how to choreograph it. The movie had one really creative idea -- the carnival, and then apparently shot its wad. The Boy and The Girl are wonderful, as is Barnard Hughes and Teller as The Actor and The Man Who Dies, but Joel Grey is surprisingly weak, and Brad Sullivan as the other father is just a total mistake. Much of the material removed is that which suggests that El Gallo is some kind of mystical figure, engineering the whole thing, and this weakens the story considerably.  "},{"Title":"Very disappointing","Date":"24 June 2003","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance","Review":"  I am a big musical fan. As a high school choir teacher, I require my students to watch them. I won't be requiring them to watch this.Another comment on this forum said that the negatively opinionated people should cut the movie version some slack as there are always differences with a screenplay. True, but most of the screenplay versions have become classics in their own right--and for good reason. That reason being that the screenplay itself is an excellent adaptation and it is quality work. Not so with this disappointing movie.This movie had great potential with a good cast. I think that Jean Louisa Kelly was the bright spot, quite good actually, and the actor who portrayed El Gallo was the low spot.Ironically, the movie was like the story. Once Matt and Louisa had the freedom to see each other and empowered to make their relationship and fantasies materialize from abstract to concrete, the magic was gone. I felt the magic of the play was gone because much of what was the magic of our imagination and imagery gave way to too many concrete images on screen via sets, props, and what not. It simply didn't work.I remember the intimacy of doing this play in high school. I was not on stage, but I was one of the pit musicians. We did it in 3/4 in the round. The theater seated 70 people. The cast interacted with the pit and the audience. It was simply charming. It was magical. Not so with this movie.Like others, big question marks entered my head with the script. I kept saying to myself several times during the viewing, I don't remember this, or I thought something else happened (or was said).No, I'm not going to cut this some slack just because a movie version is going to differ from the staged version. We own most of the movie versions of various musicals and we watch them and re-watch them and re-watch them again and again. Why? Because they're great. This one?....Well, I'm glad we rented it.Go see the real thing. On a stage. "},{"Title":"Don't Be So Harsh, it's a Movie!!","Date":"3 April 2001","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance","Review":"  The Fantasticks has been a part of my life since 1960 when I first saw Kenneth Nelson, Rita Gardner, and Jerry Orbach play in the original. Over the past forty years I've directed, played-in, or played-for hundreds of performances from New York to Miami. I feel I know the play inside and out, even adding many touches for the mute that was never off-Broadway. Thirty some-odd years ago, I saw it on television, as I recall, it was John Davison, Lesley Ann Warren, and Ricardo Montalban (as El Gallo). I, being a purist, thought the TV show was abominable. But I was younger and hadn't learned to tolerate or respect other viewpoints or interpretations. I held my breath as I started playing the DVD after finding out that the opening Try to Remember was gone....but the more I watched...Jonathan (Stephen Sondheim's musicals) Tunnick's orchestrations started working a magic on me, and by the time Soon It's Gonna Rain. finished, I was charmed and captivated.  I didn't object to the new Depends on What You Play, for the melody as always been in the score, only played by the orchestra as the Rape music ballet. Reading the other posts on IMDB board, I think many comments were unfair to this movie. There is NO way you could capture the original staging on film. A compromise had to be reached. And since it was Jones and Schmidt who wrote the screenplay, they and they alone had to right to do with it as they wished. "},{"Title":"It takes years to get to the screen and this is the best they can do?","Date":"3 October 2013","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance","Review":" The pluses for this are terrific art and production design which is beautifully displayed by the cinematography of Fred Murphy but pretty pictures only go so far. The piece's other strong suit is a fine score with many lovely songs however they are compromised by being given to the two leads who have thin reedy voices without distinction or subtlety and the tunes suffer because of it. The score was a favorite of the young Barbra Streisand and she recorded several of the numbers, listen to her versions of Much More, Soon It's Gonna Rain and particularly I Can See It and you'll understand what has been lost in the pallid interpretations offered here. Alas it is of no help that the same romantic leads share zero chemistry on screen with McIntyre practically disappearing from the screen, so bland is his presence. The best work is turned in by Brad Sullivan and Joel Grey but their parts are small and Grey is especially wasted. Catch the live show instead. "},{"Title":"The Abridged Fantasticks","Date":"1 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance","Review":"  Upon hearing of the upcoming DVD Release of The Fantasticks, I was overjoyed because the film ran for only one week in the theatres and was missed by many. So when I learned that this Special Edition DVD had numerous deleted scenes and excised songs, I was ecstatic. Well, upon seeing the DVD, I can say that someone at MGM Home Video had the sense to release all these extras in the DVD. Personally, had MGM/UA marketed this film properly instead of assuming it would fail and had they not foolishly re-edited it, the film might have fared better. One gripe I have is that the only use of Try To Remember is the reprise at the end of the film. Granted, the excised footage and alternate ending are extras on the DVD but, it would have been nice had the film been restored to the way it was originally intended to be seen and released on DVD. For some reason, after seeing Try To Remember as a bonus and watching the film minus the song, it seems empty. I will say that this DVD is worthy to add to your collection and a must for musical fans... On a last note, Ritchie's commentary is quite interesting but listen to it when you rewatch the film, not the first time you see it. "}{"Title":"It should have remained on the shelf","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance","Review":"  I wasn't completely disappointed with the film adaptation of The Fantasticks. It had a number of enjoyable cast members in it. That's why I felt generous enough to give it a 2 rating. If not for the likes of Joel Grey or Bernard Hughes or Teller, I would have figured out a way to give it a negative number. As a fan of the stage version (and a former cast member) I was not just dismayed to see some of the best numbers reduced or in some cases replaced or removed, I was actually hurt that anyone could mangle so completely such a simple, eloquent musical. I can only hope that now that the original off broadway production has closed someone will come along and make a real film of one of the best musicals ever written.   "},{"Title":"One of the worst transfers from stage to film.","Date":"5 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance","Review":"  Ok, maybe it can be argued that it is simply not possible to make a decent film of this wonderful musical. But even given that, one certainly could have done a better job than this.  I rate this at the bottom of the pile of stage to screen transfers along with the dreadful Bye, Bye, Birdie and Paint Your Wagon.First, why cut Try to Remember (the one song that practically everyone knows) from the beginning of the picture (and trim it at the end).  It establishes the whole mood of the show - calling the audience to remember back when they first fell in love and the magic of that moment.  This show just opens with Bellamy sewing (?)Then, because they wanted to make it more like a traditional movie musical, they cut the narrator - and with him went most of the wonderful dialogue much of it spoken in poetry and verse (note the absence of the speech before Soon Its Gonna RainYou wonder how these things begin...; trimmed down is the Curious Paradox speech the most important part being cut out; gone is Louisa's self-description that sets up Much More as well as Matt's intro to Metaphor; and most important of all the speech opening the second act is gone which explains much of what the story is about).Gone also are all the wonderful metaphors (the whole idea behind the song of the same title)that prevade the show - the gardening metaphors are gone (hence why Plant a Radish was cut, though one wonders why they left in This Plum is Too Ripe); gone also is the metaphor of the wall (one of the most important in the show, leading to the most significant, if not most enigmatic, line in the play Leave the wall, you must always leave the wall.)Not surprisingly the mute is cut, but other characters are changed as well. With the narrator gone, the motive of El Gallo is unclear.  Why is he doing these things?  Why does he say the curious paradox speech if he is not going to explain why he hurt them (and himself)?  Only the part of Henry remains fairly faithful to the original play (even Mortimer is given over to Teller as a non-speaking role).  Louisa is played too simperingly sweet rather than as a self-absorbed teenage girl fascinated more with the idea of being in love than actually loving Matt. Her transition at the end (from I am love originally in Metaphor to You are love at the reprise) makes no sense in this version.Yes, most of the songs are there.  But they are often trimmed down, replaced with safer songs (like the absolutely horrible Abductions replacing the clever It Depends on What you Pay) or the lyrics are completely rewritten(Metaphor). I know the arguments for replacing Depends, but I have directed the show twice and played El Gallo once and have not ever heard a complaint about the song - you simply have to introduce it correctly.One wonders why they even decided to film this show if they were going to change it so much.  I believe a fairly decent film might have been made if they had stayed with what they had.  Instead they decided to go Hollywood with it and the result is nothing like the original story.  No wonder it stayed in the can for 6 years before being released.  It probably should have stayed there.  One big disappointment.     "},{"Title":"Old Fashioned In The Best Sense!","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance","Review":"  This show ran for over 40 years off-Broadway, where I saw it late in its run. It has certainly been done a lot on stages everywhere and often the approach is so heavy-handed that the simplicity and charm of the show are lost.  So after all the delays and re-cuttings, the film came out and I had to give it a try.  The good news  it worked and worked well.  In fact, I can't imagine it being done much better given the difficulty of adapting stage musicals to the screen. Act One is full of youthful idealism (with adult plotting going on behind the scenes).  Act Two is the reality check wherein one sees all the flaws that had been masked by that youthful idealism. A simple love story with some of Tom Jones and Harvey Schmidt's most enjoyable music, this film is a wonderful entertainment. "},{"Title":"Horrifying...","Date":"20 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance","Review":" While I appreciate the effort to give a fresh perspective to this timeless classic, it just doesn't work. Others argue that it isn't easy to translate a musical from stage to screen. While I respect everyone's opinion I also have to ask what show were you watching? The Fantasicks has NO set, everything is minimalist; I mean come on....how hard would it be to adapt it to film? There was way too much attention to altering the non-cumbersome dynamic of the stage version to make it more interesting. To that end it has been hacked apart and re-assembled as something virtually unrecognizable. The pacing and flow are terrible as is some of the singing and acting. But if I had to nail one (ok, a few things) thing, it's that El Gallo is not the narrator, Teller is not the Mute, and Try to Remember, the show's anthem, is at the end???? There does not seem to be any reason for these alterations other than it appears that being different was a greater imperative for the director than was remaining honest to the charm and simplicity of the original. I gave it a chance. But I still say skip this garbage. "},{"Title":"Good, could have been great","Date":"25 September 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance","Review":" It's a mystery to me why this film sat on the shelf for 5 years. It's no masterpiece, but it's colorful and entertaining. The songs are beautiful and well performed by ALMOST the entire cast. The story is interesting but gets confusing at the half-way point--I'm assuming it's because of the 15 minutes cut out of the original print. Unfortunately there's one huge problem with the movie--Joey McIntyre. He can sing OK, but sounds bad compared to everyone else. And his acting is horrendous! At one point he's trying to be romantic with his girlfriend on a porch bench--he was so bad the audience I had was in hysterics by the end of the scene. Also, he's not good-looking at all (sorry!) and just unbelievable. Without him this might have been a great musical. Sadly, it just misses the mark. Still worth seeing though. "},{"Title":"Trying to forget....","Date":"13 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance","Review":" There are some stage shows which really can't be filmed, and one of them is The Fantasiks. It had been videotaped as a television special in the 1960's in an hour format which took out some of the potence of the actual show, but when they decided to make a movie version of it in the 1990's (as the show was celebrating 35 years Off-Broadway), some theater historians were puzzled. After all, what made the show memorable on stage was the fact that it was so intimate, it just didn't feel right for the screen. Taking into account that the passionate character of El Gallo was supposed to represent a sexy threat to the two lovers and was here cast with a very uncharismatic Jonathon Morris made for really removing the strongest element of the show.Veteran actors Joel Grey and Barnard Hughes come off unscathed as the feuding fathers, but their roles are reduced and one of their big numbers removed as well. A lack of chemistry between Joey McIntyre and Jean Luisa Kelly, the two actors playing Matt and Luisa, also hurt this film version which only had a here today, gone literally tomorrow movie version of the musical that in retrospect seems pointless. When the musical closed Off Broadway after a 40 year run, stage audiences obviously missed it, and less than a decade later, it was back, maybe not on Sullivan Street where it played for an eternity, but in an intimate space where it really belongs. "},{"Title":"Poor adaptation","Date":"22 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance","Review":" I have written about this Michael Ritchie fiasco under another name here. Anyone interested in seeing it and who has never seen it performed on stage, should skip this badly constructed movie. I don'l know what Richtie was thinking of, and I don't how much of the blame should fall on the screenwriters and/or the casting director. The movie is pretty awful, as are most of the actors. Joel Grey is the star, but he is just as bad as the rest of the cast. Chalk it up to old age in his case if you must. Some songs from the original play are missing, and the key song is not performed particularly well. You will do better to see a high school production than this movie. I first saw the play in an off Broadway theater in a theater in the round production when I was but a callow youth, and was absolutely mesmerized. I am now in my 60s and remember that production like it was yesterday. "},{"Title":"need work","Date":"15 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance","Review":" as a computer tech i have the tools needed this movie has a 8 or 9 in it but its buried deep with in the DVD.I riped the DVD and reedited the Frances ford hack job by splicing back in all the cut parts and songs and burned it to a new DVD. the result is a very watchable and enjoyable version of the play. while it does lack the glitter of the great off Broadway show that i saw many times at the Sullivan street playhouse (WHICH IS SADLY GONE NOW REPLACED BY HI END HOUSING) so get the DVD and take a day or to to recreate the film the way the director wanted you see it and not the hack job that Frances did to it. "},{"Title":"Expect the worst and you won't be totally disappointed","Date":"29 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance","Review":" The other review of this movie is great and talks about the differences between the movie and the stage production.The movie certainly doesn't pay homage to the longest running musical in the history of American Musical Theatre, but you do get a chance to see some, not all, of the amazing music.Johnathon Morris who plays El Gallo and who sings the most famous song from the show Try To Remember is very weak and doesn't portray the evilness needed for the role.I have heard that the movie wasn't all that bad until Frances Ford Coppala got a hold of it and decide to edit it into non-recongition Don't expect much at all from the movie and you might not be disappointed. There are a few cute/tender scenes. "},{"Title":"Thank goodness there's Joe McIntyre","Date":"4 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance","Review":" The Fantasticks is one of my favorite musical shows ever, and i was thrilled to know that a film version of it is available. Unfortunately, the best thing about the film is the casting of Joe McIntyre as Matt; he is thoroughly adorable and sings his part beautifully. The best-executed number in the whole show is I Can See It, his duet with the Narrator/El Gallo. Other excellent numbers include Soon It's Gonna Rain and This Plum Is Too Ripe. The part of Luisa played by Jean Louisa Kelly was all right. While Joel Grey looks the part of the girl's father Bellomy, his singing is not as good as one would expect, so his witty duets with the other father Hucklebee, played by Brad Sullivan, came off a little flat. But the biggest disappointments to me are the casting of a colorless Jonathan Morris in the important part of El Gallo aka The Narrator, and the replacement of the Rape song with a number that's less clever, though I suppose still serviceable. If you've never seen a decent version of this show on stage, you will probably not know what you really missed anyway. "}{"Title":"Just Sad!","Date":"17 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance","Review":"  This has got to be the worse movie adaptation of a stage musical since Paint Your Wagon.no wonder it sat on the shelf for five years. The incredible talents of Joel Grey were wasted.Songs were cut outfor no apparent reason.I understand that when adapting a stage show for the screen some changes are made to open up the story,that I can live with.Most of the time these are changes for the better.But here the changes serve no purpose.If you haven't had the chance to see this wonderful musical doneon stage,make a point do do so soon.This show ran off Broadway for 40 years,there's a reason it did.Don't let this movie be the image that comes to mind when you think of The Fantasticks. "},{"Title":"Ridiculous waste of a fabulous and moving score.","Date":"4 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance","Review":" This is one of the most inane and unsupportable interpretations of a work I have ever had the misfortune to see. I can't even call it absurd. It is just as if the directors had never even heard the score. The production isn't sung, it isn't acted or reacted... it is nothing. A work, a film--- this is an ugly and unflinching look has several glaring and unforgivable errors. First, these people aren't singing well and many seem to actually have talent (we know Joel Gray does!) that is deliberately covered with dross. The pitch problems are awful--- causing a beautiful score to be reduced to unsingable drivel. The production value is as cheap as the interpretation of it is! I would highly suggest avoiding this piece because I found not a single redeemable point. See a live production--- ANY production would have to be superior. This film was simply a crime against the love and history of the work and all involved should pay to buy up remaining copies and destroy them. "},{"Title":"It depends on what you pay is missed badly.","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance","Review":"  This is one of my favorite musicals... EVER.  I was blessed to see it before it closed off broadway.  I bought this simply because of love for  the original stage source material.It's NOT horrible.  MANY BAD choices in my opinion, though.  The deletion of It Depends on What you Pay is by far it's worst mistake.  Plant a Radish is missed too, but I feel It Depends on What you Pay was probably cut because of censorship...If you watch the cut scenes on the DVD, you can see it could have been a much better movie if some had been included...  HOW CAN YOU CUT THE OLD ACTOR'S FINAL SPEECH!  At least you can watch the scenes.Otherwise, if you haven't ever seen it, it's a decent representation... You get the basic idea, but it could have been much better.  Although, the show might be simply too intimate to work on film. ...remember me in the light.  "},{"Title":"Never saw it but was in it","Date":"15 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Musical, Romance","Review":" First off, I am half in love with Jean Louise Kelly. She played Athena in Stranger in the Kingdom, a Vermont-made movie, and was fun in Yes, Dear. I was Mortimer to Henry in The Montpelier (VT) Theatre Guild production of The Fantasticks. We could have done a second weekend, it was so well-received.Secondly, the young woman who played the girl (Emily?) thought she would liked to be in the chorus. The director said there is only one woman in every scene and you're it. Then she showed her three-octave range and fell in love with the music.Thirdly, in the credits, Edmond Rostand is not mentioned. He wrote Les Romantiques in the 1890s upon which The Fantasticks is based. The play depicts a world ready to collapse into the chaos of World War One. People , like the lovers, grew bored with civility and peace, and thought war would be a romantic and exciting release into an exciting world. Rostand also wrote Cyrano deBergerac, the import of which I have no idea.Maybe I'll rent the movie.Tom "},{"Title":"They really should have called it something else ....","Date":"30 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Musical, Romance","Review":" because this isn't The Fantasticks that I fell in love with the first time I saw it some 50 years ago and later had the pleasure of performing in on 3 different occasions. I avoided watching this movie for many years, mostly because I didn't want to spoil my memories of the play. Recently, however, I found a copy in the local thrift store and thought to myself why not? I wish I'd left it in the scratch and dent bin.Another reviewer described the stage version as a bubble balanced on the head of a pin and that's as good an analogy as any of the fragility of the magical effect the play has on its audiences. This doesn't translate to the film version, not at all. To anyone reading this review if you've seen and enjoyed a stage production of The Fantasticks but haven't seen the movie, don't bother; if you've seen the movie, but never the stage play, do yourself a favor - see the stage play if ever you have the chance, and also buy the original cast album to learn what the music is supposed to sound like. "},{"Title":"Try to dismember","Date":"8 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Musical, Romance","Review":" I can't believe that Jones & Schmidt, the creators of this marvelous bit of theater, were complicit in the creation of this disastrous movie version that cuts the heart out of the original musical.If you haven't seen the original, it's performed with very little in the way of props or sets. There's no back story for El Gallo, and no real history of the two fathers and their kids. As originally written, this show would not make a compelling movie - although it's a wonderful live event. So I didn't really mind that they opened it up and created an actual location for the story to take place, in this case the San Rafael Valley of Arizona, apparently sometime in the Depression. The two families live in quaint little houses in the middle of nowhere. Fine so far. And in order to beef up the chamber-style accompaniment of the play, they hired the wonderful Jonathan Tunick to orchestrate it probably the best decision made by the producers.In order to give El Gallo some background, however, the writers introduce an entire traveling circus that for some reason chooses to set up in a neighborhood containing only four people. It's a little creepy, and more than once reminded me of Something Wicked This Way Comes. The casting is the next problem. Hughes and Teller seem right as the players. Joel Grey is good as always, but Brad Sullivan is a dud. (Try to picture Bert Lahr and Sterling Holloway in these roles - they were in the 1964 TV version. Now THAT was a cast.) The young couple is OK - Jean Louisa Kelly is charming, and she was about to make a splash in Mr. Holland's Opus. El Gallo as played by Jonathon Morris, seems to be trying to channel Cary Elwes from Princess Bride and has an unimpressive singing voice. Too bad they couldn't have cast Kevin Kline or someone with a real voice as well as charisma.So it starts with questionable raw material, then falls apart when they begin trimming songs, creating phony new dialog, and even substituting a lifeless new song for the biggest number of the musical. The lackadaisical approach to the original material spoiled the show.If you've never seen The Fantasticks, please go to see it live, even if it's just done by the local high school. Then you will capture the poetry and simplicity that made this a huge hit off-Broadway. "},{"Title":"If You Want to See the Movie, Don't See the Play","Date":"7 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Musical, Romance","Review":" So far, I have seen more than five stage productions of the Fantasticks including one at the Sullivan Street Playhouse back in 1962; and I am going to see another one at the Snapple Theater Center (Jerry Orbach Theater) in New York. Yes, folks, as of this date The Fantasticks is still playing. There was a short interim when the Sullivan Street Playhouse was torn down to make way for a high rise in 2002.Most of the reviews of the movie are indicative of two views. If one hasn't seen The Fantasticks on stage or heard the original score in its entirety, the movie ain't that bad. However, after more than 50 years running, and after thousands of international and summer stock productions, the play has had a lot of critically biased audience when they view the film. It might have been better if the makers of the movie had just filmed a stage production. The results might have been the least expensive and longest running film ever produced. "},{"Title":"The Source Material is great, but....","Date":"15 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Musical, Romance","Review":" The Fantasticks is the longest running stage production ever, even over Phantom of the Opera. For those who don't know, it ran off-Broadway for nearly 42 years and now is back and has been playing for about another four years. The musical has its detractors but I am not one of them. While the show does lose its luster in parts during Act Two, some of the songs in this musical are among the best ever written for musical theater. Other than the wonderful classic, Try to Remember, this show includes the hilarious It Depends on What You Pay and the beautiful and haunting They Were You among others.The movie version has a good cast. The two leads (Kelly and McIntyre) are very good and you also have Joel Grey in the mix, but this version falls flat. The direction and the editing are very bizarre (especially during the father duet Never Say No) and the movie leaves the show's most famous song which opens the musical, the previously mentioned Try to Remember and leaves it for the very end as an afterthought.A lot of the magic is lost in this version and I can see why it was shelved for five years. Quite a shame...but if you can see a great production on stage, it will be more worth the look then. "},{"Title":"Spoiler I was very upset that such a great play was changed.","Date":"15 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Musical, Romance","Review":"  Millions of people have seen and loved The Fantastiks as it was performed on stage for 40 years! Why change it now? Making the songs shorter or removing them altogether (Rape Song), and making the music score so low that it could not be heard ruined the excitement I had when I bought the movie. El Gallo didn't have the voice to properly carry the part. If I had never known the musical, it might have been cute. But knowing the show as millions of others do, I feel the only redeaming qualities are the performances of Joel Grey, Bernard Hughes, Teller and Jean Kelly (perfect for the part). "},{"Title":"A+ for the DVD; C for the VHS","Date":"20 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Musical, Romance","Review":"  Wow, I just got to see the film version of The Fantasticks After waiting for several years to see it I was very impressed. It is so imaginative and the music is still the best part of the show. I certainly can't understand why any studio would have had trouble releasing this feature. I feel that it could have done fine if released in a timely manner.I strongly urge anyone to somehow get their hands on the DVD. It answers so many questions and then makes you formulate new ones. I still don't understand the editing. It would not have been over two hours in the first place. There were some gorgeous numbers and nice scenes cut from the picture. Although the DVD includes the edited film they have included these extras as bonus material. The only thing better would be a restored version.The cutting was just senseless. To take out Try to Remember in any way, baffles me. I also thought the fathers characters were trivialized and reduced by taking out Plant a Radish. This was a shame since the movie featured Joel Gray as a father. I didn't much care for the Abduction number. The DVD shows you a filmed version of It Depends on What You Pay, that would have obviously been much better. They also managed to edit out much of the character of El Gallo. Unless you've seen the play, or watch the deleted scenes you would find what is left as confusing. It's wonderful on DVD!!! The music was recorded beautifully! Don't miss it! "}{"Title":"This movie is horrendous!!!!","Date":"18 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance","Review":"  I recently performed in the off-broadway musical The Fantasticks as Henry. This movie is NOTHING like the musical. After putting a lot of work into this, I feel as if they butchered it! They skipped vital things from the musical and added things that weren't there. Seriously, this movie was the hardest for me to sit through and watch. "},{"Title":"A breath of fresh air!","Date":"23 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Musical, Romance","Review":"  I had heard for several years that the film version of The Fantasticks was un-watchable and un-releasable.  Who spreads these rumors?? The film was a wonderful, old fashioned musical and I REALLY enjoyed it!  It is not a perfect film musical, but given the crap we have been forced to endure this past summer, it is truly a breath of fresh air!  I sincerely hope it gets a wide release because people need to see it on the big screen. I have to admit there are some problems...the editing on a couple of musical numbers is unfocused and too choppy. And the man playing El Gallo would not have been my first casting choice.  However, Joey McIntyre and Jean Louisa Kelly are wonderful! I hope the film cynics out there don't chew this one up and spit it out. There has to be room out there for nice,non- animated, musical films that make you feel good when you exit the theatre.  I, for one am tired of leaving a contemporary film feeling depressed or dirty for visiting the dark side of life.  Please give this film a chance!  It's a charmer! "},{"Title":"Fantastics / The Romantics just to share.","Date":"21 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Musical, Romance","Review":"  I was browsing through this content, and I am very excited about the release of The Fantasticks as a motion picture. I just wanted to share something about a theatre poet who I didn't see really mentioned anywhere here (or in the articles that led me here.) The poets name was Edmond Rostand (1868-1918), one of my all time favorite playwrights. Check out a nice little play called The Romantics, and it is there that you will find where The Fantasticks got much of its soul , symbols and simple beauty. Also, if you are feeling inspired, how about a play about a Rooster who believes he sings up the sun. Yes in Rostand's Chantecler you will find an inspiring character that represents the struggle of the artist (his passion, pride, duty and inherent defiance of the ordinary) and most already know of Rostand's Cyrano de Bergerac.  "},{"Title":"A difficult thing to do","Date":"8 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Musical, Romance","Review":"  I also did play in this lovely musical - as you can guess i did the part of Luisa. I absolutely loved it. I didn't watch the film yet, but I'd like to, though I might be disappointed. It surely difficult to make this musical become a good and fascinating film...anyway, I'm curious enough to watch it - if I get the chance - and make up my own opinion. I'd be happy if anyone who also played in Fantasticks would send a message to me ! "},{"Title":"The Fantasticks is Coming!!","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Musical, Romance","Review":" I have been waiting for this film to come out!! I have seen this and it is Beautiful!!The movie is COMING OUT ON VIDEO!! The date is April 4th and it will be $14.95 suggested retail price. My local video retailer told me this several days ago.About a year ago-I put together a petition at the movie theatre that I work at and got 368 signatures to convince MGM to release this gem,and now it is coming.I also want the Soundtrack-the arrangements are gorgeous and it deserves to be released.Those people who are so tightly attached to the play-my suggestion? DONT WATCH IT!!if you feel so strongly about the movie vs. play issue.It is definitely one of the best movie adaptations in some time of a musical,and is very memorable.So There!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Take it out of the box already!","Date":"30 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Musical, Romance","Review":"  I was the focus puller on the film and quite frankly, if you go to most theaters today, you'll see A LOT worse. Let's take it out of the box and hear all of Harvey and Tom's great music and let's relish in the tremendous images of Fred Murphy, ASC.  "},{"Title":"Never release this film","Date":"28 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Musical, Romance","Review":"  I've worked as lighting director on two different stage productions of The Fantasticks. As Jason White suggests, a critical aspect to the magic of this production is the almost complete lack of set and props. The joy of the show is that the players work with so little, and each audience member's imagination fills out the picture. The published production photos make it clear that this movie violates these vital elements of this beautiful classic musical. It is a mistake and should never be released. "},{"Title":"Leave it ALONE!","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Musical, Romance","Review":"  I had the pleasure of playing the role of Matt in this Musical. After performing the part and realizing the style of this musical, a movie shouldn't be release. No matter how good the movie is, it will lose that great feel of the staged production.The staged production is done primarily without the benefit of scenery, and hardly any props. The intent is much like Our Town in that the Audience members are supposed to use their imaginations, and the actors are supposed to help create imagery.It is very successful, it is the longest running show in the history of New York, and it always sells out. I suggest everyone see it. It deals with the trials of growing up into adulthood.If this movie is being held from video release, than it is rightly so. Leave it be, don't spoil the awesome power of this production. "},{"Title":"Let this movie out!","Date":"2 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Musical, Romance","Review":"  I have seen this movie at a private screening several years ago. IT WAS GREAT. Why hasn't it come out yet. This is a beautiful timeless musical with classic songs and a story for all times.  I wish who ever has this movie locked up would know that with all the violence in Hollywood movies it would be service to show this movie as some alternative to the mean trash that usually we're subjected to. "},{"Title":"Interesting, well shot, but somewhat sporadic.","Date":"25 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Musical, Romance","Review":" I've never seen the stage play, but I liked this film for what it was. As a newcomer to The Fantasticks I really didn't know what to expect. I'd heard parodies of the songs, and seen and heard allusions to the play, but I'd never seen the actual production itself... until now.I've heard critics pan the stage play production, and based on what I've seen in the film I think I can understand their perspective, but not really agree with it. The merits of the adaptation aside the basic premise of a rogue carny bringing two you hearts together has a certain charm, but I think what the critics want is to understand are the wherefore's of El Gallo's motivation. But the answer to that is obvious; if one thinks about it enough.To the film; I liked it, and I understand why there seems to be a lot of dissatisfaction with this film. Some of it comes from the process of adapting a stage play to the screen, but the other aspect is method. And by that I don't mean style, rather I mean some fundamentals in film making techniques.That aside the film is actually well shot and well acted, and the set design and art direction is some of the best I've ever seen in a film. The fact that it was shot in winter is even all the more amazing, as I was truly captivated by the world presented For myself this film, stylistically, has a lot in common with One From the Heart by Francis Forc Coppola (though Coppola's film deals with a pair of hearts that face a more matured theme dilemma). There's a lot of implied intimacy in terms of style, which help conveys the overall gist of the film's message.The musical numbers, for what they are, are a bit hit-and-miss (song depending). My personal favorite is the Abduction song. A lot of energy when into its performance. That and it's the one number that seems to have an underlying logic to it.Overall I enjoyed it. It's light entertainment. It may not fulfill the wishes and desires of those familiar with the stage production, but it has a cinematic quality that can be appreciated.I'd recommend this film for those who are looking for a more traditional throwback to the Hollywood of yesteryear, but with a modern-production bent. I'm not sure I'd recommend it to all fans of musicals, much less the play, but, if the viewer is patient enough, they may find something to enjoy and savor.A decent watch. "}{"Title":"This is a pathetic modernization of a great original play","Date":"15 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance","Review":" This is a poor adaptation and modernization of the original play. It has removed much of the humor by striving to become more politically correct. In doing so, it has abandoned much of the rich and clever power of the original. Some of the most spirited songs have been completely reworded, leaving nothing memorable. There seems to be no reasonable justification for this. The real tragedy is that this was released as a DVD and not, say, the 1964 production broadcast on the Hallmark Hall of Fame. I would hope that someone, some day might strive to produce a video much closer to the original. "},{"Title":"A story of a young girl and boy who go looking for life but find what they really wanted when they got there was each other. .","Date":"11 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance","Review":" In regards to the last comment posted, the author could not be more wrong. I too was a fan of NKOTB in the nineties. However, it's ridiculous to compare a musical like The Fantasticks to Annie. Annie is musical geared toward children with terrible music and a nothing plot. The Fantasticks is the longest running Broadway musical in history. It's not for teenage girls because you'd be hard pressed to find a teenage girl who understands the musical. It's a complex plot about the loss of innocence and how that enriches ones life after the pain subsides. The music cannot be matched and the lyrics are exquisite. The actual movie production didn't work as well as the stage version because it was written for nothing but a platform on a bare stage. That simply doesn't work in a movie. I agree that Joey is great and cute. He also does an excellent job in Wicked (currently on Broadway.) But this review of the musical is silly. "},{"Title":"Simply awful","Date":"25 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance","Review":"  I've seen The Fantasticks in the village in its original venue and at a large theatre starring Robert Goulet, and I've portrayed El Gallo in two amature productions.  I think I know the show well enough to say that this movie is a complete disaster.The Fantasticks, as written for the stage, relies on several devices to carry its message.  The entire production is fantastical in that just about everything is realized in the audience's imagination.  Things like the wall between the houses (a pole), El Gallo's tree (just a ladder), the suspension of disbelief of Matt and Louisa as they're manipulated throughout the play.  Every time the movie does one of these things literally it breaks down the magic of The Fantasticks.  Without that intimate magic none of it really makes sense.The movie has a botched script too - every now and then a glimmer of the real show will surface and get the attention of those who know it, but then it falls apart again.  As a result none of the characters really work.  We don't believe in the kids - Matt and Louisa's character development must have ended up on the floor in editing.  The fathers appear to be more clowns than anything.  And El Gallo isn't mysterious or charming enough to woo a preteen in this version.  Worse, this script relies on heavy handed use of editing from one setting to another during several of the songs.  It's okay once or twice, but this movie is all over the place.  In a deleted song, the fathers jump instantaneously to the porch roof for no good reason.  It's really preposterous.As far as the cast goes, all disappoint except Louisa (Jean Louisa Kelly).  She has an excellent speaking voice for the role, and a lovely singing voice.  Several of her soprano lines were cut, alas, but she does a credible job with a lousy, wandering script.  The rest of the main cast appears to be doing a junior class play.  El Gallo in particular appears more angry/anxious/wishing-he-had-a-real-job than the suave/confident/paternal figure he's supposed to be.  He just throws away several of the key lines in the show like he's reading them for the first time.  And if you watch the deleted opening Try to Remember you'll be squirming in your seat has he drives his truck while smiling to the camera (the effects folks held back on the little dazzling star flash on his teeth, fortunately).  Ugh - a real pity.Several other reviewers have offered the advice to see the stage play and forget this movie.  They're right.  Watching this movie will leave you wondering why you wasted your time.  Seeing the play done live will touch you profoundly. "},{"Title":"This Remains One of the Best Musicals of All Time","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance","Review":"  There is a reason why this show is still playing off-Broadway after over 30 years - it's just down-right brilliant. What makes the show work so well is it's intimacy, but it's intimacy only works when it's scaled for a small audience. Try and make this bigger, and it suddenly becomes pale, even silly at times.I was horrified to hear that an attempt was made to film this, and glad it was shelved for 5 years. Unfortunately, it has now been released, after being re-edited. Don't get me wrong - the cast is more than respectable; even NKOTB-ex, Joseph Mulrey McIntyre is sweet as Matt. Jonathon Morris as El Gallo is also a wonderful piece of casting, not to mention Joel Grey and Bernard Hughes as the feuding parents. Even the settings are wonderful, but at the end of the day, the magic of this show is created in a 300 seat theatre with 2 pianos and a harp...anything more is less.To add insult to injury, someone obviously got cold feet about the song Rape, and exchanged one of the show's highlights for a banal ditty. If you don't know The Fantasticks, please don't watch this film, because it will make you hate the musical. If you know the musical, you might want to see it out of curiosity.  "},{"Title":"The proper word is Rape","Date":"23 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance","Review":"  Rape. That's what the makers of this movie did to this charming off-Broadway classic. I'd heard terrible things about it when the movie came out so I didn't bother seeing it in the theater. When I saw it on the shelf in Blockbuster, I figured why not?Why, oh why, would have been the better question. Why was this movie ever made? I can't imagine anyone being pleased with the result. Fans of the play will be left shaking their heads, and anyone coming on this for the first time will be left wondering what all the fuss was about.Lifeless staging, stiff performances, actors who possess no charisma or charm...what were they thinking? The Forbidden Broadway troupe does a number about how Hollywood will always turn a Broadway hit into a bomb and this movie is a classic example. In some insane attempt to be politically correct they even replace the play's only showstopper with one of the most trite and inane bits of music ever filmed.Well, I turned it off after that. This movie simply wasn't worth wasting my time. The only reason I'm taking my time to write this review is on the off chance I can save some other fan of the play from the unpleasant experience that is this movie.0 stars. Go buy the OCR instead to get an idea of what this was supposed to be. "},{"Title":"Not perfect, but certainly much better than it has been given credit for","Date":"10 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance","Review":" The extremely long-running (41 years at the same off-Broadway theatre!!) musical The Fantasticks cannot possibly be filmed exactly as it was staged. The stage play uses absolutely no scenery, and often we are completely unaware exactly where the story is taking place. It inevitably changes when opened up for the movies and is given specific, brightly colored settings. So the film, like the 1972 film version of Man of La Mancha, will not please everyone.La Mancha received a disastrous reception as a film when it was released, but it did have a fairly decent run in movie theatres. No such luck with this film--M-G-M/UA let it sit on the shelf for FIVE YEARS, and even then released it to only a few theatres, where almost nobody saw it. It is currently making the rounds on cable, and upon seeing it, the cowardice of the studio becomes even more evident,especially when one realizes that the script, with one major exception, is an extremely faithful rendering of the stage work, and that unlike the film of Man of La Mancha, this does use legitimate singers in most of the roles. Apparently, the film was re-edited by Francis Ford Coppola, who proceeded to cut some of the songs, but if the re-edited version is the one currently making the rounds on cable, certainly did not cut as much as is thought (I have seen it onstage). It is true that Try To Remember, the show's one huge hit, is saved for the end of the film, but in the version I saw, it is sung complete, and not cut down.The musical victims are Plant a Radish (which I frankly don't remember), and the now very politically incorrect  It Depends On What You Pay .(the substitute, Abductions is completely inoffensive, but totally unmemorable as a song.) Every other song is included.The acting is pretty much what is required--no Oscar-worthy performances here, but Joel Grey and Brad Sullivan (who, mercifully, does very little singing) are hilarious are the two fathers. Jean Louisa Kelly, who first sang on screen in Mr. Holland's Opus, can act reasonably well, has an excellent singing voice, and has the right kind of sweetness (without ever becoming sticky) for the role. Former New Kid on the Block Joe McIntyre has a fairly decent voice, but he is not the greatest actor around.Jonathon Morris, unlike the original El Gallo-- Jerry Orbach-- has long hair and a British accent, and the right kind of sympathetic, gentle cynicism needed for the role. He does not have a rich, Robert Goulet-like voice, but it is still an attractive baritone, although, for some reason, he chooses to croon Try To Remember rather than sing out as if he were doing The Impossible Dream. Through digital technology, the singing has been done live rather than lip-synched, and as a result does not look stilted.The photography is gorgeous, full of bright colors perfect for a light musical fantasy, and the story is never allowed to become schmaltzy through bad direction.Those who would dismiss this film should give it a chance. This is probably as good a film as could be made of this musical. "},{"Title":"Hideous","Date":"10 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance","Review":"  A simple, sweet Broadway institution is turned into drivel in this bowdlerized version that is badly acted, over-orchestrated, and under- sung. Each song is abbreviated yet slowed in tempo from the stage version. Yet plenty of time is given to terrible production numbers and Vegas-like dancing. The song Plant a Radish is eliminated altogether. In the original stage version (I had the original cast album)Rita Gardner's voice soared while Kenneth Nelson and Jerry Orbach has strong voices. The films version offers puny voices. All the delicate harmonics are done away with as the tepid actorsstretch to hit notes. Terrible. Even solid Joel Grey is a zero here. So very disaapointing to ANYONE who has seen even a mediocre staging on this American classic.  "},{"Title":"An Excellent Adaptation with a minor flaw...","Date":"20 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance","Review":"  This is an excellent adaptation of the Off-Broadway masterpiece of the same name.  The singing is quite good, and the acting is superb. Unfortunately, one of the best songs from the original - Depends on What You Pay (or the Rape Ballet) - has been replaced by a rather flacid number that attempts to express what the original had, but takes the PC route. Ugh.Yes, this is indeed a cute film, but it is also very interesting (and a bit weird thanks to the freakshow crowd picked from legendary sideshows).  I would recommend it highly for those looking for a fun and romantic bit of entertainment. "},{"Title":"Cheeziest Movie in the Multiverse!  And I mean that in a *good* way!","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance","Review":"  Once upon a time there was a town.  Well, the town was actually two houses sitting right next to each other in the middle of a vast, empty prairie in the middle of nowhere.  In one house there lived an old man who also happened to the Necromancer Demon from the latest season of Buffy the Vampire Slayer and his daughter, and in the other house lived an old man and his son, who also happened to be *Joey Freaking McIntyre!!!*  SQUEEEEEAAALLLL!!!!!And the daughter and Joey McIntyre were in love, helped, in a manner much to complicated to go into here, by their fathers.  However, things weren't so perfect because the two lovers were Romantics in the classic sense, and they had a deep-seated need to get involved in some kind of adventure that would seal their love for each other.Just then, the Fantasticks came into town!The Fantasticks are the first characters we get to see in the movie and the minute they came onscreen, I knew that this was the greatest potential Midnight Movie on the planet.  They are a traveling band of circus freaks.  They are lead by this awesome bandit guy who sort of looks like what would happen if you spliced the genes of Jareth from Labyrinth and, so help me, Michael Bolton.  It is he who offers to set up the Romantic Adventure, which sort of backfires when he develops a crush on the daughter!  Bomp Bomp BOMMMMP!!!Here it is, people.  The number one most insanely delightfully cheesy movie ever to grace the eyeballs of a mere mortal.  Honestly, I want to rent out an old movie house and show this as a midnight movie just so it can become the next Rocky Horror.  It's certainly bizarre enough. "},{"Title":"Disappointing, but not Unexpected","Date":"14 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance","Review":" The Fantasticks is the longest running musical of all time and is amazing to see live. It is logical that at some point a movie version would be made, but the movie version being bad is not unexpected. The musical is strictly a stage play. The actors have to speak to the audience a lot and much of the set is seen in the abstract. Visualizing it and making it into a movie would be an extremely difficult and only good it if was done by a gifted director. RENT managed to do it pretty well, but even that didn't go perfectly. In this case, the director seems strictly average and he couldn't control it. They also took out some the best songs. The worst exclusions by far are taking out Plant a Reddish and truncating Try to Remember. Another one that bothered me was taking out the Rape Ballet, while I realize that the song sounds strange and might be awkward, but adding the horrendous the Adbduction Song is atrocious. They also decides to unnecessarily add new lyrics and take out great ones from songs, which makes the song seem less powerful from Beyond that Road and Metaphor. The one ingenious twist was adding in the carnival and if this were a better movie, it would have worked wonderfully, but it is not handled well. It ends up stilted and doesn't make much sense. It goes past the funny- because-it's-so-fake point and goes straight back to ludicrous and ridiculous. My biggest surprise was. How disappointing Joel Gray was. He is normally great, but his performance is forced is this. His dancing is also disjointed and looks untrained, even though it isn't, but is looks awful. Their El Gallo is my least favorite piece of casting i nthe entire film. It doesn't quite hit my personal ten worst miscast in film history, but it's close. The character has to be mysterious and sexy, but theirs is ugly, exaggerated and doesn't have a very good voice. Mortimer's part is also reduced and his monologue in the play about becoming the man who dies is one of my favorite parts and it is completely cut. The one good thing in this is Jean Louisa Kelly, she has the perfect blend of naivet and dreaminess is perfect. Her performance looks forced at times as well, but given the director I am not surprised and she still stays the best part of the play. Her version of Much More is wonderful. Her voice is clear and sweet, her dancing is flowy and smooth and this is one of the few times where I actually believed an actress was 16. Out of ten stars I give this 3 "}{"Title":"Teller doesn't talk! - David Patrick Kelly in Penn & Teller Get Killed","Date":"8 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance","Review":" Let's get the usual remarks out of the way1. I saw The Fantasticks on Sullivan Street. 2. I've played Hucklebee. 3. I love the show.The movie was OK. Not special; but OK. This will seem egotistical, but it's not John Corona & I were SO much better than Joel Grey and Brad Sullivan, and that's on a community theatre level. It's not that we were brilliant, but Brad Sullivan was so completely god-awful that Joel Grey (who at least is competent) was completely sandbagged. Why in the name of David Merrick would you cast someone in a major musical part who can't carry a tune in a bucket? I lamented that Plant a Radish was cut from the movie until I saw it as a DVD extra. Oh. That's why they cut it. The singing sucks.The young lovers were OK. Jonathon Morris acted wonderfully as El Gallo, danced well... and his singing was OK but breathy. None of the power associated with the role.The best ones in the movie were Barnard Hughes as Henry & Teller as Mortimer... so of course their parts were heavily trimmed, prompting the heading on this review. Apparently when Francis Ford Coppola was editing the movie, he was shocked and aghast at Teller speaking. Teller is now silent in the film.Some of the changes from play to film are clever, and there is some beautiful photography. But in a musical, without the voices you're sunk. "},{"Title":"Stop comparing it to the stage play","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance","Review":"  I am surprised how many negative reviews there are on this site. THE FANTASTICKS is a good movie. The director made somepoor choices, but it is still a delightful, worthwhile movie. Luckily, the wonderful songs Depends on What You Pay andPlant a Radish which were cut are available as extras on theDVD.  People need to stop comparing this to the stage production.Movie adaptations of musicals almost ALWAYS change things andpurests can always point out major differences. Cabaret, Grease, Sound of Music...the list goes on and on. The fact is, the movie needs to be assessed on its own. It is a different entity than the play. Yes, we all know and love the stage production. Can't you simply enjoy the movie for what it is? Frankly, I thought it captured the mood of the play quite well. It was filmed on the praire of Arizona and has a very nostalgic,theatrical feel to it. El Gallo is not the best, but Louisa and Matt are charming.Especially Louisa. She is beautiful. And it's got Joel Grey, for gosh sake. Anything he's in is worthseeing. So stop complaining. Don't grade on a scale of 1 to stageproduction.  Appreciate the movie for what it is. I know I did. It deserves more than a 5.4 weighted average (63% of users gaveit a 10). "},{"Title":"Very disappointing, although the songs remain great","Date":"17 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance","Review":"  Harry76 elsewhere here says exactly what I would say about this very bad movie adaptation of a terrific little musical, adapted from a French source by Rostand.  Make sure to read my comment in the messageboard about the cuts that Coppola made to Ritchie's original.  But I will state here as I did in my messageboard comment that you should save your money and instead go see a high school production of this.It can be full of magic. I will add that I suspect the late Michael Ritchie, who directed this, must be spinning in his grave at the horribly cut version that was released on DVD. "},{"Title":"First act is ridiculous, but El Gallo makes the movie great","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance","Review":"  The Fantasticks, in my opinion, starts slow with what seems like a trite tale of adolescent love.  Even as an adolescent myself, I can't relate to the young lovers torn apart by 'feuding fathers', who are really just pretending to do so, in order to arrange the marriage of their children. It's a cute concept, and it's very lost here. After hearing the original cast recording of this musical, I can understand why some reviewers here have said The Fantasticks was butchered on screen. With just a harp and a piano, there's the sort of nostalgic charm that Try To Remember creates when used as the opening number.  That's lost somewhat in the movie version, which leaves the 'first act' rather lifeless and idiotic; Jean Louisa Kelly is surprisingly bad, Joe McIntyre is totally unlikeable, and I have no love of any of the songs performed.  Even Joel Grey, who I loved in Cabaret, is unenjoyable. After 'This Plum Is Too Ripe', the story picks up somewhat.  There's more of a focus on El Gallo, the very mysterious and very charming carnival master who orchestrates the 'abduction' that brings the lovers together in the first half of the movie.  While he was a welcome spark of life in the boring first half, even he was subdued there as compared to the second part of the story, where he charms Kelly's character and seduces McIntyre into the bright lights of the sideshow in order to teach them both some valuable lessons. You could say that maybe I haven't learned what Louisa learns in the film, about the seductive effect of illusions and where it really leads you, but I can completely understand why she finds El Gallo wonderful, even as the tents of the sideshow are crumpling and lightning is striking at a snap of his fingers.  He's both captivating and cynical, a welcome bit of charm and life, and I would have welcomed the bigger role I've heard he has in the original stage show as the narrator throughout.  I'm surprised there aren't a thousand shrines to this wonderful performance, not to mention a cult of El Gallo fangirls. Only from his 'real' swordfight with McIntyre's character Matt onward did I become interested in this movie, but once I was hooked, it was addictive. The simple but wonderful monologue that begins 'There is a curious paradox...' nearly set me crying; I can't think of a single person who can't relate somehow to those words.  Even with my lack of love for the teenage leads, I enjoyed them finding each other again through my appreciation of that message. But to everyone who wants to see The Fantasticks buy the DVD version; some of the best scenes were cut, as well as The Rape Song, which was one of the few songs I genuinely enjoyed.  All the funniest moments from the beginning were cut, which was probably a large part of why it felt lifeless. And finally, the end of El Gallo's monologue, cut from the movie entirely (including the DVD) and beautiful in itself to make me whisper 'wow' a second time ...I do not know the answer, I only know it's true.  I hurt them for that reason, and myself, a little bit, too. "},{"Title":"A Great Disappointment","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance","Review":"  For those of you lucky enough to have seen a theatrical production of this incredible musical, the film version will stick out like a sore thumb, maybe even a broken thumb. It is simply terrible for many reasons, chief of which is the musical interpretation and deleted songs. The charm and excellence of the show's music is its pizzazz, its upbeat tempo. In this turgid film version, the music flows like molasses. Each song is performed in seemingly slow motion. The orchestration is also very poor. The theatrical version has a pianist and a harpist (who also plays percussion). In the movie version, there is a small orchestra which cannot come close to matching the vibrant quality of the theatrical version. And, amazing as it may sound, the director, Michael Ritchie (who ought to stay away from anything musical), decided to eliminate three of the show's songs as originally presented. He deletes Try to Remember from the beginning of the show, the awesome Rape Song, and the cute Plant a Radish. What in the world was he thinking about? You can get these songs and performances in the special features of the DVD, but not in the film itself. This is pure madness. The role of El Gallo is poorly cast. The kids, however, are cute and have good voices. But their efforts are lost in this very bad film. Just buy the original cast recording and avoid this film like the plague.  "},{"Title":"Charming","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance","Review":"  Not only am I a musical film lover, I'm old enough to rememberwhen The Fantasticks was a new off-Broadway musical. In 1995 Iread a news item in the Arizona Republic that the show was at lastbeing filmed in the Tucson area, and I eagerly awaited itsChristmas release. Nothing. Finally, last year it emerged fromoblivion, and I can't understand why it was ever shelved. It's notWest Side Story, but it's not Grease 2 either. Joel Grey is alwayswonderful. I love the imaginative editing, and I think JonathonMorris is the real star. Where has he been?  My only criticism is the deletion of the song Plant a Radish, whichhappily is included on the DVD version.  This is a rare, joyous entertainment and a welcome relief fromscreeching car chases and bloody machine-gun slaughter. Whydoes every movie have to be aimed at 14-year-old mentalities?Our taste has gone down the drain. As a kid I went to the movies 3times a week. The last time was to see The Titanic (1998). Most oftoday's films are garbage, and I can see that every night on TV for alot less money. "},{"Title":"Luminous Cinematography","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance","Review":"  I know this simple, but lovely, score by heart. As a play, it's a bubble balanced on the head of a pin - very fragile magic. This movie isn't the play; it's a movie. It's one of the most gorgeous musicals visually I've ever seen. One could argue with the staging of each and every one of the numbers, but none of them fail, and they're all interesting. I liked it very much for what it is. "},{"Title":"Old time musicals are back","Date":"7 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance","Review":"  I am just finishing this movie as i type this.  If you enjoy old time classic movies, like Oklahoma, Sound of Music and the sort you will love this movie.   Having performed in a stage version of The Fantasticks(as The Mute)I was so excited that the film version was finally going to be released.  I was not disapointed at all.  After wondering how the makers were going to pull of a film version, I see that they have, the cinematography is Beautiful.  Each actor was perfectly cast. If you have access to the DVD, than that is the way to go, the deleted songs are a must for any fan of this classic "},{"Title":"Don't know where I've been","Date":"4 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance","Review":"  While 'The Fantasticks' sounds slightly familiar, and I certainly recognize the song 'Try To Remember', this movie was a complete surprise.  I have heard of Joel Grey but none of the others.  So, without being jaded by expectations, my opinion is that this is a real nice, old-fashioned, fun, musical.  I thought Luisa sang beautifully in that Disney fashion, that Matt was not that good, and I was mesmerized by El Gallo.  The story has a funny premise that intertwines innocence with a haunted surreal quaility.  The fathers' characters were good, but incidental, although I appreciated their first number about 'saying NO to kids'.  The carnival setting and Jonathon Morris conveyed the surreal, while the two kids conveyed the innocence.  I wish I had seen the stage show, if this is viewed as a lesser product. And, I'll be watching for Jonathon Morris in future productions.  I recommend this highly as wholesome family fare and will add it to my collection at some point soon. "},{"Title":"A noble attempt","Date":"4 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance","Review":"  No film could completely capture the magic of the stage version, but this one comes as close as anyone could. It's still charming, magical, and romantic, and despite some small missteps, it's worth seeing. The DVD contains the songs that didn't make it into the final cut. "}{"Title":"For the exquisitely wounded","Date":"2 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance","Review":"  I've known for a long time that the wonderful song Try To Remember came from this long-running show, but otherwise didn't know anything about the plot or other songs.  I read one review of this movie version which was positive, but somehow my expectations were limited.  After sitting through the usual bombastic trailers I was utterly charmed from the first scene on. The setting, sets, carnival lighting, characters and actors, I loved it all. It's very simple, but with a few twists.  You have to buy into it in the way only exquisitely wounded souls can, and I did.  Not as grand as the Sound of Music, but in the same mold.  Not as dark as Francis Ford Coppola's One From The Heart, but there is a sheathed knife here.  The boy-girl story may be fairly shallow, but the surreal imagery of this film is haunting.  If it's been moderately cut from the original non-released version, I would say some more could and should have been left in.  Not for everyone, but almost. It's too bad that only a few people will see this film in very limited release.  This is cinema that adds something to your life. "},{"Title":"Old fashioned romantic, fun Hollywood musical.","Date":"26 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance","Review":"  I loved this movie.  It was happy, upbeat and charming.  Great sets and costumes.  The music was beautiful and the singing was top quality. Any fans of the long-running play should enjoy it.  Please go see this film.  If is does well, maybe we will see more new musicals, a genre that has been ignored recently. "},{"Title":"Beautiful music","Date":"24 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance","Review":"  Despite the fact that the popular notion is that everyone hates musicals and wouldn't be caught dead going to see one, somehow this little gem got made, and Michael Richie deserves enormous credit for bringing what most would have considered unfilmable to the screen with great imagination.  In addition, the score, which previously has mostly been heard on piano, has been beautifully translated to orchestra and sung quite well by all.After sitting on the shelf for five years, it's at last in the theaters, and I urge anyone who enjoys this nearly extinct format to rush out and see it as soon as it arrives, because seeing it in Panavision on a big screen is well worth it.  I was thoroughly enchanted and am going to see it again.  I would love to have the CD as well, though of course United Artists does not seem to want to make any money off this film.  That it was released at all apparently is something of a miracle. "},{"Title":"A brilliant and faithful cinematic adaptation of a classic stage musical.","Date":"7 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance","Review":"  The Fantasticks is one of those theatrical pieces that works so perfectly on stage that it seems impossible to adapt to the screen.  I attended a pre-release screening, and can happily report that director Michael Ritchie has beautifully accomplished the near impossible feat, translating the simple  heartwarming stage musical into a simply stylized film musical while retaining all of its charm.The show on stage is performed without sets and with a lot of poetic suggestion from the script and imagination from the audience.  On film it is not exactly transported to reality, but would more accurately be described as surrealistic, which fits the musical format perfectly. The film is set in the 1920s, a relatively more innocent time, at least in our memories, and thus makes the innocence and naivete of the young lovers easily palatable. The characters, let by Joel Gray as one of the fathers, live in the middle of a barren desert, their houses situated side by side and separated by a white picket fence.  A mysterious carnival sets up shop nearby, run by magician/illusionist El Gallo, whom the fathers hire to arrange an abduction that will bring their children together.  The story plays itself out pretty much the same as on stage (the original writers were wisely retained), and due to its strange, surrealistic quality it all makes sense in a dream-like way, even when the characters break into song.All but one of the beautiful songs are in the film--the Plant a Radish song is gone, but is not really missed, as it didn't advance the story that much.  The Rape Ballet song from the original version of the show has been changed to a more politically correct similar song that didn't use such an ugly word as rape but serves the same purpose.  (I'm told that several years ago the original song had been replaced by this one in the stage show as well, though I'm not certain. The show has been playing Off-Broadway for 40 years.)  Perhaps the most well-known song from the show, Try to Remember is not sung at the beginning as on stage, but rather at the very end, which is quite fitting for the film as selected clips of the preceding film are intercut like faded memories.  The Metaphor song is cleverly staged at the carnival in front of a silent film of romantic scenes. Soon It's Gonna Rain is sung under a big tree with El Gallo hiding in the branches while sprinkling glittering rain onto the love-struck couple, and performers from the carnival hiding in the bushes providing vocal accompaniment--a skillful melding of the theatrical and cinematic.The vocals of the actors are all superb.  Musical arrangements which where just a piano and harp on stage are now fully orchestrated, but not overdone and work well.  Finally, in keeping with the theatrical spirit of the piece, the cast actually does a curtain call from the carnival stage during the end credits.Theatre purists should not be wary of this film.  Fans of the show should not be disappointed as long as they are not expecting a mere filmed stageplay.  Understandably, it is not really a commercial picture to compete with the special effects action flicks popular with the coveted teen audiences, so it will just have a limited theatrical release in big city art houses.  In fact, the picture was film five years ago but languished on the shelf as a difficult-to-market film.  Thankfully it will finally introduce millions of non-theatregoers to the wonderful story and songs, and will probably do most business on home video among traditional musical lovers. One hopes it will get a DVD release to take advantage of the wonderful score and the ability to search for favorite songs at random.See The Fantasticks.  Especially if you are an adult.  It will remind you of what it was like to be young and innocent.  You will want to revisit that feeling over and over again. As this work reminds us, that innocence is something none of us realize we have until we have lost it.  There's no other way to know it.  Kind of bittersweet, but a paradox of life. "},{"Title":"If you haven't seen it, don't judge it!","Date":"16 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance","Review":"  I have read all these comments that are solely talking about the stage production. My suspicion is that none of these people have actually seen the movie.Before judging it as not needed, you should really see it. It's a wonderful adaptation of a show that I NEVER NEVER  thought could be filmed. When the concept of the traveling carnival is described, it sounds bad...but it works and it works well.Joel Grey is wonderful. Jean Louisa Kelly is surprisingly luminous. Jonathan Morris takes some getting used to but is good. The only performance I don't like is Joey  McIntyre's...and I had hoped for more since he is primarily known as a singer.The reason it hasn't been released so far is because the studio didn't know how to market it. This is what I don't understand as millions upon millions of people have seen and loved the stage production...those people would most likely go. The title itself is famous and, even releasing it in an art house would bring in some money.It is not by any means awful. And it is not by any means the best musical movie to ever come down the pike. It's just pleasant...and that's all that a movie should be. "},{"Title":"Be sure to watch the DVD bonus material in this magical musical.","Date":"5 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance","Review":" Highly recommended to anyone who enjoys musicals, I found it delightful. Thought the filmmakers did a smart and effective translation of the minimalist stage show into a motion picture. The cast of little knowns (plus Joel Gray) are excellent, the musical arrangements, production design and cinematography are all top notch, despite a limited budget.This is one DVD where you've got to watch the deleted material. The film was extensively re-edited for DVD release, and the cut material is wonderful, including a couple of songs and funny and creative dialog scenes. I'd love to know more about why it wasn't released theatrically in 1995 and am curious about the extensive re-editing done for the DVD in 2000. It appears to me that besides shortening the film, the editing significantly cut the part of El Gallo, who I'd guess was too dominant in the original cut, thus to put more focus on the young lovers. "},{"Title":"Why DID the kids put beans in their ears?","Date":"4 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance","Review":" When my roommate and I put this DVD into the DVD player, we were not expecting much, due to a review on IMDb that said it was appropriate for small pre-teen girls. This review also claimed that the movie gave you an image of love without all the sex.We would have to disagree.A lot.Based on all of the bawdy carnival humour related to rape, and breasts, not to mention the beans in the ears and the jam on the cats.OH! And the drugging and torture of our beloved protagonist Joe McIntyre. Neither of us have seen the play, so imagine our confusion when the poor boy wakes up in the middle of the night, is lured across a field by a giant glowing light, slipped a roofie by a drag queen, then beaten and tortured repeatedly while his love, and some skeazy carnival owner taunt him from a gondola. FAKEY FAKER! anyone? We especially appreciated the following songs Never Say No For the lines Why did the kids pour jam on the cat and Why did the kids put beans in their ears these made little if not no sense to us.It Depends on What You Pay For it's casual throwing around of the terms rape, and abduction.Soon It's Gonna Rain For the spaced out expression of Joe McIntyre's face, as well as the strange blindfolded foreplay near the end of the tune.Round and Round For the repeated beatings and inexplicable ah-ah-ah-ing from the heroine.We would also like to state for the record that it is a shame that the song Plant A Radish was cut, and not included in the final draft of the film because clearly with children you never know until the seed is fully grown, but at least with beans you can send 'em back.We watched the movie on repeat for three hours reliving the best moments, WITHOUT the use of chemical enhancers... if you get our drift. "},{"Title":"Very Good film, lush photography, cheesy- but that is why its good!","Date":"10 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance","Review":" They really don't make many films like this anymore. I have a degree in Art History, and have studied films. I really enjoyed The Fantasticks on both visual art and personal enjoyment! I can't say that I love the music, it is not BAD, but not my favorite style either. However, the film IS A MUSICAL and it is working well with the genre. This reminds me of the films I'd watch with my grandmother. We had so much fun! Joe was a perfect choice for the lead male, and the set really created the visual feeling of a stage production, but adapted perfectly for the film version! I was not expecting much, but was impressed! This is a movie for you if you love Joe McIntyre, or classical musical films, like the Sound of Music. If you are not a fan of traditional musicals, this is not for you. Be aware that this musical is somewhat cheesey but that is one of the wonderful things about it! I give a standing ovation to the entire cast! "},{"Title":"Well done Jonathon!","Date":"6 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance","Review":" There are so many negative comments here - but here is one from someone who has never seen the original Fantasticks movie. I'm from the UK and so I knew Jonathon Morris (El Gallo) long before I saw this movie. He was the star of a sitcom called Bread when I was a kid and was also presenting a kids game show The Movie Game. I had a huge crush on him in my teens!! Then he went to the US, did the Fantasticks and starred in the stage show - which I saw in London. This movie may not be exactly the same as the original so I can see why fans of the original might be disappointed, but surely it is worthy of credit in its own right? Here in the UK we are so proud of Jonathon for all he's achieved!! I think he's done a brilliant job! "},{"Title":"Adorable movie!!10 for cuteness.. about and 8.5 for everything else!!!","Date":"25 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Musical, Romance","Review":"  I will admit that the reason I saw this movie was because of Joe Mcintyre because I have been a fan of his since NKOTB. I honestly didn't know what to expect because this movie was shelved for 5 years and the studio didn't want it released.... welll here is my unbiased opinion... This movie is very cute!! it is the perfect movie for little girls that are in their pre-teens or even teenagers. it shows how young love blooms without all the sex, it shows it in it's innocence as it should be. The singing was very good and the songs and dancing were very well done. This movie is not the best musical ever made but if you are in the mood to see something cute, definitely see it! it is along the lines of Annie. Joe Mcintyre was very good, cute as the boy who is in puppy love with his next door neighbour. He lost his Boston accent and sang very well. Jean Kelly was incredible and has a great voice. She should be really more famous then she is!! The fathers were funny and also cute. CUTE CUTE CUTE. The movie is just cute. Go see it and you will leave with a smile!!  "}]