[{"Title":"This movie is a FEAST for the Eyes and Soul!","Date":"24 April 2005","Score":"28 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" After watching The Grass Harp I felt I had just experienced a feast! If you are tired of the McDonald's diet of recent Hollywood formula movies than you will welcome this gourmet quality film! Based on Southern writer Truman Capote's boyhood, the story reveals the nuances of small town life with humor and wit. The lush visuals and lyric pace create a leisure mood befitting the 1930's when life was simpler. The golden sepia tones of the scenes subtly transport us into the memories of Collin, through whose eyes the story is told. The Southern ambiance, social graces and simple pastimes of a bygone era are beautifully recreated in the world surrounding the characters. I love the barbershop scenes, where locals gather to socialize and get the latest news. You just want to hang out in the shop and shoot the breeze with Walter Matthau and Roddy McDowell. Joe Don Baker is the perfect southern sheriff and his sidekick Ralph (a rooster) adds a hilarious touch of eccentricity to his tough good-old boy demeanor. Charles Durning is hilarious as a self-righteous preacher that can't wait to kick Mary Steenbergen and her brood of a dozen kids out of town. Piper Laurie is the heart and soul of the movie as Dolly Talbo. The timid and ethereal Dolly has been living under the thumb of her overbearing sister (Sissy Spacek) but manages to create a unique life of meaning for herself. Edward Furlong plays their teen nephew Collin who comes to live with them. Dolly and her housekeeper (Nell Carter) take Collin under their wing and try to help him adjust to life in this small southern town. As Dolly advises Collin about the girl he has a crush on, she too falls in love for the first time in her life. Piper Laurie glows like a young girl around the young-at-heart Judge Cool (Walter Matthau). Their scenes together are sweet and heartbreaking. The movie is beautiful, both visually and emotionally. It is funny, sad, and touching. Don't rush this viewing. Sit down with a glass of wine and savor. The Grass Harp is a feast for the eyes and soul! "},{"Title":"An Undiscovered Gem full of Wonderful Surprises and Great Performances","Date":"24 April 2005","Score":"21 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" Set in the 30's, The Grass Harp is a story about an orphan boy who is sent to live with his eccentric aunts. The story follows the plight of social outcasts with humor and insight. On the surface this story is about love and our connections to others - both living and dead. Yet underneath run themes of social injustice, racial inequality, religion, morals and the struggles of social conformity vs. individual expression - but the film never preaches. It just reveals. Director Charles Matthau accomplished the near-impossible task of adapting Truman Capote's classic book into a beautiful rendered film. Wisely, he approached this multi-layered story with a light touch, allowing the material and talent to shine. Matthau skillfully captures a myriad of complex relationships and emotions, allowing the characters to live and breathe without placing judgment on who they are. The boy's coming-of-age story is entertaining, humorous and poignant. As the film unfolds, Collin encounters a diverse group of characters, from which he gains valuable insights about life. Now an adult he looks back (as the narrator) reflecting on this formative time. Each character is uniquely distinct and true-to-life. The entire all-star cast is at the top of their game. This is the best performance of Piper Laurie's career. She is delicate and mesmerizing as the fragile Dolly Talbo. Her scenes with Spacey and Matthau will break your heart. For those of you who have only seen Walter Matthau in grumpy curmudgeon roles, you are in for a treat! Matthau is wonderful as a Judge Cool, a Southern gentleman struggling to find meaning in his retirement years. As Piper Laurie's love interest he is tender and charming yet dignified. A man of integrity and honor, Judge Cool is the only accepted towns person with compassion for the outcasts.As a collective, the ensemble cast captures the social pecking order with uncanny accuracy. Jon Don Baker is great as the Sheriff, Nell Carter is a hoot as the eccentric housekeeper and Sissy Spacek is an amazing blend of steely resolve masking her conflicted feelings of vulnerability and insecurity. Roddy McDowell is the delightfully sarcastic barber. Jack Lemmon and Mary Steenbergen are great fun as cons on the run. Mary as a traveling cowgirl evangelist out to save souls - never mind that she is a single- mother of fourteen kids&#133;all by different fathers! She pulls it off with comic charm and sad poignancy. Lemmon is a chemical engineer (read quack potions salesman) with a scheme to get his hands on Dolly's herbal potion. Even though both Lemmon and Steenbergen are devious cons looking to score, they too are well-developed characters and oh-so-human in their desperate schemes to survive the Great Depression. There is also one of the most delightful casts of furry creatures ever assembled a host of cats, dogs, fish, and a scene-stealing Rooster named Ralph. It looked to me like Ralph was huffing around wishing he had more lines. I'd be all for him getting his own sequel. "},{"Title":"Shamefully overlooked on its first release.","Date":"10 April 1999","Score":"19 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  I was really surprised that The Grass Harp turned out to be the great film that it is.  The book by Truman Capote is one of my favourites and I didn't think that it would work as a film.It has been cast perfectly with Sissy Spacek and Piper Laurie beautifully bringing to life the Talbo sister's Verena and Dolly respectively.  Special mention too should be given to Walter Matthau, Jack Lemmon & Roddy McDowall. All the cast are really quite terrific.Great attention has been made to period detail and the film has a glorious soundtrack.Full marks to the screen writers who have adapted the spirit of Capote's novel.  And last but not least to Charles Matthau for his sensitive direction.  A must see film shamefully overlooked on its first release. "},{"Title":"Marvelous adaptation with magnificent performances.","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"15 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  This is a technically perfect adaptation of Capote's stunning story based upon partially on his own experiences.  Laurie is all things Dolly should be ethereal, giddy, of understated intelligence, committed, etc.  Spacek had to stretch to play the cold-hearted sister, but that's what great actors do.  It is leisurely paced, but that's totally in keeping with the story.  Music, sets, and all are done with precision and with plenty of soul.  Matthau and Lemmon have no scenes together, and for a change, Matthau plays the ethically superior character.  Edward Furlong is perfect as the story's protagonist, and Mary Steenburgen steals each scene in which she appears. I recommend this movie highly to all who enjoy character development and Southern-US Americana. "},{"Title":"A bit too twee","Date":"8 January 2006","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" An all-star cast, (Sissy Spacek, Piper Laurie, Walter Matthau, Jack Lemmon, Mary Steenburgen), makes this screen version of Truman Capote's novel watchable, and then some. But it's all too whimsical and twee to really work. It's directed by Walter Matthau's son Charles and he seems content to let the material speak for itself. It's straightforward and literal and unexciting. It's like something the Reader's Digest might have produced. However unlikely Truman Capote's source material there was poetry in almost every line. That's missing here despite the quaint Southern Gothic narration, and none of the cast are at their best or anything approaching it. Without anything like direction from Matthau they simply go through the motions. Still, it's a decent yarn and it tugs at the heartstrings and there you have it. "},{"Title":"Truman Capote's Vision Comes to Life...Exquisitely!","Date":"24 April 2005","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" A wonderful adaptation of a favorite book. The casting is fun and unexpected and once you see the film it is hard to imagine anyone else in the roles - they just ARE the characters.The style and tone of the directing are pitch-perfect. The period and setting were captured in every detail. The cinematography looks like a painting and the score is hauntingly beautiful.The exquisite performances make you forget you are watching world class famous stars. They just crawl inside the skin of the characters and bring them to life. Mr. Capote would have loved it.The movie made me laugh and made me cry. I wish the DVD had deleted scenes and extras because I was left wanting more.I am off to buy the soundtrack. "},{"Title":"A Touching Drama From Truman Capote","Date":"5 August 2005","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" THE GRASS HARP was a novel by Truman Capote, based (in part) on his a youth, living with a pair of aunts in a southern town. Here his narrator hero is orphaned at an early age, and he is raised by his father's cousins (Sissy Spacek and Piper Laurie). Spacek is the actual head of the family, running four prosperous businesses in the small town, such as the town department store and town hotel (complete with Presidential suite). She is a humorless, hard working woman, as opposed to her sister, who is a loving, free spirited type, who (with her friend and assistant (Nell Carter) collects herbs for a patent medicine remedy for dropsy. Edwin Furlong (and, earlier, Grayson Frick) play the hero of the film, Collin (the narration is by Boyd Gaines). The hero quickly finds himself in love with Laurie, and just respectful towards Spacek. As he grows up, he finds himself defending Laurie's reputation (she is seen as quite eccentric). The town people also fear Spacek, but rather openly dislike her.Walter Matthau is retired Judge Cool, a sensible elderly man who good people consider a nut (he openly admits that there was nothing wrong with a true love affair between a white man and an African-American woman which led to the white man being run out of town). Matthau is having problems in his home with an unsympathetic grown son and the son's wife. Matthau's wife has died years before. Others in this well cast film include Jack Lemmon as a Dr. Ritt from Chicago, whom Spacek brings back home - and whom accidentally sets in motion the delayed rebellion of Laurie and the others against Spacek's stiff and respectable regime. Joe Don Baker plays the local chicken rancher/part-time sheriff (who hates having to cow-tow to Spacek). Charles Durning is the local minister, who is out for only respectable religious leaders (with Bonnie Bartlett as his equally stuffy wife). Mary Steenburgen is the religious threat - an unmarried mother of twelve who has a mobile revival tent in the back country, but whom is pretty likable for all one's questions about her revivalism. Sean Patrick Flannery is Riley, a young man who lives unconventionally, but whom turns out to be a pretty good friend to Collin. Roddy McDowall (in one of his last roles) plays Amos, the local barber.Basically Capote uses his characters to punch holes in what nice, conventional small town people believe is proper behavior. Spacek is the leader of these people, who believe in organized Christianity, hard work and business, and straight-laced morality. Laurie, Matthau, Carter, Flannery, Steenburgen, and Furlong are all believers in doing what is natural, and from the heart. So as they begin working together they become a model and a danger for the nice people. But as the tale progresses, the nice people find that what they believe in does not emotionally satisfy them. Indeed Spacek suffers several losses in the course of the film that she never expected.Charles Matthau, Walter's son, directed this (very nicely - it is one of the best ensemble movies of recent years). It was also a rarity in the 1990s decade of Matthau-Lemmon films. Whereas GRUMPY OLD MEN, GRUMPIER OLD MEN, OUT TO SEA, and THE ODD COUPLE II were all comedies, this film is dramatic and the two actors only shared one scene (with Roddy McDowall in his barber shop) in the film. Also, Lemmon's character is less likable than usual in this film. The title, by the way, refers to a statement by Laurie's character about how the grass gives off a music like a harp, which is actually the voices of all the people who ever inhabited the earth. It becomes a running metaphor in the film up to the conclusion. "},{"Title":"Superb gentle story","Date":"26 July 2005","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" Directed by Walter Mathau's son Walter, this is a superb adaptation of on one of Truman Capote's best stories about how Southern misfits in the 1930's help each other survive. Both Piper Laurie and Sissy Spacek, as the wealthy Talbo sisters, are perfectly cast and neither has ever been better. Walther Mathau, under his son's direction, in his most sympathetic roles, plays a retired judge. Every member of the spectacular cast is completely understandable Jack Lemon and Mary Steenburgen are a pair of hilarious but unrelated con-artists. Nell Carter is the Talbo sister's very feisty cook, Joe Don Baker is the bumbling sheriff, Charles During the preacher, and Roddy McDowall is the gossipy barber. Look for Doris Roberts (Ray Romano's 'mom') as Mrs. Richards and for the director himself, Charles Mathau, as a barbershop regular. "},{"Title":"A delightful movie.","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  A delightful movie from Truman Capote's memoir of his boyhood in the South. It is both tender and poignant.  The acting is excellent. Piper Laurie as the orphan's free-spirited aunt is superb.  Sissey Spacek as the other aunt is excellent. The atmosphere of that time, comes alive.  A worthwhile movie for those with a tender heart.   "},{"Title":"Tears at bedtime","Date":"12 May 1999","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  I missed this film on it's theatrical release, (if it had one) - but saw it on video. Ensemble acting at its very best. Piper Laurie excellent in her portrayal of the beautiful and wistful Dolly. Expert support from Matthau, Lemon, Spacek and Durning. Top marks to my hero Roddy. This film had a wonderful story which left me with tears in my eyes at the end. You can keep your action adventure films. Give me a story everyday. "}{"Title":"Those Talbo Sisters","Date":"16 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" Young director Charles Matthau assembled a fine cast in The Grass Harp, a film based on young Truman Capote's memoirs of living and growing up in small town Alabama in the Thirties and Forties. I have no doubt that his father who has a supporting role here persuaded a whole load of his friends to take roles in this. Nothing wrong with a little nepotism in a good cause because a beautiful film was the result.Young Grayson Fricke goes to live with a pair of spinster aunts, Piper Laurie and Sissy Spacek and their maid Nell Carter after being orphaned around the age of 10. He grows up to be Edward Furlong and it is their eyes that follow the action we see in The Grass Harp.The film concentrates on a certain summer when Piper Laurie who is the kind, loving, and somewhat eccentric aunt has invented a special tonic that Sissy Spacek who lives only for the money she hoards tries to get her to market it. Encouraging her in this is Jack Lemmon a fancy conman from Chicago. Rebelling against the pressure, Laurie goes to live in an old tree-house and Furlong, Carter and a motley crew of others join her. This kind of behavior just ain't tolerated in Alabama even now, let alone back then. What happens is the rest of the story.Although this is listed as a Lemmon-Matthau collaboration, in point of fact the leads here are Spacek, Laurie, and Furlong. Both of these guys have some memorable supporting roles with Matthau as a retired judge and Lemmon the conman. They have one scene in Roddy McDowall's barbershop where Matthau is correctly sizing Lemmon up for what he is. This is the only time I recall Lemmon playing a villain except for an early live television broadcast where he was John Wilkes Booth.Mary Steenburgen is truly special here. She plays a woman of easy virtue who's been pumping babies out for over a decade. She comes to town as a revival preacher and the good folks are upset that such a person is doing the Lord's work. The local minister Charles Durning actually has sheriff Joe Don Baker confiscate the love offerings. Seems like Baker gets a lot of dirty jobs as sheriff.Remember this is based on Truman Capote's memoirs and there is a gay subtext here. Sean Patrick Flannery plays the local bad boy who more than anything else the budding gay Furlong wants to be friends with. He's not quite understanding his feelings and small town Alabama at that time he's not got any place to go for guidance. When Steenburgen and Flannery become an item, Furlong is at first resentful. And hopefully Flannery is the last in a long list of men for Steenburgen, but I kind of doubt it.You can tell by the cast you're in for something special in The Grass Harp. "},{"Title":"Nice Story","Date":"4 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" The Grass Harp (1995) will remind a lot of viewers of To Kill a Mockingbird. Not a huge surprise given that both stories involve Truman Capote's childhood (Harper Lee based the Dill Harris character on Capote). Both films also use small Alabama towns for their locations. Capote loosely based his 1951 The Grass Harp novella on the eccentric maiden cousins of his childhood. For the film Piper Laurie plays good Aunt Dolly and Sissy Spacek bad Aunt Verena (who is even less likable than Pollyanna's Aunt Polly). Spacek gets to do something out of character and nicely underplays this one. Laurie gets to have even more fun and turns in a joyful performance. She is a little too good to be true but Laurie manages to sell the character with a remarkable performance. In the 1950's Laurie was an extremely pretty (and hot) young starlet but it is obvious from this and her performance in Carrie (playing Spacek's mother) that there was a lot of substance in that pretty package. Edward Furlong (best know as John Conner in Terminator 2) avoids the Pollyanna trap and is pretty easy to take. The coming-of-age side of the story works quite well. The Grass Harp is a bit underrated, probably because the screenplay fails to capture the lyrical quality of Capote's storytelling, giving the viewer a surfeit of sentimentality compounded by a too sweet score. The title is a reference to the musical sound of blowing grass, a metaphor about intergenerational connections and the primary theme of the story. The film would have benefited from a little more restraint. This is not a fatal flaw but the film would have been more powerful with Mockingbird's toned down production design and less colorful characters; maybe even going so far as to release it in black and white. Those looking for action adventure and hot romance should look elsewhere. But there are a lot of Mockingbird fans out there who should really enjoy The Grass Harp. Then again, what do I know? I'm only a child. "},{"Title":"A surprisingly wonderful movie","Date":"30 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" If you're looking for an action-packed movie you probably won't enjoy this beautiful piece of film-making. You absolutely have to change gears to appreciate the wonderful and sensitive story it tells. Watching this movie is very much like watching an extended episode of The Waltons, right down to the narration and beautiful music. Good performances by all, and I especially enjoyed Piper Laurie's portrayal of sensitive and delicate Dolly Talbo, who lives under the thumb of her younger sister, played by Sissy Spacek. Ironically, Piper Laurie played Spacek's mother 19 years earlier in Carrie. The movie tells a tale of life and love in a small Southern town, and days gone by.Having said that, the one criticism I have of the movie is that I didn't really CARE about the characters. I enjoyed very much watching the characters interact, and being reminded of life in a world that has almost completely disappeared. But I was more amused by them than passionate about them.While this film may not be perfect, it's a wonderful movie; more intelligent than at least 90% of what comes out of Hollywood. As another reviewer suggested, if you have a couple of hours of quiet time, sit down with a glass of wine and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Spoiler?  Hints of Homosexuality","Date":"21 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" This was a sweet movie which tells yet another slant of the autobiographical notes of Truman Capote's life, some of which is reminiscent of his novel Other Voices, Other Rooms. In both works, there are women raising a young, delicate boy (the young Truman, no doubt), young girls interested in the boy who only has a passing curiosity about them, and homosexual men (the barber in this movie, honey) who color the Southern landscape with just another shade of differentness. Love is a chain, and Capote seems always to be searching for the ties of that chain and whether, in the end, his life could have a brighter less melodramatic tone which could have spared him so much of the sadness his works and his real life seem to reflect as he searched for love and acceptance on the fringes of society and never seemed to really have found it. "},{"Title":"Provides a public service by employing some great actors and actresses","Date":"2 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" The plot outline is 100 per cent accurate, but by the time you get to the end of the movie, you may not care. Although the cast was stellar and the book was great, it did not translate to the movie. As much as I tried, I could not work up any feelings for the characters. I should have known something bad was afoot when I heard the infamous Narrative Voice-over. Narrative voice-overs, sometimes known as idiot lectures, are usually a sign that the director does not trust the film by itself to advance its own storyline, and with such a stellar cast, this should have told me to hit the stop button way before the end of the film. I was truly amazed that a cast that includes Lemmon, Matthau, Spacek, McDowell, and several great sword carriers falls on its face. Read my other reviews; I love dogs, but this mutt, despite its pedigree, had to be put down. "},{"Title":"A movie to see","Date":"30 August 1998","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  This was one of my favorite movies.  The story is intriguing, and you actually feel for the different characters.  The actors do well, and the story is thougtful.  A good movie for a rainy day. "},{"Title":"There's music among these weeds.","Date":"14 March 2013","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" It is certainly very appropriate that Truman Capote's sweet story of a man remembering his youth, raised by eccentric distant cousins and the adventures he shared with one of them, was musicalized on Broadway for a sadly short time in 1971. This movie sings with music, and if you watch this movie then listen to the rare cast album of that show (starring Barbara Cook), you may swear that you heard the songs in this movie, even if it is not a musical.That is because Capote's story contains some memorable lines that were utilized both in that show's songs and this screenplay. Out voices will be heard through the grass when we're dead, Walter Matthau says here, referring to the winds roaming through the tall blades of grass in the many fields of Verena and Dolly Talbot's large farm. Dolly is played by the wonderful Piper Laurie, and is the heart and soul of this story. Everybody who encounters her can't help but fall under her spell. Ironically, Sissy Spacek (well remembered as the title role in Carrie where Laurie played her psychotic mother) plays her younger sister, a stern woman who like The Wizard of Oz's Miss Gulch owns half the county and is intent on running the rest of it. Matthau is a retired judge who befriends Laurie and her young distant cousin ( ) who falls under Dolly's spell as well as the maid's (Nell Carter), a spunky but loving black woman who claims she's Indian. (It should be noted that she is referring to Native American Indian, but never refers to herself as such.) Spacek remains a distant outsider for most of the story until she is defrauded by a big city conman (Jack Lemmon) and must face the truth about herself. Lemmon and Matthau only share one brief scene (in a barber shop, run by Roddy McDowall) which seems to be included only to have them together as their characters really are not connected. Charles Durning is delightful as the town's comical minister who keeps putting his foot in his mouth more than the words of God in his parishioner's ears. The spirituality of the story is provided by Laurie and a poor evangelist with 15 children played by Mary Steenburgen. If you listen to the Broadway cast album, check out Karen Morrow's scene-stealing rousing rival meeting production number for a further insight to this character's story. As a gossipy member of the community, Doris Roberts has a mostly silent part.While the ensemble nature of this film makes it a must see, it is Laurie's performance that holds this together like glue. This film only had a brief release and was forgotten by the time it went to video and award season came out. It is a beautiful reflection of a simple life that, along with The Secret Life of Bees and Man in the Moon, reflects the gentility of rural life while being honest about humanity. "},{"Title":"Good acting...  but something was missing","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" With an amazing cast this movie couldn't go wrong. Good acting, actually, great acting, and that's what keep me glued to the set, but for me, something was missing. I didn't connect with the story, and I know that's what brought these great actors together. I'm sorry, but I think this going against the grain thing is wearing thin. Why didn't they just leave town and sell the medicine on their own? I guess I'm too ignorant to understand the symbolism of the tree fort. If I had been a towns-person in this film I wouldn't be on the side of crabby sister Sissy, trying to chase them out of the tree, but I would be someone sitting at home saying, why in the hell are they up there? I gave it a 6. "},{"Title":"...give me excess of it ...","Date":"18 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" I'm really pleased to be able to endorse the majority of positive reviews that have been posted here on IMDb. I have to confess complete ignorance of the film - in fact when I stumbled on the DVD in a Charity Shop I assumed it was a TV production that either hadn't been transmitted in the UK or that I had missed. I did, of course, know the novel by Truman Capote and I knew that a musical adaptation had played off Broadway several years ago but that was all I knew. The temptation is to link it to another, even finer film, To Kill A Mockingbird, because by now everyone knows that Capote and Harper Lee were childhood friends and that Lee based the character Dill on Capote, who spent a couple of summers in her home town when they were children, staying with an aunt and in Harp the young protagonist similarly goes to stay with two aunts after his mother dies prematurely, but it would be both foolish and wrong to compare the two. Whilst both look back fondly on idealized childhoods in Southern towns the resemblance begins and ends there. There is much more of an ensemble atmosphere in Harp and inch- perfect casting. After being little more than decorative in a string of Universal tits-and-sand entries (The Prince Who Was A Thief etc) Piper Laurie was more or less written off but I for one considered she delivered a career-best performance in The Hustler and how wrong I was. Back in 1961 her performance, towering though it was, was brittle and sharp-edged yet in Harp she unleashes a genuine warmth and humanity, completely stealing the film from under the noses of some of the best actors who ever came down the pike, not least Walter Matthau, cast as her late-blooming beau. If you've left the child in you behind best give this one a miss; if you've mislaid the heart in you don't even google it. "},{"Title":"Spacek & Laurie are classic act.","Date":"15 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  Terrific movie, good family entertainment.  Matthau & Lemmon are good too but Sissy and Piper carry the day! "}{"Title":"Ehhhh...","Date":"25 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  This film has a great cast and a great story, unfortunately it is sparse. The acting is so-so. Stand-out performances include Nell Carter and Sissy Spacek. The directing is less than average, and the movie is slow and rambling. Still, there is a little bit of a charming quality to it. I have never read Truman Capote's book, so I can't say if it is a good adaption or not, but I can say it is only an average film. "},{"Title":"fantastic","Date":"27 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  The Grass Harp i think has got to be one of the greatest movies ever told. I think it's a fantastic movie. Jack Lemmon is my favourite actor. i was a little disapointed as he only got a small part in the movie. But he has starred in movies as playing big parts as well as the other actors that starred in the grass harp. The all played good parts. I reconised Edward Furlong that played the kid in the movies, as he played the part of John Connor in terminator 2. He was not to star in the 3rd terminator film because he ended up on the smack. But he did a great job in terminator 2, which i think is one of the greatest movies i've ever seen, the special effects that was put into the movie. I give the grass harp 10 out of 10 because i think the movie is fantastic. "},{"Title":"Good actors still make the movie boring","Date":"1 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  Sissy Spacek - Stephens Kings «Carrie». Walther Matthau and Jack Lemmon many movies together, but «Grumpy old farts» and «The Odd Couple 2» is two movies which is amusing. Mary Steenburgen - «whats eating Gilbert Grape?». Edward Furlong - Terminator 2. None of these acters will be remembered for this movie. It is boring. The south in the year 1940. Collin is 11 years old. When his mother dies, he has to live with his relatives Vera And Dolly. Vera is a sad and boring woman, but Dolly is the opposite. «The Grass Harp» is a silent story abount human relationships, different opinions and such matters. It only gets boring and a little bit special.I would rather see one of the best TV-series ever - «Ill Fly Away» which has everything that this movie don't have.  "}]