[{"Title":"Hollywood bound","Date":"13 January 2004","Score":"27 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Jackie Chan had never had a box office hit in America despite starring in Hollywood films such as 'Battle Creek Brawl' and 'The Protector' in the 1980s. 'Rumble in the Bronx' was a Hong Kong made film, but they wanted it to have international appeal and achieved this through its New York setting and American background characters. The film intended to introduce Jackie Chan to the West, and that's exactly what it did - but they didn't expect it to be a number one box office hit.The story involves Keung (Jackie Chan) coming over to America to visit his Uncle who owns a grocery store in the Bronx. Soon enough a biker gang turns up and causes havoc at the store, so it's up to Keung to fend off the bad guys, uncover police corruption, and generally save the day in style.This is a high energy film and the pace never lets up, there isn't one big set piece in this film there are many big set pieces, but the most impressive stunt has to be the one where Jackie jumps from the top of a multi-storey car park onto a small balcony across the road. The multiple camera set up shows us that there is no safety netting or use of wires - just Jackie entrusting his own life in his own abilities.Naturally there are countless fight scenes where Jackie shows us his own brand of kung fu comedy, including the process of making inanimate objects become very animated indeed. Only he can turn pinball machines, trolleys and fridge doors into weapons! The only slight criticism I would have is that the fights are over edited, people like Jean Claude Van-Damme and Steven Segal might need a lot of cuts to put a fight scene together, but Jackie doesn't - he's an expert choreographer, and the cuts are needless. I'm not saying that the fight sequences are under par, because they're not, they are still very impressive - especially to people who haven't seen the man in action.When the American audiences saw 'Rumble in the Bronx', they saw the real Jackie Chan not the shadow of a man struggling to gain artistic input under a Hollywood studios control. They were wowed  by the death-defying stunts, frenetic fight sequences, and  the sheer energy of the film from start to finish got word-of-mouth working overtime.'Rumble in the Bronx' was the surprise box office hit of 1996, it made the West sit up and take notice of an exceptional talent they had long overlooked. The next time Jackie Chan would star in a Hollywood film he would be given the respect he had always deserved - and another box office hit. "},{"Title":"My introduction to Jackie Chan.","Date":"2 January 2006","Score":"22 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Before I'd seen Rumble in the Bronx, I'd heard of Jackie Chan but never seen any of his movies. Well, when I saw this, I practically died laughing. Basically an hour and a half of him bonking people in every direction, the movie is physical humor at its best. The plot has Hong Kong cop Keung (Chan) coming to New York for his uncle's wedding and having to battle street gangs and a crime syndicate. By battle, I of course mean pulling every crazy stunt imaginable. I really liked the early scene in the store, and then the whole hovercraft sequence.I gotta ask how did we get by before these kinds of movies? There was once a time when movies all followed the Disney formula, and Jackie Chan-style plots were unfathomable. Thank God for Bruce Lee! As it is, Jackie Chan often seems to be spoofing Bruce Lee. Hilarious. "},{"Title":"Incredibly cheesy, but never a dull moment","Date":"28 January 2004","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Watch it for the great action, great stunts and hilarious comedy.  You can attack this movie from many different levels.  The acting ranges from bad to horrendous, and so is the dialogue and dubbing.  But even things like that add to the film's comic elements.  When you're not laughing with the film, you're laughing at it.  If you're a fan of most of Jackie Chan's work, like I am, have fun!  Plus, that Francoise Yip is really, really hot. My score  7 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"Jackie Chan - Hero","Date":"30 October 2006","Score":"17 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I've read reviews from a number of people who were fans of Jackie Chan before he was well known in the west, that express disappointment that Rumble in the Bronx is the film that finally made Chan a household name in America, because they feel the film is quite a come-down from the Police Story films that formed the main link between Chan and his past before making this film.I must strongly disagree. Yes - the Anglo actors aren't very good; the plot is silly at times; the dialog is weak, some of the characters are unbelievable.But there's seems no question that the stunt-work is excellent, and the fight scenes are excellent - these really form the reason for making the film in the first place.Furthermore, I think that, of all the protagonists he's played, Chan's character here is the closest to being a true hero of the highest caliber - incorruptible, unstoppable, compassionate, smart - if all our heroes were like this, this would be a different world; if we were all like this, it would be heaven.And I'm not getting all that ironic here - I sincerely mean that Chan returns a kind of virtuous character to the silver screen, that hasn't been seen for a very long time.Consequently, despite occasional violence, I would not stop children from seeing this film - I would encourage them to do so. They can learn a lot about ethics and character from watching this film - and that is actually quite remarkable, to be able to say that of a Martial Arts film. "},{"Title":"There IS a rumble, in the Bronx that is!","Date":"7 April 2005","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This movie is spectacular. Jackie Chan going to the Bronx. And man, it's a zoo out there. HAHAHAHAHA!!! His uncle runs a store along with Elaine(Anita Mui,1963-2003) who seems to be a lit bit edgy with Keung(J.C.). Uncle Bill(Bill Tung) shows Keung his new aunt-in-law. Who happens to be Afro-American, who Keung happens to be in such shock, but not uptight about it. Seems like he'll get along with her quite well. Though she was shameless when using the bathroom when the tougher baddies tore the store down. The fight scenes are completely unforgettable, and Keung and the gangs ended working together when one of the gangs was brutally murdered by a tougher group other than themselves. The second best scene was the hovercraft vs. Chan vs. a Lamborgini. The Laborgini may have lost their doors, but the sword laced auto took out that hovercraft easily. The water ski scene was awesome. And in my opinion Chan should try out pro one day. Though Chan is wild and cool, he knows how to have fun here in the U.S.A. Rating 4 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Great introduction to Chan's work","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This was the first film I saw of Jackie's (first one released in the US that I can remember despite The Protector and The Big Brawl in the 80s) and I have to say it's a great introduction to Chan's work.  The fighting is great and well shot while the stunts are amazing.  The humor (a Jackie trademark) is also hilarious.  People from the US really don't know what a good martial arts film is.  Some have grown up with Bruce Lee and it's appreciated but many of them are constantly renting Van Damme and Steven Segal films (working at a video store, I see it all the time).  Seeing someone who really is impressive at martial arts, dosen't need fast cuts and choppy editing, and does his own stunts puts all the Van Damme's and Segal's to shame.  Take the warehouse fight for example and compare it to any American martial arts film and you will see the difference.For those who haven't seen this film yet and love martial arts films - rent this movie.  For those who have seen it and want to see more Jackie - I recommend Drunken Master I and II (II is very hard to find in the US), The Young Master (great final fight), Who Am I? (unbelieveable stunts), Police Story I, II, and III (all around Jackie Chan films, III is known in the US as just Supercop), Operation Condor (tons of martial arts), and Project A I and II (II is another hard to find one in the US).  You may also want to check out Rush Hour and Shanghai Noon - they aren't as good as the ones listed above but they are entertaining and Jackie Chan films nonetheless.  As for Rumble In The Bronx, make it your first Chan film. "},{"Title":"Early Jackie Chan American adventure is still one of his best and most entertaining ones.","Date":"19 July 2008","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This is basically the movie that introduced Jackie Chan to Hollywood and the world to Jackie Chan. It brought the crazy and amazing action and fight sequences from Chan's into the western world of film-making. It makes this movie something fresh and unique, or at least for its time it was. I remember first seeing this movie in the mid-'90's, just before the time it was released as a rental movie. My brother was working in a video-store and had to take a few new video's home with him in order to decide whether or not the video-store should buy this movie for rental purposes. In those days this movie was really something fun and spectacular to watch and shortly afterward Jackie Chan also became a real big and popular movie-star. Way more popular and appreciated as he is now days.What really makes this movie is its action. It's never anything too big, also since the movie is made obviously with a fairly low budget but it's very entertaining and amazing at the same time. Amazing, since obviously no harnesses or cables were used for the fight sequences and stunts. It also resulted in lots of broken bones and other injuries during the production but the end result for the movie is really something great and spectacular looking and is brought very entertainingly by Jackie Chan and director Stanley Tong, who both directed the action sequences together. You should see this movie just purely for its entertaining action, since everything else about the movie is actually quite bad to be honest. It might very well be the Jackie Chan movie with the very best action in it. The movie is a very entertaining one to watch that gets better as it progresses. It's as if the in the first halve tried to be too serious with its approach but in the second halve the gloves are off and the movie becomes truly ridiculously over-the-top and fun at the same time. The best example of this is perhaps the finale sequence in which Chan and his happy friends get the main bad guy with an hovercraft. It's a totally pointless and completely ridicules and also short, rushed done sequence but because of that it at the same time works out very hilarious. I'm still looking for a movie with a better use of the hovercraft than this one!It's hard to really judge the acting in the movie, since all of the actors were dubbed, even the American actors. This gives the movie an even more ridicules feeling and also makes the acting seem as something completely horrible and over-the-top.The movie its story often makes lots of crazy jumps and it perhaps even feel as two totally different scripts that were blend in with each other, with as a result that not everything always makes a whole lot of sense and continuity and character treatments are messy. It perhaps almost seems as if the story was mainly purely there to let the movie feature as many and crazy stunts and fight sequences as possible.The movie is most of the time looking and definitely feeling as a B-movie but in a good way. It's made as an entertaining movie and at entertaining this movie does simply not fail.As long as you don't pay any attention to the story or logical and it's acting or anything else like it, you'll simply enjoy this movie for the entertainment that it brings, with mainly it's over-the-top but absolutely amazing action sequences.7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Jackie cracks the west","Date":"8 February 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Well here we go once again with the undisputed king of action comedy. The one and only Jackie Chan. While this is nowhere near Chan's best movie we can be grateful for the fact that this is the film that finally gave Chan his much deserved break in the USA. This is the story on Chan's character Keung who comes to the Bronx for his uncle's wedding and ends up caught up in a series of events that involve biker gangs, and diamond robbers. But really none of this matters this is just an excuse for Jackie to show of his amazing action skills (in the fight scenes which he also choreographed), and this he does to his usual amazing standards. There seems to be more edits in the fight scenes that is normal for Jackie but I suspect this might be down to one of two things. One making the film more palatable for a western audience. Or two that Jackie broke his ankle in the filming of this movie. Still tell me the last time you saw a western movie star leap from a roof on to the fire escape of the next building!!! Truly amazing stuff. On the down side the western characters and acting are very wooden but hey just enjoy Chan and hopefully then go seek out his Hong Kong movies. "},{"Title":"The Streets of San Bronx","Date":"6 September 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I'd guess you'd have to call 'Rumble in the Bronx' an extreme example of a guilty pleasure. Though back in the 1990s, it was not my first introduction to Jackie Chan (the inferior 'Supercop' was) it was the one that got me hooked on his work. All the way through this viewing &#x96; the first in many years, the word silly kept popping up in my mind. It's dialogue, acting, stereotypes and shoddy cop work was so hilariously bad, I could only think this had to be written by someone who's only contact with the U.S.A. involves watching old 1970s cop hour-long dramas. And while some scenes were actually funny (SEE the wrench threat) some were downright unintentionally funny (SEE the toddler-toss and the entire closing on the golf course.) Leaving all that negative behind, it was an extreme joy watching Chan perform his own stunts in many, many inventive ways while simultaneously creating a very human and good-hearted character. The stunts were simply amazing and if one were to watch today for the first time, they need to know he did them all himself, without a green screens, cables, etc. As arrogant as Chan is &#x96; I've read his biography, it's dripping with arrogance, he does have great gifts in originality, showmanship, pride in his work and making sure he never uses traditional American trickery/stunts. (This changes later in his work, when he was forced and got older, but this work and ones around it were all pure Chan.) Synopsis Good-natured nephew Chan visits NYC and gets thrown in extraordinary circumstances fighting both gangs and mob bosses while helping 2 women, his Uncle and a handicapped child. All that's irrelevant; what matters is once the action starts, it never lets up. And with an open-mind, what a fun rumble you'll have.Side Note Wow.. not only was it painful for all the actors to get hurt during production (not to mention the roughly 16 dozen vehicles) it was also gut wrenching to watch the closing credits that showed mostly the unintentional crashes, broken bones, etc. You really have to hand it to the devotion of the crew, cast and Chan. Definitely Chan. My comments about his arrogance does not mean I don't admire the man, especially his extremely poor and underprivileged beginnings to the entertainer he became. He's one of the very few actors/action stars that no matter how incredibly silly his movies look to me &#x96; it has to be a culture thing, it's always a rush to see how long his fight scenes last, how inventive he becomes and simply how exciting they are. "},{"Title":"great action, but it's missing something","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Jackie Chan is, without a doubt, one of the greatest action stars of our time - but that is not all he does, by far. He is the only actor I can think of who has so seamlessly blended heartstopping action with rolling-on-the-floor comedy. However, having seen some of his later work, I must say that in certain respects this movie did not live up to the expectations I had set for Jackie Chan.While the action sequences were excellent, they were a bit sparse, and there was too much plot between them. Normally that wouldn't be something to complain about too much, but in this case the plot was almost nonexistent. I've decided that the movie was basically an excuse for two big scenes the kung-fu battle with the gang, and the hovercraft scene.There were several scenes in the movie which had me laughing out loud - the kind of clever humor and subtlety that has become Jackie Chan's trademark. But during a great portion of the movie, I was scratching my head wondering where that refreshing humor had gone. Some scenes were just too serious for a Jackie Chan movie.All that said, I really did enjoy the movie, and would give it 6 stars out of 10. The action sequences did have me on the edge of my seat, and the funny parts did have me laughing. I won't say that it was Jackie Chan's best work, but it was certainly enough to get him onto the American radar, and I'm very glad that that's where he is now. So I would recommend seeing this movie, but if someone were seeing their first Jackie Chan movie, I would recommend something else, possibly starting with a newer, non-dubbed American film first. "}{"Title":"Funny and spectacular Jackie Chan movie in his first American super hit with highlights  provided by a hovercraft","Date":"7 April 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Amusing and entertaining Chan film in which he demonstrates his sensational skills as a great action man . It deals with a young man named Keong (Jackie Chan) visiting and helping his uncle in New York City finds himself forced to fight a street gang and the mob with his martial art abilities . His uncle has a local Chinese supermarket, which he owns and is in the process of selling to Elaine (Anita Mui). Later on , Keong befriends a neighbor kid and his sister (Francois Yip) and beats up some neighborhood thugs .Hong Kong/US/Canada action comedy full of over-the-top struggles , excitement , thrills , ingenious stunts , slapstick , lots of brawls but with abundant humor and tongue-in-cheek . This fun movie is plenty of intrigue , unstopped action , and overwhelming stunt-work with breathtaking ending images including a hovercraft . Jackie Chan is top notch as one army man fighting a group of heinous villains and as always he makes his own stunts like is well showed at the final credits . Awesome , incredible stunts and brief comic touches , as usual ; the picture is better constructed than Chan's predecessors films . The lighting-paced storyline slows down at times , but frantic action sequences make up for it . Spotlights movie include spectacular fights , including bounds and leaps , impressive and interminable struggles , an impressive final struggle between Jackie Chan and enemies . The warehouse fight scene took twenty days to film, with Chan having to teach the local stunt players to fight Hong Kong style. In addition other fine action sequences in overwhelming and extraordinary style . The script called for a leap from the top of a parking lot to a fire escape on the floor below on the building across the street , as is his custom, director Stanley Tong attempted the stunt before asking any actors to do so. He tried it with the help of a cable harness, but quickly decided it would be safer without the harness. The landing point was not visible from the point where the jump began, so tape was placed on the take-off point as a guide ,the jump was completed perfectly by 'Chan, Jackie' on the first attempt, doing his own stunts as is his custom . The jump was captured by four cameras. This is an acceptable action movie distinguished by nicely cinematography of the spectacular sequences , and contains agreeable sense of humor as well as previous entries . Jackie Chan usually forms couple to notorious actresses as Maggie Chung and Michelle Yeoh . In this outing Jackie teams up to gorgeous Francoise Yip (who broke her leg while filming the scene where she rides a motorbike across the tops of parked cars , she insisted on returning to the set after her leg was plastered at hospital) and prestigious Chinese actress Anita Mui , a fine action star in their own right but sadly she early died by cancer . Both of them starred together several films such as ¨Mr Canton and Lady Rose¨ and ¨Legend of the drunken master¨ . Filming in Vancouver, Canada on October 6th, 1994, Chan broke his right ankle while attempting the scene where he jumps onto the hovercraft. Despite the injury, he was present at the premiere of ¨The legend of the drunken fighter¨ at the Vancouver International Film Festival that night. Later in the production, Tong sprained his ankle, completing the film on crutches . Two stunt women also broke their legs during the filming of the motorcycle chase. The picture achieved big success in China , USA and all around the world . However , Jackie Chan's failed at Box-office in his American debut ,¨Battle creek brawl¨ . Chan is a hard-working actor and director throughout his long and varied career . Chan usually pays overt homage to two of his greatest influences as Charles Chaplin and Harold Lloyd . He went on playing ¨Cannoball¨ , ¨The protector¨ and Rumble in the Bronx, until getting all American success with ¨Shangai Knights¨ , ¨The tuxedo¨ , ¨Around the world in 80 days¨ and ¨Rush hour¨ trilogy , and the recent ¨Karate kid¨. Of course , his biggest hits were ¨The Police story¨ series that won the Golden Horse Award, a Chinese version of the Oscar , the first was titled ¨Police story (1985)¨ directed by the same Chan , it was a perfect action film for enthusiastic of the genre ; the following was ¨Police story 2 (1988)¨ also pretty violent and with abundant humor touches . It's followed by ¨Supercop¨ or ¨Police story 3¨ and finally , ¨Police story IV  Crime story¨ . The picture is well produced by the great Asian producer Raymond Chow and Golden Harvest production and compellingly directed by Stanley Tong and helped by Jackie Chan . Rating  Acceptable and passable , the picture has its sensational moments here and there , but also with abundant humor touches mostly provided by its agile star , the super Jackie stunningly accompanied by Anita Mui and Francois Yip . It's a perfect action film for enthusiasts of the genre and especially for Jackie fans . "},{"Title":"Still one of my favorite Jackie Chan films, Rumble in the Bronx is a fast, fun ride that introduced Chan to western audiences.","Date":"1 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Having been born in the late 80's, I grew up a 90's child. And throughout my youth, I would always hear murmurings of a particular Hong Kong action-hero whose worldwide stardom was slowly rising. That man- Jackie Chan. Finally, he exploded across my home country of the US in 1995 with the release of this film- Rumble in the Bronx, his first true widely released hit of sorts in the Western World, that gave him a greater deal of recognition and made him into a household name for movie and action fans. And thankfully, in the ensuing 20 years, he's continued to gain more and more recognition and admiration the world over.I didn't see the film upon its initial release. But a few years later, after being wooed by his Hollywood work (particularly Shanghai Noon, and to a lesser extent Rush Hour), I knew I just HAD to start looking into his filmography. And this was one of my first big experiences with Chan at his best. It's not a particularly strong film in terms of plot or character development. (In fact, the film's attempts to deliver those elements come off as laughable at times.) But that doesn't mean it's a bad film, because those are clearly not the main focus point for Chan or director Stanley Tong. No, this is a film about delivering intense action and wonderful broad humor. And this film excels at that, being an absolutely charming, wowing and dazzling example of a fun action film done right.Chan stars as Keung, a Hong Kong cop who comes to visit the Bronx for his immigrant uncle Bill's (Bill Tung) upcoming wedding, while also helping Bill with the final transition of selling his supermarket to a quirky woman named Elain. (Anita Mui) He also befriends a young disabled boy named Danny (Morgan Lam) and runs afoul of a vicious street-gang, not knowing that Danny's sister Nancy (Françoise Yip) is associated with them. He is eventually pulled into a sort-of dual plot, as he fights against the ruthless street gang, before realizing he needs to help them in a struggle against a ruthless crime-lord known only as White Tiger.Though this may sound a little basic and cliché, it's not a problem. And it becomes clear early on that the plot and characters will take an almost immediate and prolonged back-seat to make way for the humor and action. And I was fine with it, to be honest. While it's easy to complain that many action movies suffer for lacking the elements of plot/character, it's usually because the film lacks charm, wit and excitement to make up for the loss of those elements. And that isn't the case here. Chan, Tong and the rest of the cast and crew supply such an immediate, constant fun factor, and elevate the material through wonderful Chaplin/Keaton-esque humor and charm, broad characterizations that the audience is able to immediately connect with, and some of the best action of its decade. You simply won't care that the plot isn't the greatest, and that the characters can be very basic. You'll be having too much fun to notice!It seems almost futile to even judge the performances and competence of the production, because it almost doesn't matter at all. What is meant to work (the laughs and thrills), works wonderfully, and that is able to make up for almost any production or writing-related shortcomings. (And as I said above, elements that don't work, like some of the character development, have an unintentional humor to them, which just adds even more to the entertainment value.)But for what it's worth, I think the actors all do a fun job with the limited material they are given. There isn't a sore-thumb to be seen, except possibly from some of the villainous characters, who seem a bit too over the top. Direction is strong enough for the material, and the blocking/composition is all quite decent.If I had any complaints, it'd be this While I will admit that I can more-than-forgive the lack of a decent plot, I do think this film would have benefited by having a slightly more-developed storyline. And I think it's uneven at times with it's tone, taking one or two bizarrely dark turns at key moments that felt out-of-left-field. And I think it's R-rating is completely unnecessary, and even betrays the tone of the film itself. (This feels like a film that could appeal to all ages from 10-100... but the R-rating, mainly due to some unnecessary profanity, could limit this appeal.)But despite those complaints, I have to admit that this is a personal favorite for me. It's got some of the best action of the 90's (the big fight in the film still holds up to this day and is more thrilling than most films you're likely to see), some absolutely gut- busting humor, and one of the most charming and thrilling action stars to ever live.Thanks for giving us so many thrills and laughs, Jackie Chan!I'm giving this a near-perfect 9 out of 10 for the wonderful fun- factor it provides. "},{"Title":"Chan fighting and goofing but that's it - 69%","Date":"24 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" For many years, Jackie Chan had been working away in his little niche as the best dammed martial-arts comedy star in the business. But martial arts movies have been never mainstream since Bruce Lee roared into immortality in Enter The Dragon and Chan takes a very different path, one more based around physical comedy like a violent Buster Keaton. This was Chan's Hollywood debut and, frankly, it shows - there is some shockingly bad dubbing, the plot is really quite stupid and the acting is... yeah, well. Anyway, this is one of those films that you simply have to hang up your expectations and just enjoy. It reminded me, in an odd way, of Smokey And The Bandit - it's hardly a classic but in spite of its many flaws, there is a sense of infectious fun behind it.Chan plays Keung who visits his uncle in New York (Bill Tung) just as he marries and leaves Keung to manage his Chinese market. After concluding the sale of the market to the bookish Elaine (Anita Mui), Keung incurs the wrath of a biker gang led by Tony (Marc Akerstream) who trash the place and leave Keung bloodied and beat up in an alley. But while Keung tries to fight back, he befriends wheelchair-bound boy next door (Morgan Lam) and his sister Nancy (Françoise Yip) - who is affiliated with the gang. And to make matters worse, the local mob have been responsible for a daring diamond heist and after a mix-up with another biker (Garvin Cross), Keung finds himself pursued by both the bikers and the mobsters.Like I said, the plot is as old-school as the fashions visible in the nightclub scene. Like another early Chan outing (namely, Mr Nice Guy), there are certain things you notice like how every female character in both movies find Chan irresistible or how a simple misunderstanding can get Chan into heaps of trouble. There are other things as well - neither films have gripping stories or even much in the way of cohesion. The dub doesn't help Rumble In The Bronx, reducing each scene to its component dialogue and physical comedy and build-up to the real reason you watch this film - the action scenes. Chan excels as the physical stuff, leaping across the screen like a kung-fu kicking Daffy Duck and a lot of the gimmicky really works like the scene in the supermarket where Chan uses seemingly every prop in the vicinity.Rumble In The Bronx is less of a film and more of a celluloid resume for its star, allowing Chan to demonstrate his extraordinary ability to fling himself into every bad guy in the blink of an eye. I fully understand why Chan might choose this otherwise utterly forgettable film to break into bigger movies - it doesn't let things like a plot get in the way of Chan doing what he does best as well as showing off his comic timing which, whilst not brilliant, at least offers something more than a grimacing hero endlessly bashing the baddies until the credits roll. In most other martial-arts films, the end climax involves the lead baddie use a variety of weapons which will cause the hero to bleed but not enough to prevent good triumphing over evil. In this film, the climax is so ridiculous that even my wife burst out laughing. If you can drop your serious face and revel in the goofiness of it then this might entertain you as much as it did me. Just don't take it seriously because if anything, this is probably the least serious film I've seen all year. "},{"Title":"Jackie's Chan's real American debut","Date":"25 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" In his entertaining biography, Jackie Chan made complaints about how his first American film, BATTLE CREEK BRAWL (AKA THE BIG BRAWL in the UK) was handled. Despite the presence of Robert Clouse, the film fared badly and his collaboration with THE EXTERMINATOR's James Glickenhaus in 1985, THE PROTECTOR, co-starred Danny Aiello, compounded his fears by stereotyping his role as an Oriental cop on the streets of New York.Returning to Hong Kong, Chan proceeded to make a series of increasingly popular films internationally, of which POLICE STORY influenced the empty-headed cop thriller TANGO & CASH (watch the opening of that film and you get a direct life from POLICE STORY 1!!) and decided to try again with RUMBLE IN THE BRONX, which happily proved to be a more fortuitous offering, a case of third-time lucky and paved the way for his hugely successful collaboration with Chris Tucker in the RUSH HOUR series.Chan plays an immigrant to NYC where he stays with his uncle who is about to marry. His uncle owns a corner store and is often under attack from local gangs. Inevitably Chan gets involved in an altercation with some and a local crime lord who is involved with diamond smuggling. A young disabled boy relative is also embroiled in the saga when the diamonds are hidden by his mother in the boy's wheelchair.....Chan has never been better and despite the atypical dubbing that often mars such films like this, it actually works better for a film of it's type. The plot is mere a line on which to hang great action sequences (the opening fight in the corner store is fantastic) and as with previous Chan HK films, there are outtakes during the end credits. "},{"Title":"Chan=Awesome, Movie=Stupid","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I have this love/hate relationship with Jackie Chan.On the one hand, he is by far the most talented, fun to watch martial artist working in film today. From old classics like Drunken Master and Fearless Hyena up through modern shlock like this turkey, I'm mesmerized by his grace and artistry. But we all know how totally amazing his skills are, there's no need to dwell on it.On the other hand, just about any Chan movie released in America (including the overrated Rush Hour) will have the plot coherence, character development and script quality of a Thundercats episode. These movies, like Rumble in the Bronx, have plots that defy all believability, and are not even internally consistent or logical.Chan loyalists will say that Jackie's stunts alone are worth the price of admission, but is that what we've come to? Sure, I enjoyed the scene where he beats up the whole Rumble gang in their own hideout, but by the time he's shaming the gang about their behavior with Maybe someday we will drink tea together. and the gang leader looks genuinely touched and whispers to his friend Did he mean that?, or when he's chasing the drug dealers down a city street in a hovercraft, I'm wondering if maybe I should have rented that Steven Seagal movie where he fights the evil oil company in Alaska.Is it so wrong for me to ask that someone put Jackie in a GOOD movie? Surely someone can write a screenplay that is exciting, free from cliche, free from dumb dialogue, with believable characters, and still have a few scenes where Jackie is attacked by 30 angry guys and has to defend himself with a mop and a bucket.How about Jackie playing the bad guy? Or maybe put him in a Bond film or something. "},{"Title":"Jackie Rules","Date":"18 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  There's only one real action hero, that's Jackie Chan. This movie is one of his best. Non stop action, Non stop fun. A masterpiece in action and fight. "},{"Title":"And you didn't think it could get any worse?","Date":"27 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I was never a fan of any Jackie Chan movies. Dull, uninspiring and worst of all, cheap acting are the main reasons why I never warmed to Jackie Chan movies. Sure, the stunts and actions are amazing (and occassionally breath-taking), but overall, Jackie Chan movies are poor in quality. Chow Yun Fat, Michelle Yeoh and Jet Li are definately the masters of Asian cinema...and crush Jackie Chan in comparison.Like all Jackie Chan movies, we have the usual innoncent bystander who for almost no-apparent reason gets tangled in a dangerous web of deceit and violence blah, blah, blah. How very pathetic. Don't expect any breakthroughs or original themes in this film, because it ain't gonna give you any. Following those boring themes audiences around the world witness in every Jackie Chan movie, 'Rumble in the Bronx' tells of a man (or rather, an almost senile, old fellow) who decides to visit his relatives in North America. For some unknown reason, he becomes involved with 'the boy from next door', a crippled teenager named Danny (played by one of the endless stream of pathetic actors in this pathetic film). Feeling sorry for him, Jackie becomes something of a guardian angel to Danny, accompanying him to almost any place he desires. Whilst in North America, Jackie also faces the daunting task of taking care of his uncle's local Asian grocery. There, he meets a nice assistant from Hong Kong (played by the excellent Anita Mui - who is probably the only acceptable being in this awful set) and as you would expect, feels some sort of attraction to her. Then later on, he becomes attracted to Danny's older sister (who in real life is probably no less than 20 years younger than Jackie) and further down the track, becomes tangled in a web of violence. See! The same old Jackie Chan themes never die do they?I find it very hard to believe that Danny's sister, an attractive, but again, poorly acted character, would actually fall for Jackie. Even though, the film has the usual warning that their characters do not portray anyone in real life, it still is a big disappointment to see the art of logiv not being given careful consideration. Even Star Wars at least gave logic in it's never-ending series! Furthermore, I could not stand the constant pathertic jokes and lame attempts Jackie Chan makes to get the audience to laugh. When I watched this film in a cinema, four years ago, not one single individual battered an eyelid (let alone, laugh, chuckle or even smile) at Jackie's awful jokes.For serious action/thriller fans, I strongly advise you people to look elsewhere for serious excitement. If Academy Award Winner, Crouching Tiger Hidden Dragon, is like the Asian version of Titanic/Traffic, then Rumble in the Bronx is just as thrilling and action-like as Tokyo Raiders. Do yourselves a favour and avoid this pathetic excuse for an action/comedy. "},{"Title":"Chan's best Amercian movie yet","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  As far as I'm concerned Jackie Chan was at his best during the late 70s, the whole of the 80s and very early 90s...this film is one of the first and best American Jackie Chan films (yes, I know it was done by Golden Harvest and produced by Stanley Tong).Everything is here that a Jackie Chan fan would expect, fantastic stunts, fantastic action, brilliant martial arts (although not Chan's best) and seemless direction.Chan is sent to New York to help out his Uncle's shop which is being sold to a lady.  But it is torn up by a local gang - it is tormented even more when Jackie stops an illegal bike race over some cars.One of the gang members is Jackie's cousin - and traps him in an alleyway where he is beaten half to death by flying bottle glass...this is the brutalist action sequence I've ever seen in a Jackie Chan film.The film does have it's flaws, one being the fact that in one scene you can quite clearly see a giant mountain in the background, and the other being the complete change in story from helping out his family to stopping some professional diamond theives (who all look like ex-wrestlers).Chan is fantastic as ever, the direction is fluid.  If you want to see a proper Jackie Chan film - see this film, you won't regret it! "},{"Title":"Let's get ready to RUMBLE!! (in the Bronx)","Date":"24 December 1999","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  A great Jackie Chan Action Flick.  Loads of fighting, humor, fighting, death-defying stunts, fighting, adventure and fighting.  This type of movie makes you wish Bruce Lee was still alive so they could team up.  Rent it for a popcorn munching good type.  You shant be disappointed (is shant really a word?) "},{"Title":"Decent action scenes with a poor storyline. 5/10","Date":"29 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Review Its been years since I've seen this film and it does seem a bit dated in places but I still enjoyed it. A lot of the action scenes were unnecessary, until the diamonds come into play, and the punk-type baddies looked ridiculous, along with the massive baddies posing as FBI agents. Anyway, this movie sees Chan (Keung), travel to America to visit his uncle so he can be there for his wedding. While his uncle is off on his honeymoon, he helps to sell his uncles shop and he sticks around until she gets the shop up and running, under her management. As the shop is in a bad area, the Bronx, he helps to fight of the local baddies who steal and damage the shop and he soon becomes targeted by the thugs because he shows them up. Whilst fighting them of, there is a diamond deal going on in the area, which goes totally bad and after a big shoot out, one of the thugs gets his hands on the diamonds and he hides them in Chans next door neighbours wheel chair. Chan then becomes the action hero by fighting of the baddies who want to get there hands on the diamonds, by saving the young kid who has the diamonds stuck in the pillow on his wheelchair. They then hand the diamonds over to the police and with the help of the young boys sister, they fight of the many hit men who work for the mafia to retrieve the diamonds, along with the local thug who wants to recover the loot that he put in the wheelchair. The action scenes were quite impressive in this film and I liked Chans acting throughout. I actually found some of the comedy funny, for once, and the different characters all brought something fresh to the project. As with many Jackie Chan movies, he does push some of the stunts to the extreme, by jumping across buildings and crashing through the city in a hovercraft but it's all put together well and I liked the chemistry between Chan and the disabled boy. Basically, it's a watchable movie which has a decent mixture of elements which made it enjoyable but it's not in the same class as his old, authentic films which are in a class of there own. Watchable!Round-Up This movie was directed by Stanley Tong, who also made Police Story Supercop, Supercop 2, Police Story 4 First Strike and the Myth with Chan, so that might explain why a lot of the stunts were so amazing. They obviously built a relationship of trust which gives Chan the ability to push his stunts to the limit but with the many different laws in America, I still thought that the actual fighting scenes weren't that great. I missed the epic, one to one fight at the end but he did bring something original to the project with the hovercraft scene. This was another one of those films were Chan was trying to crack America, which wasn't the best move for his career but this movie certainly went down well at the time and it brought his action skills to a worldwide market.Budget $7.5million Worldwide Gross $32millionI recommend this movie to people who are into their action/crime/martial arts/comedies starring Jackie Chan, Anita Mui, Francoise Yip and Bill Tung. 5/10 "}{"Title":"ridiculous American biker gang ruins movie","Date":"7 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Keong (Jackie Chan) from Hong Kong attends his uncle Bill's wedding in NYC. Keong works at Bill's market while he's away on his honeymoon. Keong befriends wheelchair bound local kid Danny. Bill plans to sell the market to Elaine and retire. The neighborhood is overrunned by motorcycle gangs. Keong ends up interfering with them stopping Nancy from ruining uncle Bill's expensive borrowed car. Keong defends the store against the gang. It turns out that Nancy is Danny's sister.There are basically no professional American actors. These are very very broad characters played by stuntmen. I love Jackie Chan as a comedic action star. There are some amazing stunts. However the ridiculous villainous gang ruins this for me. It's not simply that I can't take them seriously. I can't take them at all. "},{"Title":"Chan's intro to Hollywood with stunt overdose at the end...","Date":"2 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Where Jackie Chan missed his intro in either The Big Brawl or the Cannonball movies now got the chance in this 1995 movie.A visiting nephew of a Chinese grocer who is about to sell his business and get married, gets involved with street gangs and the Mob about stolen diamonds. Heavy fights, blood and big final pursuit adds to this movie.However, without removing admiration and due respect to Jackie Chan's talent for doing his own stunts (and got injured as well), there was a bit too much of stunt overdose in this movie, but it had its good moments, especially when the main characters gives a lesson of morality to the thugs in their lair.The version I saw was pre-2001, so the former Twin Towers were not edited, however, did discover the movie was mainly shot in Vancouver, as we see mostly Granville Island, Cordova Street and the former Woodwards department store and parking lot (now demolished), and Burrard Inlet as we see parts of B.C.Place Stadium. And by the way, can we see mountains from the Bronx shore ????However, I reserve this movie to hard core Jackie Chan fans only. "},{"Title":"Wow","Date":"8 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" A young man (Jackie Chan) visiting and helping his uncle in New York City finds himself forced to fight a street gang and the mob with his martial art skills.This is the film where a lot of people became introduced to Jackie Chan, the world's greatest action hero who does his own stunts. He had done his Hong Kong films, but now he was in Hollywood. Though, for some reason, the dubbing is as bad as ever. Really, Hollywood? You give us this dubbing job? The kicks fly, the bullets fly, the cars crash. It is all rather silly, but that is what makes kung fu action so great -- it is over the top and extreme, violent yet excitingly fun. (And violent in a clean way -- we rarely see any blood or gore.) "},{"Title":"Are you ready to Rumble? I'm sure am! This movie is action pack!","Date":"29 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Rumble in the Bronx is a pretty fun Hong Kong martial arts action comedy. Directed by Stanley Tong, the movie is about Ma Hon Keung (Jackie Chan), a Hong Kong native whom comes to New York to help his Uncle (Bill Tung) sell his supermarket business to new owner, Elaine (Anita Mui). While, helping out, Keung found himself in a rivalry with the local street gang, leaded by Tony (Marc Akerstream) that leaded to a series of street brawls. Before the plot could get tiresome. The plot takes a left turn by having one of the member of the street gang, Angelo (Garvin Cross) gets involved in an illegal diamond deal gone bad forcing the small-time gangsters and Keung to team up against the much larger and more effective criminal syndicate led by White Tiger (Kris Lord). I have mixed feelings about how the plot turn into another diamond heist movie. The first part of the movie really fits the title card. The second part, remind me of another movie series starring Jackie Chan, the Police Stories franchise. I was just really disappointment that the gang and Keung would end up, being friendly with each other, after nearly killing each other in the first half. After all, Tony nearly kill Keung with broken glass. Even today, that scene alone, is pretty damn brutal. The action scenes are really awesome to watch. Jackie Chan is famous for always doing his own stunts and you see his best, here. Great fight choreography, it really look like they honestly hit each other hard. Great use of normal household props. I always think that Jackie Chan is the best of irregular weapons. It was fun, watching him beat people up with skis, shopping carts, and other materials. I love the big building to building jump. I just wish, they didn't show the same shot, three times through four different cameras angles. It just took me out of the film. The hovercraft scenes were crazy to watch. Can't believe that, Jackie Chan was hurt the whole time and wearing a cast. Jackie Chan's right foot lands at a bad angle after jumping onto the hovercraft in the first scene, causing a serious injury that would not heal for the remainder of filming. The shot still made it into the finished movie. Like most Jackie Chan movies, the outtakes show how dangerous these stunts were. The lead actress and several stunt doubles were also injured during the shooting of a motorcycle stunt, with several people suffering broken limbs and ankles. The movie wasn't all action. It did have some funny moments that hit the funny bone for me. I love the two way mirror gag. Jackie Chan's high spirits and infectious personality made the movie character likable and not bland. You can tell that Jackie Chan was indeed, having fun, making the movie. I have to say, the supporting cast were pretty good. Francise Yip as Nancy was very attractive and had some kickass moments. I love the scene where she's dancing in bra & panties lingerie in a tiger cage. She had more depth than most martial artist movies, female leads. I don't know why Anita Mui was in the film, but her premise didn't hurt the film. Still, her character could had been cut from the film. Morgan Lam as Danny is questionable. I didn't hate his performance, but he was really given some awful lines to say. I also found it, funny that the filmmakers had his character play a video game console without a game in it. Add that to the blooper reel with the baby dummy. I do like how much work, they put in, to make the movie seem like it was set in the Bronx, even if in reality, the movie was filmed in Vancouver, B.C. Most scenes, it does look like it could be set in New York City, but in other scenes, the whole mountains and beach fronts are clear giveaways that it isn't. The gang doesn't look realistic as well. In reality, all those people of different races wouldn't be in the same gang. Most of them look like badly dress 1990s pirates. Another odd thing about the movie is the English dubbing. The original spoken dialog consisted of all of the actors speaking their native language most of the time. In the completely undubbed soundtrack, Jackie Chan actually speaks his native Cantonese while Françoise Yip and Morgan Lam speak English. All of the original dialog was intended to be dubbed over in the international and Hong Kong film markets, and New Line cinema overdubbed and slightly changed the original English dialog. While, the English version is workable; it's a bit off-keyed. The US version does have a few differs than the Hong Kong version as 17 minutes of scenes were cut. Most of them were add on scenes of already establish shots. There were a few entire scenes cut that help explain why Keung was often attack by the street gang. The English version also replaced the song that Jackie Chan had over the closing credits with the song Kung Fu by the band Ash, the lyrics of which mention Jackie Chan, as well as other Asian figures and characters ubiquitous in the west. Overall The movie was very successful, and help bring its star, Jackie Chan into the American mainstream. It's a must watch for any Martial Artist action movie fan. "},{"Title":"Let's get ready to rumble&#x85;","Date":"2 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Kung fu expert Keung (Jackie Chan) travels from Hong Kong to New York to visit his uncle Bill (Bill Tung), who is to be married. After a run in with a local street gang, Keung is forced to use his martial arts skills to defend himself, but eventually finds himself forming an alliance with the leader of the thugs when the mob, who are searching for a missing cache of diamonds, becomes a common enemy.Jackie Chan had tried to crack the US market in the 80s, with US/HK co-productions Cannonball Run 1&2, The Big Brawl and The Protector, but it wasn't until 1995, with Rumble In The Bronx, that America finally wised up and began to pay serious attention to the the wacky martial arts star. Given the level of danger experienced by Jackie and his stunt crew in this crazy caper, it would have been rude not to&#x85; As Keung, Jackie gets to star in numerous brilliantly choreographed but still potentially life-threatening action/fight routines guaranteed to impress. Whether it be going up against baseball bat wielding thugs, leaping from a rooftop to a balcony, water-skiing barefoot behind a speedboat, or clinging perilously to a hovercraft as it ploughs through crowded streets, the Hong Kong superstar is on top form, making this amongst his most enjoyable and action packed cinematic outings. "},{"Title":"An American Made Hong Kong movie","Date":"9 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This is a Hong Kong movie made in Vancouver for the American market. I don't really know how well it went, but I think that it is a pretty good movie. It is set in the Bronx, but was mostly filmed in Vancouver, and the filmmakers did a very good job at making us think that we were in the Bronx. They tried a similar tactic with First Strike, but that failed badly.Rumble in the Bronx is a Jackie Chan movie, meaning that there are freaky stunts (because he does all of his own stunts - that is what makes him a cult hero) and it is quite comical, and there are fight scenes as well. The plot is interesting, and basically this movie is everything that one would expect from a Jackie Chan movie.Kueng comes to the Bronx for his uncle's wedding, and to house sit for him while he is on his honeymoon. During this time Kueng manages to anger a major gang in the Bronx which leads to numerous stunts and fight scenes. During this struggle, one of the gang members finds a bag of diamonds which is sought by a nasty crime syndicate. They then start murdering gang members to get these diamonds. Jackie is brought into it and a huge stunt scene erupts on a hovercraft.As this is a typical Jackie Chan movie, there is little else that can be commented on it. The interesting thing is that Jackie broke his leg in a stunt which involved jumping onto the Hovercraft, and then made a large part of the movie with a broken leg. That is determination. "},{"Title":"someone stole my cushion!","Date":"18 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This movie is about a boy and his quest for a new cushion. Watch it for its creative fight scenes and for that girl who plays the boy's sister. Watch it also to laugh at the atrocious acting and dialog. Other than that, there's really no reason to watch. This film is basically a bunch of action sequences strung together with some dialog in between. The dialog can be summed up as where are the diamonds?, give me the diamonds! and, of course, someone stole my cushion! But the action is where this film excels. As is the custom in all Jackie Chan films, this film is loaded with creative martial arts fighting and spectacular stunts.This film is definitely fun to watch. But it's kind of like watching porn. You will be tempted to fast forward through all the dialog to get to the good parts. "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"11 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Rumble in the bronxI heard a lot about this movie and how it launched Jackie Chan's career in the west. i saw this and it was awesome despite the fact it was a typical 90s movie.Jackie Chan visits his uncle in NY and becomes involved with a motorcycle gang.The pluses Jackie Chan and his action work, and the the girl who plays Nancy.The Minuses Weird acting by white actors, kid was annoying, corny at times and melodramatic.Overall, Rumble in the bronx is great and funny at time. 8/10 "},{"Title":"my favourite jackie chan movie, a blast from start to finish","Date":"23 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" rumble in the bronx is one of my favourite movies of alltime, and my favourite jackie chan movie, no im not saying its his best, im saying its my favourite, to me it has some of his best fight scenes and stunts of the 90's, and the movie made him a world wide star whats not to love, and plus the movie is very funny, easily one of his funniest movies. the first jackie chan movie i ever taped off TV, and the one I've seen the most, to me rumble in the bronx is the best action movie of the 90's, perfect action, perfect comedy, perfect movie. jackie chan rarely fails to deliver, and this is one of his best movies, and i recommend it to anybody who wants to see some awesome action "},{"Title":"Jackie Chan in America","Date":"24 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This is one of the movies Jackie Chan made targeted for audience outside of Asia. The story takes place in New York with many American actors in the supporting role.To me this wasn't one of his best production, but there's one scene that blows me away every time I see it. This is the scene where Jackie takes a leap from the roof of one building into a balcony of the adjacent building. I don't think there was any wire attached to Jackie, so if he missed, he could have been dead, and he could have missed very easily. Some of the scenes look staged and isn't the natural Jackie Chan type scenes that I'm used to. Maybe the crew wasn't used to the American style production. It's really strange to discover that Jackie Chan movie looks below par compared to his own when it's way above average compared to other American action movie of this type.I also didn't like the senseless violence, but if wasn't so violent, maybe it wouldn't look like authentic America. Whatever the reason, they might have done it better.It's still a Jackie Chan movie, and you'll get that special dose of Jackie Chan action with this movie. If you're a Jackie Chan fan, it's sure to please you. "}{"Title":"Chan at his Comical, Lightning-Quick Best","Date":"8 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Jackie Chan's first major American breakthrough remains his most energetic, entertaining spectacle. The film's storyline is a joke, with supposedly hardcore Bronx motorcycle gangs coming off like characters in a Saturday morning cartoon, but that's clearly not the point. The plot's only there to fill the space between fight scenes with a few randomly connected antagonizing situations, and in many instances its complete lack of any connection with reality is actually quite charming. The real focus, naturally, is on Chan's inventive use of his surroundings and blistering hand speed during his frequent clashes with gaudily-dressed bikers and, later on, suit-and-sunglasses adorned g-men. Regardless of locale, Jackie is somehow able to find an unsuspecting prop, then quickly put it to use in bludgeoning somewhere in the range of a dozen different combatants in wildly original ways, keeping audiences surprised and indulged. A kindergarten-grade story won't win this rumble any awards, but as a vehicle for its star's own inimitable style of celluloid-friendly martial arts it's perfect. "},{"Title":"One Of Jackie's Best","Date":"30 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I am a huge fan of Jackie Chan, every movie that he has out is unbelievable! He is one of the world's greatest martial arts actors in the world. Every movie he makes keeps you on the edge of your seat, Definitely this one. Jackie is back this time but not in china hes in NYC, and hes kicking more butt then ever. This movie has it all TONS of action and comedy. The movie will keep you laughing and excited the whole time its one of them movies that you just cant seem to turn off. If you are not too familiar with Jackie Chan and want too see one of his movies for the first time I sugjest you Buy or Rent this one first. It is definitely one of his best films this movie deserves a 10/10! "},{"Title":"Great Action Movie","Date":"13 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I didn't see any Jackie Chan films until Rumble in the Bronx came out. I enjoy kung fu movies so I expected it to be at last decent. When I saw the film, I knew this was the beginning of something really good. I have been a major Jackie Chan Fan ever since! This movie was full of awesome stunts and moves that blew my mind! I can't get enough of the moves Jackie Chan pulls off. He's so hard cobra, and he does his own stunts! There are so many fight scenes in this movie where you are just amazed at what is going on. I think this movie really filled a missing gap in American action movie culture. If you think not.. Look at how many movies came after this.. JC rulez! "},{"Title":"Decent If Unspectacular Action Movie, With Some Incredible Stunts From Jackie Chan!","Date":"25 February 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Decent if unspectacular action movie, with some incredible stunts from Jackie Chan!. It's always watchable, and Jackie Chan was awesome in this, he's the one that keeps this movie together, with his incredible stunt work, the cool fighting scenes, however, the comedy relief was lame, and a couple of the characters annoyed the crap out of me, and the pace slowed down a little in the middle. The Direction, is decent. Stanley Tong, does a decent job here, with some incredible camera work at times, however the pace is inconsistent, as is the film, still a decent job though. Not much violence, except some bloody cuts from Glass, and a couple bloody gunshot wounds. The Acting is excellent!. Jackie Chan, is AMAZING here, he is extremely likable, did some incredible stunt work, and kicked that ass!, plus, he is a great actor! (Jackie Rules!). Françoise Yip, is GORGEOUS!, and did very well here, she had decent chemistry with Jackie, and was quite likable. Bill Tung, is good as the Uncle. Morgan Lam, is okay as the kid, but he had an annoying voice and got on my nerves at times. Anita Mui, is good here, and had a funny scene near the end. Rest of the cast do fine. Overall worth the watch, but it's nothing special **1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Jackie In Top Form","Date":"5 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  It's a crying shame that many Americans have had their first taste of Jackie Chan via films like Rush Hour and Shanghai Knights.  Rumble In The Bronx is an excellent example of what he can do when he takes center stage, without a second player to distract the audience and swallow up screen time.  Jackie Chan is all about mind-boggling action sequences and insane stunts (with no stuntman!), which this film is absolutely packed with.  While not as funny as some of Chan's other entries, like Twin Dragons and Legend Of The Drunken Master, Bronx is thoroughly entertaining and one of his best films.  The action simply can't be topped, and anybody even remotely interested in kung fu flicks will be thrilled. "},{"Title":"one of his best films","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  RUMBLE IN THE BRONX was a mile a minute paced, action and slapstick comedy. The films appeal was in the dubbed nature of the dialouge, the humor, and the martial arts fighting. The key to doing a good HONG KONG film of this nature is the dubbed dialouge which audiences like and the style of martial arts. Chan combines humor and sight gags in his film which have increased his popularity and the popularity of directors like the man who did this film. Americans have long enjoyed films like these. This film paved the way fro other jackie chan movies to be imported or made in america. There is one thing about him, he does his own stunts. (which is one of the most often talked about things about him and his films) RUMBLE IN THE BRONX has and please excuse my ignorance but, from my perspective, a on purpose understatement of direction and acting done for laughs. This is common in japanese and chinese films and is incorporated in sight gags or a actors reaction to them. This is seldom done in american movies and has been done in things like THE GODS MUST BE CRAZY. A  martial arts fans style of movie yet this film was a mainstream crossover due to public interest and a good ad campaign. "},{"Title":"I had no idea New York was this mountainous!","Date":"21 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  All in all, this is a good action movie. However, if you're going to make a movie that is supposed to take place in the Bronx, film it in a city that at least bears some resemblance to the Bronx! Vancouver doesn't cut it.  "},{"Title":"Amazing!!!!","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This film rocked!!!! This film got American viewers to like Jackie. Jackie Chan provides some of the best fight scenes in this film with lot's of cool jaw dropping stunts. And you got to love the little film at the end of the movie showing Jackie do all the stunts. Jackie is an amazing person and this film showed some of his best stunt work. And this film also has lots of comedy like usual. If you liked this film go see Legend Of Drunken Master, Gorgeous, Who Am I.   "},{"Title":"1 of my favorite Jackie Chan movie","Date":"6 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This is one of my favorite Jackie Chan movie, (my favorites are Dragons Forever and Who Am I?).  First of all, the other Jackie Chan films have good humour but has nothing to do with the movie, its just in there to make people laugh, but in this movie, the humour actually goes well with the story.  His action is always intense with his kung-fu, so basically, everything goes well with the movie.I rate this movie 10/10. "},{"Title":"Jackie takes America","Date":"18 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Okay, so this isn't the best Jackie Chan movie ever.  Not his best fighting (Drunken Master 1 & 2), stunts (Supercop) or overall picture (Shanghai Noon).  But it is the one that finally brought him to American audiences, and for that it should be cannonized.Beyond that, this is one pretty good action flick.  Some great Jackie uses household objects to kick bad-guy butt scenes, and some nice stunts, including one which broke his ankle and added to his lore.8 out of 10.  You go, Jackie! "}{"Title":"Amazing fights and stunts, all the rest is lousy","Date":"31 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I'm not ashamed to admit that this movie reminded me of a porn flick The story is messy and unimportant, the acting is stilted, and the dialogues are silly, not to mention the terrible English dubbing. There's also an overall grim feeling to the proceeding. But, it's all really just an excuse for some amazing, almost unbelievable fight scenes which are the only reason to see this one. Oh, yes... don't miss the painful bloopers at the end. "},{"Title":"JACKIE RUMBLE!","Date":"25 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Jackie Chan does it again in RUMBLE IN THE BRONX! Like many other hits, great stunts, great comedy and great thrills along with spills. If someone can match Jackie Chan (AND MAYBE EVEN BEAT HIM) then I will EAT MY HAT! "},{"Title":"Impressive stunts and fights, but not for everybody","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  If you are not a fan of Jackie Chan or this style of movie, Rumble in the Bronx is unlikely to convert you into one. However if you are, there's enough 20 against 1 Kung-Fu (?) fighting, chases with amazing escapes and leaping around stunts to keep you happy. The story is a fairly basic good guys (well guy) versus bad guys versus even badder guys. The setting (Hong Kong guy in New York) provides some humour, but there isn't much elsewhere &#150; until you get to the out-takes which run during the credits.Not a classic but worth seeing, unless you really don't like this type of movie, for the sheer effort Chan and the rest of the cast put into it. The fighting is pretty realistic, and the stunts are real (if controlled). This is demonstrated by the number of ambulance shots during the out-takes!  "},{"Title":"Amazing stunts","Date":"3 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  When it comes to fights, this film is sub-par, however, when it comes to stunts, it's top of the line.  Jackie leaps from rooftop to rooftop, climbs parking garages, and even leaps off bridges!  It's also Jackie's funniest film to be re-released here in the states.  Fun stuff. "},{"Title":"Superb, better then any Knock-Off, Under Siege, Terminator.","Date":"14 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This film is brilliant, I canna explain people but WOOOOOOOW !!! Stunts, humour, fights this film does the biz. Jackie Chan is spot on again with yet another great, and I noticed he has the same name as the character he played in the Lucky Stars Trilogy, Muscles Keung. Boy, I wish Van-Damme would make films like Jackies, Not crap like Double Team. Then we'd see alot more of action films as they are a dying genre. I'd thought that he would surpress this in Rush Hour but in the end it was a disapointing film, (well apart from the stakeout bit !) All my hopes lie in Shanghai Noon. But if you have'nt seen this well go get it ! Just alone in this movie Jackie makes Damme-Van, Seagul, Arnie and Sly look like The Wombles     "},{"Title":"Jackie Chan at the peak of his career.","Date":"19 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I believe Rumble in the Bronx to be Chen Gangsheng's finest, er...Jackie Chan's most exciting movie.  I've seen about 25 or 30 of them now, but this one's still the best.  It has a lot of humor, and uh, should I even mention stuntwork?  He gets more dangerous and goofy each time around.  This time he's taking on like 100 of the bad guys.  Then he's teaming up with some of the bad guys, but either way, he's always on Chan's side, if you know what I mean.  I love that soundtrack, too, especially the song in the end credits. So, how about a sequel?  "},{"Title":"A good Jackie Chan movie","Date":"1 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This definitely has to be one of Jackie Chan's best films set in the U.S. There is a little bit of everything;action, martial arts, and romance, and comedy. There are several good opportunities to see his martial arts. There are also many scenes in which he displays his humor. This is a very good Jackie Chan film. "},{"Title":"Impressive but not awesome!","Date":"30 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Rumble in the Bronx was the first Jackie Chan movie I saw. I saw that the action in this movie, especially the fighting scenes was very new and refreshing to me.The way Jackie uses obstacles and circulates the fights, was a whole new look for me at action movies. But on the other hand I thought the dubbing made it look strange (like the little kid's voice you makes makes you start laughing)and I thought the enemy's of Jackie had really non-stylish clothing as well as those punk teenagers! I also found the ending disappointing. I expected another fight like in the first half of the movie. But I found out a lot of things after seeing this movie 1Jackie made very very much movies!! 2most of them are very stylish and look better than Rumble 3dubbing sucks I enjoy seeing original versions with every actor/actress his or her own voice I mean talking is part of the acting and so it's very important to hear the real voices.Also the comedy works much better 4Widescreen is very very important.A genius as Jackie uses the widescreen very intensely. The action takes place in every corner of the widescreen.So when you see a small version of a Jackie Chan movie you miss half the action(like enemies getting hit, falling painfully, attacking and making those funny faces) 5the reason why there was no end fight in Rumble(broken ankle) 6I've become one of his billion fans 7His early 70's are not good but they helped Jackie learning to choreograph and direct and they were nessecary for him to stay busy and try out new things (like the developing of kung fu comedy)In the 70's he also in starred in two Bruce Lee films 8He performs all his very dangerous and inventive stunts The highlights for me in this film where- the fight in the supermarket(short but fast with that typical Jackie comment to a guy he just beat upMind the step!) -the fight in the gangs clubhouse(great circulation and very  funny, I mean in which other non-Jackie-movie would you see a guy being punched with the doors of a fridge, while another one gets pushed in it and see that one opening the door to be punched in the face!! - Jackie jumping from one building to another -the movie music -the outtakes(ouch) Well Rumble in the Bronx is an enjoyable Jackie flic with some Very great stunts performed by himself of course.It was a great invitation for me to watch all his other masterpieces!!8/10  "},{"Title":"Jackie Chan delivers","Date":"16 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Jackie Chan *always* delivers pretty well at least.  The fact of the matter is, since he always does his own stunts, and he does so much of the choreography for his movies, they're always worth a good look if you like the genre.Truth be told, when Jackie is fighting with the gang, the scenes are incredible.  However, when he's fighting the real criminals, it's just not Jackie Chan's arena.  Don't get me wrong, he's not bad with guns and cars, but he's nowhere near as good with them as he is in hand-to-hand combat.And by the way, the ending is superbly silly.  The big fight at the end deals with a Hovercraft, which is a unique concept, but the very end is... well, it almost ruined the whole thing for me, to be honest.Of course, it's classic Silly Chan.  "},{"Title":"C'mon People, Wise Up!","Date":"13 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Is there anything worse? Definitely there is, but this is unbelievable. I've been watching Jackie Chan movies for a long time and I've stopped watching them long before he started laying blockbuster hits in the United States. He was, probably still is, huge here in the Middle East. So eventually, I picked up this film to watch one evening. And Lo and behold, I was speechless. The acting, if there was any, was very bad. Almost all major characters were over dubbed even though the movie was produced in America. Predictable storyline with an anti-western view. Fat blacks and white outlaws, poverty and corruption, gangs and dirtiness, etc. The good characters are Asians. What if they were Arabs instead of Asians? In the end, Chans gaining popularity because he's new to the public and what he makes is different. As for myself, I prefer Bruce Lee films. "}{"Title":"A bit too Americanized","Date":"9 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Not bad, definitely not his best. Although it brought many Americans to become Chan fan's (including me), it really wasn't his best works. It seems that a lot of his recent movies is just stunts, as opposed to the great mix of Kung Fu, Comedy, and stunts. A bit too pc. "},{"Title":"Chan's finest movie","Date":"12 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This was the first Jackie Chan movie I had seen, and is sill my favorite (I'm hoping for Rush Hour though!). The stunts are amazing and some of the fight scenes are the best I have EVER seen.  Definetly check this movie out for some great fun! "},{"Title":"Awful dubbing, awful acting but good action","Date":"28 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Keung comes to visit his Uncle in the Bronx in New York to attend his wedding and help him with his market.  Keung quickly gets involved with fights with local thugs who steal and vandelise the market.  However he also gets involved with Nancy - the girlfriend of the gang leader.  Meanwhile the gang going after Keung get involved in the theft of millions of pounds worth of diamonds, bringing everyone into danger and forcing Keung to help out.From the very start you will realise that this film seems to be trying to set a record for worst dubbing in a supposedly `American' film - in the first few moments it is worst, then you kind of accept it!  The plot is nonsense; even after writing a plot summary for it I still struggle to make it fit together.  In reality it is just a convoluted mess of gangs and jewel thieves - it doesn't really matter what the reason is, all that matters is that Jackie has bad guys to fight with!And fight he does.  The plot may be absurd but the fight scenes and stunts are imaginative and enjoyable.  It is not the best of Chan but it still has some really good scenes in it - whether it is Chan leaping across gaps or narrowly missing vehicles.  The film even manages to have some humour in it, although not to the extent that Chan's more successful American films managed it.The cast are either average or rubbish - there is little middle ground here. Chan seems less comfortable than usual here, he is a little too tough and not as funny as usual - time has shown that his proven formula of fists and laughs worked better than his early tough guy stuff in the US.  The support cast all mug wildly but do have good timing for the stunt work.  Françoise Yip stands out because she is so damn pretty but all the rest are badly dubbed, overacting Chinese actors, overacting thugs or mysterious suited gentlemen.Overall of course, nobody will watch this for plot, acting or direction, they will watch for the fights.  The stunt work is not Chan's best but is still enjoyable - although I'd be lying to say that weaknesses in other areas don't take away from the rest of the film.  One of Chan's weaker films in general but still worth watching for Chan's physical abilities. "},{"Title":"7 out of 10","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This was Jackies big break in America. I saw it in theaters the first day it came out, and it was a great experiance, because i had only seen Jackies movies on old pan-and-scan VHS before this came out. A very good movie, with an even better marketing campaign. I would have liked a big martial arts battle at the end, but we got some hovercraft thing, which isnt totally disapointing, but it could have ended much better. This has all the things that make Jackie great, humor, awesome fights, and Jackie just playing a great dude. Even though i didnt like the ending, this is still a great movie, and you should all check it out. "},{"Title":"4 out of 4 stars this movie gets!","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"     This was my first Jackie Chan movie I have seen.  After I saw it, I found a new hero!  He goes to the Bronx to try to get to his uncle's wedding.  Along the way he befriends two women and a little boy who idolizes him, then he encounters an inept motorcycle gang and a Mafia-like syndicate who tries to assassinate him.   Jackie Chan's stunts are very aerodynamic and comedic at the same time.  He's not only a karate/jujitsu expert, he's also an acrobat as well.  That's what's so invigorating about the genius of Jackie Chan who also may as well be the Jim Carrey of karate movies, Sammo too!  Did anyone know that Jackie and Sammo went to the same gymnastics school together?    In case nobody knew this already, Rumble in the Bronx was filmed on location in Vancouver, British Columbia.  I've been to the Bronx when I was living in Brooklyn, and it looks nothing like the place in this movie.  If you haven't seen Jackie Chan in action yet, rent Rumble in the Bronx.  It's yet another movie that has something in it that serves everyone's interest in their favorite movie genre!  I give it 4 out of 4 stars!  Mr. Nice Guy gets my same rating as well. "},{"Title":"Quite the great film","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Despite a not perfect script and ridiculous location set (isn't it weird how much Bronx looks like Vancouver, literally), the film gets an incredible boost from Jackie Chan.  Chan makes his big U.S. debut here (it opened in 1996 to packed theaters) in extraordinary kung fu moves that make him the next generation Bruce Lee.  Chan is so amazing here, that he did most of the film with a broken leg (from falling 50 ft. from building to building) and still did his own dangerous yet incredible stunts.  Wow.  One of the best action films to come around in a long, long time, despite a couple of flaws. A "},{"Title":"Great Chan-movie!","Date":"30 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Rumble in the bronx was the first Jackie Chan movie I saw, and it was very entertaining. I thought the plot was lame, but the mixture of action and comedy was superb.  We get plenty of action and funny villains, as in all Jackie Chan-movies, but this is a special movie for me, because it was my first Jackie Chan-movie.  If you like movies with a lot of fighting, you should see some of Jackie Chan`s movies.  They are amazing. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Silly but entertaining.","Date":"14 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Based on R1 DVD 90 min.If your looking for a deep, or even knee length, plot then look elsewhere - Rumble in the Bronx is all about the amazing Chan. If your 15- to 40+ this man should inspire.6/10 worth watching for the physical stunts. "},{"Title":"the most unfunniest Jackie Chan film.","Date":"15 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Reading the other comments, 'Rumble In the Bronx' seems to be a decent comedy for those who haven't seen any other Jackie Chan film. I was quite disappointed. The Americanization of this Chan film didn't seem to work. The screenplay is quite boring with lots of non-funny comedies.The only parts I liked were Chan's scenes with the late Anita Mui. Though Mui had a smaller role, she did very well and was extremely charming and likable. Chan is strictly okay while Yip is hot. All the American actors are abysmal.In mu opinion this is one forgettable flick that does not have much to offer, but you can give it a shot if you have nothing else to watch. "},{"Title":"Rumble on  a Hovercraft","Date":"15 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Rumble in the Bronx is a rather typical Jackie film from the point of view that it features intense fight-scenes and equally intense comedy scenes. While the film works on a level of a Hong Kong Action Comedy it doesn't work quite well on all levels of production.The neo-American feel of the film isn't completely wasted but does feel a little artificial from time to time. The intensity of the film is definitely at its best in the first two thirds but these unfortunately lead to a rather miss-mashed third act which just feels shoddy and over-the-top.However to say the film is a complete waste would be too harsh. It is definitely recommendable to Jackie fans but far from his greatest works. "}{"Title":"Several notches below Jackie's best work.","Date":"21 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Atrocious dubbing, gratuitous violence, moronic dialogue, chaotic plot....Rumble In The Bronx is so bad in so many ways that it's hard to know where to start. It has only two major fight scenes (with Jackie against many but not especially skilled opponents), and only one truly noteworthy stunt. The only reason this movie was such a big hit is that when it came out, in 1996, most people hadn't seen enough Jackie Chan movies, so they had nothing to compare it to; if it were released now, it wouldn't stand a chance.      (**)  "},{"Title":"For Chan fans only","Date":"11 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Rumble in the Bronx is one of Hong Kong martial arts celebrity Jackie Chan's earlier forays into the US market. And, since Chan has been getting better with age, his films have, with few exceptions, become progressively better with time. Therefore, the best way to watch Chan flicks is in reverse chronological order from the most recent to the earliest. Having said that, Rumble.... without the action wouldn't be worth anyone's time. However, Rumble... with the action is good enough for Chan fans but should be the last one to watch and will be of little interest to non-Chan fans. Excellent action but not Chan's best work. (B-) "},{"Title":"Nothing like a kick to the chin.","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Jackie Chan makes a name for himself in American cinema. Absolutely great stunt work and no holds barred fighting. Plenty of action with a bit of comedy thrown in. Ah Keung(Chan)is visiting his uncle(Bill Tung) in New York and finds himself coming to the rescue of family and friends. He brings with him an arsenal of martial arts that thwarts the hoodlums in the Bronx. Also in the cast areAnita Mui, Garvin Cross and Francoise Yip. The debut of something big. "},{"Title":"one cool action","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  a cool action with stuntmaster chan or jackie chan as we know him as, in a cool action that defines suspense in a way, more like ruthless action, though a scene i didnt agree with the chipper scene, jackie did not die, it was another character, but other than that one hell of a movie. "},{"Title":"One of the better Jackie Chan movies.","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Now Jackie Chan has turned international and started to make movies in USA and big budget movies.The only bad thing about this is that the movies get more story and less fighting.If I wanted a story I would have seen another movie.Lets face it,Jackie cant act. Luckily this movie still has a lot of good fight scenes in it.As all Jacki Chan movies this also has a lot of bad humor in it,but that has kind of been Jackie Chans trademark.All in all one of Jackie Chans better movies.  "},{"Title":"A Chan classic!","Date":"10 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  It's a Jackie Chan film so don't expect it to be anything more than an action-packed, action-thriller, as Jackie struggles to make it the Bronx.The death-defying stunts are wickedly-cool, and while the dubbed English version can be annoying with all the not-in-time lip movement, taken at face value, this film rocks. "},{"Title":"Chan's Hollywood sellout","Date":"18 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Hong Kong actor and director Jackie Chan edited Rumble in the Bronx for an Amerikan audience, and it shows.  Rumble caters to Hollywood's vapid and reactionary standards. Some of his earlier films--like Drunken Master II--were marked by political themes of revolutionary anti-imperialist nationalism. Sometimes accurate renditions of historical struggles, these films were also significant for the strong non-romantic roles played by women. But this is pure Amerikan tripe gratuitous sex, violence, racial stereotyping and a politically meaningless plot. Jackie Chan is an excellent martial artist and a great entertainer. Too bad he has now sold his skills to the disgusting bourgeois Hollywood movie industry. "},{"Title":"Could The Road To The Dream Be More Enjoyable Than Fulfilling It ?!","Date":"5 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This is one of the best movies by (Jackie Chan), maybe more fun than the majority of his previous Asian ones and the other later American ones too. Here the action is so ambitious, the rhythm is hot, the production is big, the technique is above mediocre, and the heroine is sexier ! I think the first half was so good and catchy; however the second half about the diamonds was another movie ! I enjoyed the story of the first plot, and the huge Action of the second one. The matter of having 2 girls had never been used correctly, there was no use out of putting some love scenes for (Chan) and the market's owner, in the same time that he fell in love with the street girl simply and terminally !, so why the first storyline from the start?? Then look at the street gang, why all of this hatred for (Jackie)? They looked like another brainless pure evil comes from another previous movies like (The Enforcer), (Robocop), and (Police Academy). I hated also the matter of the nonexistent anticlimax, it's maybe a habit at (Chan)'s movies to watch the climax then PAAM the closing credits with the bloopers !!, here it was so provoking as we didn't know exactly what happened after, like they had no time to shoot more ! Sometimes it's a terrible habit as it makes the whole condition so deficient, especially the viewer's satisfaction.It's clear that (Chan) was determined to be a star in America, it was his dream, and it would never happen until 4 years after with (Rush Hour) which's not one of my favorites where Chan undoubtedly is less shining, maybe it succeeded because it was the right formula or the right time I don't know. But here like every Chan's movie the Action, as usual, exceeded everything. And the story, as ever, is just a superficial cover for fun with no possible deepness. It was enough for (Chan) and all of his team to assure how courageous, stubborn, and romantic the Asian is; in the same time that the American is so violent, criminal, and deranged whether poor or rich. Despite the balance that they made (kind American policemen, and one evil Asian in the street gang).On so many levels it proves how the Asian cinematic hero became better and his adventures became bigger since another very well known Asian-in-western-evil-world and I mean (Bruce Lee) at (Way of the Dragon) nearly 25 years earlier, to invade America itself (it was Italy in the first one), and to present Mad Mad world comic Action also through this maniac hero who, at the time, needed no stunts or wires ! So ultimately (Rumble in the Bronx - 1996) is nice strong action, where (Jackie) is in classical example for being a real icon, original star, and great clown. Makes you wonder a bit about what he lost, after fulfilling his dream, in next American movies. "},{"Title":"It's got good action - what else do you want!?!","Date":"14 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Okay now. Let's forget the fact that the city is blatantly not New York. Let's forget the fact that the acting is urine-poor. Let's forget the fact that the dubbing leaves a lot to be desired. Let's forget the fact that the storyline can be written on one side of a match box. Let's forget the fact that the ending is a big pile of Jeff. Let's forget the fact that a sword attached to a car with a foot holding it in place cannot puncture a hovercraft. Let's forget the fact that a Sega Game Gear can only function with a games cartridge in the back. Let's forget the fact that Jackie really could have done better with regards to many things.Once we've forgiven Jackie and forgotten all of the above, sit back, relax, and enjoy the spectacle.The fights are fast, furious, and at times down right dangerous, as one would expect in a Jackie Chan film. The humour used in the fight scenes is a wonderful example of the difference between Jackie Chan and Bruce Lee. Whilst Lee would walk into a room and knock everyone out with a single punch or kick, Chan demonstrates his creativity, athleticism, dedication, and pure balls, by using everything around him, in a survivalist style, creating comic humour along the way.Cheap, nasty, and at times, incredibly tedious though it may be, it's a Chan film you'll always want to watch again. I love it. "},{"Title":"Rumble in the Bronx - Jackie Chan's re-entry to America","Date":"25 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Most American movie-goers have probably heard of Jackie Chan, but have never actually seen any of his movies. The original Hong Kong martial arts stunt-master, who rose to fame following the death of martial arts legend Bruce Lee during the late 1970s and early '80s, has done enough in the 29 years since the breakthrough of Drunken Master (1978) to become an action tour de force entirely of his own making.But 1995's Rumble in the Bronx was not the first time American audiences got to see Chan in action. He had made appearances in the Cannonball Run series and received his first American starring role in The Big Brawl (1980), and later starred in The Protector (1985), where American studio bosses hyped him up to be Bruce Lee's logical successor. Unhappy with his work in the United States (because he couldn't practice his slap-happy kung-fu antics and humor and trademark death-defying stunt-work), he retreated back to Hong Kong where he continued to dazzle audiences on his home soil with his own unique brand of action.With Rumble in the Bronx, directed by Stanley Tong, Chan decided to give America another chance, and for once we were ready (1998's Rush Hour, which paired him with comedian Chris Tucker, would show that Chan is here to stay). Although the edited American version of the film is the reason why I believe studio execs here should not be allowed anywhere near the original prints of foreign films, it is not as bad a hack-job as it could have been. You can deal with the bad dubbing (even though there is still a considerable amount of English-language dialogue) and easy-to-spot goofs (the Game Gear with no game), but the frantic action scenes and Chan's stunt-mastery make up for all the negatives.In a plot somewhat resembling Bruce Lee's Return of the Dragon (1972), Rumble in the Bronx finds Chan as a young man named Keung, who takes over his uncle's Bronx, New York, USA (actually Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada), grocery store while the man is away on his honeymoon. A pretty entrepreneur named Elaine (the late Chinese songstress Anita Mui) has just bought a piece of the store, and asks that Keung help out. But when violent gang members begin harassing them, it's when Keung puts his feet and fists to work. However, murders linked to stolen diamonds and a bunch of shadowy men-in-black throw the plot into overdrive, eventually culminating in a chase with a hovercraft (don't ask, just watch) through the streets of Vancouver, dragging poor (but very brave) Chan behind it.As you can see, the plot doesn't matter much (not even the tender scenes between him and wheelchair-bound Morgan Lam, or his gang member sister Francoise Yip) but it serves up a perfect excuse for plenty of scenes featuring Jackie Chan doing a number on many brave stunt-men and women, and taking a licking himself. He's proof-positive of what every true action star should be, in that he'll do anything to please his fans. Chan's Mr. Nice Guy persona and trademark stunts are what allowed him to elevate himself above Bruce Lee after his death. The only reason you'll watch Rumble in the Bronx is to see star Jackie Chan in action, but it's not the only reason you'll watch his other films, because those are just as good too.8/10 "}{"Title":"Jackie Chan at his...physical best","Date":"17 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Rumble in the Bronx was Jackie Chan's first major hit in America. Maybe because it portrayed him in a more American style character, one of very few of his films showing guns or simply because of the owe-inspiring stunts. In terms of action, this is Jackie's best, way before the time of his special-effects mediocre films such as Around the World in 80 days and the Medallion. Rumble in the Bronx combines all a Jackie's trademarks; great stunts, martial arts, comedy, suspense, and a good story!! The story line is basically that Keung (Chan) comes to New York to visit his uncle and help him run his store. When one day a ruthless gang of criminal thugs come and rob the store, Keung beats them and protects the shop (more then less). Seeking revenge the gang cause more trouble by wrecking the shop, when he's not around and meanwhile Keung makes friend with the girlfriend of the gang leader, Nancy. She then realises there's more to life then bribing people and living outside the law. There's more too it then that, but you'll have to see it to know more, and don't want to spoil it for those of you who haven't seen it yet.But of course, when you go see a Jackie Chan film, its almost never for a great story but because of superb action, combined with comedy for first class entertainment. This was a very good debut for Jackie in America, who failed to enter the American market with numerous attempts with the Big Brawl, Cannon ball run etc. Its a well deserved victory for Jackie.Now for the stunts, to me this film showcases his most death defying stunt of all, jumping from one building to another, thats over 10m away from each other with no safety net bellow, no wires holding him, no safety whatsoever, and he managed to do it perfectly, in style in one take! This film is full of breath-taking stunts, which is why I watch it over and over again, for that thrill.If you are a Jackie Chan fan, as I am, go see this film, you won't be disappointed a bit. For the action I give it a 10/10, overall 8/10, as the acting could have been better and the story a little more complex, none the less great entertainment for everybody. "},{"Title":"Incorrect View On Street Gangs","Date":"13 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Rumble in the Bronx features none other than Jackie Chan and it is horrible. The street gang always giving the shop a hard time is based on regular every day hoodlums who are middle aged and experienced in martial arts? Basically these guys love to give whoever messes around with them a hard time and none other than Jackie Chan sticks up for the little guy. Then one of the street gangs finds something that means something to some guy who is introduced in the last half who is evidently mafia. The story was horrible as it didn't really leave anything to the mind. The chase scene at the end is completely unbelievable. The fight scenes can't ever make up for the atrocious acting and writing of this picture. All filler no killer. "},{"Title":"Exciting? For Chan, it's well of the pace","Date":"19 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  The hype surrounding this film - created, apparently, with western audiences in mind - meant that one expects a film that exceeds the pace, humour and choreography of Police Story or earlier Chan flicks. It falls far short, thanks to illogical scripting. The action sequences are there to please most fans, although it is off the pace compared with the star's films of the late 1980s.Chan flies to New York to help his uncle (this time, Bill Tung is really playing his uncle) sell a convenience store plagued by local thugs. It's hardly a film where realism and thought come into it - you see a Chan film because of the fighting and jokes. However, director Tong seems to use more stereotypes than necessary and the film remains a Hong Kong-style kung-fu comedy simply transplanted to a different city. You can take that as good news or bad news.As an aside, Chinese moviegoers disposed to the Chan-Tung sense of humour will love the scenes featuring the veteran actor and former racing commentator.The Chinese version sees the stars speak their native languages with the aid of subtitles for audiences, so the Cantonese humour is preserved. Great stunts and a top effort from Chan, whose ability defies his age, but it should not be regarded as a classic amongst his films. "},{"Title":"Ridiculous plot, but entertaining","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  A lot of Americans prefer this of all of Jackie's movies released here so far.  Bah! It's fun to be sure, but dumb as a rock, really...I have to hand it to 'em though, most of the English speaking actors are much better than those featured in Mr. Nice Guy, or Who Am I? It's kind of like two unfinished films spliced together, really saved only by the action scenes, Anita Mui, and the always enjoyable Bill Tung.  Rent  any other of Jackie's recent movies for a better intro...7/10, just 'cuz the action's cool, and I like bad movies.... "},{"Title":"Great stunts and action","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This isn't one of those movies where an in-depth review is needed - it is a classic Jackie Chan action flick silly plot, some lame dialogue, and incredible stunts. Oh, and Vancouver doesn't double well for the Bronx. Still, a terrific action flick.Vote 7 "},{"Title":"Not Chan's best by any chance.","Date":"4 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I was a bit disappointed with this one, since I had heard that this would be one of Chan's all time best- which it definitely is not. Extremely thin plot (even if it IS a Chan movie), and compared to other of his flicks- very few and alltogether not that great fighting scenes. See Jackie Chan's Who Am I?  and you'll agree. On the plus side... well, there's not much. Maybe the hovercraft? Naaah. The motocrossing babes? Nope.. not even funny. It has to be Jackie himself then. Yep. But I'm afraid that's not enough this time. Sorry.  "},{"Title":"Diving off the roof....Chan's done it all","Date":"17 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Twin Dragons was probably his best dubbed film but this certainly ranks up there. Since it was dubbed no one can really comment on the dialogue delivered by the actors. The overall plot of how Chan goes through street gangs, mob bosses, etc just to raise a supermarket is decent but how do you jump off a roof and land perfect without a mark? Its not the most unrealistic movie ever (Crouching Tiger) but still, some of the stuns pulled off is nearly impossible to pull off. Unrealistic sometimes but its a decent action movie anyway.The best scene was probably when Jackie has to ward off the street punks in the market using all available props to his advantage. Who hasn't always wanted to slam someone using a refrigerator door?6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Jackie Chan hits the jackpot again!","Date":"31 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" RUMBLE IN THE BRONX (Gong Fan Ou)Aspect ratio 2.391 (Technovision)Sound format Dolby DigitalIt's easy to see why Stanley Tong's RUMBLE IN THE BRONX was chosen to spearhead Jackie Chan's defiant invasion of US theaters in the late 1990s. The most Americanised of Chan's output to date, Rumble relocates his unique brand of action-comedy to the mean streets of New York where he's forced to defend his uncle's supermarket from local bikers running a protection racket and a bunch of professional diamond thieves who's latest haul somehow ends up in Chan's possession. It's a surprisingly complicated affair, punctuated with beautifully choreographed explosions of action and conflict, timed to perfection and filmed with breathtaking cinematic excess, though tempered occasionally by levels of violence which may seem inappropriate to western viewers, given the otherwise upbeat tone.There are too many memorable set-pieces to mention, but the climactic hovercraft chase through the streets of New York is worth the price of admission alone, and seems to have been designed specifically to top the equally jaw-dropping climax of the previous Chan/Tong collaboration POLICE STORY III - SUPER COP (1992) - anyone raised on Hollywood's comparatively feeble 'action highlights' may very well choke on their popcorn before *this* picture is over! The characters are negligible and the sudden introduction of the diamond thieves somewhere around the halfway mark is, perhaps, a little too abrupt, prompting the bikers to ditch their thuggish ways and join forces with Chan to repel their mutual enemy (yeah, right!), but you'll be too busy gaping at the incredible stuntwork to care. Forget the re-edited US version - for all its eccentricities, the multi-lingual HK print is the one to go for.(Cantonese and English dialogue) "},{"Title":"Horrendous Stereotype","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  What more can I say about this film? It is called Rumble In The Bronx and filmed in Vancouver. The only resemblances are a few old MTA buses, NYPD cars, tiny clip in the beginning, and pictures of the World Trade Center throughout the film. There is a stereotype portrayed that everyone in the film is poor, and the borough is a slum. Firstly, when the film was released, the Bronx was (and is) rising. Secondly, not everyone in the Bronx are insane as shown. It is sad to see a place where many prestigious people have lived is portrayed in this manner. If anyone wants to see a better view of the Bronx, watch Finding Forrester. "},{"Title":"Should have never been made ...","Date":"5 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Apart from the creative action from Chan, this film is an embarrasment. Do not even waste your time on it.Jackie's fighting styles can be seen in better films.This was bad! "}]