[{"Title":"Am I insane or . . .","Date":"9 November 2003","Score":"90 out of 110 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Maybe I'm crazy, but the exact things that everyone seems to find wrong with the movie are the things that I think makes it good.  Like everyone was saying that all of the white characters are bad and all of the black characters are good, when that is apparently not the case.  Why does Remy become a skinhead?  Because the black guys in his dorm rejected, humiliated, and belittled him.  In a way they drove him to it.  Who's to blame here? In no way does Singleton let the black characters off the hook here. Many of them are portrayed as violent and irrational.  Omar Epps's character is good example of where Singleton points out another dangerous attitude that has nothing to do with white people.  The character thought the world owed him a break because he was black and underprivileged and the teacher is the one to call him on it.  Or as someone in a another post pointed out, sorry to quote you, Black self-pity, which the film does not excuse, but rather addresses with the same skepticism as it does the more generic issues everyone else seems to be concentrating on (racism, neo-naziism, date rape, lesbian cults.) So ask yourself, did this film genuinely leave you with the impression that it glorifies the behvoir of certain characters based on their race?  Or is it maybe just that since the director is black you have a preconceived notion that he will be partial to the black characters?So where a lot of people seem to think the message is black=good white=evil, I see it as It doesn't matter who's wrong and who's right because we need to put our differences aside and get along (almost equally clichee, I know, but still a different message entirely) Signed, white dude "},{"Title":"Must have seen a different movie","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"53 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I must have been watching a different movie to most of the people adding comments. I didn't see it as a film portraying African Americans as good and whites as bad but as a film in which all the factions were shown to have good and bad sides. Even the guy who becomes the Nazi skinhead was portrayed sympathetically in as much as he is clearly out of his depth in a social situation and becomes a recruit because only the skinheads will accept him when no-one else will. Overall, the African Americans come out as the most sympathetic but not by much.I agree there are some fairly silly stereotypes, especially Fishburne's character, but they work in the context of the movie. Most refreshing was the fact that an American college is portrayed as a place with real issues like racism and date rape and drunken behaviour. It's refreshing because colleges are usually shown as places where nice middle-class kids never have any problem bigger than being dumped by their boyfriends before everything is resolved in the last reel.An overly maligned movie. Not perfect but better than a million other college movies. Loved the ending too.  "},{"Title":"A muddled mix of stereotypes and paper thin characters in a filmthat mistakenly thinks it is deep and insightful","Date":"13 July 2003","Score":"47 out of 75 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Columbus University is one of the finest in America.  Into this place of higher learning comes a mix of students to join the already multicultural pot.  Malik is a black track star who feels he is disadvantaged as he has to run and study, while others only have to run.  Remy is a white teenager who is forced out of his dorm by his black roommate and finds friendship in an extreme group.  Kristen is a young female who struggles to make friends and is assaulted by a man before falling in with a women's group.  Their experiences intertwine in the small campus.If anyone wonders why director John Singleton (he of Boyz n' the Hood) is now making things like 2Fast2Furious, this is as good a place to start looking as anywhere.  After an assured start with Boyz, the director made a couple of films that had potential but just came out muddled or lacking something to make them work.  Poetic Justice was one of them and this was another.  Higher Learning had potential and you can see that it's heart is in the right place but it doesn't come off at all.  The plot tries to be a mix of experiences but, because there are three or so characters up front, there is no time to develop them so their experiences are broad cultural brush strokes - the white kid sucked into extremism, the raped girl taken into lesbianism, the black man who has to work harder for everything.As a result the plot never really engages and it all just goes where you expect it to go - and is less impacting as a result of it's plodding nature. This spills over into the characters too - they are all pretty much stereotypes that fit into their scenario rather than real characters. Singleton shows is bias in his direction and character selection.  My wife said something about me watching a lot of `black' films in the past week and I said Higher Learning was not dominated by any one race - but I think I was wrong.  Singleton clearly likes the characters played by Busta Rhymes, Ice Cube and Epps - they are cool and put upon where other characters (races) have fewer kind touches placed on them.  Personally I thought every character had huge chips on their shoulders about their identity - but the African American characters are the only ones that are held up for praise in relation to their chips!Having said that I did think Epps did OK - he made a lifeless character a little more interesting.  Banks however is as one dimensional as I have grown to expect from her.  Rapaport looks very young indeed but he does well.  His character is lazily drawn and developed, but he manages to make him a little human - which took work looking at the film as a finished product.  Swanson is too dippy and light - but then all the lesbian characters seem to be painted in a weird sort of light.  Ice Cube and Busta Rhymes give extended cameos which require them to deliver their rap personas of thugz - they are laughably clichéd!  Fishburne adds gravitas as he always does, but he has little to do and is given not only a poor accent, but also some `deep' dialogue that just sounds pretentious or like a fortune cookie.Overall I saw what this film was trying to do but it didn't manage it.  It was ambitious, but the wide spread meant that none of the plots or characters were allowed to develop and instead were left as hollow, broad stereotypes and scenarios.  The film tries to go all deep and the final shot of the word `unlearn' against an American flag just feels like Singleton must have thought that he had been making incredibly profound points the whole time - instead it felt that his original idea had had a deeper point, but it was totally lost in delivery.  "},{"Title":"Ouch, this is bad- Spoilers (that is if this movie can be spoiled)","Date":"28 October 2003","Score":"44 out of 72 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Singleton has some serious issues he has to come to grips with. I get the feeling that he thinks he is pretty smart; however, this movie is almost comically transparent and self righteous. In addition, there are a bunch of might-makes-right messages like when our local Nazi jerks get beat up. I mean, who in their right mind is going to root for a bunch of Nazi jerks? However, he way Singleton portrays the fight is downright silly and seems to be designed to show us more the superior fighting qualities of the black protagonists than anything else. There is another bad guy (in reality a drunken frat boy) who rapes one of the movie's protagonists. In this instance, I think that Singleton actually does a nice job portraying what is probably an all too common situation when the woman involved asks the frat boy to use a condom and he either does not have one or does not want to use one. In any event, he does not accede to her demands that he stop and he proceeds to have intercourse despite her pleas. I think that this type of rape is all too common and in fact many uniformed people refuse to accept the fact that it is even a rape. Well, no means no, this is a rape, which probably occurs a lot in Universities across the country.Having established the rape, how does Singleton deal with it? When the frat boy tries to call the woman, her roommate refuses to put the victim on the phone, at which point the frat boy calls the roommate a black bitch. The aggrieved roommate appears to appeal to a counsel of Ice Cube, et al, who then proceed to physically humiliate and abuse the frat boy into repeated and prolonged apologies to roommate for his racist remarks; however the (apparently in Singleton's mind) lesser crime of rape is not mentioned. Again, no one really should feel sorry for the frat boy; however, Singleton seems to be sending a dual message that a racist comment is a greater offense then rape and in any event violence is justified against jerks.What is so ultimately so disappointing is that this movie could have truly been about something important but Singleton, while no doubt a talented director, does not appear to have the maturity or depth to pull of something of this magnitude. "},{"Title":"Well-Rounded View of Extreme Points of View","Date":"11 December 2004","Score":"28 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The film's design seems to be the alpha and omega of some of the major issues in this country (U.S.). We see relationships all over at the university setting for the film. Befittingly, the obvious of student v.s. teacher is present. But what the film adds to its value is its other relationships male v.s. female, white v.s. black, and the individual v.s. society. But most important of all and in direct relation to all of the other relationships is the individual v.s. himself. I was amazed at how bilateral a point of view the director gave to showing the race relations on campus. Most films typically show the injustices of one side while showing the suffering of the other. This film showed the injustices and suffering of both sides. It did not attempt to show how either was right, although I would say the skin heads were shown a much crueler and vindictive (quite obvious towards the end). The film also discusses sex and rape. It is ironically this injustice that in some ways brings the two races together, for a time. Lawrence Fishburne does an over-the-top performance as the sagacious Profesor Phipps. He crumbles the idea of race favortism and instead shows the parallelism of the lazy and down-trodden with the industrious and positive. Other stars that make this film are Omar Epps, Ice Cube, and Jennifer Connelly. Michael Rapaport gives an excellent portrayal of a confused youth with misplaced anger who is looking for acceptance. Tyra Banks make her film debut and proves supermodels can act.Higher Learning gets its name in showing college as more than going to class and getting a piece of paper. In fact, I would say the film is almost a satire in showing students interactions with each other, rather than some dry book, as the real education at a university. It is a life-learning process, not a textual one. I think you'll find Higher Learning is apropos to the important issues at many universities and even life in general. 8/10 "},{"Title":"It should have been billed as a comedy. . .","Date":"28 April 2006","Score":"24 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The only way to get anything out of this film is to approach it as a comedy. Seen in that light, it does deliver. If you're looking for a serious movie, look somewhere else. This film has absolutely no depth and offers little more than a cursory and one dimensional examination of issues with no insight whatsoever.Making a movie about stereotypes and then making every single character in your movie a stereotype is an extremely poor strategy - especially when those same characters only break their hackneyed molds in predictable, stereotypical ways. Busta Rhymes and Ice Cube make the film almost watchable, and Michael Rappaport turns in a good performance, but the script is so awful and the social commentary is so trite, it's hard to find anything redeeming. "},{"Title":"PC at it's best","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Possible Spoilers. This movie can be summed up in this way. Whites=evil, Blacks=Good. The main hero is an angry Black man victimized by the Evil White Guys. The bad guys=White Males (I am not white, but am a Mexican-American, and like to see some new emphasis on racial matters rather than the White-evil, and Black victims who would be good if it were not for Whites). The Blacks can call Whites names and that is because they are angry and that is okay, likewise a White who does is a racist. Even the Good white person, the would be Lesbian character (Kristi Swanson) is good because she is a touchy-feely White Liberal. The students at school throw a muliticultural fest of Peace, Love, and Solidarity and who breaks it up?? The evil White guys do. I am sick of Hollywood concentrating on White-Black racial issues. It is getting repetitive and boring and unoriginal.I would like to see Latinos-black issues or Asian-black issues, Hispanic-Asian issues not the usual White-Black and if it isn't that it is usually White-with some other group. I like to see minorities with minorities. "},{"Title":"Terrible... Singleton's worst yet","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"40 out of 70 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie masquerades as a social commentary, when in fact it is every bit as ridiculous as the very racism it condemns. The premise of this movie African-American = Strong... any other race = weak. The worst part is when Rapaport pulls a gun on Omar Epps and a Jewish guy. The Jewish guy, in stereotypical fashion, crumbles in fear and starts pleading for his life... but the big, strong, defiant Omar Epps stands strong with no fear. We also have the condemnation of every fraternity member as being a arrogant preppie drunk or rapist. The raped white girl, of course, begins considering lesbianism since she's just a weak white girl after all. When the nerdy white guy is rejected by the fraternity members he of course must fall in with the skinheads, who are incredible cowards; especially the big muscular guy who is beaten down quickly by the strong black men. Wait... BUSTA RHYMES BEAT UP A GUY TWICE HIS SIZE??? Yeah, right.Of course the black men NEVER reject their own people and Omar Epps moves in with them easily. The scenes where Ice Cube threatens his white roommates and keeps them in line are just stupid -- of course he is the dominating one while his weak white roommates sit in fear of him and eventually move out. This movie was just terrible and the ending made me actually laugh out loud. The overly long slow-motion between Epps and Banks gets hilarious with the faces they make -- it's like watching my nephew and cousins making faces at each other (and they're all under 5). Do yourself a favor and skip this crapfest. "},{"Title":"This film needs to get some higher learning...avoid it","Date":"29 November 2004","Score":"16 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" MINOR SPOILERS!Well i just sat up late and watched this film, mainly because i enjoyed and rated some of Singleton's earlier work like Boyz n the hood. However, i have to say this was a major disappointment and is everything i hate about contrived, clichéd, so-called message movies. The acting is mainly poor,(pop stars and models do NOT necessarily make good actors...take note), the situations hard to swallow, (rape victim becomes overnight lesbian?...please!), but worst of all it reinforces every screwed up stereotype you can think of. By the second half of the film it has become cartoon like in its characterisation, making you lose any shred of empathy you may have had for its one-dimensional players.Not once is any valid point made about the inherent causes of racism and cultural, sexual and political ignorance. As a result it merely ends up sensationalising the results of these problems. It's message is contradictory, resulting in a sense of confusion and a general lack of plot cohesion. As for the films conclusion i found it predictable, embarrassing, exploitative and mildly offensive. For a film called Higher Learning i have to say all i learned is to avoid seeing this ever again.If you want a true comment on some of the themes that this film completely fails to elaborate upon then go hire American History X....unless you were just watching it for Tyra Banks then go hire a life. "},{"Title":"All the fun of an After School Special","Date":"18 April 2005","Score":"30 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Yes, people are racist. People are even racist in college. That's a good point, and the issue of racism has been dealt with many times before in countless films. What sets Higher Learning apart from the pack is that it deals with the issue of racism in the most ham-fisted and predictable way possible, oh yeah it's in college too.This film deals with this problem of racism the way Frankenstein deals with most problems, it bashes you over the head repeatedly in a brutal and sluggish manner. Most of the characters are cartoonish, one-dimensional, caricatures (lesbian feminist, angry black man), that react to situations as dramatically and predictably as possible. Instead of defying stereotypes this film is overpopulated with them. The angry black men feel cheated, feminists hate men, etc. (one feminist even holds a sign that reads Dead Men Don't Rape. See what I mean?) I don't want to give anything away, but in this movie if someone seems like a shifty loner or a date rapist they'll probably behave exactly how you expect them to. The changes the characters go through seems obvious to everyone but the people in the movie. The big twist in the plot hinges on whether or not the violent neo-Nazis will act like violent neo-Nazis. I'll guess you'll just have to watch to find out what happens.Another problem I have with this movie is that it's supposed to be gritty and hard-hitting, but they make Nazis the bad guys. I agree Nazis are evil, but that's my point. Everybody thinks Nazis are bad; we're not breaking any new ground here. Nazis have been portrayed as villains since the 1930's. The film doesn't challenge any viewpoints or make bold statements. It just deals with issues we all know about in a clumsy, after-school-special like, manner. Being anti-rape, anti-racist, and anti-Nazi isn't exactly taking a hard stance on a controversial issue.Higher Learning is predictable, cartoonish, and in a word stupid. Avoid at all costs. "}{"Title":"not mortified, just annoyed","Date":"20 May 2008","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I haven't read a single IMDb comment for this movie that mentions how the Jewish character in this movie jumped up and down like a little baby as a gun is pointed in his face by a racist skinhead while the movie's lead black character looked in sternness down the barrel of a gun.I don't know how anyone could perceive this as a balanced account of university life. I agree universities are not bastions of tolerance like they are supposed to be and the title would be fitting if Singleton didn't make his characters such broad caricatures.On the surface he tries to portray Ice Cube's character as a bad guy, provoking Remy to become a racist skinhead. But who graduates at the end in the movie's redeeming epilogue? It seems Singleton points at white as either unable to empathize (I didn't say sympathize!) with his fellow black student OR only able to take the path of a racist skinhead. Many people who have been bullied by people of another race do not turn to extreme bigotry.Nor do women who have been raped immediately turn to lesbianism, which is portrayed more as a cult than a lifestyle. Quite honestly what was the point? "},{"Title":"A Racist Movie Written and Directed by a Black man","Date":"28 August 2009","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" First of all yes I'm white, so I try to tread lightly in the ever delicate subject of race... anyway... White People Hating Black people = BAD but Black People Hating White people = OK (because apparently we deserved it!!). where do i start? i wish i had something good to say about this movie aside unintended comedy scenes the infamous scene were Ice Cube and co. get in a fight with some really big, really strong, really really angry and scary looking Neo-Nazis and win!!! the neo-Nazi where twice the size ), and the chase! the chase is priceless... This is NOT a movie about race, tolerance and understanding, it doesn't deliver... this is a racist movie that re-affirm all the cliché stereotypes, the white wimpy guy who gets manhandled by his black roommate automatically transform in a skinhead...cmon simply awful I do regret ever seeing it.Save your time and the dreadful experience of a poorly written ,poorly acted, dull and clearly biased picture, if you are into the subject, go and Rent American History X, now thats a movie "},{"Title":"An awful mess","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"27 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't understand why people would praise this garbage. Its wrong , stupid , unrealistic , awful , and just about everything else. The film is a view on life , racial issues , prejudice , and everything else that strangely goes on in College. This is where it fails. It has no grasps on reality. From many questionable non-sense scenes in the movie such as for exampleA black man chasing down a white man with a gun, the black man and stopped by the security guards handcuffed and carried out while the gunman runs right past them.The same white man snipering down people from a roof topic which is stopped and beaten down by the same black man is then stopped and given a Rodney King style beating while the gun man runs free while a moment later being chased back down by only one of the four guards.As one previous reviewer pointed out Several white 230lbs men being beaten down by several black men weighing around 160lbs including the 105lbs Bust A RhymesAnother critical flaw in the film are the shallow uninteresting main characters. From the scared and confused white people and the mean , angry , and yet rightful (?) black people. Its almost as its an insult to both black and white people. I am a white male and I know many black and hispanic people who agree that this movie is wrong to portray characters and giving them those characteristics exclusively due to their race.The storyline which I will explain now revolves around three characters. One a black athlete , the other a confused scared white girl who questions her sexuality , and the third is a white man who is also confused and scared , then blames his problems on black people in which he becomes a nazi later in the film. They all have their share of problems and adventures including sex , rape , fights , love , hate , prejudice , racial war , and oh yeah don't forget education. Which all comes down at the end for the fatal shoot out. In which after they go back to their boring lives and think being white is bad. Does this sound alot like your college years? Didn't think so. I don't think the director attended college especially if he were to make this awful mess.Overall this is a really bad , bad , ugly movie. If you want to see a more accurate view or racial issues go see American History X. If you want to see a more accurate view of college rent Porkys. Just avoid this mess. "},{"Title":"racist trash, too slackjawed to draw indignation","Date":"25 October 2007","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Higher Learning says its OK for blacks to torment white people because they're all oppressors. most blacks in this movie are portrayed as ignorant savages. Stunning that this is supposed to be a positive movie about race. Incompetent acting, direction, and production values all contribute to this toothache of a flick. An appalling piece of trash. the perpetrators of this dreck should be ashamed. Higher Learning says its OK for blacks to torment white people because they're all oppressors. most blacks in this movie are portrayed as ignorant savages. Stunning that this is supposed to be a positive movie about race. Incompetent acting, direction, and production values all contribute to this toothache of a flick. An appalling piece of trash. the perpetrators of this dreck should be ashamed. "},{"Title":"Watch Boyz n the Hood instead","Date":"30 April 2004","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was thoroughly disappointed by this movie.  I love John Singleton's ideas and themes, and once in a while he creates powerful moments in film, but this one was a total miss.  First of all, I don't know if Singleton ever went to college (I'm assuming he did) but the campus atmosphere in this movie was completely ridiculous.  Yes, certain groups of students tend to congregate together and isolate themselves from other groups, but the division of these groups into warring factions in the film was way over the top.  I mean, come on, a Nazi fraternity?  Also, I almost laughed out loud when the innocent, vulnerable freshman girl gets raped and automatically becomes a bisexual feminist campus organizer.On the other hand, the film does give sheltered white people a better view of the more subtle forms of racism minorities are bombarded with in all parts of America, even college campuses.  I loved how Michael Rappaport's (white) character got away with violent crime while Omar Epps's (black) character was detained by the police for the same incidents, not once, but twice!  This happens everyday, and it's about time we see it in film.Lawrence Fishburne plays a sort of mentor/professor to Epps in the film, but his character is not nearly developed enough, and also, doesn't seem to know what he's talking about in his lectures.  He said America was founded in order to create democracy?  Even the most cursory study of history supports the view that America's founders were the same wealthy white men who felt their social inferiors needed to be exploited and controlled to support the ruling class.  I'm a little off topic now, but the point is that Singleton has failed in his efforts here to illuminate the roots of hatred and racial conflict.  Compared to his more successful efforts Boyz n the Hood and Baby Boy, this movie is a failure.Note  I've heard this film is required viewing in many college courses!  Give me a break -- either those professors are so out of touch with actual campus life that they think this is somehow realistic, or they are closet conservatives who think this failed effort at liberal ideology will turn students off to efforts at social change.  I wish they would give students more credit and show them a film that actually does a decent job of showing racial and class conflict in contemporary America, like the Weather Underground. "},{"Title":"I can't believe I sat through this crap!!","Date":"7 March 2001","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie at a friends house and it was the most ridiculous thing I've ever seen.  When it was done, my friend and I stared at each other wondering how we were able to sit through that entire movie.The film is about college students at Columbus University dealing with racial issues.  It's amazing how it appeared that every white person was either extremely evil, or extremely ignorant, whereas all the blacks are 'underprivileged, victimized, and discriminated against.'  The director must have spent a weekend with Louis Farrakhan and Spike Lee because his portrayals and quotes portrayed a completely unrealistic society of extreme prejudice and racial hatred.There were the poor black students who were discriminated by the campus security, verbally abused by white students, mistreated in class, and continually threatened by the neo-nazis in the school.  I thought it was a comedy.  My favorite was Omar Epps complaining looking at the statue of Columbus and saying how he (Columbus) was a trespasser and took the land from the natives.  WOW, that's great!!  I've NEVER heard of THAT cliche. Thank you, Omar and thank you, Higher Learning!!!!Only see this movie if you're constipated.  It'll unblock your bowels in no time.  I can't move the mouse cursor down lower than 1 out of 10 vote, so I give it a 1.  Which is about 1.5 more than it deserves.  "},{"Title":"Nonsense. Total, utter nonsense","Date":"8 November 1998","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is nonsense. i don't mean mild nonsense, or almost nonsense, or indeed just poor. Let's do a quick plot summary. Racists of both varieties have race war. Fantastic liberal coalition stand as symbols of good (lesbians, hippies etc) The only thing this film is good for is comedy. You haven't laughed until you've seen immensely stupid Nazis yell things like Do it, do it for the white race!. Great stuff. A prime candidate for people who watch films for stupidity. "},{"Title":"The horrors of going to college","Date":"28 March 2000","Score":"15 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Overly dramatic movie takes every possible prejudice and stereotype, multiplies it by 100, and sends it to college.  The movie follows a group of students at Columbus University as they adjust to college life with apparently physcotic results.  This is the type of movie that makes you never want to go to college for fear of being raped, turned into a lesbian, be attacked by Neo-Nazis, or an assortment of other things that mostly do not happen, but are played out to the extreme here.  Movie wastes a decent cast with played out cliches and poor scripting.  The ending is completely predictable, and leaves the viewer feeling like college is not a fun place to be.  Watchable, but just remember that 95% of the things that go on in the movie do not represent most campuses in the United States. "},{"Title":"A hatefull, ignorant, disgusting parade of stereotypes and bigotry","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"18 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  People with sharp and open minds should watch Higher Learning. Much of what is wrong with contemporary America is evidenced in this bit of fascist trash. It's frightening that so many people reflexively accept the premises put forth in this homage to hate. The people who perpetrated this movie have collaborated to make this world a little less humane. "},{"Title":"Singleton is a joke.","Date":"14 October 2008","Score":"19 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" He is fine with an all black cast............but when he has to use white people......he loses all touch with reality.As a white male, I have never been more disrespected and the way he treats gangstas as somewhat good guys. I am amazed by this film, every storyline was pathetic and the racism is laughable.Every character was pompous and annoying. You wouldn't root for anyone in this mess, well maybe Banks. Omar Epps is terrible, Ice Cube and Busta, lol. The muscular nazi is terrible. Fishburne's overacting makes his performance bad. Ahhhh, this whole film is bad.Connely's performance was creepy and annoying as well. "}{"Title":"Underrated! Finally an intelligent film about racism","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"19 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" John Singleton's finest film, before blockbuster wannabees like the Shaft remake, this is a thought-provoking movie with overall great acting and superb balance between the stories 3 main characters, each with identifiable youngster problems.What I liked about it most is that it also covers the problem of selfpity among young blacks, a problem mostly ignored by the media and other films who mostly focus on social-economical problems and racism by whites. This movie shows that blacks can be equally ignorant and racist.The masterful thing about this film is that it deals with so many topics without getting shallow. It's not just about racism, but about how hard it can be to adopt to a new world (college), date rape, discovering sexuality and isolation. Omar Epps, Michael Rapaport and Kristy Swanson each deliver fine performances, and the supporting cast is equally interesting with Jennifer Connelly as a lez (yay) and with Ice Cube and Busta Rhymes as college bums causing little riots.The only negative is the caricature of a professor by Laurence Fishburne (Peppermint?). Surely, plenty of professors are nutty. But they're not as flat. The skinheads are also a bit of a caricature, but I guess they are like that too in real life.Overall a great underrated piece of filmwork, if you liked American History X you'll love this one.8,5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Ice Cube's character masterminded all the hatred and violence!!!","Date":"29 May 2005","Score":"22 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of the most putrid movies of the 90's. I would not recommend it if you have something better to do. This picture presents African-Americans as savage, uncultured, violent, inarticulate, reefer-smoking sociopaths. Fudge(Ice Cube) and his posse of homies are continuously disrespectful toward others in the dorm, not just the white people, but Asians too, and are never disciplined for their actions. Despite all that tolerance they keep on whining and crying about the evil white oppressors who run their lives and stand in their way. In fact it is Fudge's influence that causes Remmy to bond with the skin heads, to drop out of college, and eventually to kill Malik's girlfriend.The skinheads are presented as a covert group of underachievers who share a pad off campus and generally stay away from everyone else. They never blast their music to annoy people nor do they taunt the police. They do commit serious crime such as battery and rape, yet they're not as repulsive nor as threatening as Fudge and Dreads(Busta Rhymes) are.There's a lot of material in this film which almost offended me or made me giggle. Some of it is as follows below.Fudge and Dreads are stated as students at the Columbus University yet we never see them in class and it is completely unclear how they pay their tuition. One is only left to speculate that the weed they smoke has something to do with their finances. Though they are students at what looks like a private university, they cannot utter a single line of proper English. Their characters are developed only through their compulsive whining and xenophobia.It appears that drunken Kristen(Kristy Swanson) knew exactly why drunken Billy was taking her to his house. She even asked him to get a rubber so that they could begin. The fact that he penetrated her without a condom became a rape whilst it would be great sex only if he had one handy. Later Kristen was assured by Taryn(Jennifer Connely) that she holds no accountability in that matter, and despite willfully jumping into a guy's bed she wasn't ready for sexual intercourse and was viciously taken advantage of by a sexual predator. Then a week or so later she met, and slept with, an ultra-sensitive do-gooder who knew how to avoid raping and brought a condom. The director stressed contraception thoroughly.This movie is complete and utter garbage that makes black people look like pricks and women look stupid and frail. Cole Hauser's acting, and Laurence Fishburne's accent are the only reasons I can think of to watch it. The writer/director is obviously a man of limited intelligence. Go ahead and limit your own by watching this crap if you want, but keep in mind that neurons don't grow back. Just follow the advice at the end and UNLEARN. "},{"Title":"So Shallow My Ankles Didn't Even Get Wet","Date":"7 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Higher Learning is a film only a superficial hippie-wanna-be could love. It's underlying theme is nauseatingly racist in nature all the while attempting to pass itself off as a film promoting tolerance of diversity. Bahhh! What an insult to the viewer's intelligence.John Singleton has a blatantly obvious axe to grind with white folks. It is unfortunate that he utilizes cinema to perpetuate his agenda to turn people against one another in an effort to sell his lousy flicks.To gripe about this film any further would be to pay undue homage to it and therefore I will end this with two words of advice... steer clear! "},{"Title":"SINGLETON IS A BAD BLACK DIRECTOR","Date":"22 June 2001","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Boyz in the hood was a good entertaining heartfelt movie. Higher learning was a trashy, prejudice, overhyped movie. He tries to make the audience, black and white, to care more for the blacks in the movie. It's so ONE SIDED. He made the white people look bad like they're guilty of being white and not nice enough to the blacks. For example, the scene in the elevator with the white girl grabbing her purse when omar epps comes in. And he rolls his eyes like oh please. She has every right to protect her bag. who cares if the guy was black or yellow or blue? the blacks were just as bad as the whites in the movie. im talking about ice cube's crew and rappaport's crew. Dont take any sides in this movie. Another part where Rappaport gets away after threating a jew and black with a gun and then the cops stop omar epps. awwwwww who cares?? dont feel for the blacks..both races in this movie are bad. this movie sucks. dont watch it. waste of time. POetic justice is another bad movie from singleton. "},{"Title":"Singleton Misses","Date":"15 April 2007","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie shows how racist John Singleton is. He portrays whites and other races that are not black as the evil that exists in our educational system. How quick he forgets that it is this same educational system that made him what he is and failed at it. Ice Cube's character is the epitome of an instigating black man that was responsible for most of the violence in this film. Singleton barely touched on the relationships between the white and black characters that were trying to reach out to each other. When Omar Epps says  I need to be with my people, that racist remark spoke volume. And John, don't think for a minute that the picture of Thomas Jefferson in the tower stairwell did not get my attention. Nice touch! "},{"Title":"Unrealistic portrayal of college life","Date":"13 July 2000","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What shows promise to be a good movie quickly degrades into ridiculous stereotypes that the director claims to be fighting against.  Higher Learning takes place at the fictional Columbus University and follows a group of students as they lead their daily lives.  However, these people barely seem to have time to go to class.  Every possible situation that could happen does, from date rape to racism to experimenting with lesbianism.  And of course this all culminates in a neo-Nazi bloodbath. What's wrong?  Doesn't sound like your college?  Well mine either.However, Singleton wants us to believe this is what colleges are like, and he does so with an unconvincing script which hops around jumping from plot to plot trying to say everything he wants before the credits roll.  This leaves a lot of plot holes and characters coming and going throughout the movie.  Overall, not an awful movie, but it could have been a lot better. "},{"Title":"My least favorite of the Unrealistic stereotypical movies I saw this week","Date":"12 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The opposing groups are just too clearly defined and what we are left with is a comic strip or a caricature, even down to the pipe smoking professor.They even did a bad job on their stereotyping. Laurance Fishburn's accent sounded scottish when you just really anticipate an english accent to go with that pipe.In one scene where the two parties have their first confrontation I just kept waiting for them to start laughing and it turn into a comedy. I had the hardest time believing these people were serious. They expect you to believe this is *really* how people live but you just dont see it cause you're blind. "},{"Title":"awful message","Date":"8 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie plays on every stereotype imaginable and plays it off like this happens at every campus nationwide. This isn't a spoiler just a brief identification of some characters. We have a lonely white guy from idaho that becomes a skinhead, frat guys that just do keg stands and prey on drunk women,and a lesbian feminist.  This movie shows african-american males as either athletes or pot heads that only move  when it comes time to fight.  The list goes on and on.  Every character plays at least one stereotype that stands out.  Thus, it is very easy to guess what will happen leaving no surprises.  Yes, racism is an unfortunate problem that still lingers in certain aspects of our society, but this movie makes it almost seem as an all out race war is on the horizon. If you rent this film don't expect to get a deep message on racial issues on campuses.  The lone pleasant aspect was the large number of future stars in the film.  Tyra Banks stood out most I believe in her performance. "},{"Title":"Worst movie ever.","Date":"29 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I wish Singleton would keep his obvious bias racially feelings out of his movies and just make a movie that's real, instead of this laughable, trite garbage.Example In the movie 'Boyz In The Hood', Laurence Fishburne is giving a speech to his son and son's buddy and says Why do you think there's a liquor store and gun store on every single corner in black neighborhoods? I'll tell you why. Because they want us to kill ourselvs. Yes, I can see how movies with black people suggesting evil white people are conspiring to kill all black people by making them kill each other will advance race relations.As for Higher Learning, I think the title should have been shortened to 'High'. One must be very high to watch a movie like this and feel 'enlightened' by the end of the movie.Let's see, basically all white males in this movie are either one of two things Very bad or very weak. All black people are either cool, heroic, intelligent or victims.Whites in this movie The evil racist campus security, the evil white jock rapist, the weak white hippy who tries his hardest to understand Malik but Malik turns him down, the weak Jewish roommate who shits his pants like a little girl when Remmy pulls a gun on him, yet Malik plays it cool of course, and of course the oh so very evil and BAAAAD nazi skinheads! Oh yes, nazi skinheads are just killing black people daily in college campuses and all over the country. And of course the skinheads are very weak and stupid like Remmy.Blacks in the movie Laurence Fishurne as a wise professor, the strong black woman I don't take no buuuulllshit roommate, Ice Cube's cool street smart character, Malik's struggle to find himself in an evil white man's world, Tyra Bank's intelligent character who becomes a victim, Busta' Rhymes beating up two skinheads at one time etc etc.What a bunch of laughable and ridiculous clichés. Singleton definitely has a chip on his shoulder when it comes to white people. This movie was every bit as racist as any pro nazi skinhead documentary. Worst movie ever made. "},{"Title":"crap","Date":"17 July 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I always wondered what affirmative action blacks did on college campuses. Thanks to singleton, I now know. essentially nothing but smoke weed, drink, party and talk about how they are discriminated against because they aren't given doctorate degrees for occupying space in a college from 8 to 10 years. It's also nice to see this racist drivel where stupid=strong=black and every other race, although smarter and more studious are somehow in Singleton's twisted mind, inferior to the alpha males on the campus. When a student complains about noise he is accosted by Rastafarian's?. God forbid you should want to go to school to learn instead on drugging or composing or listening to rap music. The whites are portrayed as comic book racists who can't even manage to speak actual English and are all members of the aryan brotherhood. How this director gets money to produce this crap is beyond me. "}{"Title":"Cookie-cutter political correctness","Date":"22 April 2009","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Despite, or perhaps in part because of the clever use of music to underscore the motivations and ideologies of each of the major characters, stereotypes are in, and verisimilitude and characterization are out in this not-too-subtle cinematic screed.One gets the sense that John Singleton was dabbling in post-structuralist literary theory because it was the flavor of the day, and Higher Learning was the tendentious result. The low point of the movie is the peace rally, in which the symbols of the 1960s free love movement are appropriated for what much more closely resembles a Take Back The Night rally with live, stridently identity-conscious musical acts in tow. Perhaps in his prim revisionism the director was trying to assert that identity politics is the new Vietnam? Ooh, how Adrienne Rich of him&#x97;and Remy's firing into the crowd is a nice touch, if you're into Rich's sort of political posturing.I wish I could give this movie negative stars. I can recommend it only to those interested in the 1990s as history, a time when radical feminists brought the academic trinity of race, class, and gender to popular culture and declared man-hating a viable and honorable POLITICAL option. Where's Camille Paglia when you need her? "},{"Title":"Good film. shows its all about perspective","Date":"4 February 2007","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" First one has to take into account the time period this film was made in. 1995. Rappers were in it, and that added to the flair of it.Remy was a socially awkward teen trying to find his way and couldn't, until he met and was befriended by Nazis. They took him in. Nazi's aren't all this awkward, but like most gangs, they fill a void that is missing be it economic, social, emotional, whatever. Michael Rappaport played the part perfectly.Omar Epps was the hot shot track star, with a questionable work ethic and a chip on his shoulder. He kept trying to feel sorry for himself and his plight, and had his girlfriend and professor to straighten him out on it.Kristen was a young white girl trying to find herself and trying to fit in, until she was date raped. She then found her self experiment with her sexuality, and getting involved politically.This film deals with racism and like most things that deal with racism, people's own perspectives come into play.I read so many comments about how there were no 'evil' black characters but there were evil white one (Nazis). So what? Remy wasn't portrayed as evil at all, he was trying to find his way, and kept failing until some skinheads accepted him. He was scared, it was sad to see him devolve how he did. He even says right before he kills himself, I didn't mean it, I wanted to be an engineer.Ice Cube and Busta Rhymes were angry black men, Ice Cube was somewhat of an intellectual, and Busta Rhymes was just portrayed as a dumb thug. They both showed no consideration at all for their roommates, and generally appear to not like white people very much. They were angry like the Nazis but not on the level of Nazis in terms of overall badness. Sorry if this makes it seem unfair, but are there really black groups like the Nazis? No.People say it shows white=-bad black=good. Not true, the only bad white characters were the Nazis and the police, which is more or less true in real life. Kristen was a good girl, her boyfriend (omar epps roommate) was a good guy, and even Remy was a good guy, he was just misguided.Omar Epps, Ice Cube and Busta were seriously flawed characters, angry and inconsiderate. Although their constant harassment by police seemed to justify some of their anger. Remy's inability to fit in seemed to justify his anger as well.Good movie, well done. Like all movies that deal with racism, its a great piece to get a discussion going.I don't think Cube and Busta coulda beat those Nazis though. "},{"Title":"This Movie Was Horrible And Not Too Realistic","Date":"13 June 2004","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers Ahead!!!This movie was another one of John Singleton's horrible pseudorealistic movies. Laurence Fishburn was a mean college professor. It was funny when Regina King called Ice Cube a super super super senior. Omar Epps just had terrible luck as a college student. If he was a track star, then he should have received a full scholarship instead of being put out of class for not paying his tuition by Laurence Fishburn. One stupid plot was the girl who became a lesbian after she was raped! I was so mad that they killed Tyra Banks in this movie. That was one of Tyra's best roles ever!  "},{"Title":"Amateurish Garbage","Date":"23 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" A film that pretends to be lots of things but succeeds in being nothing. This work is designed to fool shallow viewers into believing that it's a complex drama about race and love, while in reality it's nothing more than a bad cut/paste job. I tried hard to swallow the beaten-to-death-then-revived-and-beaten-again clichés, but the foolishness of characters and their random irrational developments left me with a strange taste as if someone has farted in my mouth.The characters * A student who at the beginning was so keen on studying, then after a minor scuff with a black student he drops out, becomes an insane skinhead with an out of the blue history of using firearms and we find that he had a state of the art pistol stashed in his ruck sack all along. Yeah, right.* A black gang leader who is supposed to be an intellect and has a massive library stacked with books, but then he acts as a common thug harassing the white boy who just wants to study. Which one was he? If that was supposed to be the black student struggling against prejudice and racism, then we shouldn't have seen him bulling the white students for no reason at the beginning. Makes sense? * A girl who we are supposed to believe was raped, but I'm not sure how you can call that a rape? She went home with the guy, let him engage in intercourse with her, then as he approached climax she asked him to stop, and when he did not, she becomes a rape victim! It's unlikely that people who love such a film have ever had sex, so to them I say that a Saint would not be able to stop at the time she asked him to. Physically and mentally impossible and no judge would even consider looking at it. But we still have to accept that she is a rape victim.* Another girl who runs anti-sexism meetings is as contradicting and random as the rest of them. She was all about helping the rape victim, then we see her having a lesbian relation with her and we are left to guess whether it was in reality, a dream, a fantasy or a mental image of her new boyfriend. Fortunately this character was played by Jennifer Connelly which is the only high point of this rubbish film. Her acting is world class and she is -as always- a joy to look at. Too bad she wasted her time playing that badly written character.* The leader of the NAZI group is a guy who somehow comes out as if he hates what's they're doing. Yet no one explains why he does and what forces him to stay on it. We see him in one scene blaming a fellow skinhead for dropping out of school and tells him that he must have a bright successful future, then shortly afterwards he provocatively dares him to commit mass murder and hands him the rifle!!! It also beats me how no one had investigated their attacks on black/white students, and how after the shooting police did not even speak to the group even though one of them gave a clear and loud order to fire while a policeman was 3 feet behind trying to catch him.* Then comes what is supposed to be the main character. A black guy who is there on a sports scholarship and he hates it. He calls his black team mates slaves who are no good for anything but running, yet we see him telling the black gang leader that he does not care for education and is only in it for money!! Which one is it? You know what, I'll stop here because I suddenly feel that it is not worth my time. Worthless rubbish. "},{"Title":"An interesting curio of America in the '90s right after the LA Riots.","Date":"20 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Having over fifteen years of space away from this film, watching it again makes me realize how utterly disconnected from reality this film is. The characters are stereotypes, the college campus is nothing like reality, and the whole affair screams 'Do the Right Thing' but without any real understanding about what that really entails. Spike Lee's film had a lot of valid points and understood the nature of racism and portrayed it brilliantly. This film just takes pleasure in reducing everybody to stereotypes, tossing in an education spiel that would make Bill Cosby roll his eyes, and basically just waste the audience's time and money.But it does have value. The movie attempts to portray America as a land seething with anxiety and bitterness over social norms breaking and bursting. But it's a childish movie in that it wants to be revolutionary without really knowing what it's trying to do. Why does rape equal becoming a lesbian? How does being dismissed by a bunch of black men immediately follow into racism? Huh? What is going on in this movie? And we'll never know. Higher Learning is a product of the '90s. If anything, it shows how we cannot judge history while we are living it. It's a bad clone of Do The Right Thing and is ultimately pointless and meaningless. If anything, it serves as a very good warning about moralizing in cinema you better be damn sure you make something that, even if proved wrong, proves a point. If not, you're just making Sid Davis films with better stock. "},{"Title":"Could Have Been Great","Date":"26 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I had never heard of Higher Learning until I saw it on BET during a night of insomnia. So I had no idea what to expect when I started watching it.The film follows the story of three incoming freshman at the fictional Columbus University, both plagued by tragedies. Kristen (Kristy Swanson) is nearly raped, loses her useless friends, and questions her sexuality, or so it is implied. Malik (Omar Epps) faces racial tension, tuition woes, and the realization he isn't sure what he wants in life. Remy (Michael Rappaport) deals with loneliness, and his eventual decline into white supremacism. So it's an upbeat film.Director John Singleton had a unique opportunity to show the reality of racial tensions and the struggles of college life. In some ways, he succeeds. In other ways, the film is extremely dishonest. You won't find a single redeemable white male character. Based on the movie, you would have to conclude most white males are either skinheads, frat rapists, or moronic racist campus police. The only truly positive white female character happens to be a lesbian (Jennifer Connelly), whose place in the film is mystifying for me until I read a lot of her relationship with Kristen is cut out (Could it be sexuality is more scary than race? I don't know why they cut it out, just a possibility). I don't count Kristen as a positive character because she is portrayed as being so weak. The film also dumbs itself down at times, as in the scene where Malik rants about Christopher Columbus for example (Malik doesn't know anything about Frederick Douglass, but he's suddenly an expert on colonial history?). And Remy's descent into white supremacy is laughable (He's becoming racist because his black roommates wouldn't turn down their stereo?). The white supremacists are so poorly acted (aside from Cole Hauser) and so much caricatures, it's hard to see why they should be feared (Real skinheads are much more frightening).And yet, there are some superb scenes. The conclusion of Remy's story was powerful. It would have been interesting to hear Malik's thoughts on Remy after that moment. Does he pity Remy? Does he forgive him? Maybe that's just me though, as I've experienced the anger that comes with having a friend murdered.The moments where we see Professor Phipps (Laurence Fishburne) struggling to reach Malik are also gripping. And any scene with Michael Rappaport is powerful. Despite the ridiculous lack of justification for his transformation, he makes it work well.In the end, the performances are what redeems the movie, starting with Rappaport. Fishburne is excellent, and every scene he is in keeps your eyes glued to the screen, despite an accent that disappears at times. Ice Cube is great as a perpetual senior, who is also the smartest character in the movie. It makes you wonder why he isn't getting more serious roles. Regina King, Cole Hauser, Adam Goldberg, Busta Rhymes and Tyra Banks round out the honorable mentions. Although part of me felt Goldberg's role was a stereotype. Kristy Swanson does a respectable job, but her storyline is a mess. At the beginning she is shown being nervous around Malik because he's black. Yet she has no issue with Regina King's character? And she's the one the filmmakers chose to organize a unity rally? I suppose it's the scene were King has Ice Cube and his friends rough up the frat boy that tried to rape her that's supposed to represent her transformation, but I think that should have been explored more. They never really showed her coming to terms with the attempted rape. And the lesbian angle remains unresolved. Her story just didn't make much sense.In the end, this film is worth seeing, if only for the excellent cast. It doesn't treat politics, race, or sex with any real honesty. Films like Do the Right Thing and Remember the Titans are much better at presenting racial issues. If you are homosexual, you are likely to feel slighted. And most races could find something to be offended by. If you went to college, this won't at all resemble your experience. But there are single moments of truth. "},{"Title":"Makes you think, which is obviously something Singleton didn't do.","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  After seeing this film I can't help but wonder what the screenwriting process was for Singleton. Higher Learning is a movie with every cliche I can imagine; really very pathetic. Higher Learning is good for one reason, it forces you to think about racial issues if you hadn't already, but once the glimmer of the racially just manifesto you created wears off, you realize what a load of crap this movie was. Acting was good, even Tyra Banks, who I wasn't expecting anything from, didn't make me want to gouge my eyes out. The story is, as I mentioned, cliche. It's not so bad that you should demand the money back from Blockbuster but if you really want to see a racially profound film, choose something else. "},{"Title":"could have been...","Date":"26 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  AN excellent premise is sadly executed in Higher Learning.  Singleton tries to use such extreme situations and melodrama to get his point across that the message he is trying to send ends up seeming as ridiculous as his contrived situations.  This is only a wakeup call to America if you live in a comic book.  The dialogue is poor, and dooms this mostly talentless young cast.  Omar Epps and Michael Rappaport are decent, but the rest of the cast is painful to watch, especially Laurence Fishburne.  He is somehow able to make the poor lines written for his character even worse by delivering them with a ludicrous accent.  Only rent this trash so it will make good films about racism like American History X look even better. "},{"Title":"Weak!","Date":"24 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  So let me get this straight,  the only reason why people become skin-heads is because Ice Cube is the room-mate from hell?Trying to fit too much stuff in one movie, this should have stuck to one and not tried to be too many things at once.For a better representation of racism in America,  see American History X. "},{"Title":"Question the knowledge???....question the movie","Date":"9 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Having watched Singleton's Higher Learning, I was disappointed and let down because this movie had so much potential. With its cast, and basis, it could have been as equally effective and provocative as Boyz N the Hood; however it falls far short of that. The movie follows three characters, Malik Willaims (Omar Epps), Kristen Connor (Kristy Swanson), and Remy (Michael Rapaport). Each of which assimilate into groups bound by race and gender. tension between the groups lead to an ending which could of been better.One of the biggest problems I had with the movie was the fact some parts of the film were just tacky.This is especially seen when the security guards constantly beat up Malik, now a pro-black activist, are super nice to Remy, now a Neo-Nazi. Some of the plots and characters just seem to fade away. The lesbian relationship between Kristen, and Taryn (Jennifer Connelly) took off but never became clear. I found Remy's transformation from a farmer boy nerd into a Neo-Nazi quite unrealistic, mainly because the Neo-Nazi group is not shown as a Neo-Nazi group, they are instead shown as a bunch of angry white guys. The only sign of a Neo- Nazi group is from Scott (Cole Hauser), the leader of the group; however his character is much too under-used.The pro-black group was more realistic then the Neo-Nazi group; however it had their fair share of problems too. For one Malik, just seems to whine all the time about how he as to endure being an athlete and a scholar at the same time. Ice cube actually isn't too bad as Fudge, but displays too many stereo-types as a black to be taken seriously (smoking weed). Busta Rhymes character as dreads, was just that dreadful. Perhaps the only realistic character was the professor, Laurence Fishburne. Although his lack of a cultural stance proved to be the opposite problem of all of the rest of the characters in the movie. Too many stereotypes for a movie that tries to look at the problem of racism in this country. This movie can be skipped without being missed. Boyz N the Hood was by far a greater Singleton movie. "}{"Title":"Bad like Boston Public and Saved by the Bell are bad","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought this movie was ridiculous. I really think this is to college what Boston Public and Saved by the Bell are to high school--that is, anyone who sees this before they get to college thinks college is actually like this.Now, I understand that Singleton wanted to turn this movie into a microcosm of colleges in general, but for all this stuff to happen at one school in one week I find a hard pill to swallow. Some of the stuff does happen on a disturbingly regular basis (ie, drunken rapes), but the rest of it is so rare that putting it in the movie is useless, other than to provide filler.Sorry to all you high schoolers who see this movie, but college is NOTHING LIKE THIS.  "},{"Title":"disappointing","Date":"1 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I found this film to be heavily laden with stereotypes - everything from the depiction of fraternity members being sexist, skirt-chasing rapists, to the african-american male doing the 'hood walk, to the white male hick who just has to end up becoming a neo-Nazi. The ending was uncalled for and decidedly cheesy. Makes you wonder if the writers/director ever went to college, and if so which ones, cause the one I went to was not nearly as exciting. I realize that Mr. Singleton was attempting to deal with multiple issues in a limited timespan, which accounts for the film having very little by way of realism, but that doesn't excuse many of the situations being as over the top as they were, nor does it warrant such heavy usage of stereotypes.And the near lack of non-black and non-white (I don't count Jewish people as not being white) characters only served to lessen my respect for this piece of work. I am South Asian myself (that's the Indian subcontinent for those who feel geographically challenged) and, in general, find our lack of presence in any mainstream production about higher education just a little bit annoying, especially given the large numbers of such people on any college campus. And by presence, I don't mean boy at fountain or girl in classroom cardboard characters. I mean real, live people with relevant parts.The cinematography, on the other hand, was great. His crowd scenes in particular were shot beautifully. After being blown away by Boyz n' the 'hood, I was very disappointed by Higher Learning. I give it a 4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Trite, we've seen it all a zillion times","Date":"24 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  good acting, bad script...this film attempted to cover every issue of a controversial nature that one might experience in college...problem is the film's too short to effectively and realistically explore and resolve these issues (if he had his heart set on making a film about racism, lesbianism, rape, and interracial conformity then perhaps Singleton might have wanted to invest in a cable mini-series) and for this what we got was a mix of stereotypes/cliches that made this too predictable and, at times, ridiculous to watch.  Nevertheless, great acting from Epps, Rappaport and Fishburne.  "},{"Title":"exaggerated... or is it?","Date":"13 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" *** SPOILERS *** this movie always seems very exaggerated, until i remember that my college campus had a former-student-turned-Nazi-racist-killer-who-then-committed-suicide, too his name was Benjamin Nathaniel Smith.look him up in the wikipedia- i added a few photos to their article about him.it's hard to believe, but this stuff really does happen.i'm not a big fan of Omar Epps or Ice Cube, but Larry Fishburne, Kristy Swanson, Jennifer Connelly & Mike Rappaport were good. "},{"Title":"John Singleton proves he ain't the colored Kubrick.","Date":"10 January 2004","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had to watch this film in college as part of a freshman interest group. It is a pretty simplistic morality play, limned, appropriately enough, in black and white. The actions and behaviors of the characters don't conform with reality or even a semblance thereof, and are, instead, walking, talking props for Singleton, here in high didactic mode (which wouldn't be so bad if there was a coherent message). Among the actors, Michael Rapaport, wigger extraordinaire (he and Danny Hoch must alternate roles), delivers a decent performance, though Kristy Swanson is a cipher (no wonder she ended up doing shark movies on TBS). Omar Epps is appealing, but Ice Cube comes off as an obnoxious jackass (perhaps he wasn't acting). One thing that disturbed me about the film was the misogyny, manifested in a hierarchy of oppressions, whereby a racial epithet is deemed more injurious than a rape. (Singleton, it should be mentioned, was convicted of spousal assault.) A bad movie overall, but if you really want to see the worst of Singleton, I would suggest Rosewood. (I won't count 2Fast2Furious, Singleton's foray into hackwork.)   "},{"Title":"You'd be surprised (that this is a good portrayal). . .","Date":"15 December 2003","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Of life in (some) colleges. Of course there were artistic licenses taken, but some of what you saw in this film go on in some colleges.I went to colleges in Southern California where the races pretty much hang around with their own. It's funny because these are schools that want racial unity, equality etc. and I can honestly say, that it's there. But the thing is when class lets out, or when they're just hanging out waiting for class, they (students) seem to just hang around with people of their own race or ethnicity. Is that bad? Not really. Everyone needs a feeling of belonging. But like the school paper of one of the schools I attended once wrote about that, we should all try to hang around with students of other ethnicities and try to know them. Otherwise you're creating your own segregation.Racism certainly existed in one of those schools I attended. One time someone put leaflets around campus talking about the glories of the Aryan Race and had the symbols of some of those racist organizations. Fortunately, nothing happened like the incident in the movie where the young Caucasian man went off and started shooting at a multiculturalism gathering.I can only hope and pray that nothing like that ever will happen.So is Higher Learning overly dramatic? Exaggerated? Maybe. Is it way off mark? It depends on where you went to or go to school. The race thing where the ethnicities just hang around with their own DOES happen. Minus the Hollywood exaggerations, the race thing hit pretty close to home for me. "},{"Title":"Highly recommended drama of higher stature","Date":"2 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Higher Learning is a film, like a couple of other 90's ones, I wish I had seen many years earlier. At first, you wonder where the story's going, but the more it progresses, you begin to see there's something special going on here, where Singleton had made something more than a movie here. What we have are a collection of characters, collegiate students, with their own drama's, and cuttingly real life problems, which of course might seem very cliché'd, but it's how the characters react off each other, especially when again, it's racial conflict, in a movie which again pits black against whites, some of it done discreetly. The two standout performances are that of sick loner student, Rappaport, studying engineering, who has some really bad wiring, and when a Nazi militant group befriend him, they send him down a real killer path. The other great performance is that of Fishburne, as a kind of smug, African literature teacher, who tells it like it is. His character was bl..dy interesting, not stereotypical. Of course, there are predictabilite's in the film, like one outcome, you'll see miles off, but the intent of the film is there, with a few beneficial messages, where you as the viewer, will do some learning yourselves. Not many films are like this, and Singleton has made a film, which has sadly, been heavily and unjustly criticized, yet though, it stands apart from his others. It's a shame, more viewers can't see the real beauty and special self to this powerful drama, with some powerful performances, no more than that of the scary Rappaport. "},{"Title":"# 58  ... which means learn to think (web)","Date":"3 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The movie title is an accurate definition because it gives a lesson worthy of an university (and that should be taught before too!) In other words the wise one doesn't follow opinions but formulate them. Thanks to Jen, i'm happy to have discover this challenging movie because so far I only knew the later « American History X » to diagnostic radically the racial question in America. In France, the so-called cradle of human rights, we are so afraid of this thematic that we don't do movies about this or when they exist, they can't get screens ! Here, freedom of expression allows to hear all opinions, bad as good. Sure, all the characters are stereotypes and the story is easily guessed but at least we have something to ponder! The choice for a campus is intelligent as we can follow different characters in a same location and it's indeed a special place  faraway from our families, we are on our own and we must affirm ourselves to find a path. For those like me who miss those years, this movie is great, all the more than we can discover what UCLA looks like. At last, Singleton is a talented and inspired director because he gives vibes, rhythm and soul to his story when others one sinks into sleeping, tedious lesson (see « the butler »). "},{"Title":"thought provoking","Date":"21 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" At Columbus University there is about to be a race war,, blacks vs the skin heads,, the skin heads also hate Jews, gay, and lesbian. Omar Epps plays a college Professor,, Tyra Banks does a good job in her role.. Kristy Swanson also did okay,, there is a rape scene in the movie,, but on to other stuff like how the Skinheads were aloud to roam free after beating up a gay couple,, sit down and eat lunch just like nothing happened. Film takes a turn with the violence being served up, and it hits you over the head like a hammer, there are also sexuality issues, in the movie,, a teacher battling to try and get thru to the kids he is teaching,, film shows college life with black and whites trying to do the best they can to get along,, very interesting look at racism,, not to be missed, just don't take everything too seriously, as the filmmaker took a lot of liberties,, with what actually would happen in real life. "},{"Title":"Singleton gathers every stereotypes","Date":"3 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Director John Singleton is trying to cram every stereotype into this portrait of an American college. Sure the student body can be divided along racial lines and racial tensions. And sure there are rapes in colleges. And hard drinking parties ... And racist security ... And lesbian experimentation. All he needs is some gay guys and he's all set.Kristy Swanson plays the co-ed who falls into some hard partying and gets raped. Although I like her, she's not a versatile actress. If I have any problems, it's Busta Rhymes. He is the biggest ridiculous stereotype in this movie. Singleton is not doing him or himself any favors. The battle between Ice Cube and Michael Rapaport does drive the story in an interesting way. But again, Singleton takes it into the most sensationalized way. This is not a subtle movie. The characters are mostly 2-dimensional. Tyra Banks makes an impassioned plea, but even that seems 2-dimensional. I guess if there are enough 2-d, Singleton hopes it adds up to 3-d. "}{"Title":"White Trashed","Date":"3 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a review of Rosewood and Higher Learning, two films by John Singleton. The weaker of the two, Rosewood takes place during the 1923 race riots of Rosewood, Florida. Structured as a western, the film watches as an archetypal Man With No Name (Ving Rhames, literally playing a character called Mann) enters Rosewood, only to find the town's predominantly African American population living on edge with a white minority who rule with guns, badges and a bucket full of resentment.A single incident sets the town alight a young woman blames a black stranger for the vicious beating she received from her white husband. He was so big! she screams. He was so black! The news spreads. Local white folk begin assembling. Pretty soon a carnival atmosphere develops, whites arming themselves, getting liquored up and commencing the slaughtering of blacks. Charred corpses hang from trees, houses burn and bullets fly.Though it pretends to be serious and historical, Rosewood is mostly a silly cartoon. Singleton creates an African American Eden, one which would have flourished had it not been for the white man. Whites are themselves portrayed as lecherous, stupid and one dimensional. One character, played by Jon Voight, is our token nuanced white. He's a rich landowner, sleazy, but eventually learns to do the right thing. Elsewhere Singleton consciously reverses common African American stereotypes all the white families are oversexed, violent, carnal or single parents. The black families, in contrast, are torn straight out of Norman Rockwell paintings, celebrating birthdays, always surrounded by a warm glow or sitting at big, family meals. Later, Mann becomes a Biblical figure, a Moses who leads surviving black folk on an exodus out of Rosewood and across a river.Like most films about racism, Rosewood has nothing to do with racism. The saviours of our victims are two landowners, the ruling class is invisible and it is specifically working class whites who are demonized. Racism, in other words, is caused by the stupid, poor, irrational lower class. But racism always has economic roots. In the US, racial policy became a means of combating worker unity by fostering conflicts and divisions between groups along racial, national, sexual or religious lines. The revitalisation of the KKK in the 1920s was itself a direct response to economic factors. Such things go back as far as the 18th century (quasi-military alliances between large corporations and governments repressed efforts to form labour unions and conduct strikes), when the ruling class pitted blacks, Indians and whites against one another to stave off insurrection. Indians, for example, were often hired as slave catchers, whilst strikebreakers - workers used to replace white strikers &#x96; always came from outside the area and/or lower ethnic groups. This, of course, exacerbated racial tensions and disrupted communities. Where Rosewood is set, almost two generations after the abolition of slavery and the end of the American Civil War, many French Canadians, East Europeans and Africans were first introduced as strike breakers. The deliberate creation of racial and ethnic conflict was not a matter of individual employer prejudice but of capitalist class strategy. Ulimately, Rosewood's message is typical of all of Singleton's films evil whites preyed on black, set them back, but now's the time for African Americans to help themselves, pull themselves up by the bootstraps, be good and earn a buck. Blacks, in other words, must now be good whites. Play the game that causes the problem and shunt the problem onto someone else.Singleton's Higher Learning tells the same story, but is set in a fictional Columbus University. It contains a number of intertwined subplots and characters, the most interesting of which involves Malik Williams (Omar Epps), a black athlete who resents being forced to represent his school on the track field. The film's philosophy is articulated by Laurence Fishburne, who plays a West Indian Professor. African Americans, Fisburne essentially says, should suck it up, work hard, stop blaming people and put up with the problem. Other subplots involve shy and naive girls turning lesbian after being raped by men and a lonely confused man (Michael Rapaport, deliberately parroting DeNiro's Travis Bickle) joining a neo Nazi group. The film ends in a big, climactic orgy of blood, as most of these films do. As with Singleton's best film, Boyz n the Hood, actor Ice Cube (and rapper Busta Rhymes) stands out. He out classes everyone. The rest of the cast overact.While the film is right to show how racism as a system has been institutionalised within the very fabric of American social, economical, educational, and governmental institutions, and has always sought to dehumanise, devalue, and even destroy minorities and women, its ending, in which the word unlearn is boldly written on-screen, is completely unearned. The idea is that a higher education beyond education is the solution, that one should unlearn what they've been programmed to accept, but little in the film supports this theme and the statement largely comes out of left-field.7/10 - Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"John Singleton's Higher Learning gives pause on how far we need to go to learn how to socialize with anyone different from ourselves","Date":"29 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I thought I would originally review John Singleton's Boyz N the Hood and Poetic Justice for Black History Month here on IMDb but I found out the YouTube uploads had some scenes blocked by Columbia Pictures. So instead I'm reviewing this one, Higher Learning, having just watched on Netflix Streaming. Taking place at Columbus University, it centers on three freshmen Malik Williams (Omar Epps) who has a half scholarship on track, Kristen Connor (Kristy Swanson) a naive girl from a town near Disneyland, and Remy (Michael Rapaport) who finds himself alienated from the beginning. They all attend the class of one Professor Phipps (Lawrence Fishbourne) who believes in not doing anyone special favors. Malik is especially resentful of this since he thinks the teacher should help a brother out. Eventually, they all have some kind of mentor outside of class Malik with Fudge (Ice Cube) and Deja (Tyra Banks), Kristen with Taryn (Jennifer Connelly), and Remy with Scott Moss (Cole Hauser). Compelling characterizations all with many pertinent topics and situations worth exploring though I feel I have to discuss one really interesting one after Kristen gets raped, roommate Monet (Regina King) gets a call from the one who did it trying to reach her but gets rebuffed. He doesn't take it well and calls Monet a black bitch which then switches the focus from Kristen's misery to Monet's appalled demeanor with the result of her bringing her like-skinned friends to go to his place to...well, you've probably figured what they would attempt to do. This was the most compelling part that explored how one doesn't watch what one says in the heat of the moment with consequences to pay the only option. In summary, Higher Learning is perhaps not a great film but it's very good in pushing one's buttons. So on that note, it's well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies about racism, no doubt.","Date":"25 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is such a powerful and underrated movie. One thing I love and truly admire is that this movie is unconventional. It isn't afraid to show the ugly truth and with absolutely no discrimination towards skin colour. It does not try to please peoples political correctness and stupidity, rather it tries to expose it for what it is. The movie shows off several mentalities that are flawed in their reasoning amongst both blacks and whites.The movie shows how black people can be just as racist and judgmental towards white people, as white Nazis are to blacks. And that is something truly special and admirable to me because it is not often that people dare to criticize a stupid mentality with someone who is a minority. There is such a thing as reverse racism and it is often overlooked because some people just don't think it's  just as bad when blacks are racists towards whites. They are so afraid of being labeled racist for criticizing that mindset that they just go Oh well, black people have a right to do that because of everything they have been through.But it doesn't make anything better for anyone. It just creates more hate and more racism, which this movie makes sure to point out. It sets out to display how racism and the way that it affects people is bad no matter what form it takes.It does this while also showing that there are reasonable people in any race. It doesn't just depict blacks and whites as two separate extreme racist groups, it also shows off the reasonable individuals that are anywhere in between. And I just love that. I love how realistic it is in it's diversity and how it does absolutely not discriminate. It is completely objective in proving how people are idiots.But this movie isn't just about racism. It depicts problems that young people face growing up altogether. And honestly, this would be perfect to show young people in schools. I literally can't understand how this movie has gotten such a low rating and that many bad reviews. I guess people are just insane and focus on all the wrong aspects when watching this movie. "},{"Title":"An interesting look into the world of race relations","Date":"10 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This was a good movie. I don't understand the reviews that it was skewed in its portrayals of whites as the villains and the blacks as the downtrodden victims who just won't take anymore. I personally think that it was very balanced in that area. There were stupid white people and stupid black people. What I would think is the most skewed is it's portrayal of the men as the villains and the women as the angelic do gooders. I think it ignored the fact that women can be just as awful, but tend not to be as outwardly violent, but I guess you can't have it all in one movie or else it would have been like 5 hours long. It showed Remmy's decent in a sympathetic light and in Fudge we saw that entitlement thinking in the black mentality is just as harmful as it is in the white mentality. Ultimately the only difference I saw in the white supremacist group and in Fudge's group was their skin color. Black or white, they were ALL red- blooded, self-entitled, American idiots. I thought that point was brilliantly made in the movie. "},{"Title":"a Movie of Stereotypes.","Date":"29 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is just a two hour reel of stereotypes, but that being said, stereotypes usually stem from some bit of truth. The way i viewed this movie is Blacks feel all whites are racist and trying to hold them down. And all Whites feel no black has earned his way, and need hand outs to get where they are. The movie does good on showing different struggles, and Ice Cubes and Cole Hauser, by far are the most intriguing characters. They are polar opposites, and both wrong. But, we all have met their characters in real life. My biggest gripe with this movie is the fight scene between the skinheads and African Americans. All the whites get beat up, even the big roided out arian, gets stomped by a fat out of shape black guy. Bob Sapp ain't takin out Brock lesnar, but Singleton is not a very truthful director. "},{"Title":"The characters are intentionally one dimensional to show how often this occurred during the time.","Date":"28 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Someone said that characters were paper-thin, but in truth they weren't characters. They were archetypal roles. And these roles get played out in real life (it's like that guy that guy that critiques movies a lot). The message is that the way to stop merely playing roles is to not play (unlearn) the victim the man-hating assaulted female, the frightened, vengeful majority, the angered disenfranchised minority. The film shows how easily these situations could get out of hand if everyone was as they seem. The fact that he used real actors probably lowers the efficacy of such a statement.I think what you call simplistic is merely the sum of your understanding. Who would think that a simple message could be deep if you just thought about it long enough (unlearn)? Would you prefer for him to have a paragraph in front of the flag so that it sinks in deep enough? AND YES, THIS MOVIE IS BLACK DOMINATED. "},{"Title":"Interesting watch","Date":"19 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I came across the movie by coincidence and kept on watching it, because it hold my attention. The movie is about racism, gender problems, rape, university life and much more. And this is my problem with the film. It tries to cover to many important topics and shows to many stereotypes. By concentrating on one or two of the topics, the film could have been more convincing. Nevertheless, the actors played their parts very well and the story was still good enough to make it an interesting watch. Most convincing in my mind was Michael Rapaport as a lost young person, who finds friends in a group of Nazis. Laurence Fishburne made a pretty good university professor as well. "},{"Title":"Certainly not a day in the life...","Date":"16 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Higher Learning is at first an interesting case-study on race relations on a 90's college campus, deteriorating into a one-sided movie, and a one-trick pony. The movie turns into a quite unlikely situation that depicts all white students as skinheads or lethargic hippies, or anal-retentives.The final scene is supposed to really tie things all together, but instead it left me asking why the movie was not more proportionally balanced.I've read from several college students that this is how it is. As a college student myself, from a school in Philadelphia, where a white student is just as likely to be surrounded by black people as a black person is by whites, I would defy anyone to explain how the occurrences in this movie have become epidemic on the college level.Rating 2 fish out of a possible 6 fish "},{"Title":"Thought provoking stuff","Date":"5 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  *POSSIBLE SPOILER ALERT*I think alot of the people who seem to be writing reviews for this movie do have a point about how cliched this movie may seem, and it did have some downers, (was laurence fishbourne's character jamacian?!? I really couldn't tell myself)but I'm afriad that when people talk about the ending being unrealistic, as much as this may seem, just look at columbine. This film isn't out to answer any questions as much as it is to make the viewer aware of them. The single word ending I think goes some way to answer the questions posed about our prejudices that we all have. Personally I liked the film, but if cliches really get to you, then you probably won't like it as much. Like someone else said, this film wasn't exactly gonna win any oscars, but it does make you think. Despite what some people here seem to think, I found I could identify with the tensions posed here, and I didn't personally find the film's portrayal of different people one-sided. We were made to feel sympathetic with Remy as much as we were with Epps through his being outcast by the other stundents, and the guy trying to get off with Kirsty Swanson was obviously feeling as rejected by her as much as she felt by men. If I was gonna watch a movie with my girl, this would be ideal, but I'd recommend it to anyone with an open mind.Peace.PS Did anyone else find a creepy similarity with columbine? The closeness of the names, the outcast nazi shooting up the school? Creeped me out anyway. "},{"Title":"A different comment","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am not going to comment on the racial issues, many people have already done that. I am just going to write a bit about the date-rape.Kristy Swanson's character got drunk and went to the guy's room. They were all very hot and it was obvious that they were going to have sex. When the guy, Billy, has almost finished taking off her clothes, she doesn't say don't, she says use a condom. But he doesn't listen to her and keeps on doing her business. The girl freaks out not because she doesn't want to have sex, but because she might get pregnant or catch something.Something makes me think that this is a very common situation. Should it be considered as rape? Well yes, of course, it could have have been avoided if the guy had gotten out of bed, put a condom and returned to the girl. And the girl had all the right to change her mind, after realizing the dangers this particular sex act would cause.As for Kirstin's role in the feminist group. I don't see her as the poor weak girl that was raped buy the big strong drunk guy she trusted. I see her as a woman being declined her right to have safe sex buy the horny drunk guy she trusted. "}{"Title":"Earnest and promising,yet unfulfilling","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I must confess that I really got this movie for two reasons I've been meaning to see Laurence Fishburne as someone other than Ike Turner or the mentor character(the name escapes me) from The Matrix movies and I believe that Jennifer Connelly is a sublime GODDESS who could've coasted on her soft,curvy sexiness alone but chose to work her acting chops instead. Well,ok...the chance to see her kiss another woman I suppose was another. ;-) Actually, I didn't know Ms.Connelly was in this film until I read her filmography, and that was just recently. Well, I finally saw this film and my first reaction was Yup. I'm glad I didn't go see this while it was in theatres. (which,by the way, was back when I WAS a full-time college student). That's not to say that I thought this was an awful movie,but it hardly fits into the best of categories for any of the principals involved. The acting is sincere and even painfully moving enough,but the storyline and intertwining of characters and events is so artificial and forced that it threatens to make the film's polemic Society-as-represented-through-a-college-campus theme almost laughable. I am not certain what John Singleton's experiences on a college campus or university setting is,but I can tell you that through my experiences in that type of setting(and I seem to recall reading some reviews from other college publications at the time it came out almost eight years ago saying the same things as I am)it was NOWHERE NEAR as polarizing and tribal as this movie would have the uninitiated believe. Mr.Singleton's filmmaking style is pretty lyrical,so there is a sort of rhythm and flow to this show that makes it watchable. But it so simplifies the social settings of a University that it reminds one more of a large high school or a junior college than it does a major(or even minor)college. Also,this film seems to be more of a chance to voice various philosophical stripes through character archetypes(i.e. the disaffected slacker black student,the angry black athlete with a chip on his shoulder,the loser-ish white kid from rural America who is vulnerable to racist brainwashing,the man-hating lesbian,etc.)through the film's creator rather than pose a truly believable and engrossing story of college freshmen learning (or unlearning,if you will) the norms and hard knocks of American society. In sum, I give this about four and a half stars out of ten. "},{"Title":"it's an ok one.","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This sophomore effort by director Singleton (Boyz In Tha Hood) is entertaining and fairly enjoyable even though it has its share of cardboard characters and mediocre acting. For those who are unfamiliar, it's about students at a california university dealing with pressures, trials, tribulations, etc. of campus life, mixing with other races, etc. (the main focus, anyway).Fishburne certainly isn't the best actor on the planet but does a good job pronouncing his Jamaican accent (Professor Maurice Phipps OOOHHHHH....classy!).It kinda hits you over the head with racial and political messages - and in the most corniest, old-skool of ways possible, but it's not all bad. There are redeemable qualities to it. It's a good choice and a personal favorite the but performances here won't win any oscars. "},{"Title":"Forces you to form your own opinions","Date":"21 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have read a lot of reviews for this movie where people accuse the film of promoting stereotypes, and that it portrays whites in a negative light.  I really think that those who wrote those reviews missed the point.1)  There ARE stereotypes in this movie.  It's intentional.  Not every white character in this movie is portrayed as a skinhead, as some reviewers may have lead you to believe.  Not every black character in this movie is portrayed as a victim either.  In order for people to overcome racial stereotypes, we have to at least take a good look at what other races see when they look at us, and this movie does a good job of that.  There are also characters (both black and white) who try to persuade Omar Epps' character to not use his race as an excuse to play the victim, so I really don't see this movie as one sided.2)  The rape scene, where some reviewers complain that Kristy Swanson's character gave consent, wasn't supposed to be a clear cut, awful drunk bad-guy rape.  In order for people to understand the causes and effects of date rape, we need to take a closer look at where the line is between right and wrong, and this movie does a good job of asking the viewer where that line is.There are other situations where characters choose violence and revenge rather than thinking of a better solution.  But - some of these situations seem justified, and others do not.  Once again, you as the viewer have to decide if what you're seeing is right or wrong.I must admit that I was troubled by the portrayal of the campus security as being overly suspicious of blacks, and overly sympathetic towards whites.  But this movie is meant to ask questions; not suggest that ALL white security guards are this way.  The fact that I am troubled by this portrayal means that I was forced to think about what suspicions are justified, and which are not.  This movie is full of things that make you take a stand one way or another.  It's not meant to make you feel comfortable, or to decide for you...If you like movies that overtly tell you what you're supposed to think, you may misinterpret this movie.  But if you want to see thought-provoking film that will make you ask yourself a lot of questions on where you stand, I recommend seeing this film.  Great performances by Epps, Swanson, and Michael Rappaport.  I was even pleasantly surprised by Tyra Banks performance.  8 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Education means nothing without the wisdom to know how to use it","Date":"5 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I find it quite disturbing that even those who've gone to college and are supposedly better at using their minds have missed one of the biggest points this movie made, which I made in my headline.Here are all these kids getting roped up into crazy situations.  They're getting into groups that allegedly have the solutions and are being influenced and are being completely programmed by their peers and what they read.  And, even worse, because they're in college, they think they already have the wisdom to know what everything they're learning even MEANS!Larry Fishburne plays one of the two people who seem to know this.  He has the knowledge but also the wisdom.  That's why when Malik (played by Omar Epps) is talking to him with his new-found knowledge and why he called Larry's character a sell-out for giving him a bad grade, Larry pipes back what does it have to do with Malik's being able to spell a word properly, etc.  He also says that instead of complaining about being a second-class citizen, he should do something about it by improving himself ... by running faster.  The other one who doesn't get programmed is the guy who's into Kristy Swanson.  She says that the rally for a non-sexist society is for women only and he points out the hypocrisy in such a thing (Non-Sexist and it's for Women Only?).  He doesn't get roped into anything and just floats along.Although this movie gives highly extreme examples and hypothetical situations of just how far the programming can go when one is in college (and has the ego like they know the secrets of the universe BECAUSE they're in college), it is IMPOSSIBLE to say that it's an unrealistic movie; to this day, I have never met a college student who didn't mistake being in-the-process-of-being educated for being educated.  This is the same as thinking that a slice of pizza that was chewed and swallowed one minute ago is already digested instead of being in-the-process-of being digested.And, as I said, in my opening line, even people with Higher Learning have totally missed the point this movie makes.  I rest my case. "},{"Title":"Great soundtrack; totally loses the plot","Date":"13 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film starts out great. The actors are good but not known its an indyish script. The score is fantastic. It covers the trials of your first year at college. It shows you some interesting tips that you may not have been told before ...  The characters develop the way a lot of students do; befriending seemingly more intelligent older students.The message of the film unlearn is telling now; because the characters have all grown up apart. They have come together and in the film there are two great men one is a white supremist with a bunch of boys together. They are all outcasts.  The other group is a kind black pantheresque organisation however they are allowed to have girlfriends. The only other character group is a sociology / pol sci lecturer who appears to be the mentor of many of the cast.This is when the film goes screwy. You have two sides both think they are better; whilst the film shows the lesbi-bi-sexual group to be the most rational of the groups.The white supremists beat some people up. So then the white supremists get beaten up by the black supremists. So the white supremists try to kill the black supremists; blood gets spilled and people die.The tale of the story would appear to be keep your heads down at college. However most of us survive; the tale of Unlearn is don't follow what people older than you -tell- you is right. Your social groupings on arrival are irrelevant; college is about learning who you are. Graduate school is for learning about things. (Trust me I know to my own expense) "},{"Title":"A real wrong movie","Date":"30 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie yesterday and I had heard some good things about it. Unfortunatly, Higher Learning is a real wrong movie with some disgusting moralistic views on society. The movie is trying to give a realistic image of an American University, but it fails big time! The white skinheads are as stereotype as they can be with Hitler yells and Nazi crosses while the black people are being presented as harmless individuals who are constantly under threat by the local police (who offcourse are racists). It's not the people in the movie who are black and white, it's the movie itself. Skip this one and if you want a better movie in this genre, check out American History X instead.   "},{"Title":"Confused Emotions","Date":"9 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What a great effort by John Singleton! Higher Learning, while not as good or focused as his earlier Boyz N the Hood, certainly deserves a screening and is even more worthy of a subsequent debate, whether internal or not, as to how realistic and meaningful the story related is.Synopsis (at least at first glance) Several students of varying background come to large, diverse university but find themselves more segmented than ever.Outcome Singleton does a good job of making the viewer understand the backstories of the characters he focuses on, especially Omar Epps and Michael Rapaport. Indeed, Epps' story is certainly the best and most worthwhile. However, Rapaport is convincing as an outsider in search of an identity--a role that many college students find themselves in, at least at the beginning of school. Fishburne is terrific (especially in light of his Matrix character, which is quite a departure--but not totally--from the stately professor he plays here.)Since anything else I am going to say is going to be derivative of Roger Ebert's review, which really hit the mark, I can summarize quickly. This is a good movie, but it is in no way realistic. It exaggerates and highlights and twists some realities of the college experience. The movie asks you to unlearn at its finale; I ask you to decide why it comes to this conclusion.  "},{"Title":"Could have been good, but it is not!!","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It has a good content, but John Singleton keeps opening and getting into the inner world of many characters, and just three are closed, almost the 70% of the main actions are concluded. I would say, a shame, it could have ruled. "},{"Title":"Well-acted episodic generic slice of big-city college","Date":"24 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Hard to believe the extremes of the reviews of this film. It's either genius or crap. I found it somewhere in between, and I have to say I enjoyed it, owing mostly to Omar Epps. I believe he's one of the best actors in America right now, and his performance in this movie really made it watchable as far as I'm concerned. Many of the characters were not developed well, and were two-dimensional at best. Rappaport's character, and in fact all the white supremacists, were mere cut-outs and actually painful to watch. I didn't get the good guy/bad guy (name your race -- I think it depends on who's reviewing) theme at all. I think Epps was the protagonist and naturally he was shown in a better light than most of the other characters, black or white. There was some intelligent dialog and some inane dialog. However, it was overall an interesting film and I'm glad I saw it. Not perfect by any means, and with its share of clichés, but a good film nonetheless. "},{"Title":"Fitting in","Date":"10 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" There are college freshman at Columbus University who are just starting out and learning about who they are and how they fit it. There is Kristin who is searching for her sexuality after being raped, Remy is looking for a place to fit in although it isn't a positive place and there is Malik who is learning about where he fits in. Somehow these people's lives intertwine within each other and play out in the end. They start to seek the truth and they encounter racism, sexism and learning. There is also the wisdom of Professor Phipps who doesn't take any bull and attempts to open the students eyes to the world.The love scenes between Deja and Malik are pretty steamy and they get to learn more about each other. I enjoyed those although they were quite brief. "}{"Title":"John Singleton looks at a variety of walks of life in this college drama.","Date":"21 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" For some reason I thought this was going to be a goofy college movie but it isn't at all. It truly is an ensemble cast with no clear main character, because the stories involved all of them.Omar Epps is Malik, at college on a partial scholarship as a track athlete. He has a giant chip on his shoulder and has trouble adjusting.Kristy Swanson is the freshman away from home, Kristen Connor, and needing to learn much to cope with this new college life.Michael Rapaport is Remy from Idaho, lonely and easily influenced, and gets pulled into a group of white supremacist skinheads.Jennifer Connelly is Taryn, borderline lesbian and one that identifies with causes.My favorite is Laurence Fishburne as Political Science Professor Maurice Phipps, very Morpheus-like before he became Morpheus in The Matrix. It was funny hearing him talk to students about the real world, a term we hear so often in The Matrix. But in a good way.Among the others in the cast were Ice Cube, Tyra Banks, Cole Hauser, Regina King, and Busta Rhymes.This is not a delicate movie. It has date rape, ethnic struggles, murder, and suicide. But it is a movie that holds your attention.MAJOR SPOILER This is the movie where Rapaport as Remy wants to be accepted by his skinhead friends and, egged on, he gets a rifle and decides to snipe from a roof top and kill a black person. He ends up killing two students, one of them the girlfriend (Tyra Banks) of Malik. Later, cornered, Remy puts a pistol in his mouth and kills himself. "},{"Title":"Entertaining Crap","Date":"6 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is extremely cartoonish and perpetuates stereotypes to try and break them down, unfortunately it does not. It starts by portraying the rich OC white girls as stuck up and only wanting to get drunk and hang out with stereotypical date raping frat boys. First I am in a fraternity and we are a bunch of guys like anyone one else, we are as much capable of rape or not raping someone as anyone else. Then there's the black guys who of course have the utmost respect for the black beautiful woman and could never be as piggish as white frat boys. The black group has its idealogical leader who instead of leaving the system he fights against stays in it for 6 years. You have the preachy teacher who is like some kind of God leading the people of college through their roough times. Not once have i met a professor like this, filled with so many ideas that it would make your head spin. Then there is the loner white guy who actually has chances to hang out, people are nice to him, the frat guys accept him, his roommates except him, no one is mean to him throughout the entire film and then one weirdo asks him to be a neo nazi and he is in. He quickly shaves his head, starts carrying a gun, pulls the gun on a black man, then has the balls to show up on campus the next day. And the black women are a force too, one doesn't even know where Orange County is so she says is that near Compton, like that is the only city in CA that she knows of... And the feminist of course. Starts as a confused freshman with money problems, which don't add a thing, she talks about her dad being laid off and told she has to get a job, but she never resolves those money problems or gets a job. Eventually she gets raped and getting hammered and going home with a frat boy. It was a weird rape in the sense that she wants to have sex but just wants him to wear a condom and when he doesn't she leaves and calls it a rape. I agree its rape, but its a little harder to sympothize with. Eventually there are some culminating points, a fight between skin heads and blacks which looks like a WWE match in slow motion. And eventually a school shooting by a skin head, even though they could have made the movie interesting by having one of the black students do it, but that wouldn't make any sense now, black people don't commit school shootings, not psychotic enough. Eventually we learn that black and white can coexist, but we did not learn why, it took a school shooting for people to realize that racism is wrong...? Makes no sense and the slogan unlearn at the end in front of the American flag is even worse. To top this movie off they don't reveal ice cubes face for a while like its a big deal he stars in the movie. And Busta Rhymes adds some annoyance as well. All in all its good cause its just entertaining to watch a bunch of stereotypes run around and hate life. "},{"Title":"PC or not PC, that is the question","Date":"21 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw this movie for the first time 7 years ago and only now I realized what was the message of it, which was the glorification of liberal political correctness on our American colleges. Political correctness means teaching students that America is racist homophobic country and that minorities, especially African Americans indeed deserve special treatment, otherwise all hell is going to break loose. Professor Phipps, marvelously played by Lawrence Fishburne, who expresses his philosophies in a prominent British style, represents the common sense and social conservatism of higher education, something that I would have wanted to hear in all the liberal colleges I have attended. He believes that conservatism is what all students regardless of their backgrounds need to hear in order to succeed in this world. Thus he is saying, that no one will treat you special because you are Black, or White, or Hispanic, or Indian, or because you are a woman. No wonder, he is not prone to accepting leftist views from Fudge (Ice Cube)and is working very hard to dissuade Malik (Omar Epps) from being influenced by Fudge and his crew. Unfortunately, as the story winds up, Remy played by Michael Rapaport, who is actually Jewish (ironic!!) goes on a killing spree, with an intention to annihilate anybody who isn't White Christian, resulting in the death of beautiful Deja (Tyra Banks). In the aftermath, Phipps totally stunned, is seen as a person whose ideal he truly believed in, was just completely smashed into his face. The message of the movie becomes clear--if professors on campuses stop teaching from left-wing perspective, such as that Blacks should be treated special just because they are Black, and become more conservative, there are going to be tragic consequences, like the revival of KKK or Neo-Nazi staging a race war. Meaning, that right-wing conservatism is an inspiration for White supremacy.It is needless to say that the movie was made shortly after the famous Berkeley case, which struck down affirmative action there. It looks like Singleton was trying also to defend affirmative action by writing and directing Higher Learning, so he could show why it was needed in a very crude and bombastic way. "},{"Title":"A sharp message delivered in a blunt way with some outstanding performances","Date":"23 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm not overly familiar with John Singletons other works besides Boyz N The Hood, but it appears to me that the messages he trys to deliver are strong, thought provoking and above all else engaging enough to keep the audiences interest. What it lacks is the sharp and exact delivery that should accompany such themes. I'm not saying Higher Learning is a brainless and blunt film, but you can most certainly feel the almost simple, bludgeoning way that Singleton uses to try and get his film through to your brain. Aside from this, the film is definitely carried and made dramatically effective by a totally outstanding performance from Michael Rapaport as the confused Remmy, with his closing scenes being some of the most powerful I've seen on film in a long time. Other stand out performances include Laurence Fishburnes at times Yoda-like professor, Ice Cubes ghetto-philosopher and the neo-Nazi character of Scott. Overall, a great film that pokes you in the right places, both intellectually and emotionally, and has a very strong cast, but one that would have benefited from a more surgically precise delivery. "},{"Title":"john singleton's best follow up to boyz n the hood","Date":"21 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" i saw higher learning for the first time when i was 16 y/o. i have to admit that i was scared as hell to go to college after i saw this movie. growing up in Miami where i was never faced with any type of racial angst, i would have probably said this movie was inaccurate. it wasn't until i was harassed* in college multiple times in a racial manner. if any of you think this a black man venting his anger, you are just that much more ignorant. my point is that higher learning in itself could seem unrealistic because of all of these issues being propelled at us at once. sexuality, race, prejudice, intolerance, anger, and on and on and on; john singleton only flaw with this movie i would say is that yes, he does tend play of the sympathies of blacks more. i we could seen a lot more redemptive qualities in the Remy character. i saw that character not hating blacks at all. granted, he did pull a gun on one and shot another but look at his character from the get go. it is obvious that Remy is a lost character trying to find acceptance at whatever corner he could. he only found acceptance with those Nazi assholes. however speaking as a director, the movie was cinematic ally his best. pay close attention to his methods of transitions in this movie. such a huge step from poetic justice. the flow of the movie stayed at an constantly inconstant state. meaning there was nothing that seemed forced but the pacing was on cue. plus, you had no idea what the hell was gonna happen next. higher learning may not be the most accurate portrayal of college life simply because it shows us simultaneously* all of the negative attributes of college. yet the story does prove its point and does very well. to sum it up, I LIKE IT. "},{"Title":"best character was Remy ( Michael Rapaport )","Date":"17 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie wasnt all that accurate & i would say a little overdone in some parts, like the Nazis attacking the black guy & his white girlfriend, that would never happened on campus, if it did im pretty sure that some black guys wouldve found out about it & then bashed the nazis up. + im also sure that the white Security guards wouldnt be as arrogant & as  racist in real life as they were in this movie. THe point Malik ( Omar Epps ) was saying about Christoper Columbus was true he was a murderer. Remy's (Michael Rapaport) character was also good, he was just a guy no one really cared about everyone ignored him even though he was a nice guy, but it was good to show everyone why school shootings happened & the reason behind it, but overall this movie had very pointless little themes throughout the movie,It was too long & somewhat a little boring. if u like these sorta movies theres better movies then this e.g Boyz n the Hood, Dangerous Minds, American History X, etc. I'd give this movie 5/10. "},{"Title":"What the heck","Date":"12 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was required to watch this movie for my American Government class and I thought it was a total piece of crap!!  Everyone was too involved in everyone else's crap!!  I mean, seriously...that movie was a total exaggeration of everything that could possibly go wrong in a society!! The only part of the plot that made any sense was Lawrence Fishbourne's character.  I mean, at least he was trying to teach people to stop being uptight and start thinking for themselves.  All this movie proved was that mob mentality sucks!!  I just wish that the parts of the movie had more to do with each other.  There were about 6 or 7 plot lines that weren't intertwined at all!!  Seriously...I don't recommend this movie to anyone!! "},{"Title":"You have to think, is collage really that bad, your sending your kids thier.","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  this film is about the story of three new freshman's that have got different lives and friends, you see what Collage, peer pressure, death, and love do to the young people in this story and how thier lives intertwine but they don't even know it. SEE IT!!!!  "},{"Title":"Contrived (spoilers, if that's possible in this case!)","Date":"7 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The word contrived will forever have new meaning for me after this movie. Seriously, every time I hear the word, I think of Higher Learning. Several have beat me to saying what I wanted to say about it, in fact said it better than I could have; but there are some out there who claim that I missed the point and that this movie makes you think.  First of all, I clearly saw the (supposed)point...then I saw it get stomped on by the filmmakers. Second, I was already thinking BEFORE I saw this movie, which assumes its entire audience needs a mental makeover.  The use of score has never been more annoying.  During a few of the skinhead scenes, you hear a low minor chord in the background, as if to repeatedly tell you--these are the bad guys.  Even worse, the rape scene with the Tori Amos song which kept getting louder.  Music can obviously be put to brilliant use in film, but in this case more than any other, WE DON'T NEED IT TO TELL US HOW TO FEEL ABOUT WHAT WE'RE SEEING!  Two friends and I burst into laughter at the unlearn/American flag ending, which again and further, assumes that I take racism for granted and that I need to be spoonfed a new way of thinking. The only thing that I liked, other than a few laughs, was the presence of Tyra Banks.  It was almost depressing to see such a good actor as Omar Epps wasted in this...I mean, I cared a lot more about his character in Scream 2 (which was comparably a better film, but then, so was Amazon Women in the Avacado Jungle of Death)!   "},{"Title":"In over its head","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I give props to this movie for taking on many different aspects of racial discrimination on college campuses in such a direct way.  It is unfortunate that the characters, both white and black, are all stereotypes and the dialog sounds forced and preachy.  By painting a disturbing yet fake picture of a campus filled with skinheads and overt bigots, this movie brushes right over the more subtle, yet often equally damaging ways unconscious racism affects people who consider themselves unbiased. "}{"Title":"Laurence Fishburne and John Singleton","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In the same way that Mario Van Peebles used 'New Jack City' as a vehicle for Wesley Snipes's career, and Spike Lee used 'Malcolm X' as a vehicle for Denzel Washington's career, John Singleton used 'Boyz n da Hood' to launch Laurence Fishburne's career, and then reunited with him in this film where Fishburne is cast as a Jamaican professor. This is notable for Fishburne in the sense that it broadens his base as an actor by playing a Jamaican. He is also reunited with Ice Cube who, thanks to Singleton, has now made the transition from rap music with NWA to the silver screen. "},{"Title":"The most racist and most hate-promoting film since Birth of a Nation","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Yes, Birth of a Nation is mentioned in this review because both John Singleton and D.W. Griffith have a lot in common.  They are both gifted film makers, who have evil politics.  And he turns back the clock 99 years with the use Old Testament character representation in role reversal.  These films have so much in common, I'm could believe that  Higher Learning was formally titled  Birth of a Nation 2 You TooA breakdown of this plot is about three college students Malik (Omar Epps) Kristen (Kristy Swanson) and Remy (Micheal Rapaport)who come to  college and get caught up in some galvanized cases of racial prejudice.Every last character in this film is nothing more but a human stereo-type.Malik Williams, beyond any possibility of deviation, is the good guyRemy, who didn't even get a last name given to his character, is the out-numbered white kid from, brace yourself, a small country hick town in Idaho.  Long story/short, his bullied treatment from Ice Cube and his Ghetto friends manipulate him to become a Nazi skinhead.Kristen Conner is the helpless , confused ,ignorant , sympathetic , white girl.If these character descriptions seem one-dimensional and flat, then I gave them too much depth.Every negative/Angelo stereo type is depicted in this film.  You have your date-raping, beer drinking frat boys, your Rodney King type ,night-stick clubbing ,campus security guards, your ignorant bystanders and lets not forget those obligatory Neo-Nazi Skinheads, who's sentences can't be finished without uttering White Power!The members of the protagonist race, are educated, cultured, and heroicly good, without the slightest bit of ill will. One example is when the date-raping frat-boy calls Kristens' roommate a black bitch and he's gently convined to apologize by Ice Cube and his flock.If that isn't enough ,Singleton tips the scales even deeper by executing a fight scene where 105 lb rapper Busta Rymes ,single handedly fights off two skin-heads while 6'4, 350lbs skin-head , played by former body-builder Andrew Bryniarski is beat to a pulp by a guy half his size.Just when you think the odds can't get any more leveraged, the Skinheads strike back ,murdering the only passive individual to the end, and when Malick rushes to revenge this death, he is ambushed by (you guessed it) campus security in traditional Rodney King style.The only solice that Singleton gives to the villainous race in this film is dream sequence ,love scene between Swanson and Jennifer Connelly, which Singleton more then likely put in to salivate at.This film is as biased  and one-sided as a game of see-saw between Marlin Brando and Calista Flockheart.The closing of this film was a final conversation between the noble hero, Malik and some generic and ignorant member of the antagonistic race (who miraculously seemed to avoid those persuasive recruitments by the Nazi Skinheads) saying there's no hope for the races to get along I guess. It almost seems as if Singleton wants every Angelo who sees this film to drop down to their knees, crying God, why did you make me White?, Why?I recall seeing Lawrence Fishbure bring a refreshing presence to this film. Peppermint?  His first line is Welcome to the Real World I was then reminded of his great presence in The Matrix, and then it was all clear.  Matrix is reality and Higher Learning is a far as you can get from reality as possible, because all issues in this film that relate to college life make you actually believe in things like jumping 100 ft between buildings and dodging bullets from agent Smith.The very final moment of the film is the word UNLEARN.  Singleton finally said the right thing, because unlearning the last 2 hours of your life is exactly what one should do after seeing Higher LearningI think I'll side with Delro Lindo, from Get Shorty in sayingI've seen better film on teeth.Singleton can make no excuses for this ungodly concoction of smite, because he's proven that he can make a film that is true to life, heart-felt, moving, informative, well acted, inspiring and humanly meaningful (Boyz in the Hood).Higher Learning should have it's own section in the video store Sociological Science Fiction.Before anyone considers renting this, overrated, over-hyped, overly racist propaganda (with Jim Camerons' True Lies running a close 2nd) let me suggest a much more significant alternative.The underrated, under seen American History XI'll say it three times so you wont forget American History X American History X American History X "},{"Title":"This flick makes you wonder if the film makers ever went to college.","Date":"27 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Higher Learning is a predictable and contrived handful of college campus stereotypes all involved in worst case scenarios on the same campus at the same time with little purpose. The film explores such issues as partying and date rape, tuition and academic problems, social problems, gangs, frats, etc. all with the usual Hollywood phony excesses. Not a thinking person's movie, this film will appeal to the couch potatoe's appetite for sensationalism. "},{"Title":"One of the worst...","Date":"11 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In contrast to the reviewer that praised this movie, I felt compelled to say something. I saw this only once, on its release and remember being very disappointed. The story and concept were fine, no problem there. What I did have a problem with was how it was handled - extremely overdone and sanitized by Hollywood. And that's ironic when you consider the movie tried desperately to be so 'real'.The stereotypes of the various cliques were laughable at best. Most racists, either on the street or in the college dorm are not that obvious and pronounced. Not every racist is a 'skinhead' that goes around in Doc Martins reciting Mein Kampf! The worst type of racists are the ones you're completely oblivious to - smiles on the outside but simmering with hate on the inside -- it could be the guy behind the counter at the local deli or your DMV instructor. I'm not saying they are, but that's the point...I just wish the movie had played it down and showed some restraint. It could have been just as powerful. I recall the acting and dialogue were not that great either - which was a shame, considering the talent involved.At all costs, see GHOSTS OF THE CIVIL DEAD (1988) and you'll see how pedestrian and immature Higher Learning was. "},{"Title":"A very good story that had potential but...","Date":"1 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have no idea how to summarize this movie.  I guess it's the story of how the different aspects of college life effect people.  It tells the story of a young man influenced by hatred, and a young girl influenced by everything. This movie had the potential to be a very powerful movie and an amazing story, but this movie tried to address too many issues at the same time. They don't focus on racism, or college life, they never picked an issue and focused on it, every time we got into Remy's struggles dealing with himself as a confused teen-ager influenced by hatred, we skipped back over to the issues of a girl who had been date raped, or was experimenting with homosexual issues.  Overall, it could have been broken down into several movies, but as a collecitve isn't that great. "},{"Title":"Cartoonish depiction of racism that takes itself WAY too seriously.","Date":"4 November 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" To be fair, Higher Learning came out in the midst of one of the most liberal decades in the history of this country the 1990's. Sadly, this does not excuse the blatant irresponsibility on display by writer/director John Singleton in his portrayal of both black and white college students. They remind me of characters from a film like Not Another Teen Movie. Someone like me can watch this with a certain kind of eye and find the entertainment value in it, but to a young person or an impressionable teenager, Higher Learning is borderline dangerous propaganda and nothing more.The viewer is offered an entirely one-sided depiction of the racism that black people endure on a college campus, all the way up to the end. Not one campus security guard is black, they are all white and they are all racist. They even obstruct our hero in the end instead of going after the killer. It is absurd and unrealistic.The Neo-Nazi's are pathetic, mouth-breathing morons and the Black Power guys are intelligent, transcendent disciples of Huey Newton who, somehow, are still oppressed in 1995.I wouldn't say this is the WORST movie I've ever seen, but it sure is close. Only to be viewed by those with an IQ of 130 or higher and even then, just for pure comedic value.The acting is pretty good by all those involved, but the script stinks, the story is over the top ridiculous and the overall message here is not good. Anyone else notice that music in the 90's was better than now, but movies have definitely gotten better!?2 out of 10, kids. "},{"Title":"A film Sister Souljah would love...","Date":"7 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This has to be the most offensive, shameless and Clichéd movie in movie history. What was John Signleton thinking when he made this trash? Let me ask you a question dear reader. What is worse, a white woman getting raped(even though the rape scene was filmed horribly) or a African American woman being called a black bitch? Mr. Signleton seems to think that rape is not all that serious and Racist remarks towards black women are worse than rape. The characters such as they are don't seem to notice either. If the film was trying to explore racism on a college campus by using Ice-Cube and Omar Epps as some kind of victims it fails. Both of these characters come off as boobs who do nothing but whine.John Signleton does his people a dis-service with this film with its absurd character's. As far as I am concerned the biggest racist in this movie was Ice-Cube who plays some pot smoking bum who has been in college forever and lives up to the stereotype of the lazy black male.Was I suppose to feel bad for this poor black man with his foul mouth and bad attitude? No chance. Maybe this film should have been called, Pick your Cliché because it has it all.Neo-Nazis, Lesbians,black racists(who seem like some kind of antihero), all white people are bad, Feminists, black power and anything else you can think of. Does not sound like a college I would attend with these types of people. If a movie is going to explore racism than it had better see it from all sides because racism comes in all shapes,sizes and colors. Using a make believe college called Columbus University and stocking it with silly people who think the world owes them a favor will get no sympathy from me. The people in this film are nothing more than complaining jerks who need to shut their pie holes. Should only be viewed on MTV cause that is the only network with it's bonehead viewers that would believe this political correct nonsense.Terrible piece of work... "},{"Title":"for real","Date":"28 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" i think this film is real and i love that type of movie. one that relates to what is. This film is a perspective of 3 students, 2+ races and ones place, you'll see the problems as they pull together. Personally i would rate John Singleton (no doubt) for his great directing because his not afraid to show everything he just doesn't hide the truth. You'll see what I'm talking about if you've watched ,BOYZ N THE HOOD, it shows so much hating and violence but its there for you to see just what goes down. Being a Morris Chestnut lover i Would have preferred if he just got shot in the leg once then they'd gone. During HIGHER LEARNING you cum across starr actor/rapper, ICE CUBE who portrays the tough boy who don't take no mess. Also Regina king who portrays TYRA BANKS room mate, and OMAR EPPS has Melik. i certainly think regina king is abit under rated and deserves a lot more recognition.If your bored and you just want to be deeply entertained (by the great acting/directing) you need to go to the nearest HMV and pick this seller up... quick. "},{"Title":"Don't Bother -- This Movie Was A Waste Of What Felt Like 7 Hours","Date":"12 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I loved Boyz N Hood & cannot BELIEVE this is even remotely the same director.There was NO subtlety, no nuance, just slamming over you the head w/ his dogmatic sledgehammer in his very unfocused storyline.The movie doesn't start out too badly, it's kind of interesting, all the different groups on campus. But then suddenly, once he introduces the Neo-Nazis, it becomes a totally different movie -- suddenly it's an action-packed adventure flick with no central focus.And from then on, instead of being up against this kind of understated racism that's there but not overt -- much more interesting & realistic &#150; he has the movie's hero literally fighting off a pack of evil gun-toting skinheads. And every time the skins are on camera, the horror flick music & lighting come up. Really lame. and also, Singleton's totally confused about his social message. On the one hand he's got the Tyra Banks (can we say baaad acting) and Laurence Fishburne characters espousing the idea the main character should fight racism by academically surpassing his peers, and on the other hand Singleton's got the main character & the icecube side kick making long soap box speeches about how you don't have a prayer in white man's world (so you might as got to kick some white butt physically I guess). Which, in this movie &#150; supposedly the fictional school's based on USC &#150; really is true. There is no prayer what with the racist cops (they were subtly racist in the first film, i.e the beginning of the movie, but become criminally racist by the second movie, i.e. the end) beating, arresting and harassing them (while lovingly coddling the skinhead who just shot two people) at every turn.In short -- don't bother seeing this flick, seriously.Oh yeah, & the main-character's over-wrought acting at the end of the movie where he's lies bloody lamenting the loss of his girlfriend (who's been shot by a skinhead, which happens routinely at USC, right?&#133;) in the arms of Laurence Fishburne is downright embarrassing.  "},{"Title":"what is some people's problem???!!!","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I loved this movie. You watch this film, and think, oh, college was never like this when I was in it. True, however, John Singlton likes to make films that many other directors can not make, thus because their imagination of things needs to focus on the basics in life. What excaly does that mean? Well, the story is based on one very hard and evil thingracism. It's in the world, and some people go around there lives, the word racist doesn't even cross their mind. Singlton just makes films that are gut wrenching, and he so does not fail with Higher Learning. There are three main characters Malik, Remy, and Kristen. Malik, is played by Omar Epps, (love and basketball), he's on the school's running team, and if he doesn't start paying, he can say bye, bye, bye, to the team. Remy, is a shy person, he tries to make good grades, like a normal person. About halfway through the film, he falls in with a bunch of skin-heads, and they decide to get even with the school. Kristen, is played by Kristy Swanson (Buffy the Vampire Slayer), and she ends up raped about 20-30 minutes into the film. Her roomate, whom is black, finds out, and they turn to her friends, including Ice Cube, and they of course, find the guy, and try to beat the living crap out of him, only to be stopped by police on the campus. The whole film is not based on black verses white, it takes a look into people, their fears, hopes, and dreams. Kristen goes to a support group, run by a girl named Taryn (Jennifer Connelly), whom finds herself, uh, attracted to Kristen. The story finally ends in a bang litterally above all great film great story great ending nine out of ten stars one of Singltons best do not miss the terrific film  "}{"Title":"Ummm... Maybe it applied in 95 more...","Date":"29 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I was so excited when I saw Ice Cube's name, cuz I love the Friday franchise and his action flicks are entertaining, but wow! If its watched by someone who can ignore the heavily pushed message, then it might be OK, but then it wouldn't have any dialogue... What a catch 22. It showed racism & sexism from all sides, but more leaned toward the white MALE being the bad guy who has homosexual undertones. I didn't say MAN, because real MEN from any race aren't racist. You hear that Singleton and Spike Lee? I'm a white man whose ancestors were oppressed also. I'm Scottish with a little Irish blood too. Look it up. But there's always people who can't let go and move forward in every race too. Its just unfortunate that some work their way into showbiz and politics and try to spread their propaganda. Its everyone's world, so LIVE IN THE WORLD TOGETHER OR KILL YOURSELF!!! ) Spread love not lies. "},{"Title":"The inspiration for PCU","Date":"6 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I won't argue with the fact that this is a great movie about racial tension, but I will argue with the fact that the Black Panthers are portrayed as better or more sympathetically than the Skinheads. Anyone that argues different is a victim of a false liberal bias. The fact is, for those of you who watch Higher Learning with an open mind to the facts of life, both sides of the conflict are portrayed as equally repugnant. Higher Learning makes a serious effort to take no sides in its portrayal of racism in America and it is an effort that pays off in spades. It is a solid piece of honest cinema and one with a valid point. Although, the film could have done without a half-hearted homage to the UT Austin tragedy. A movie of this caliber should have had a more original ending. "},{"Title":"Good for what it is","Date":"17 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" My guess is that Singleton might be generally quite pleased about the amount of discussion this film has provoked, here if nowhere else. Indeed he deals with issues that are both divisive and very complex. Charges of oversimplification are inevitable, and many people are going to hate it no matter what the message.I'm a white guy, but I know from friends and acquaintances that it often seems that whites just do not get what it is like to be non-white in our society. I also think that the discussion may be more open and honest in the US at present than nearly anywhere else. So if this movie seems biased against whites, at least it expresses how many African Americans really feel, especially if you realize that for some, they are much more of a minority when they arrive at college than they ever were at home.I would like to note that the movie actually did take a couple of pretty heavy swipes against the Black Panther crowd. First was the scene where Fudge orders one of the girls to go shopping. The other was when Deja and Malik are watching the boys rehearse their battle with the skinheads. Deja's open-mouthed shock underlines how primitive and violent their behavior has become. So I like this movie because it is provocative and real, expressing a point of view that we should at least know about, even if we don't totally agree with it. "},{"Title":"Interesting","Date":"18 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Don;t know how I missed HIGHER LEARNING when it first came out. This look at the first year of college at a major university has the ring of truth about it, although perhaps hyped up a bit for dramatic appeal. The primary player in the group is Omar Epps, a student on an athletic scholarship who is trying not to be compartmentalized by everyone. A fellow black student who seems to be living in the 1970s (Ice Cube) sees him as a sellout while one of his professors (Larry Fishburne) is working hard to get him to learn. Michael Rapaport is a loner with a hearing problem who falls in with a gang of skinheads. Kirsty Swanson is a naive miss from the boonies who undergoes a major transformation after being raped by a fellow student. The film is dotted with familiar faces, most if not all of whom have gone on to stardom of one sort or another, including Cole Hauser, Jennifer Connelly and Tyra Banks. Definitely worth a look. "},{"Title":"Kristy Swanson","Date":"20 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I thought Kristy Swanson was amazing in this film! The movie was well put together, and had many talents in it. Im just disappointed that Kristy never gets the recognition that she deserves. This movie eerily now reminds us how if we don't communicate with our fellow students it could end in disaster. School shootings are too common today and if we understood people a lot better we can avoid future ones. This movie was great and the haunting Tori Amos/Liz Phair music went perfect with Kristen Connor's torment throughout the movie. Tyra Banks who annoys me now, was wonderful in her role as Daisha the smart athletic girl. Her death scene alone was tragic and acted beautifully. Omar Epps anger in the eyes was magnificently portrayed. Michael Rapaport was wonderful in making his scenes awkward and real enough to believe. I thought the only annoying character in the film was the overly butch Jennifer Connelly. How she won an Oscar i don't know. Kristy deserves better films than the B movies shes subjected to now. I just wish casting directors would take into account the amount of talent this actress has. "},{"Title":"A flawed but worthy effort","Date":"1 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" While this film is flawed, which it is, i clearly believe the problem is that when someone makes a seminal film like Boyz in the Hood, that from then on he has a lot to live up to. Obviously Higher Learning doesn't stand up against Boyz in the Hood but as a standalone film it is worthy enough. I personally enjoyed it, although it had too many characters in it who weren't developed enough, it certainly had its poignant moments and Omar Epps and Cole Hauser did extremely well in there roles.The film did seem one sided in the racial issues it raised, although having seen all of Singletons films it's not surprising. This is again a reason that this film is under appreciated as if it were widely acknowledged as a good film then it may be concluded that the critics/publications agree with these views, which might upset certain people.Overall though i believe it is under-rated and should not be 6.3/10. Epps, Hauser and Rappaport deserve better roles than they have been given since this, and i hope that with Four Brothers Singleton will finally deliver better films than he has made since this also. Overall then i give this 7/10. "},{"Title":"A great performance by Rappaport...","Date":"29 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I guess I agree with the too much stuffed into one movie, and the cliched misrepresentation thing, but this movie introduced me to a great performance by Michael Rappaport... Remy... He blew me away...And the Brando-esque skinhead dude was a cool character... "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies I've ever seen!! (No Joke) (Warning I might give away some info on the film)","Date":"17 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is such a piece of trash that I can't believe that anyone can take it seriously. Wow, where do I begin?First of all, this is reverse racism. Only the marginalised peoples such as Women, Blacks, Jews, homosexuals are considered to be good. And they are all good, not one of them has done anything wrong. Every villain in the movie is white and male. I mean, look, I'm no racist, but come on! I'm not going to be politically correct either. In fact, this movie typifies everything that is wrong with political correctness.The black characters are so stereotypical that it's laughable. Their politics, the way they speak, the wise integrated professor (Fishburne) with a Jamaican accent, I mean, are you kidding me?And no, the world is not that bad a place. Not all cops hate blacks, and no they wouldn't stop a black guy in the halls of a university while he's fighting a Nazi who just shot up the school and let the Nazi get away while they beat the crap out of the black guy. I mean, what a joke!!! The reason why Singleton made the characters this way is that he doesn't understand the complexities of real life people. There are just as many bad whites as their are blacks and lesbians etc...but no more and no less. I take offence as a white Jew, nonetheless, to the portrayal of 'pure' whites in this film.God!! Wow!! This movie put me into such a bad mood. I think I can safely say that no, it's not as bad as Dude Where's my Car or any other movie in that vain, it's worse. It's possibly the worst movie that I've ever seen. Thank you very much. "},{"Title":"Singleton's insolent Higher Learning is dumbed down by kindergarten-level plot","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Higher Learning (1995) This prejudiced and sanctimonious film, directed by John Singleton, focuses on the trials and tribulations of several college students (Kristy Swanson, Omar Epps, and Michael Rapaport) who attend fictitious Columbus University. Ice Cube gives a shameless performance as a student who serves no purpose to the story other than to smoke pot and constantly whine about campus security and the school's racial tensions while not preaching to Epps about reading to feed your brain, despite the fact he's been stuck at Columbus for over four years. Laurence Fishburne has a pretentious role as a philosophy-spouting professor. A gratuitous rape scene is couched in with several unnecessary subplots, among them lesbianism and Nazi skinheads, all leading to a ridiculous, overwrought ending. The message in this hypocritical social commentary appears to be that any race outside of African-American is inferior. Only Epps' and Swanson's performances prevent this from being a total disaster. 3/10  "},{"Title":"Great Mixture of different races","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Instead of Boyz N the Hood or Menace II Society, which were truly great films, this one focuses not only the black part of society but as well as Asians, Indians, Hispanics, and Whites. Omar Epps gives a great performance and John Singleton, as usual, gives a easy to follow gritty story. Now this isn't the best I have seen on the subject but it does deserve a worthy praise. "}{"Title":"Good Movie, Although not all realistic","Date":"30 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  My girlfriends really turned me on to this movie when it was playing on HBO a few years back. We were all in College at the time. Our college experience was not as traumatic as shown in the film, but some things rang true. Our school was partaking in voluntary segregation at that time. Blacks hung out with blacks only, etc. It caused some tension. I am white, but from this movie, I got some idea of how an African American must feel trying to improve his life, while he is compared to the stereotypes of the past. I taped this movie from cable and it belongs in my personal movie library. Okay, not an Academy Award winner by far, but good viewing for Gen Xers.  "},{"Title":"Two things give this average film merit","Date":"3 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is pretty much your average college flick with the average stereotypes, times two. However two things about this film always make me give it another look. The great performance from Michael Rappaport and the whole skinhead crew, and the moving ending, where Omar Epps comes out of the building and Laurence Fishburne grabs him and holds him in his arms like a father would. The great Stanley Clarke score in the background really brings out the best in that most poignant scene. That one scene is proof that great music in a film really enriches it. "},{"Title":"Saved at the final hurdle","Date":"10 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It seems like in this film that the Skinheads are idiots, the black men are idiots, and the police are idiots.  The only semi-intelligent people are the women!  True to life?  I'll leave you to decide, but as much as I felt that the black men were made out to be the victims all the time, in certain scenes they too came off as morons.  This film was a bunch of stereotypes strung together, and I'm so glad that I'm not American if that's what Americans are like.  I don't believe that they are though.  The very end of the film (I won't spoil it.....the bit which comes up on the screen) is the only positive thing I took from this movie.  It's a perfect ending. "},{"Title":"Clutch Work","Date":"5 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  John Singleton is no coward.  And he eloquently uses the College campus as his canvas.  The acting is superb, particularly the job Michael Rappaport does as Remi.  This film is a landmark for American society.  It is truly a film that doesn't compromise.  You leave this film with a knot in your stomach.  This is what good film making should be about, giving the audience something to think about.  It is truly clutch work. "},{"Title":"Magnificent!!","Date":"17 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Higher Learning is criticism of the American society. It shows how people can be easily effected and used. It also shows the two sides of hatred between colored people and white people. Remy(Micheal Rapaport) is a tremendous character and his only goal in life is to be a part of something. He isn't a real Nazi, his only reason for being a one is that the other members accept him, something that no one has ever done before. He had always felt like a outcast but now he thinks that he's needed. Laurence Fishburne shows a great performance as the professor.The movie effected me deeply, it left something, and I started to wonder how sick the human rage is. This movie is a must see for all you people who like good movies. "},{"Title":"Awe Some","Date":"11 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There were so many underlaying features..........Very direct and very Diverse.....I found this movie to be one of the MOST well represented movies in the world (out of the ones that I have seen)It is all a game "},{"Title":"Superb Acting, great story-line","Date":"19 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is probably one of the best movies ever made. It has everything a great movie should have, superb acting, great story-line and it makes you want to see the ending. It takes a serious look at a college and what goes on in it. In this movie it was racism, bi-sexuality, love and friendship combined into one. If you haven't seen this movie, go ahead and see it, but bring the tissues this one's got a sad ending. 10/10 for this masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Not an A-plus, but not an F, either","Date":"3 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Ah, life in college as depicted by Boyz N the Hood director John Singleton. It could've improved. Singleton gives a depiction of life at Columbus University- a place where students can try to make their dreams come true- amid the racism, violence, sexual mores, and other problems that seem to surround it. We're introduced to many characters, all of whom are different types of people, with different points of view, including Kristen (played by Kristy Swanson), a newcomers freshman, who falls in love only to realize it turns into rape. Along the way, she meets a lesbian feminist (played by Jennifer Connelly), who holds many meetings concerning anti-sexism. We're also introduced to Malik (played by Omar Epps) a runner on a partial scholarship who realizes the more he runs, the more he'll live college life on a full scholarship. He meets professor Maurice Phipps (played by Laurence Fishburne), who teaches him a little bit about life, and also meets Deja (played by Tyra Banks, in her film debut), another fellow runner whom Malik strikes a romance with. Ice Cube plays his friend Fudge, who does'nt like the racism surrounding the university and will take offense very easily the minute he hears the N-word or any other racist comment. And Michael Rapaport plays Remy, a Nazi who feels he will get criticized because of the color of his skin, and when the anger boils inside of him, he attempts to kill anyone different from him, leading to a big climax that just over-stereotypes. Later on, it leads to a shoot-out at a concert raising awareness for peace, leaving 1 wounded, and 2 dead.This movie would have done better, if not for the stereotypes surrounding this movie (yes, there are many n-words used by the Nazi characters; those who will feel offended too easily should take caution before seeing this movie), and the very cliché start of the movie. Otherwise, this is an D- in my grade book. P.S. At least Singleton did'nt attempt to take a National Lampoon view on this situation! P.P.S. unlearn "},{"Title":"Singleton's Improbable History","Date":"7 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Based on the personal experiences of director John Singleton's time at the University of Southern California,comes Higher Learning. A film centered on the racial politics that occur at modern day colleges.There are three main characters to which the film bases its foundation around for its story Malik Williams, an carefree lowbrow athlete who is an African American male. Kristin Conner, a sheltered soft white girl, and Remy, a unsophisticated unconnected white male. All three are overcome by the sudden realities that college life is not as good as it is advertised as all three go through disappointment by being unprepared (Malik), by being naive (Kristin), and by being unwanted (Remy).One good thing about the film is that it does show that modern American colleges are just high schools writ large. The colleges are not places to build character , develop potential, or enhance personal advancement, but they are institutions used to gather all sorts of students in a one-size-fits-all atmosphere. It is an experience that usually is built for failure for most students. It would have been good if the film built it story about this travesty rather than racial politics.But it didn't and that's where the films falls apart. Singleton ,it seems, had a pretty bad experience at Southern California. Through this film he lets it all hang out. There is no need to beat around the bush here. Singleton lets the heroes and the villains of this piece be easily seen.The black characters in the film are pretty much seen as the heroes here while all the whites in the film are seen as the villains, save for Kristin, who was raped by a fellow white student.Who can understand the inconsistencies of this film? Black gang members who come to the aid of a white girl after she points out to them who supposedly raped her? The ease that the black gang members have at the university while a bunch of skin heads meet in a dark small dorm planning violence? The performances of Omar Epps (Malik) and Kristy Swanson (Kristin) are disappointing. They do seem like the third choices for the roles that they played in this movie (Tupac Shakur and Drew Barrymore were supposed to play Malik and Kristin but were unavailable). O'Shea Jackson aka Ice Cube ,Busta Rhymes, and Regina King were all irritating in their respective roles. And Laurence Fishburne was woefully miscast here as the history professor. Only Michael Rappaport did well in this film and he did considering that his character ,of the three main characters, changed the most in the film.John Singleton wanted to take on the matter of race and inequality in American college life with this film. And he did so quite badly. It was sort like killing a fly with a shotgun. Life is far more complex than it seems and people are alike all over and he should know this. Higher Learning is proof that he did not understand this at all. Seeing the film ,then and now, would only confuse, disappoint and enrage the same public he would wish to speak to. Not to mention it would not entertain them in the slightest. "},{"Title":"What is really going on?","Date":"21 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I must say that this movie is an intelligent look at racism in a somewhat controlled environment. I don't understand how people can say that it was black against white. Let's really look at this movie the black people were together because of common interest and they were fighting because they were helping a friend(Epps). The white guy were doing the same. It did appear that the blacks didn't like Remy due to his race but it was more like lack of common interest. Had he been a hip hop loving, Fredrick Douglas reading, white kid I believe he would have been accepted. The whites were kinda the only ones who had racial targets, i.e the police. They were more racist than the Nazis if you ask me. That really does happen. The movie overall was a truthful look at most colleges in the U.S. I mean think about it...look at the people you are closest to are they your friends because of skin or common interest. "}{"Title":"Take a Second Look","Date":"22 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I read over some of the comments made about this movie and true some of the incidents were a little over the top but given the severity of this movie is NOT unrealistic. I am using this movie as well as others films to address the rise in school violence. This movie addresses some of the growing issues on how school violence occurs. Plain, simple reasons. This movie was written in 1995 and yet in 1999 two teenage boys shot up a high school in Littleton, CO. And let's fast-forward to 2007, were a male Korean student shot and killed 23 people at Virginia Tech, which will now, be known as the worst school shooting in the history of the United States. So before anyone passes anymore judgment about this movie, please understand that the issues and incidents are very realistic and almost scary to believe. "},{"Title":"great film","Date":"5 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is the first movie i've seen of John Singleton and he is a pretty good director. The movie starts out with a bunch of incoming freshman and it shows what happens to several of them. Omar Epps plays a track star with a partial scholarship and having a hard time keeping up with his work. He is friends with Ice Cube and beings dating Tyra Banks. Kristy Swanson is a rich girl who is date raped and becomes friends with Jennifer Connelly, who is a lesbian, and isn't sure about which way to go. Michael Rapaport is a kid from Idaho who falls in with a group of Neo-Nazis and their leader is Cole Hauser. Those are the three main characters and Laurence Fishburne is a political science professor who tries to help them. It's a great film and it's unfortunate that the studio had to make several cuts to the movie. "},{"Title":"Melodrama weakens a good idea","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The movie disappoints, as it goes on a journey through some intriguing issues, only to descend into an unrealistic and melodramatic denouement. I was left feeling that an opportunity for an excellent movie had been missed. "},{"Title":"Singleton at his best!","Date":"7 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When John Singleton is on, he's *on*!! And this is one of his better films. Not quite as tight as Boyz-n-the-Hood, but close to it (and with much of the same stellar cast). This film was very well written, very well put together, and very well shot. There's very little to criticize, and most of my complaints are superficial (eg where did Fudge get the money for 6 years of college and a lot of expensive stuff? No mention of a rich background... And why doesn't Professor Phibbs have an office? A professor of his stature *should* have one... And while we're at it, for an engineering student, hick or not, Remy's a pretty dumb character - I'd think that he'd have a bit more in the way of basic intelligence - he talks and acts like a total buffoon).But that aside, the film was very sharp. A good array of characters and points of view; and Singleton doesn't take sides in the story - many of the characters are unsympathetic, and he does a good job of interspersing the Panthers and Supremacist scenes together to show the folly on both sides.Much of the cinematography was excellent; I especially loved the scene where Kirsty Swanson gets intimate with Taryn and Wayne each scene spliced together really well. Also the Malik/Deja scenes were really well shot as well.The dialogue was a bit much at times; this film had a tendency to get *really* preachy at times, and it also tends to hammer the points it was making over your head when the points would be just as clear with out the bluntness (we really didn't need the US flag with 'UNLEARN' typed onto it, give some credit, we're not morons...). And to top it off, although *most* of the time Singleton uses melodrama quite well, sometimes it gets *way* too cheezy (like Deja's death, which is fine until she screams out 'WHY!!!' which simply ruined the entire effect and scene).But the acting, in general, was top of the line. Fabulous performances by Omar Epps (perhaps the best I've ever seen), Kirsty Swanson (who knew Buffy could act??), Michael Rapaport (surprised the hell out of me...after True Romance and Beautiful Girls I though he was a one-role actor), and of course Ice Cube and Laurence Fishburne are *always* outstanding.Downside? Jennifer Connelly was flat; though it's not completely her fault her role was stereotypical and one-dimensional. Generic to the highest degree. And Tyra Banks, who had the role, was nothing short of horrid. She whined and whined and whined. Yet another in the long line of models-turned-actresses who failed miserably (though there are a few who prove the exception to this rule).Finally, the soundtrack! Wow! An amazing soundtrack (which is definitely worth buying!) which fits the film like a glove. Each scene has a twin song (although the Tori Amos songs started to *really* annoy me by the end...not her best work). Liz Phair, Rage Against the Machine, Ice Cube...how can one go wrong??All in all a really good watch, a really strong cast, great script, great film. 8/10. "},{"Title":"Over the top but watchable","Date":"6 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In this little film we have some great characters but a very shallow plot. It is actually nice to watch because Singleton does a great job at presenting the esoteric conflicts and the interpersonal relationships. This makes the viewer forget the nonexistent realism that this movie supposedly is for. In fact what we have here is all the possible cliches and stereotypes put on celluloid in a rate higher than that of a soap. Definitely not a deep movie (even if it wants to be), but better than an average college movie. "},{"Title":"This movie is sooooo disappointing!","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I know John Singleton's a smart guy 'coz he made Boyz N The Hood, so how did he write and direct this? It's like the pilot of a bad going away to college for the first time teen soap, a parade of boring stereotypes and cliches with some gratuitous violence thrown in to make it a commercial proposition, I guess. Who would've guessed the date-rape victim would dump sausage for seafood? The angry loner would be preyed upon by a group of Neo-Nazis (and would be roomed-up with a black AND a Jew - just for laughs!) Even Laurence Fishburne's creepy reactionary history Professor just irritated me and I love the guy, it's like everyone involved with this movie just lost the plot. Except Busta Rhymes, of course. Big ups. "},{"Title":"Worst movie ever","Date":"9 October 2006","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This may have been the worst movie I've ever seen. You have a normal white kid who is picked on one time by black kids, and he becomes a skin head!!! Then you have a girl who has one problem with a guy so becomes a lesbian! Then a black kid who feels ignored so he joins the black panthers!!! This is a joke of a film. Never watch it. Never ever watch it. I want my two hours back! I want my life back! It was just so awful. I am so mad I watched it. It was so bad. It was such a joke, and a waste of time. I would never want anyone to see it ever in a million years. I would not watch that black propaganda again if I was held at gunpoint! "},{"Title":"This is a movie lovers movie.","Date":"5 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of those movies that will leave you breathless at the end.  It has been a while since I have watched it.  But I still remember it vividly. You will be thinking about it for days after you watch it.  But just remember, it's just a movie.  It reminds me of alot of what's going on in schools still in this year.    I recommend this movie to anyone who enjoys a great movie. "},{"Title":"Intense movie unjustly criticized","Date":"31 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think some of you who criticized the movie for containing harsh stereotypes and being unrealistic missed the point of the movie. I think Singleton was using a college campus as a microcosm of America. Hence Columbus (discovering America) University and the full screen of the American flag at the end. When seen in that context, I believe the film makes more sense. While what was depicted might not happen at a single university, it certainly had happened in America's history and the stereotypes he portrayed can certainly be modeled from real people. And in the past 5 years how many school shootings have there been???? Unrealistic, I don't think so. "},{"Title":"Great film...","Date":"31 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie had lots of great actors and actresses in it and it addressed some very noble issues.  It's full of emotion and the direction is done well.  The storyline progresses very quickly, but I guess that's better than having to watch a 3 hour movie.  This is an easy movie to watch again and again and enjoy. "}{"Title":"Magnificent, Beautiful, Accurate 21st C. College Experience","Date":"16 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have seen movies of all shapes and forms, and this one is the BEST of its breed.The theme song, Tori Amos' Butterfly, is the piano piece that sticks in everyone's minds after watching this magnificently created, beautifully written, factually accurate college experience.  This movie meshes everything a college student is expected and not to learn.  Everything that he/she is not told of the CHANGE THEY WILL GO THROUGH after experiencing love, hate, racism, fear, anger, happiness, challenges, successes, achievements, confusion, escapism, teamwork, academic excellence.  I can go on and on about it.The cast is amazing, their skills are unsurpassed.  NOWHERE!  And being a college student who has interacted with all sorts throughout the years by traveling across the USA multiple times, nothing can bring me more to tears than the harsh REALITY this movie provides. Off to college?  Children in college?  Friends in college and want to know what they REALLY go through, and how they became a better man/woman?Go rent it... it speaks for itself.Tears... tears... tears...  "},{"Title":"Speechless","Date":"7 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This story was probably one of the most powerful I have ever taken in. John Singleton certainly went above and beyond when putting together this educational masterpiece.  Brilliant performances by the whole cast, but Epps and Rapaport turned in the best and most convincing of either young star's career.However, as a college student myself, many of the issues that Singleton touched on were taken to the extreme.  In a sense that, while they are issues faced on many college campuses, they aren't presented as big or out in the open as this movie would make one believe.  In some instances, it almost seemed ridiculous to think that something of this nature could actually occur.  However, aside from the fact that it was a little over dramatic, the film was brilliant and left me stunned, unable to talk, just think.  One of the things from this picture I will remember forever, was a quote from Lawrence Fishburn's character, Knowledge is power, without knowledge, you cannot see your power.  Brilliant, just brilliant.  "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"7 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Even though the characters and story are over-drawn, this is one good movie. Racial conflicts aren't usually this entire, but it's a good dramatization of how they could be. Because it depicts racial relationships in such a manner, it better shows what can, and often does happen. No one is right, that's certain, and we're more than the color of our skin. Still, most of us let that divide us..... We have many lessons to learn. "},{"Title":"Great movie with a great young cast","Date":"23 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie very much.  Kristy Swanson Omar epps, and Ice Cube were all great in it.  The movie dealt with many issues, and I didn't know if I was going to like it, but Singelton did a terrific job of creating characters that you really cared about.   "},{"Title":"important film","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  higher learning is a slap in the face for those of us that have been in the closet too long regardless of ethnic background. it's a subject most of us would like to ignore but we cannot afford to if there is to be a real progressive change in the way we HAVE TO be able embrace and understand diversity.some have criticized this film as hateful or dumb but the fact of the matter is, ignorance reigns supreme in the world and several continue to help it dominate our society.everyone involved in this film has done a good deed in showing what steps must continue to be done in order to not have to make anymore films like higher learning.sure it sounds like a pipe dream but we have to start somewhere and this helps. "},{"Title":"Key Generation X movie.","Date":"14 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The movie shows a common denominator present on Generation X discrimination. To these days, the events displayed on Higher Learning still happen in college campus everywhere. Not only in America I must say. The movie's film makers tried to do a clever, dramatic movie about discrimination on America and did a very good job showing that Neo-Nazis with nothing better to lose still have primitive ideas, or that gay couples are not secure in a homophobic society. The situations are very well done and many people can relate to them as discrimination is a sickness in modern society. The acting is pretty good. Omar Epps delivers a strong, believable performance as the lead. But Kristy Swanson demonstrates that she is a good actress and gives a perfect performance. The rest of the cast is great. Special mention deserves Jennifer Connelly for two things 1) delivering a good performance. This woman knows how to demonstrate feelings just by looking at her eyes. 2) For being that HOT in all of her scenes. She is a pleasure to watch. Watch this movie as a supporting material on how discrimination was in the 90's. It's an entertaining movie that will make you think about how lucky you are if you haven't been a victim of discrimination in all of it's categories. "},{"Title":"the best!","Date":"15 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have to say that Higher Learning is one of the top 3 movies I have ever watched.  It has a brilliant cast, and an equally brilliant director. Singleton shows how life in University can be.  There are 3 main story lines, the skinheads, the African-Americans, and the homosexuals.  I was intrigued by all of the stories, but the one that got to me the most was the storyline about Kristen, battling her feelings towards another girl.  The end was great.  After seeing the movie 25 times plus, I still cry.  I would have given this movie an 11, but I have to settlefor 10/10. "},{"Title":"Have You Seen The Same Film?","Date":"11 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I cant believe that people are giving this film such a bad wrap, john singleton is a fantastic director, and this a fantastic movie, watch it again and stop comparing it to other racial tension films.Films such as Boyz In The Hood, and Menace 2 Society, which are amazing movies, and because they are, people tend to compare other films which are trying to run along the same lines, and they shouldn't, especially with this movie, which is a highly aggressive and gripping thriller, which shows what peer pressure can do to weak minded youngsters, in this case the transformation of an outcast to a neo Nazi.Higher Learning is a film that i believe should be shown to people, so they can see the evil that neo Nazis can cause. Its not everyday that a film director has the guts to face an issue which is so rife and fresh in the minds of people today "},{"Title":"Higher Learning Explores Social Problems on Campus ***","Date":"15 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Interesting film revolving around racism, resulting prejudice and life at a college.We have some interesting performances here by Omar Epps, as a student, with hang-ups and Laurence Fishburne, as a tough political science professor who chides his own people for being lazy.4 years before she won the Oscar, Jennifer Connolly again plays a college student.Interestingly, Michael Rapaport, who I believe is Jewish in real life, plays someone weak in mind who is drawn into a neo-Nazi movement with tragedy resulting.The film is good especially when it tries to show that the college crowd try to get together for toleration of each other, but unfortunately violence ensues.The police are made to come off badly in this film. No matter what, black students are routinely harassed and beaten.The picture succeeds since it points out the need for human understanding and tolerance. "},{"Title":"Another good movie from John Singleton,the man behind (Boys N The Hood)","Date":"24 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is as Boys in the hood, a movie about the black community. The story envolves around some different people on a USA college. Among the actors we find Ice Cube,Jennifer Conelly,Tyra Banks,Kristy Swanson and Lauwrence Fishburne.This is a good cast and especially if you are looking for good looking girls. This stroy is about the problems between white people and black people. The story is quit dramatic and you get to feel for the different persons.The ending is really rough and made me think for a long time. All in all a god movie,but not as good as John Singleton's Boys in the hood.   "}{"Title":"How colleage really is","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Higher Learning painted a potrait of how colleage really is. The script is shocking because it's true. All the actors are top notch and the movie is very deep and powerful. As someone who is from the east coast and goes to colleage in the south I'm experining everything that Malik experience. A very importnat film that veryone should see. "},{"Title":"Omar Epps was outstanding!! He acted like all those things were really happening to him! I love the way he acts!","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Omar Epps is an outstanding actor. I really think he gets into his character alot. When deja gets shot he shows true emotion. He also shows true emotion when remmi puts the gun to him in the room. Omar is  a very talented actor!! "},{"Title":"A great movie to see.","Date":"2 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was a great movie that had a lot of under lying issues. It dealt with issues of rascism and class. But, it also had a message of knowing yourself and taking responsibility for yourself. This movie was very deep it gave the message of that you and only you can control your destiny. It also showed that knowing yourself and being comfortable with who you are is the only way you will ever fit into society. What others think of you is not important. I believe this movie did a wonderful job of showing it. The actors I think were able to convey each character wonderfully. I just thought it was amazing how deep this movie really was. At a just glancing look you wouldn't see how deep the movie is, but on further look you see the underlining meaning of the movie.  "},{"Title":"the kiss","Date":"20 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Sure Higher Learning was an awful movie but the lesbian peck between Kristy Swanson and Jennifer Connelly was well worth it. It was definitely worth a rewind or two. Aside from that titillating moment the movie is really stupid. It made Neo-Nazis seem like weak, pick-on little boys (which they aren't), it made lesbians look hot (which most aren't) The only redeeming quality was that it showed how the whole brotherhood of man thing really didn't work out and that some people are just downright hateful and that this was years before Columbine. Lawrence Fishburne was weird and that rule about a comment having 10 lines or more is really gay because I wasn't planning on pontificating to any great degree I just wanted to let people know that the kissing scene is in there. Peace Out! "},{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"17 October 1999","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Higher Learning deserves a lot for its remarkable acting, and story line. The cast, which includes Omar Epps, Kristy Swanson, and Tyra Banks, was great. Their talents should have made them stars.The story, which takes place on a college campus, was greatly written.I had wanted to see this movie for about a year, and always put it off, figuring it might not be very well. I am actually so glad that I saw it now, the whole moving (most notably the ending) will have you thinking for days!Go rent this. If you're not a fan of Drama, there is still a chance that you will like this, it is not all sad.  "}]