[{"Title":"I couldn't close my eyes.","Date":"24 August 2003","Score":"17 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I stumbled upon this piece of art on my way to bed.  339am is not late at all for a film such as this.  August King detailed courage and conviction in the most vulnerable way imaginable.   Witnessing this man endure all to the benefit of another, under the most trying of circumstances, offered more in cinema than any three films I can immediately recall.  Jason Patric has always impressed me, but now has my loyalties as a viewer.  This film brings to light the inner struggles of every decision we must make in this life, and our acceptance of the consequences.  The Journey compels one to ponder whether we do enough for the sake of selflessness.  August King risks and loses all to lend a hand in starting life anew for a young runaway slave (mastered by Thandie Newton -- a performance and character not soon forgotten by me).  Through every twist and turn, August willingly suffers the sorrows of his devotion to an unpopular cause. He challenges his own convictions to do what instinctively seems right. In the end, his pride was enough to convince me of the value of sometimes following your heart.  If you have time or if you don't, stay awake and take this journey. This one just made my list.  And my list is very short.  Is this a film I recommend? No, this is a film I insist. "},{"Title":"Breathtaking","Date":"23 March 2004","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Of the handful of comments for this extraordinary film, most of them have the story wrong. The tale is not about a man falling in love with his dead wife's slave. August King becomes involved in helping a young negro girl escape from her cruel owner in the backwoods of South Carolina in the early eighteen hundreds. The love is more sacrificial than sexual, and the film teaches excellent lessons about duty, honor, compassion, responsibility, and making choices. August finds himself through helping Annalees.It's beautifully filmed and very stirring, with the kind of conclusion that makes many other films seem incomplete and shallow. This is an excellent film. It's also very family-friendly aside from some thematic elements (a slave is cleaved in half, animals are slaughtered, and so forth). I purchased it on a whim and never regretted the twenty bucks I spent. Everyone should see this at least once. "},{"Title":"A beautiful film, highlighting the complex relationships between black and white in the pre civil war south","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a BEAUTIFUL film, both in its cinematography and in its story.  It is not, as one  reviewer put it, about a man who falls in love with his dead wife's servant.  It is about a  man who risks all to aid a young runaway slave (no relationship to him or his wife).  This  is a powerful film about a man's struggle to follow his conscience despite a world that  insists he do otherwise.  I can't believe that until today (Aug 3, 2003), I had not seen this  film.  Too bad movies like this aren't made more often. Excellent acting, writing,  directing, cinematography.  A++ "},{"Title":"Excellent in every way!","Date":"3 April 2009","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a morality tale that will have you wondering How would I handle this type of situation? You hope you would do the right thing but there are consequences that may conflict with your conscience. This wonderful film will definitely make you examine your conscience. Besides all that, it is a beautifully crafted masterpiece with superior acting by Jason Patric and Thandie Newman as well as the supporting cast. As mentioned, it takes place in a beautiful part of our country, magnificently photographed by cinematographer Slawomir Idziak. The pacing is perfect, the brilliant music score by Stephen Endelman is emotionally appropriate, the script perfection, in fact, everything about this film is beautiful, except the attitude and the horrors of the pre-Civil War era. The fact that human beings were, and are, being treated worse than animals is a shameful fact about the human race. This film reminds us and jolts us smack in our conscience! I highly recommend it to every human being. BTW, I wish a CD of the music score existed. I'd buy it in a heartbeat! "},{"Title":"Good movie, really serious moral conflict.","Date":"26 February 2006","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I loved this movie, but I saw it on cable years ago. It has sat in the back of my mind and I had almost forgotten the title. I plan on finding this to add it to my DVD collection. The Conflict and journey August faces reminds me a bit of the conversion of Francis of Assisi. It poses a question, how much would you give, and how far would you go? If you want a movie that will boost your hope, this is a movie for that. I think it is hard to believe that this movie wasn't seen on the big screen, or really advertised. It has excellent immersion, and doesn't look or feel like a cheap movie. I think it is one of the best stories told in film. "},{"Title":"A late night gem. Contains spoiler","Date":"1 December 2008","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Someone said in 2003 that he had stumbled on this film on the way to bed. The same thing has just happened to me in December 2008 on BBC 1. Why are these little gems of films shown so late, and why do the listings fail to highlight them as worth watching?The film could have had no other ending than it did. The fact that August told Annalee that she would meet with kindness beyond the northern ridge and the attitude of his equally poor neighbours shows that in 1815, the anti slavery movement may have penetrated to these backwoods. At least, some of the local population were incomers from Europe where slavery was virtually unknown and who relied on their own efforts to carve out a living. I feel the ground is laid for us to suppose that the neighbours will shelter August and help him to start again and that inevitably he will marry again - perhaps to the young woman who has known her own mind since a girl and who looks at him with admiration. Those who wanted a Hollywood style romance have no historical understanding.The brutal master is revealed as Annalee's father, which is why he is so desperate to get her back - he owns her in every sense. (And her half breed status explains her beauty to both black and white). His violence is allowed by the laws of the society in which he hold some power. This does not pardon him but explains his conduct. He exacts his revenge no more than the law allows - the house for the girl. The viewer may be invited to reflect on the shortcomings of the Declaration of Independence and remember that even Jefferson could not give up his slaves.The film maker should be congratulated on bring ing this relatively unknown period and place to life. "},{"Title":"brutality-captured","Date":"6 October 2005","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" this movie is one of the very few that show how brutal slavery truly was. it's in one particular scene that totally captured the spirit and brutality and the mindset of slavery. i couldn't believe what i was seeing when the young man/slave was strung up by his ankles and sliced straight down the middle of his body and cut into two whole pieces, all because he ran away. it was shocking, horrific and mind-boggling. films like roots and amistad were good, but didn't quite grasp the stringent violence of slavery. i only hope that when films made about the life harriet tubman, frederick douglas, and nat turner they will be as bold as to show slavery in its most raw form. it's too bad that more people have not seen this film. "},{"Title":"The film has a strong moral message to give to the viewer.","Date":"6 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The film has a strong moral message to give to the viewer. It raises a question on the mind is it enough to be a person working for the well-being of himself and family in a honest way in order to be considered to be a good, honorable man? The answer is no. It is not acceptable to condone the cruelty or injustice of others, a conscientious man should fight against them.At the very beginning of the film, there is a scene where a man kills his wounded dog. August King would like to stop him, but he did nothing, just turned back go his own way....At the end of the film he tells that he won't be the man he was used to be...i think he meant such situations...During his journey, August King turned to be a man who would not hesitate to break the rules to do whatever he thinks it is right to do.In sum, the film is something much more than a love story and i very much liked it. "},{"Title":"Not wholly successful but still an enjoyable story","Date":"10 April 2004","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  On his way home from selling his produce, farmer August King meets a black teenage girl escaping her cruel master.  He doesn't help her but doesn't reveal her either and later she returns looking for help.  He reluctantly hides her in his wagon and continues his journey.  Along the way the two get to know one another better and gradually become friends.I am a shallow, obvious man and I watched this film because I think Thandie Newton is not only a great actress but also really rather stunning! There. Cards on table!  Anyway, I was interested in the title of the film and was not surprised to find that, as hinted by the title, that this is really more about a journey than the actual story.  It is a little clichéd in the way that we more or less know where it is going, but it is still pretty engaging nonetheless.  The story struggles a little bit to have as much meaning as it thinks it does, and too much of it is a little unsatisfactory, but it works well enough to do the job for 90 minutes.  The journey is a little forced at times and doesn't always ring true but it is still worth seeing.A big part of this working is due to the characters of August and Annalees and how they work together.  I found both to be interesting and engaging even if nothing was really happening at several points.  It was to be expected, but they become friends and it manages to be quite touching at several points.  Most of the praise of this can be laid at the actors' feet as they make these characters and quite predictable narrative involving and enjoyable.  Patric is great and gives his complex character room to grow as the film progresses - even though his character is not totally clear, he still engaged me.  Newton is good even though she looks far too good to be an escaping slave.  Her accent is good for the most of the film and only occasionally does she go silly with it!  The support cast is not quite as good but Drake and Waterson both do OK.The film looks good and has a gentle atmosphere to it that suits the landscape and also makes the tension easier to raise in the quicker moments (thanks to the contrast).  It isn't a brilliant film, but manages to be an enjoyable one despite the lack of a strong narrative.  The actors do very well to make engaging characters out of what could have easily been cliché and produce emotion out of what could have just been cloying sentiment. "},{"Title":"Mountains of Beauty","Date":"7 October 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Wow, If you love history, this is as real as it gets. What a journey, I felt like I was right there with them. I first saw this movie on HBO. I watched several times. What sacrifices that had to be. I promise you will enjoy.One of the best authors of North Carolina knew to come back home. Our mountains are filled with such wonderful stories of pioneers struggling to fit in with neighbors, families mingling beliefs and faith. Our forefathers have been in Buncombe county since Revolution days. With little access to this area, it has until recently been untouched with modernization. Our people were simple but lived as Kings. Jason Patric was wonderful in this movie. I am a fan. "}{"Title":"It's a parable beautifully told","Date":"1 March 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie surprised me, I'm not sure what I expected but certainly I did not expect to be as drawn in and touched as I was. As I watched it the second time it began to dawn on me that this was not so much the obvious escaped slave and man of good conscious story, it is plainly a parable - a moral lesson that the iconic characters deliver in a touching and reverent way.Don't get me wrong, it's an interesting and fine movie as-is, and seldom has unintended love for ones fellow human been portrayed as eloquently. The look into the darkness of slavery and the prevailing society was fascinating. The strange evolving relationship between Analees and August was mesmerizing at times.(spoiler) But the real treasure of this movie is in the sequence of sacrifices that August makes. Starting with the least of his possessions, he finds himself choosing to give up each item he owns, to the point of financial ruin and potential hunger and hardship - and finally even sacrificing his good name and lifetime reputation in his small community. But each time he loses something it is to give the stranger he is growing to love another chance to be free and live. And each sacrifice strengthens his conviction that her freedom is priceless and nothing is too much for him to give.August has changed from a remorseful widower just existing in the world into someone who knows that his conviction to do what is right according to his conscious is greater than any law or societal pressure. And Analees begins to love the quiet man, as she senses his honor and understated bravery. The ending is exquisitely painful, yet exhilarating as each departs to face a new chapter in lives that now owe everything to each other. "},{"Title":"Filmed in a beautiful part of our world, at an uncertain time in history","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Jason Patric whom I believe gets less recognition than he deserves plays his part as Augest King as perfectly as it could have been played.He befriends a runaway slave lady, who by the way is quite beautiful. He risks his life and everything he has to get her to a place where she could find freedom.There are many touching, even comical moments in the movie. One of the memorable ones is when she says I never knowed a man named after a month. In the cabin when he was applying balm to the sore on her back, I believe he was feeling feelings he didn't particularly want to feel.I admire the absolute morals of the man. He treated Annalees with the respect that only a man of his moral fiber could have.Unfortunately he was discovered, but not before he was able to put Annalees on the trail to freedom.He was burned out, according to the law, for assisting a runaway slave. It's been so long since I saw the movie I can,t quote his exact words, but they had to do with the fact that he once was well off, but even so he never felt so good.This is a movie has a morality about it that is unsurpassed, therefore, I recommend it to everyone who enjoys watching good people do good things. "},{"Title":"A GOOD MOVIE","Date":"12 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie for the first time and I enjoyed the performance of the actor and actress especially jason patric. I only wish that in the movie he could at least got the girl. I think this movie is bit of love story at least for me it is.  "},{"Title":"Touching film","Date":"16 October 2001","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I'm not sure why this film is ranked so low.  I saw it on cable a few yrs. back & loved it.  It's one of those thoughtful, literate, understated films that go straight to video & are never seen by anyone.  But this one is too good to slip into oblivion.Jason Patric as usual burns through the film w. his handsome, brooding visage.  He falls in love w. his dead wife's black servant (but never consummates it this being the post Civil War South) & defends her fr. miscreant racist neighbors.  As he prepares to send her North to freedom, they try to decide whether to leave together or not.  Without giving away the ending, suffice to say that it is deeply moving. "},{"Title":"worthy but dull and slow moving","Date":"9 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Journey of August King is certainly a worthy film and probably should be shown in classrooms when dealing with topics like slavery. However, entertainment value is limited thanks to sluggish pace and lack of conflict in the storyline. Thandie Newton is good as the escaped slave though her behavior and speech feels occasionally anachronistic. Jason Patric is all right. The growing relationship between these two feels real but lacks spark. The production values are fine but you may still feel that you are watching a made-for-TV production.Overall 6/10 "},{"Title":"Great themes do not always equate to great films.","Date":"6 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Films with noble themes such as this one sometimes find themselves shielded from criticism. However if you look at this film just as another movie what we have here is actually not that great a movie dealing with huge themes. The story of August Hill who finds redemption in the noble sacrifice of his way off life to aid the escape of an escaped slave is noble but I do not feel Jason Patrick lends the lead character enough weight to portray the guilt he is supposed to be carrying. Again Thandie Newton as the slave girl Analeese is okay, but the character is very two dimensional. There is little to no support story or characters and in the end this feels like a bog standard television movie that is only lifted out of the doldrums by a decent conclusion. I for one will not be watching this again. "},{"Title":"Worthy but Dull","Date":"17 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Although there have been numerous films about the American Civil War, from Gone with the Wind to Cold Mountain via The Red Badge of Courage and Glory, films about the antebellum South and its peculiar institution of slavery are rarer. Stephen Spielberg's excellent Amistad from 1997 is one recent exception, and The Journey of August King, dating from two years earlier, is another.The film is set in the mountains of western North Carolina in 1815. August King is a young, recently widowed, farmer who inadvertently becomes involved in the attempt by a young female slave to flee from her cruel master. At this period aiding a fugitive slave was a criminal offence, but King decides to help her anyway, even though he knows that such a step could end in his ruin. The girl appears to have several names; at one point she claims that her real name is, bizarrely, Williamsburg, but that she is generally known either as Annalees, sometimes shortened to just Anna, or as Ella. For the sake of simplicity I will refer to her as Anna throughout.The plot is fairly simple. King takes Anna in his cart to help her on her journey, but every so often she is forced to hide when other people come into view. Her owner Olaf Singletary, who it turns out is also her natural father, has offered a large reward for her recapture, and King cannot trust anyone, even his neighbours, not to betray him. Visually, the film gives the impression that the North Carolina Appalachians in the 1810s were a pristine, virtually uninhabited, wilderness; we see plenty of scenes of forests and mountains but very few of houses, other than King's own, or of cultivated farmland. Yet the frequency with which King and Anna's journey is interrupted by the sudden appearance of other people would suggest that this seeming wilderness is in fact densely populated, as teeming with people as the most intensely farmed lowland areas.Despite a similar theme, The Journey of August King is not in the same class as Amistad, certainly not when it comes to acting. Spielberg's film could call on some splendid performances, especially from Anthony Hopkins and Djimon Hounsou, but there is nothing of that calibre here. Most of the characters come across as a bit one-dimensional. Singletary is simply an evil stage villain. Anna is a mixture of liberty-loving free spirit and playful minx. Thandie Newton is perhaps the nearest thing we have to a black British Hollywood superstar, but this is not really one of her better films, not as good as she was in Flirting or Jefferson in Paris. Her accent here seems to vary between a near-incomprehensible local vernacular and something much closer to Standard English.August is clearly written as a more complicated character. We are never quite sure of his exact motives for helping Anna. Opposition to the institution of slavery? (The film makes it clear that some white Southerners did indeed oppose slavery and that abolitionism was not confined to the North). Simple humanitarianism? Guilt arising from the death of his wife (which , we learn, was an act of suicide)? Or has he fallen in love with the attractive Anna? At one time the film seems to be setting up a romantic ending, with August and Anna falling in love and eloping together, but then seems to draw back from it, possibly because of Hollywood's traditional squeamishness about mixed-race love affairs. It is indeed possible that August acts out of a mixture of motives- the various possibilities set out above are by no means all mutually exclusive. The problem is that Patric never gives us much of a clue, playing his character throughout with a noble, stoical saintliness which never really hints at any greater complexity below the surface.As another reviewer has pointed out, films made in aid of good causes or about Big Themes are not automatically good films. Just as the recent The Reader has shown that it is possible to make a bad film about the Holocaust, so The Journey of August King shows that it is possible to make a mediocre one about slavery. Morally it is very worthy, but ends up as uninspired and rather dull. 5/10 "}]