[{"Title":"A Conservative Is A Liberal Who's Been Mugged","Date":"2 April 2007","Score":"31 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Just Cause takes some of the best parts of three films, Cape Fear, A Touch of Evil and Silence of the Lambs and mixes it together to come up with a good thriller of a film.Sean Connery is a liberal law professor, married to a former Assistant District Attorney, Kate Capshaw and he's a crusader against capital punishment. Blair Underwood's grandmother Ruby Dee buttonholes Connery at a conference and persuades him to handle her grandson's appeal. He's sitting on death row for the murder of a young girl.When Connery arrives in this rural Florida county he's up against a tough sheriff played by Laurence Fishburne who's about as ruthless in his crime solving as Orson Welles was in Touch of Evil. Later on after Connery gets the verdict set aside with evidence he's uncovered, he's feeling pretty good about himself. At that point the film takes a decided turn from Touch of Evil to Cape Fear.To say that all is not what it seems is to put it mildly. The cast uniformly turns in some good performances. Special mention must be made of Ed Harris who plays a Hannibal Lecter like serial killer on death row with Underwood. He will make your skin crawl and he starts making Connery rethink some of those comfortable liberal premises he's been basing his convictions on. Many a confirmed liberal I've known has come out thinking quite differently once they've become a crime victim.Of course the reverse is equally true. Many a law and order conservative if they ever get involved on the wrong end of the criminal justice system wants to make real sure all his rights are indeed guaranteed.Criminal justice is not an end, but a process and a never ending one at that for all society. I guess if Just Cause has a moral that would probably be it. "},{"Title":"111 Everglades","Date":"31 March 2006","Score":"21 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Never having seen this movie, based on the entertaining novel by Nicholas Katzenbach, and taking into consideration the first rate cast assembled for the production, we decided to take a look. Just Cause, while not a horrible film, takes too many liberties with the original material that Jeb Stuart didn't quite succeed in his treatment. Arne Glimcher directed.The first thing we think when a young black man is hauled to the local precinct for interrogation is police brutality. After all, sheriff Tanny Brown, and police officer Wilcox, show no mercy in beating Bobby Earl, who is accused of killing a young white girl. We feel horrified by what the officers do to the prisoner.Then, the scene changes. Evangeline, Bobby Earl's grandmother is sent north to ask a distinguished Harvard professor, a retired lawyer, the young man wants Paul Armstrong to defend him. She old woman is convincing enough for Armstrong to take a look at the case. He is also convinced of the young man's innocence.Things are not exactly what we thought they were. When Blair Sullivan, a man who is serving time in the same facility as Bobby Earl, comes forward to tell about how he is connected to the young girl's murder, and changes the dynamics of the case. The way it plays in the movie, it serves to confuse the viewer and distract Armstrong from arriving at the truth.This thriller is made enjoyable by Sean Connery, who plays Armstrong. Laurence Fishburne, an intense actor, makes a fine impression as the Sheriff who, as far as we can see, is guilty of abusing his prisoner. Ed Harris has a wonderful opportunity to show why he is one of our best actors. Blair Underwood, Kate Capshaw, Ruby Dee and the young Scarlett Johansson are seen in supporting roles.The film, even with its faults, will not disappoint. "},{"Title":"Solid thriller who delivers the goods","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"27 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Just Cause is a psychological thriller about the American justice system in general, and capital punishment in particular. Sean Connery plays Paul Armstrong, a law professor who strongly opposes capital punishment. Responding to a plea, Armstrong comes out of semi-retirement and travels to Florida to help the young, black death row prisoner Bobby Earl Ferguson, who claims he has been falsely convicted of murder. Upon investigating Bobby Earl's case, Armstrong soon discovers several grave discrepancies, to the dismay of the local police officer, Tanny Brown (played by Laurence Fishburne). Racism and blind hatred, rather than actual proof, seems to have convicted Bobby Earl; and Armstrong sets out to clear the young man's reputation. In order to succeed, he needs to find out exactly how much Bobby Earl's cell-mate, the psychotic Blair Sullivan, knows about the murder.In a movie like this, things aren't always what they seem. There are several plot twists which surprise the audience (one of them includes Armstrong's young wife and her past), and towards the end of the film, the action really starts to set in, and Armstrong's own convictions are tested as he finds his family in the hands of a mad killer. The movie depends on atmosphere and suspense until the last twenty minutes, when all hell breaks loose. It is nicely photographed, with several scenes from the damp, alligator-filled swamps surrounding the little Florida town.Sean Connery is reliable as the stout, solid professor Armstrong, and as the centerpiece of the movie, he is totally convincing. But as the dubious police officer Tanny Brown, it is Laurence Fishburne who truly excels. He seems to own every scene he's in, and he fills his part to perfection. Kate Capshaw as Mrs. Armstrong and Blair Underwood as Bobby Earl also delivers strong performances. Several supporting actors, like Ned Beatty and Lynne Thigpen, adds to the quality of the film. The only real drawback among the actors is Ed Harris, whose portrayal of the psycho Sullivan is embarrassingly over-the-top. Harris sputters and screams, and fails to deliver anything remotely scary (as he obviously is supposed to). Compared to another movie psycho, the deliciously evil Hannibal Lecter, Harris' Sullivan is simply annoying.Just Cause doesn't offer anything radically new in this movie genre, but it is a solid, mostly well-acted film who should deliver enough thrills and excitement to satisfy most viewers. Rating on a dice, I'll give it a 4 out of 6. "},{"Title":"Interesting film with good performances, then it nose dives","Date":"19 September 2006","Score":"34 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I've seen my fair share of badly thought-out endings and final twists to films, but I don't recall any film that committed outright suicide like this one did.The film makers were clearly hoping that the great twist would 'surprise' us all.... and it did, but perhaps not in the way the directors had hoped. I was left feeling surprised that Connery, Harris, Fishburn and Capshaw had anything to do with this turkey, individually or collectively.The film up until the final thirty minutes was rather engaging and I like the way the story was unfolding and the nature of the film overall. But once the twist was revealed, the plot holes and inconsistencies were remarkable, the underlying motive for revenge was ill-conceived and the ways things so neatly worked out for Bobby Earl was ridiculously far-fetched. What's worse is that, once the twist was revealed, the remainder of the film became excruciatingly predictable.Harris gave a terrific performance and Connery is like Morgan Freeman in that he never gives a bad performance, even if the movie ain't that great! So all in all, it starts well and the unfolding keeps the viewer interested. The last 30 minutes is one of the most memorable nose dives in the history of cinema. "},{"Title":"Slick thriller with some good twists and turns in which nothing is what it seems but it's all made with little style. Still the movie is saved by the cast.","Date":"9 April 2006","Score":"17 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie really is a mixed bag. On the one hand, the story and concept of the movie are really good, tense and have some nice plot twists in it. But than again on the other hand, it all is told very slow, without style and uninvolved. Still I regard Just Cause as an above average thriller simply because of the fine cast.Maybe Sean Connery was miscast in his role. I mean, he isn't really that believable as a the main 'hero' and father of a young daughter (played by a still very young Scarlett Johansson by the way) and husband of Kate Capshaw. I feel that he simply was too old for the role to be really credible in it. However Sean Connerey is of course a great actor and that is the only reason why he is still able to carry the movie as good as he does. But he of course is helped by a very solid supporting cast that consists out of actors like Laurence Fishburne, Blair Underwood, Ned Beatty, Hope Lange, Lynne Thigpen and Ed Harris. All actors are really good but some of them are highly underused at the same time, which is a real shame, as well as a missed opportunity. Especially Ed Harris is just totally great in his role as a psychopathic serial killer. He's truly chilling and acting superbly. Normally he doesn't play this ruthless, chilling sort of roles in movies, so he really surprises with his role in this one. His performance alone is already more than enough reason to watch this movie. However due to the fact that the story is told without much style and too formulaic, none of the characters in the movie really work out well because it feels all too distant.It really is the way of storytelling that kills all the movie its fine potential. Arne Glimcher directs the movie with little style and keeps the pace too low at times. Because of this, we as viewers, never really get involved with the story or any of it's characters.It really is too bad, for Just Cause had more than enough potential. A fine cast and a slick story with some unexpected twists and turns in it in which nothing is what it seems. The cast and story are the only reason why this movie is still an above average thriller, that will probably still please the fan of the genre. It however is an eternal shame that the movie is lacking in its story telling and style, or else this movie could had been a real classic in its genre.7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Surprise, surprise","Date":"19 August 2003","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" SPOILERS.There's just something about Sean Connery. He's a neat guy, and he's grown neater over the past forty years. He's bald and doesn't care. His hair is gray, except that his eyebrows are black. His face is lined but handsome. He moves with force and grace. He's the kind of older guy that every man ought to hope he grows into. And he doesn't take himself or his talent too seriously either, a saving feature. And he has a sense of humor. He tells the story of location shooting during The Man Who Would be King. Every day the cast and crew drove many miles from town up into the Atlas mountains. And every morning Connery's car passed an old man walking in the same direction with a huge load of firewood on his back. And every afternoon they would pass the same old man walking back home without the load. One morning Connery finally asked his driver to stop and offer the old guy a ride up into the mountains. The old guy thought for a while and refused the ride. Why? Because if he accepted the ride he would arrive back home too early and wouldn't know what to do with the extra time. That's the Morrocan version of the Protestant Ethic.He's good in this movie too, as a Harvard law professor who comes to a dumpy small Florida town at the request of a death-row inmate. The inmate is handsome, black, and educated. He tells a horrifying story of having been made to confess to the murder of an eleven-year-old white girl. Now he's doomed. You've seen it before, I'm sure. Another redneck jury railroads an innocent minority-group member into the slams on what Lawrence Fishburn, the detective on the case, describes as pretty flimsy evidence, just barely good enough to convict. White guy then saves black guy from Old Sparky and the inmate embraces the loving family that has been waiting for his exoneration.Not this time, though. The clean-cut black convict is guilty of the crime. He cuts a deal with another depraves maniac on death row, Ed Harris, than whom no one can act more depraved. Bobby Earl, the educated black murderer, will be released when Harris confesses to the murder of the eleven-year-old girl. In return, Bobby Earl will slaughter the parents that Harris loathes and will, as a kind of lagniappe, have a chance to destroy Connery's family too for a previous misencounter. The finale loses it. It's been an engaging plot so far, although there is no believable exploration in character or anything. What I mean is that it is nothing more than a typical legal/moral drama with a surprising narrative, not a surprising execution. But the end is a typical shootout in an isolated gator-shack in the Everglades. People are stabbed, shot, kicked, pounded to a pulp, threatened with knives, and eaten by alligators. (Fat chance.) And all of this is preceded by a standard-typical car chase through the city streets and over half-open draw bridges. The climax degrades what would otherwise have been an effective legal thriller. It is kind of interesting, though, to see the way the plot twists are carried out. And the cast is for the most part quite good, except that Bobby Earl is a bit bland. That blandness is okay when he's supposed to be innocent but it doesn't fit his true maniacal serial-killer child-molesting persona. The shooting is atmospheric, inviting and ominous at the same time. The score is generic. But except for the ending it's kind of enjoyable.Of course, if you think about the movie, there's another whole perspective on it. It's a polemic against white Northern liberals who oppose capital punishment and are smitten with white guilt. It supports beating hell out of suspects and endorses a justice system based less on evidence than on intuition. And there is no racism at all in the South. Fishburn's daughter is like a sister to the little white victim; they are best friends and sleep over each others' houses. Why don't those Harvard egg heads just leave us alone here in Gatorville. We were all right until they started interfering. "},{"Title":"Contrived, but somewhat entertaining","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"13 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Although it borrows heavily from better and better-known films, Just Cause is quite entertaining. Several turns are predictable or hard to believe, but this film also shows some interesting character development with Sean Connery, who seems to be a little too old for this role, but was quite believable as the law teacher, who had to learn some lessons about reality and law as it is practised in reality. Laurence Fishburne and Ed Harris seem to enjoy their performances, which they deliver with much relish, and the atmosphere of the town and the Everglades are also captured nicely. But since the plot, especially the last third or so, is really contrived, and Kate Capshaw is so annoyingly bad and shallow in a key part that usually calls for a more sensitive performance, I can not really recommend this film wholeheartedly without having a guilty conscience. See it only if you have nothing else to watch.  "},{"Title":"A Compelling Thriller!!!","Date":"10 December 2005","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A Compelling Thriller!!, 10 December 2005 Authorlittlehammer16787 from United StatesJust CauseStarringSean Connery,Laurence Fishburne, and Blair Underwood.A liberal,though good-hearted Harvard law professor Paul Armstrong is convoked to the Flordia Everglades by unjustly convicted black guy Bobby Earl.Confessing that sadistic,cold-hearted cops vilifyied and beat him to a pulp to get the confession of a gruesome murder of an eleven year old girl. As he digs further and further into the mysterious case he realizes that Bobby Earl is a victim of discrimination.That the black police detective Lt.Tanny Brown of the small community is corrupt and villainously mean. When the infamous,psychotic serial killer Blair Sullivan is introduced.He discovers that he knows the location of the murder weapon that butchered the little girl.When Armstrong finds that there are lucid coincidences of Sullivan's road trip through the small town and the letter he personally wrote. Bobby Earl gets a re-trial.Is unfettered from prison and eludes his horrific punishment. All seems swimmingly well until an unexpected phone call from serial killer Sullivan comes into focus.Armstrong discovers a lurid double killing which happens to be Sullivan's parents.Whom he immensely detests.Sullivan divulges to Armstrong the truth of Joanie Shriver's heinous murder and why he was brought here.It turns out that Bobby Earl is a psychopathic murderer and he really did rape and kill Joanie Shriver.He just merely struck a bargain with fiendish psycho Sullivan. To get loose so he could kill again for revenge.Upon Armstrong's beautiful wife and daughter.Now Sullivan is executed to his death. Armstrong and tough good guy Brown chase the malevolent villain to the Everglades in order to thwart him.When they arrive Armstrong learns that the psychotic sicko Bobby Earl plans to kill his wife and daughter for a former rape trial that inevitably made him endure agonizing pain and castration.But good,virtuous cop Brown emerges and thwarts the brutal baddie.Is stabbed and eaten by ruthless,man-eating alligators.Paul Armstrong,Tanny Brown,his wife,and daughter survive and live happily ever after. A good thriller that works.Delivers both mystery and subterfuge.How reluctant blacks are hazed by racist lawmen.Sentenced to unfair penalties.Even though sometimes the wrongfully convicted innocent, friendly black man may in truth be the vicious baddie. Sean Connery is great as the oblivious,holier than thou hero.Laurence Fishburne is watchably amazing as the mean,arrogant,but good guy cop. Underwood and Harris are over the top and invigorating as the malevolent psychos.Capeshaw is okay.Ruby Dee is great as the tenacious grandmother.The rest of the cast is wonderful as well. "},{"Title":"Great Acting/Great Entertainment","Date":"20 January 2007","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Always enjoy the great acting of Laurence Fishburne,(Sheriff Tanny Brown) who becomes very upset when a professor visits his town to investigate a sort of Cold Case. This professor is a retired lawyer named Paul Armstrong, (Sean Connery) who has reason to believe that a man on death row is innocent of rape and murder of a very pretty little white girl. Sheriff Tanny does not appreciate Paul Armstrong coming to his town in Florida and starting to open up a can of worms as Tanny is very certain he has arrested the correct man and even has a confession to prove he did this evil deed. The guilt person is Blair Underwood,(Bobby Earl) who is very happy to see Paul Armstrong come to his defense and possibly clear his name and secure his freedom. There are many twists and turns to this story and plenty of action and very creepy areas in the swamps of Florida. This film will keep you glued to your screens if you have not seen this film before. Enjoy "},{"Title":"In the heat of the night-lite","Date":"5 December 2006","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Despite having a first-rate cast and a half-decent story this never builds up the necessary head of steam to keep us fully interested. It's a bit like In the heat of the night with the Poitier/Stieger roles reversed. Here it's Connery in the do-gooder Poitier role while the black Fishburne takes the Stieger part.Bobby Earl is on death row for the rape and murder of a young white girl. He enlists the help of Connery's law professor to take his case on board arguing that serial killer Ed Harris has confessed to the murder while in jail. The plot is fairly predictable but is not unexciting. It's just that once we know who the bad guys are there really isn't very much else left. (The director, Arne Glimcher, never seems to be on top of the material).Although effectively the stars neither Connery or Fishburne have much to do. Luckily we have the great Ed Harris exuding genuine menace as the incarcerated serial killer, wielding his power, Hannibal Lector style from inside his prison walls, while Blair Underwood as Bobby Earl displays real promise, suave and bland enough to make you wonder if he is guilty or not. "}{"Title":"What a game of TWISTER!","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The movie was a suspenseful, and somewhat dark, look at the severe results of a genuinely human mistake. Connery and Fishburne work very well together in this thriller about murder and redemption. Keep your boots on for the strange turnaround at the end of the movie...you'd never expect it! "},{"Title":"Just OK","Date":"2 February 2004","Score":"22 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie started out as an apparently good movie, but about halfway through it started to go to hell. The only mildly good thing about the latter half of the movie was Sean Connery, who pretty much shines through the entire movie. His acting was pretty good, and could have been a saving grace, had the movie not been so bad. The end was especially horrible, as it was a nearly total ripoff of Cape Fear(the new version, with Robert De Niro), in fact, several lines were taken directly from that same scene in the movie. The second-to worst thing is the 'twist' in the end, that was so obvious that I could just as well have been sitting there, waiting for it to happen. The worst thing is that the twist ruins everything that has happened up to that point, and makes the whole movie pointless since it directly opposes nearly everything that happened in the movie before that. I wouldn't recommend this to anyone other than huge fans of Sean Connery, or people who love to watch crime mysteries. Other than that, there is no reason to waste time on this movie. 6/10 "},{"Title":"A Rather Tight Thriller!","Date":"1 January 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Just Cause is unapologetically conventional, especially since it produces a factory-produced script. But that being said, I actually sort of enjoyed the movie. When you pour a cup of Silence with the Lambs into a batter of Se7en, Just Cause is the outcome. The film is moody and tense and there is more action than I thought there would be. The film has some good lines, mainly by the great Sean Connery, who is a hallowed presence in the movie.Arne Glimcher's film is about a Harvard law professor who decides to reopen a murder case, eight years after the case closed due to a plea of innocence. The victim, in these circumstances, is a man named Bobby Earl who was found guilty of murdering an eleven-year-old girl. Earl pleads his innocence saying that he was coerced by the local police in admitting his guilt. Now the lawyer, Paul Armstrong must get to the bottom on what actually occurred.The film has a stacked cast and they each play to their strengths. Sean Connery is excellent and he makes any film watchable. Laurence Fishburne brings a formidable and rather eerie presence. Ed Harris is fantastic in his small role as a serial killer locked in prison. This film is also one of the early roles for the talented Scarlett Johannson.Overall, Just Cause is about as ordinary a thriller you can find. But I thoroughly enjoyed the film. It provides enough thrills for my liking, and there was even an unexpected twist towards the end. I also loved the location of the film, namely the Everglades. It gives the film a more creepy vibe, as we get to keep one eye towards the alligators. The script is nothing new, but I enjoyed the film nonetheless. Most likely because of the very talented cast. I rate this film 8/10. "},{"Title":"There is one terrific performance","Date":"12 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The film is mediocre, but seeing Ed Harris' performance as a manipulative serial killer (I'm not giving anything away by telling you this) is worth the entire movie. Too often serial killers are played as geniuses--Jack in The Profiler or Kevin Spacey's character in Seven; Harris creates a malignant redneck monster that really will startle and chill you. No one goes from zero to sixty like Harris since George C. Scott left us; in this film he modulates his voice amazingly, sounding quietly venomous one moment and then thundering like a fire and brimstone Southern minister. In Connery's case, it's just bad casting he plays an academic consulting lawyer (a la Dershowitz sp?) who combats Fishburne's menacing but canny Southern cop. Connery's other roles and the notion of him they have created in us make it impossible for him to play the effete lawyer that the script seems to call for.  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly well-done","Date":"24 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie may have been predictable in parts, but this turned out to be a much better movie than I expected. Sean Connery almost seemed to be a bit player in this. The atmosphere of the muggy, swampy Florida town is conveyed very well. Laurence Fishburne is just remarkable. I would say he might be the star of this movie. He absolutely inhabits the part of the small southern town detective. Blair Underwood does a great job with his character. He is completely believable as the unjustly convicted child murderer. The realization that he is, in fact, the murderer is suspenseful, and surprising. Ed Harris is okay. His convicted psychopathic murderer is a little over the top, but he seems to enjoy playing the part.I guess I went into this movie with low expectations. This was much better than I thought it would be. The story, the acting, and the atmosphere are great. I would recommend this highly. "},{"Title":"Great Movie!!!","Date":"13 May 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I read some previous comments stating that this movie loses steam towards the end of the movie and also that it has a similar ending to Cape Fear. I completely disagree. I'm going to give a simple review for the normal moviegoers out there. I thought the casting was perfect. I thought this was one of Ed Harris's best performances. What an evil psychopath!!! I have a lot of respect for his acting after viewing his performance in this movie. I was riveted throughout this movie. If you like mystery thrillers then this definitely a movie you want to see. I also noticed a young Scarlett Johannson in this movie. This movie is filled with top stars and I highly recommend it! "},{"Title":"Give cause to see this","Date":"6 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Without saying too much, Just Cause is an appropriate title that suits a few of the characters motivations. You gotta take the characters for what they are. A corrupt black hating cop, Christopher Murray is a nasty and detestable piece of work, really making us think the poor young convict, Blair Underwood, is innocent of committing an atrocious murder of a little black girl. All authorities are quick to point the finger at this girl. Fishburne as another detective of corrupt air, is not much better than Murray, but of much more discretion, ambiguously fascinating as in what makes this guy tick. These two, practically beat tall skinny Underwood, into a confession. Underwood implores Harvard law professor, Connery, to take up his case again, as serial killer monster, an unforgettably evil Hannibal Lector'ish Harris, who's murdered his folks, has confessed to the killing, too. I'm so glad Connery was in this. He made the film, though the solid Harris, is the highlight, and an asset. Just cause is a psychological thriller, but it's a manipulative one too, in the way it shows death row prisoners, pulling the wool over your eyes, using their intellect to befool you, if for notoriety or a bid for freedom where by the end you really feel suckered, as really there wasn't much a puzzle. Okay, it's not the best thriller, but it does make for good dramatic entertainment, especially for people who want to see Connery strut his stuff again. "},{"Title":"Too little too late","Date":"26 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Whenever you see a movie involving someone that states to be unfairly arrested and definitely innocent in the death row, you expect it to end up as the lawyer proving the client was indeed innocent and the whole American system of Justice is corrupt. However, Just Cause does practically the opposite, which makes this movie to be extremely surprising. You know, after seeing that Bobby's trial was solved in a matter of seconds, I kinda realized he was, in fact, the murderer, but that's what happens when you see a bunch of movies in your life-- you can predict almost everything. Another good point in this film is the way the suspense is built; in the first conversation between Armstrong and Sullivan, I almost had a heart attack when Sullivan yelled all of a sudden. Director proves, in that scene and in some others, he's capable of scare the spectator whenever he wants to. Furthermore, Just Cause is probably inspired in some others pictures of 1990's, such as The Silence of the Lambs and Cape Fear-- this one mainly in the river scene-, which doesn't mean it doesn't have an original story, because it surely does have. Also, the whole cast is professional, with big congratulations for Ed Harris, for portraying very good the character he's given. Great independent movie! "},{"Title":"How to Kill a Mockingbird Intruding into the Dust on Cape Fear","Date":"16 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Paul Armstrong is a liberal, Scottish-born, professor of law at Harvard, known for his passionate opposition to the death penalty, who is hired to take on the case of Bobby Earl, a young black man from Florida who has been convicted of the rape and murder of Joanie Shriver, an eleven year old white girl. Earl claims that his confession to the crime was obtained under duress by a sadistic police officer and that the real murderer is Blair Sullivan, a serial killer already under sentence of death for several other murders. Armstrong visits Sullivan in his cell on death row, hoping to persuade him to confess to Joanie's murder, thereby saving Earl from the electric chair. At first all goes well. Sullivan confesses and Earl is released from prison when the appeal court quashes his conviction. As this development takes place only a little after halfway through the film, it is at this point that alarm bells will start ringing in the mind of the viewer. Warning! Major plot twist ahead! And so it proves. The anticipated twist soon materialises. Earl, it transpires, is actually guilty of the crime of which he has just been acquitted, and probably of several others as well, but hatched a diabolical plan together with Sullivan in order to secure his freedom; Sullivan will confess to Joanie's murder if Earl will murder his parents. (Just why Sullivan wanted his parents dead is never precisely explained). Armstrong now finds that he is himself in danger from the man whose life he has just saved; Earl has a grudge against Armstrong's wife, herself a lawyer, who acted as Counsel for the prosecution in an earlier case when Earl was accused of rape. Just Cause is an example of the auto-cannibalism in which Hollywood sometimes likes to indulge, cobbling together one film by recycling themes and plot devices from a number of others. The first half owes an obvious debt to films like Intruder in the Dust and To Kill a Mockingbird; about the only difference is that the Sheriff who beats a confession out of Bobby Earl is himself black, whereas in earlier films he would have been white. (Police brutality is now an equal opportunities activity). The central twist in the plot was borrowed from Costa-Gavras's Music Box, although in that film the revelation does not occur until the very end. The finale, in which a lawyer, his wife and their young daughter are in danger from a former client, is an obvious plagiarism of the two versions of Cape Fear, which also take place in the swamplands of the American South. Ed Harris' characterisation of Sullivan as a Bible-quoting religious maniac is a direct imitation of Robert de Niro's character in the Scorsese version of Cape Fear, made four years before Just Cause. (There is a postscript. Just as Just Cause borrowed heavily from several other movies, seven years later its central plot twist was, in its turn, to be blatantly plagiarised in the Ashley Judd vehicle High Crimes). The trouble with this style of film-making-by-numbers is that the resulting films are generally much less distinguished than those which inspired them. The whole is normally very much less than the sum of the parts, and Just Cause is a much lesser film than any of those which were cannibalised to make it. Harris is normally a gifted actor but this is one of his weakest performances, largely because he is not so much playing a character as playing de Niro playing Max Cady. Blair Underwood is OK as Bobby Earl the (supposedly) innocent young man of the early scenes, but unconvincing as Bobby Earl the murderous psychopath of the later ones. Sean Connery as Armstrong and Laurence Fishburne as the black Sheriff are rather better, but neither is good enough to save the film. (Connery and Harris were to act together in another, better, film, The Rock, the following year). There is another problem with Just Cause. The first half of the film looks like a standard liberal issue movie, anti-death penalty, anti-racist and critical of heavy-handed policing. The second half looks more like the work of a die-hard reactionary, preaching the message that all criminals are evil bastards, that the only way to deal with them is to fry them in the chair, that liberal lawyers are the useful idiots of the criminal fraternity and that police officers who beat up suspects are to be commended as heroes. The filmmakers seem to have been blissfully unaware that the plot twist casually introduced into the middle of their film had the (presumably unwanted) effect of reversing its political stance, or if they were aware of the problem they ignored it. A suitably convoluted plot was obviously thought to be more important than political consistency. 4/10 "},{"Title":"An intense dramatic ride!","Date":"22 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A young and seemingly promising college graduate (played by Blair Underwood) is sent to jail for the murder of an innocent young girl and is put on death row. Sean Connery plays the happy go lucky attorney whom the young man's grandmother tracks down out of retirement and pleads with to take on the case in the hopes of freeing her grandson. Laurence Fishburne plays a police officer who was well involved in the case and is hell bent on debunking an theory that Connery might dig up to try and free the boy whom he and the entire police department swear is guilty of the crime. Ed Harris, Kate Capshaw, Ruby Dee, and the Late Lynne Thigpen co-star in this very intense dramatic thriller. "}{"Title":"Does the genre average but no more than that &#150; watchable film if you know what to expect (spoilers)","Date":"21 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Despite not having practiced law for decades, teacher and anti-death penalty speaker Paul Armstrong takes the case of a young black man (Bobby Earl) who has been on death row for almost 8 years and needs help with an appeal. Armstrong investigates and finds that the police beat a confession out of Earl and that much of the evidence was shaky at best. Despite coming up against local resistance, Armstrong finds his case builds gradually but realises just how much of a case he has when he is directed to the original murder weapon &#150; by a different prisoner, the serial killer Blair Sullivan.Although I often find myself betrayed by the genre, I will always give the airport-novel turned crime thriller film a try because they have the potential to be slick enough to get past the usual silly twists and familiar turns. Here is just such an example, the budget and the big name cast all point to a solid film and, as is so often the case, they are only let down by a script that starts well but then falls into the usual big shock twists and action/thriller ending. For most of the film the plot is interesting and has pace but once Sullivan is introduced it starts to lose its grip. The twists and turns are a bit too much and the final personal confrontation just seemed to be the logical place to end the film even if it lacked any sort of imagination or uniqueness. Of course for much of the film its pace and tension holds you in your seat and it was a shame when it just went down the path that all the films in this genre do &#150; I still enjoyed it for what it was but I had hoped it would be better than average but it wasn't.The cast implied that things would be better in terms of writing but, looking back, I suppose it isn't hard to get lots of big names for this genre as it always seemed to provide a reasonable hit. Connery is good in the lead because he has a good presence and works well with the usual dialogue given him &#150; he has very little character to work with but he is Sean Connery and, for me, that's enough! He also has good chemistry with Fishburne who has an enjoyably complex character and seems to fit his role. Underwood is OK until the end where he changes too much and without reason; he is not convincing enough to pull it off and we don't feel threatened by him at the end, meaning it lacks punch and intensity. Chapshaw is given nothing to do for most of the film and her eventual connection is poor. Ed Harris is a massive ham and he knows it, blowing his character into a larger than life performance that would be silly in any other film other than this type of thing. He is too OTT but it more or less works. The support cast is pretty impressive and contains plenty of well known faces such as Ned Beatty, Chris Sarandon, George Plimpton and a very young Scarlet Johansson.Overall this is an average film but it is one that is slickly enjoyable in the same way that many of the genre are &#150; deeply flawed but energetic enough to more or less cover its plot holes. The strong cast all do well even if they are not given anything special to work with and some of them are no more than cameos. All told this isn't very good but it is quite fun anyway.  "},{"Title":"Flawed But Decent","Date":"5 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" JUST CAUSE is a flawed but decent film held together by strong performances and some creative (though exceedingly predictable) writing. Sean Connery is an anti-death penalty crusader brought in to save a seemingly innocent young black man (Blair Underwood) from the ultimate penalty. To set things right, Connery ventures to the scene of the crime, where he must contend not only with the passage of time, but a meddling sheriff (Laurence Fishbourne). Twists and turns and role reversals abound -- some surprising, some not -- as the aging crusader attempts to unravel the mystery. The climactic ending is a bit ludicrous, but JUST CAUSE is worth a look on a slow night. "},{"Title":"Solid Psycho Thriller","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a very dramatic and suspenseful movie. There are many plots and turns. The story or the director opens question marks on the death row or presumed crimes committed by black people. This film is very well directed by Arne Glimcher and the fine sound of James Newton Howard is excellent. Strong performance of Sean Connery and Ed Harris. If you liked this one don´t miss TRUE CRIMES or THE HURRICANE. My wife and me gave 8/10. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie..","Date":"1 April 2008","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" hi.. I consider Just Cause one of my favorite Sean Connery's movies, it is a tense psychological thriller with excellent performances from the Cast, especially Connery..it also has one of the best lines i have seen in movies, so the dialog is pretty good in this one.. It also has one of the best scenes in movies ever, when Sean interviews Ed Harris's character in prison is just fantastic..i enjoyed this one a lot and i can not recommend this enough, really do not miss this one ! Do not pay attention to the negative reviews stating that the last 30 minutes suck, it was as intense as the rest of the movie, i really find Just Cause a very entertaining movie.. "},{"Title":"top-notch thriller","Date":"12 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Sean Connery, Kate Capshaw, Blair Underwood, Ruby Dee, Ed Harris, and Laurence Fishburne star in Just Cause, a film from 1995.Connery plays a professor, Paul Armstrong, who lectures at Harvard against capital punishment. As he's leaving the auditorium, he's approached by an elderly woman (Ruby Dee) who hands him a note from her grandson, Bobby Earl (Blair Underwood). Bobby is sitting on Death Row in Florida for the kidnap, rape, and horrific murder of an 11-year-old girl, Joanie Shriver, in 1986. He didn't do it, his confession was coerced, and they want Armstrong to take the case.Armstrong refuses, saying that he has been out of the courtroom for 25 years. However, his wife (Capshaw), an attorney herself, reads the letter and convinces him to take the case.When Armstrong and his family arrive in Ochope, Florida, he learns some disturbing things. The officers beat Earl to a pulp, even putting a gun in his mouth and playing Russian roulette in order to get him to confess. Bobby is found guilty at trial, thanks to his confession and a slipshod defense. Now he's on death row.Bobby is young, good-looking, and well-educated black man, and it's easy for Paul to see why he was disliked in this one-horse town. Bobby believes that another inmate, Blair Sullivan (Harris) might know something about the murders.I really enjoyed this film, but I will agree with other people on this board that it fell apart at the end. The motive given was really weak, making the rest of it seem contrived.However, it's very well-acted, particularly by Fisbourne as the police officer and Ed Harris in a very flashy role as Blair Sullivan. It's a dream part for a good actor.The beautiful Florida that gives the movie an incredible atmosphere - those low-hanging trees, the swamps, the alligators, the silence, the isolation makes one feel impending danger. So innocent and unspoiled, like the murdered 11- year-old who was murdered there.Highly recommended. It's derivative but given the performances and setting, that's okay. "},{"Title":"My backsides a guitar......","Date":"28 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Bobby Earl is facing the electric chair for the murder of a young girl. Eight years after the crime he calls in Paul Armstrong, a professor of law, to help prove his innocence. Armstrong quickly uncovers some overlooked evidence to present to the local police, but they aren't interested - Bobby was their killer......Its strange to think that Connery had very few films left in him when this was released, there were a few prolific ones, The Rock, LXG, Entrapment, but it's really strange that he decided to this, because he doesn't really add anything to the film.Its Fishbourne, and a brilliant Harris, that make this film standout, and compared to them, Connery is left in the stands watching the world go by,which is a shame, because he's usually a wonderful screen presence.The plot reminds one of those slow burning Bayou thrillers of old, everyone's sweating, wiping their faces, and hiding secrets from one another.But for the most part, its Connery approaching different characters, asking for his motivation, and then ringing up Kate Capshaw to have an argument.The final third involves a car chase, crocodiles, and Scarlett Johanssen, but by the time the big twist is revealed, you feel cheated because its basically turned the twist onto a 360, if you would.Watchable, but pointless, Harris is wonderful... "},{"Title":"Solid, Thought Provoking Thriller.","Date":"7 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Sean Connery plays a Liberal Harvard college professor who is also a staunch anti-capital punishment advocate. Based on his reputation, he is called upon to help a young black man(played by Blair Underwood) who was said to be wrongly convicted of the brutal murder of a young girl. At first, the professor feels pretty self-satisfied of the innocence of Underwood, and gets him released, though the investigating police officers insist he was guilty. Things then take a dark turn as the good professor learns a hard lesson himself...Solid thriller has good acting by all, and efficient direction, but it is the surprising story turns that really make this stand out, and it is good to see a Hollywood film not take the obvious,(and easy) way out in regards to the controversial subject matter, which lead to an exciting and satisfying end. "},{"Title":"Must to be difficult to make good movies in America!","Date":"2 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" After to read the comments here my first reflection is how hard is to make good movies like this in America, where people have troubles understanding The Simpons plots...but after to read the Dr Jacques COULARDEAU comment from the nice France Im clear the problem is global....In this good movie you can see very clear how bad is work from the prejudice, even if is a liberal one...and how easy is to build prejudices from the safe academy...and how long in the way from theory and reality when is about people, evilness and society...sadly the good intention is ruined in the last part, probably because the director remembered his target audience...the moral of this talethe best option for filmmakers is to look for a new job... "},{"Title":"The Attempt Was Brave, The Outcome Tawdry","Date":"23 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" How does a director cast Sean Connery, Laurence Fishburne, Ruby Dee and Ed Harris in the same film, set it in the deep south with the potential of atmosphere and suspense galore, start off with a pretty nifty premise concerning a man unjustly sentence to the chair--and come up with a turkey? Just Cause churns along at a fairly nifty pace until about midway, and pretty soon we have car chases, mad scenes, rotting corpses, smelly swamps and the whole panoply of predictable plot lines any seasoned moviegoer can spot while making a good lasagna casserole. My suggestion is to invite the neighbors over for the casserole and forget this movie--unless you might enjoy Ed Harris doing his own hysterical version of Hannibal Lecter, chains and all, It's as if nobody around was given a script until the last minute, and being professionals, they all did their best--but the last half was never delivered and so there were some noble attempts at improvisation that didn't quite work. "},{"Title":"Shows Florida","Date":"4 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Good movie until it spirals out of control at the end. I'm glad someone FINALLY showed NATIVE Floridians. Yes, we do live here (my family's been here for five generations) and there are plenty of us in inland Florida and the Panhandle. Despite what another poster said, most Floridians are from here and still Southern. So, I'm glad to find a movie that portrays we Floridians as we are. That and Ed Harris' character did it for me. Ed Harris truly did a superb job and I loved the mention of Florida State, but the ending was terrible and absurd and featured Laurence Fishburne's on screen daughter talking like a Northerner and letting a strange man (Connery) walk into her house. Anyways, the last 30 minutes was a complete waste of time, but I only really liked it because I'm a Floridian and was proud to see the scenery - even though the constant alligator was a nuisance and cliché. "}{"Title":"Thriller With Psychological and Sociological Pretensions","Date":"18 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Slightly above average film that has too many controversial social and political statements to address and does so with a shallow and thin script. As a thriller it succeeds and as a complex contemplative concept it does not.Although somewhat predictable, the twists and turns have you watching just to see if they can convince the audience to accept the gullibility of it all. Heavy handed, guilt ridden and clichéd it moves along at an even pace not ever becoming fully engaging except after we meet a very disturbing psycho-killer (an unforgettable Ed Harris).Not a bad film, it is just trying to be too much and delivers some really unremarkable remedies to tie it all together and it ends up making the movie more confusing and less satisfying than it had to be.A modicum of a script rewrite, eliminating some of the weakness to interject intellectual insights and complex motivations might have made this much more satisfying as a down and dirty ditty of good vs evil. That's a cause, escapism, that can be justified. "},{"Title":"Anything circumstantial ruins justice","Date":"24 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" To fight against the death penalty is a just cause. Everyone who is sane in Europe would think so. In the USA everything is different. The film seems to demonstrate in a first stage that justice can be won against the racist bigot death penalty craving American justice. A young man is freed from death row thanks to a law professor who went back to defense counseling for this particular case. But the film has a sequel. Justice in the USA is entirely governed by the aim of vengeance. Miscarriage of justice is just the same governed by vengeance. One person in the local Public Attorney Offfice has a young man prosecuted on false charges. This Public Attorney's officer drops the charges after a while and the young man walks out free. But he loses his college scholarship and he is castrated by some vengeful people for whom there is never any smoke without a fire. He hides his shame and swears to get his vengeance. But he also needs to satisfy his sexual needs which are more mental than hormonal for sure but even stronger because mental and no longer hormonal and he can only do that with little girls. He apparently teams with another serial killer who is after the same kind of preys. One day the local cops follow their intuition, guided by some vague circumstantial elements in the assassination of a young girl, and they arrest the young chap we are speaking of. They beat him up and interrogate him for 22 hours with nothing but blows and blows and telephone books and guns and Russian roulette. He confesses. Sent to death row, he asks his grandmother to go get the law professor in Massachusetts who is the husband of the Local Public Attorney's representative that had him falsely prosecuted some years ago and the vengeance is on the rails. It will fail but it shows that as soon as one in the line of justice, police work and other security forces steps off the line of absolute legality, some unjust act is done that can ruin even the best accusation case and that can nourish the worst deepest imaginable thirst for vengeance. To charge someone on circumstantial elements is just as bad as to let circumstantial elements ruin the work of the police or of justice. The best intentions on the police side are ruined by some personal involvement and vengeful intention, just as much as the life of a person can be jeopardized by circumstantial elements inflated to the size of evidence, which in its turn will jeopardize the whole case by being just circumstantial, hence easily discardable, with a good lawyer. The film then is a deep reflection on the necessity to respect standards and regulations all along the police and justice line if we don't want to make a mistake, which in its turn of course does not justify the death penalty since anyway it goes against the deepest belief Americans are supposed to have We hold these truths to be self-evident , that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that among these are Life, Liberty, and the pursuit of Happiness. (Declaration of Independence) Life is an unalienable Right that was given to man by his Creator, which means no one but the one who gave it can take it away. Only God can take the life of a person away. The death penalty is the arrogant appropriation of a power that we do not have. Even if we do not evoke God, we cannot justify the death penalty except as an act of vengeance, and here the film shows vengeance is the worst possible motivation in the rendition of justice and in the establishment of public peace. If vengeance is pushed aside there is no other justification for this death penalty. And there can always be a mistake in that pursuit not of Happiness but of vengeance.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne, University Paris 8 Saint Denis, University Paris 12 Créteil, CEGID "},{"Title":"just Ed Harris!!!","Date":"20 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The movie itself is a classical, average thriller, with a decent plot that gets screwed up in the most uninteresting way. The cast is okay. And there's absolutely nothing else to add to that.The only exceptional thing about this movie, and the only thing this movie is worth watching, is Ed Harris' performance. I can freely say that I never saw something quite like that, shocking and almost paralyzing! He seems like the stainless embodiment of the evil, pathological, savage and chilling, all at the same time. A true psychopath, a pure monster. I can't help but wondering how Harris carried it out and how much energy it took him. I noticed that here some people compared him with Hannibal Lecter. I wouldn't completely agree with that. There isn't that much in common with the infamous Lecter, except maybe the similar cold-hearted appearance and the maniacal stare. Hopkins isn't as raw and frenzied as Harris is. He inclines towards the refined intellectual, even though Harris' character isn't at all devoid of intellect. I'm not saying that Hopkins isn't remarkable, I just think that there is a slight difference. I got the impression that the actual example and inspiration for Harris was Andrei Chikatilo, one of the most notorious Russian serial killers. According to some videos I watched, many similarities are there the hair, the pace, facial expressions, etc. He indeed added a lot of his own spirit into it, and it turned out sensational. When I remember his role in The Abyss, where he was so dear and sweet, there's nothing else I can conclude except that this actor is simply phenomenal. "},{"Title":"Not A Connery Classic!","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have just finished watching the film as I write this critique. A film not unlike the style of Connery's other film 'Rising Sun' but less effective.It's quite a pacey and watchable film which keeps you interested until the climax. It also features the poor man's Hannibal Lecter with Ed Harris playing psycho Blair Sullivan, very convincingly. However you know exactly whats going to happen and that everything is not as it seems. This is where the film falls down because it holds no surprises and I won't say much more without a spoiler notice.It's quite a glossy film to look at, decent photography which breaks no new frontiers and sound acting performances. The script is the weak link in this film because it is all too predictable.The climax itself was too convienant and blatantly rips off Cape Fear. I gave this film 6/10, it might just deserve a 7 but nevertheless, it's still worth watching and enjoyable faire. "},{"Title":"crime thriller","Date":"4 September 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Seems like this movie had two parts,, first, the leadup to what has happened and what we assume to be the conclusion,, second part is where all of the twists come into play,, I have to admit at first that they confused the heck out of me trying to figure it all out,, Sean Connery,, and Laurence Fishbourne star in the movie,, with small supporting roles for Daniel J Travanti and Ned Beaty.. a man is convicted and brutally beaten at a confession and sent to prison,, his grandmother meanwhile goes and sees a retired lawyer who teaches law and begs for his services to review her son's case. He does and discover's that the confession was beaten out of him. He is set free bout halfway thru the movie,, then all of the twists start taking shape,, a pretty decent movie, with lot's of action, a little slow to start,, I won't get into all of the plot twists,, you will just have to watch and see for yourself. "},{"Title":"Don't you just wish Laurence Fishburne's character got to smack grandma upside the head?","Date":"3 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I enjoyed this movie, granted it is mainly because I enjoy seeing Sean Connery act and this one has the added bonus of having Ed Harris and Lawrence Fishburne in it too. The story has a grandma seeking out Connery's assistance because her grandson is in prison and she says he was wrongly convicted. At first it seems there may have been some racist aspects of the case, however it later turns out the main officer on the case was black himself and it seems he did some rather bad things to coerce a confession out of the boy. Well the boy tries to point to another killer locked up in the same prison, one who is about to be put to death. He is a particularly nasty person too, as he takes a lot of joy in what he did, writing the relatives of his victims and trying to get people to mail them. A lot of twists and turns in this one with some of it being somewhat unexpected. Me I just enjoyed Sean Connery's character trying to make sense of the whole ordeal. The movie also made me mad in areas, especially when you find out what ultimately happened. You get very good interplay between Connery and Harris and Connery and Fishburne as they all shine rather well in this one. In the end this one makes for a rather good suspense/thriller. "},{"Title":"Good performances all around, but an awfully predictable story","Date":"12 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Happened to catch this on cable a few nights ago, and it's pretty much a cable-caliber movie. Ed Harris and Laurence Fishburne turn in great performances, while Sean Connery is, well, Sean Connery. Not bad or anything, just pretty much the same as he always is. Certain actors just seem pretty much the same regardless of what role they play, and at least for me, Connery is one of them.The story has numerous twists and turns in it, but they're all of the kind you can see coming a long way away. I didn't mark spoilers so I won't give any, but I'll just say that really nothing caught me by surprise, and I think they were supposed to be big, jaw-dropping surprises. They weren't, and that leaves the performances to be the merit of the film. The performances were, on the whole, pretty good, so I'd say the film is worth watching, but don't run to go see it - it'll be on cable again soon enough. "},{"Title":"Better than most of its Kind","Date":"29 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Just Cause(1995) is an above average movie with some wonderful performances by the main actors.  Ed Harris is terrifying as Blair Sullivan.  The film's plot twist surprised me.  One of the best acted films Sean Connery has starred in.  Good use of the deep south locale esp, the swamps. "},{"Title":"Superb Suspense Thriller!","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I've read a number of reviews on this film and I have to say What is wrong with you people?!?!  This was an excellent film!  I thought this film was superb from start to finish and the story was extremely well told.  I'm convinced that the people that didn't like this film weren't paying very good attention to the film.  There are a number of very important scenes that if you aren't paying attention you will be confused and the following scenes may not make sense.  I urge anyone who didn't like this film to watch it again and watch it alone so that you can truly pay attention.  The story made perfect sense to me and as I said, was very well told.  Every scene in the film has a point and everything fits together at the end of the film.All the actors did a fantastic job!  Sean Connery was very good in his role as always.  Laurence Fishburne was superb as Tanny Brown, playing a very interesting character.  Kate Capshaw was a nice touch as well, and looks fantastic.  Blair Underwood was a pleasant surprise, I didn't really expect anything great from him, but he pulled off a great performance.  Ed Harris was the real gem in the film.  He plays a truly sick individual and really makes you see how disturbed his character is.  Watch his eyes in his scenes, just superb!!!  Also, there is a very young Scarlett Johansson (as Kate) in one of her first roles...not a bad place to start.  Excellent cast in this film!I would strongly recommend this film to anyone that likes any of the cast members or just likes thrillers.  This is a great film and should be seen.  Don't listen all these other people's opinions, go see the movie and come to your own conclusions.  I hope that you will see the film, and I hope that you enjoy it as much as I do.  Thanks for reading,-Chris "},{"Title":"pretty good thriller","Date":"30 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I really liked this film. All three stars(Connery,Fishburne and Underwood) give credible performances;and Harris is enjoyably over the top. The lighting and shot angles in some of Harris' scenes make his face look truly diabolical. The surprising turn of plot at the end makes it interesting. Not a great movie, but an enjoyable one. I gave it 7 of 10. "}{"Title":"I liked the  movie","Date":"14 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I just saw the movie on tv. I really enjoyed it. I like a good mystery. and this one had me guessing up to the end. Sean Connery did a good job. I would recomend it to a friend. "},{"Title":"I'm no psych major, but","Date":"10 May 2010","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" My problem with Just Cause is this I didn't get a clear understanding as to why Bobby Earl (Blair Underwood) becomes a cold-blooded child killer.Oh yes, Fishburne's character, Sheriff Brown, states that Bobby Earl is bad, but Sheriff Brown never tells us why. He just has a feeling. We do learn via dialogue, not action or backstory, that when Bobby Earl was a boy, he was taken from Newark and his drug-addicted mamma and sent to live with his Grandmother in Florida. Is the viewer supposed to surmise that Bobby Earl is bad because he lived in Newark with a drug-addicted mother? If we have to fill in the blanks, then the writer has done a poor job telling his story. Not all kids who live in Newark with drug-addicted parents grow up bad. Then the other problem I had was when Bobby Earl reveals that he's been castrated. I thought men &#x96; like animals &#x96; become more docile without their nuts. Yet, after being castrated, Bobby Earl rapes (doesn't leave semen) and viciously fillets a young white girl.I'm no psych major, but Bobby Earl's actions just don't add up; maybe because the writer failed to give us an intelligent equation. "},{"Title":"Another lost cause for Connery","Date":"30 June 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Just Cause is one of those films that at first makes you wonder quite why it was so heavily slated when it came out - nothing special but competent enough and with an excellent supporting performance from Ed Harris. Then you hit the last third and everything starts to get increasingly silly until you've got a killer with a flashlight strapped to his forehead threatening to fillet Sean Connery's wife (a typically mannered and unconvincing Kate Capshaw) and kid (a very young Scarlet Johannsen) in an alligator skinner's shack. The kind of movie that's probably best seen on a plane, and even then only once. "},{"Title":"Not bad, but loses steam.","Date":"4 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Just Cause starts out as a very entertaining movie and it keeps that momentum until 2/3 of the way through.  After that,  it becomes a very miserable, color-by numbers movie that is just bad.  A rating of 6 out of 10 was given for this film. "},{"Title":"Superb Harris","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Ed Harris's work in this film is up to his usual standard of excellence, that is, he steals the screen away from anyone with whom he shares it, and that includes the formidable Sean Connery. The movie, which is more than a bit sanctimonious, comes alive only in the scenes when Harris is interrogated by the attorney for another convict. It is breathtaking, a master class in artistic control.The other cast members are all adept and Connery is reliable, as is Fishbourne, but the story itself packs no wallop. The plot depends largely on the premise that a black prisoner always will be mistreated and coerced by white law enforcement officers. This is the engine which drives the story, right or wrong, and makes one feel a tad cheated at the end.Still, worth watching to see Harris in action. "},{"Title":"Poor excuse for entertainment","Date":"22 October 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Here's what I find in this movie- lots of cussing - lots of gore - grisly reports of serial rapes & murders - mostly non-credible events and characters' behavior - little relation to actual legal procedures - another wooden performance by Sean Connery (works for Red October, fails here)+ intense drama + strong performance by Ed Harris as an insane serial rapist/murderer + a few effective shocksDo your own sum. I almost quit watching at a few different points, but kept hoping for improvement. I wish I had quit the longer I watched, the less believable the plot and the more annoying the flaws. For my entertainment time and dollars, I thought this was mostly a waste. "},{"Title":"so heavy handed and so slow","Date":"15 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" In rural Florida 1986, Bobby Earl (Blair Underwood) is arrested for the murder of a young white girl. Sheriff Tanny Brown (Laurence Fishburne) leads a group of brutal cops. Eight years later, Bobby is facing the electric chair. His mother pleads with law professor and anti-death penalty advocate Paul Armstrong (Sean Connery) to help. His wife (Kate Capshaw) pushes him to take on the case. Imprisoned serial killer Blair Sullivan (Ed Harris) claims to have committed the crime.The acting is way too broad especially Fishburne. Sean Connery is possibly the most subtle of the lot which says everything. The movie is so heavy-handed. It pushes so hard that it's obvious something is wrong with the narrative. The twists are not obvious but expected. The movie moves too slowly wading through the case like a swamp. I don't know why the cops tell Armstrong so many incriminating statements. The Sullivan confession has an explanation which makes a new trial unlikely. The movie just doesn't have any tension with so much overacting. This is also notable that a young Scarlett Johansson has a minor role. "},{"Title":"Just Cause","Date":"9 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I will admit I didn't pay full attention to this when it was on, but I did get the gist I needed to, and I suppose it isn't bad. Basically law professor Paul Armstrong (Sir Sean Connery) is given a letter by Evangeline (Ruby Dee), grandmother of Bobby Earl (Blair Underwood), and he wants him to prove his innocence. Bobby claims to be wrongly convicted for the kidnap, rape and murder of an 11-year-old girl, committed eight years ago, and he faces the electric chair. So the rest of the film is mainly Paul, with some help from Sheriff Tanny Brown (Laurence Fishburne), questioning the suspects from all those years ago, including imprisoned criminal Blair Sullivan (Ed Harris). It has some red-herrings along the way, and it turns out in the end that Bobby did have something to do with it after all, and he kidnaps Paul's wife Laurie Prentiss Armstrong (Indiana Jones and the Temple of the Doom's Kate Capshaw) and daughter Katie (little and recognisable Scarlett Johansson) near the end for the final showdown. Also starring Christopher Murray as Detective T.J. Wilcox, Daniel J. Travanti as Warden and Ned Beatty as McNair. Connery is always likable with that Scottish accent, even in a small role Harris adds some needed kick, and the story isn't too bad, from what I paid attention to anyway, not bad. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"**1/2 for When Our Cause is Just, or isn't it?","Date":"19 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Just Cause starts off well but after 45 minutes goes downhill rapidly.Ruby Dee runs to a veteran college professor,who hasn't practiced law in years. She begs him to intervene on the part of her college dropout grandson who is on death row for killing an eleven year old 8 years before.It looks like the old south with white officials beating confessions out of accused black people? But wait a minute, Tany Brown, Laurence Fishburne, is the sheriff. He beats his own people?Ed Harris steals the show as an insane religious zealot who is also on death row. Harris does a great imitation of Hannibal Lechter and is effective. His letter eventually frees Dee's grandson ( a very good Blair Underwood) but the viewers are soon in for a predictable roller-coaster like ride in a fairly predictable film. Veterans Kevin McCarthy and Hope Lange are completely wasted as Connery's in-laws. The way the bodies begin to pile up, it might be just as well. Cate Capshaw plays Connery's wife who once played a key role in a previous Underwood trial. What's going on here? Is everything so coincidental? "},{"Title":"Thank God for the last 20 minutes ... Or not?","Date":"11 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Just Cause is a very predictable and disappointing movie. You just can't imagine how many stereotypes were actually used in this film.How else would you call Two racist cops beat up and torture an innocent black man (who isn't accepted in his community because he is smart, well educated and handsome), to make him confess that he kidnapped, raped and murdered a beautiful, blond 11-year old girl. The crime was actually committed by a white religious fanatic, but the white jury and the old judge never took into account the obvious lack of proof and condemn him to death row anyway. Of course there is the nice law professor, who hasn't worked as a lawyer for many years, who will try - and succeed (what else can you expect) - to get him out of there, just before he will be toasted on the electric chair... If it wasn't for the last 20 minutes, I would have fallen asleep. But in those last minutes, there are so many twists and action scenes that it becomes very unrealistic, however they did succeed to keep me awake after all. I gave it a 5/10. A mediocre movie like this certainly doesn't deserve any better if you ask me. "}{"Title":"Almost Really Good","Date":"6 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  except for the Hollywood stupidity injected in the script. The Ed Harris character's parents are dead and rotting in a house for years and no one discovers it till he tells the lawyer. I mean, give me a break! No relative, policeman, sheriff, friends, Jehovah's Witnesses notices the parents missing and the smell of death in a house for years. Then the Bobby Earl character,(played by Blair Underwood)the main bad guy in the movie, is black. So the PC maestros have to give him a partial excuse for his murderous proclivities in that he was castrated by racist cops for a crime he was innocent of. If they left both of these crappy plotlines out, the movie would have been a lot more real and satisfying. "},{"Title":"Shocking, suspenseful, gory, surprising, but unsatisfying.","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The form of the film is that of a suspense shocker. There are surprises, twists and turns, reverses and excitements. At times, this is truly an edge-of-the-seat film. But it disappoints, and disappoints severely.The villain of the piece is not believeable; his character does not hold together. I refuse to spoil the film, but will only say that the character we meet at the beginning just could not be he whom we see at the end.The second major disappointment of the film is that--finally, it becomes little more that a bloody slasher film. There is little qualitative difference between this and one of the Friday the 13th films. Not that every film need always be totally tasteful, but this film does drip gore on occasion.Though the film features the magnificent Sean Connery, even he does not measure up to his usual standard, and often just seems to be walking through the paces. "},{"Title":"Entertaining except for the contrivances at the end.","Date":"12 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It was an entertaining movie.  The twist at the end was interesting and, in a way, scary.  Unfortunately, as another viewer commented, the contrivances at the end (long dead parents, castrated victim/killer) were a bit much. One thing, however, struck me in general.The heroes of the movie were quickly taken in by a slick, sympathetic man who was apparently convicted of a crime he didn't commit.  Unfortunately, they reflect the naiveté of too many people today who only look at the surface of a person or situation.  These naive people make judgements without spending the time to delve into ALL the facts.  "},{"Title":"This could have been an ok film.","Date":"3 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The plot twist in this film was quite extraordinary, on afterthought perhaps a bit contrived and incredulous, but certainly very unexpected and surprising. This film could have been ok, the theme was sick and repulsive enough, Ed Harris was impressive in his role of a rivetingly perceptive, disturbed version of Hannibal Lecter. The police fronted by Laurence Fishburne seemed to know something the other didn't. On the whole, the characters weren't that credible, and with the exception of the ending this film could have been above the average Hollywood assembly line rubbish, but with the ending the director relegated himself into employing all the most predictable, and most despicable, brain dead Hollywood cliches. Which repels any intelligent viewer who has any sense of direction, dramaturgy and screen writing away from this dumbed down production.  "},{"Title":"Another favorite!","Date":"30 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  As usual, Sean Connery does a great job.  Lawrence Fishburn is good, but I have a hard time not seeing him as Ike Turner. "},{"Title":"Inept","Date":"18 December 2007","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" As other reviewers have noted the film dies in the last 1/2 hour. However before that it suffers from predictability and a stunningly vapid performance by Kate Capshaw, who clearly never found her character and ruins every scene she's in. Connery is fine as is Fishbourne, but most scenes are manipulated for effect rather than truth which overlays the entirety with a sense of unreality. And the ending is simply bizarre. The film makers apparently knew when they pieced this mess together that all they needed were sweet potatoes and pumpkin pie to have Thanksgiving dinner, so to compensate they added an overloud dramatic score. Every little jump is accompanied by a crescendo of orchestration, to the point where it becomes laughable. If you want an example of major league bad film this is one to see, otherwise skip it. "},{"Title":"contrived","Date":"6 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A lawyer assists a skeptical police inspector in an investigation to prove his client's innocence.  Hackneyed plot and mediocre main character saved (barely) by supporting performances and mildly interesting twists. (Rating B+) "},{"Title":"Not the book","Date":"2 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I may have liked this better If I had not read the book.  The liberties with location and switching Sean Connery's character from a cynical burned-out newspaper reporter to a college prof were the major sins. The book I give an 8.5; the movie a 5. "},{"Title":"Just Cause","Date":"24 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a very good movie. Do you want to know the real reasons why so many here are knocking this movie? I will tell you. In this movie, you have a black criminal who outwits a white professor. A black cop who tells the white professor he is wrong for defending the black criminal and the black cop turns out to be right, thus. &#133;making the white professor look stupid. It always comes down to race. This is an excellent movie. Pay no attention to the racist. If you can get over that there are characters who are played by blacks in this movie who outsmart the white characters, then you shouldn't have any problems enjoying this movie. I recommended everyone to go see this movie. "},{"Title":"JUST CAUSE (DIDIER BECU)","Date":"28 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The filmography from Arne Glimcher isn't quite impressive and it makes you think why the hell he made this thriller as after all it brings nothing new. It's about some black man who is accused of having murdered a little girl and therefore he is send to the electric chair, to stop all this injustice they bring in the help from ex-professor Sean Connery. Rather than making a dull did he or did he not?-movie director Glimcher used some elements from classics like Silence of the lambs (psychopath Ed Harris is like some inferior Lector) and Cape fear (a shameless rip=off from how biblequotes are used to justify murder). Does it need to be said that once again Sean Connery saves the whole movie? It's rather surprising to see how such a brilliant and respected actors turns up in so many poor films. You can watch it on telly without problems but a rip-off it stays nonetheless. "}{"Title":"An excellent, extremely satisfying thriller...","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" ... that deserves to be mentioned alongside the great ones like Silence of the Lambs and Seven. Each actor in this movie is a pleasure to watch (especially Ed Harris, who's convincingly scary and crazy, without hamming it up too much) and the plot offers lots of unpredictable twists and turns. Yep, it's a great movie, go see it ! "},{"Title":"Smile and say CHEESEY","Date":"15 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Connery, Fishburn, Harris.  I thought a movie with these three heavy hitters could do no wrong.  That's the argument I used to convince my wife to rent this instead of the 'Joy Luck Club' again.I think I'd sit through the pain of the entire showing of the Joy Luck Club rather that watch the ending of Just Cause again.Things looked good - the plot moved along well, and the characters were played quite nicely.... until the part when the 'innocent' man was released. The goofy 'evil' look he briefly shot at the next victim was both funny and stupid in a 'Saturday Night Live' way.  I guess this was foreshadowing the rest of the movie.I knew we were in real trouble when the 'gator with the glowing red eyes kept popping up again and again (and again and AGAIN).  It took but a moment for this all-too-obvious prop to swallow the bad guy.  It took me a lot longer to swallow the idea that I really rented this cheesy flick.Okay, honey, I guess I lost points on this one.  I guess it's Joy Luck Club time again.  (Thanks, Arne!) "},{"Title":"...and too many impediments","Date":"28 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A pot - boiler if ever I saw one. A supposed thriller borrowing from A Time to Kill, Silence of the Lambs, even an inverted In the Heat of the Night with a little reverse murder, a la Strangers on a Train thrown in, it fails abysmally where all the above, to a large degree, succeeded. Namely, in delivering thrills. The plot seems condensed from a bigger book, making the plot developments obvious and uninvolving, while the direction lacks pace and verve. To rein in any kudos, a major twist had to be delivered along the way and here it fails palpably too. Connery is clearly slowing down in his old age, barely bothering with his attempt at a US accent and besides seems too old to be the husband of Hope Lange and the father of those gosh - darn kids of his. He even has a father in law who seems younger than him. Laurence Fishburne barely gets the chance to inhabit his role and you're confused from the outset as to whether he's a bad guy or a good guy. Someone once said that flashbacks shouldn't lie - they do, confusedly, here. The rest of the playing is merely average by a reasonable cast in their underwritten stereotyped roles. The supposed climax managed too, to roll by leaving me firmly entrenched in the back, not as should have been the aim, front edge of my seat. Mediocre sloppy Hollywood film making for sure. "},{"Title":"...but unjust to the audience.","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  First of all ,Sean Connery is much too old for the part!He seems older than his father-in-law!!Why not a new James Bond while he's at it? The director was certainly burning with a desire to make his own silence of the lambs,as Ed Wood tries to recapture Anthony Hopkins' intensity,but even for an excellent actor like him,it's a waste of breath.When you cannot rely on a solid script,it leads you nowhere.Sean Connery does not seem to believe in what's he's doing-A far cry from his great parts of the seventies like Robin and Marian(1976) and the man who would be king (1975)-and he gives a listless performance.He's not given strong support by Kate temple of doom Capshaw,who could be his daughter anyway.As soon as the black convict is released from jail,everything becomes predictable and implausible at once.A run of the mill thriller. "},{"Title":"Mystery??/Thriller with too many ridiculous plot twists...","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  1st watched 2/16/2002 - 4 out of 10(Dir-Arne Glimcher) Mystery??/Thriller with too many ridiculous plot twists.  Despite the very talented cast this movie is way too predictable and just downright under-estimates it's audience.  The movie-going public is not stupid and I hope will not keep filling certain stars pockets again and again despite what they are involved with.  We think that this movie is going to be about something with Connery's conviction against  capitol punishment in the beginning but it turns out to be nothing but a standard, contrived for the audience's sake, run of the mill, let's never get it over with, thriller. We are pulled into every silly switch in character, as they are portrayed to us when it's needed in the story,  and we're ready for this thing to be over way before it ends.  Yes there is some good acting here, especially from Blair Underwood, Fishburne, and Ed Harris in a psycho-supporting role but the story does not work from almost the beginning to the very long-awaited end. "},{"Title":"A lot of work for nothing","Date":"22 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" After an opening when Connery delivers a lecture about the evils of the death penalty with some pretty graphic descriptions of botched executions its only his opinion and I'm in favour of the death penalty. But this movie is about a retired lawyer who hasn't practised for 20 years getting involved with a black guy on Death Row so it begins in true Horror mode when we see him beaten up.According to him he suffered a couple of weeks of beatings yet when he's seen he hasn't a scratch on him he looks like your average everyday black. The movie then gets bogged down in complicated sub plots and somehow you know this isn't anything even based on a True Story. By the time Bobby Earl-the black man who sounds more like a member of a doowop group-is in court for a retrial to prove miscarriage of justice he's cleared but that's not quite the end. It goes on to become quite silly with impossible scenarios before the end. Not recommended for anyone who likes a suspense movie with at least some suspense. In the end you couldn't care less about the outcome. In real life they'd not even have got as far as a court room with such flimsy evidence "},{"Title":"Just unlikely","Date":"3 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  At the outset, Just Cause seems spellbinding and chillingly possible. But never fear!  Anyone frightened by the prejudices and injustices of the first hour needn't worry; by the end the movie goes south, well into Hollywood style at least, and shreds all credibility.  Sean Connery is a good reason to see Just Cause if there is one, but wrestling alligators, deceptive main characters and the truth is a shade far-fetched for my liking.  "},{"Title":"Just Awful","Date":"23 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Look carefully at the wonderful assortment of talent put together to make this movie Connery, Fishburne, Capshaw, Harris, Underwood, Beatty, Thigpen, even cameos by Slezak, Lange, and Plimpton.  They prove, in spades, the adage that a good cast cannot save a bad script.  The story line requires so many leaps of faith from the audience that its implausibility should have exceeded even Hollywood standards.  It's not particularly original, and the twists are downright cruel. "},{"Title":"One of the worst roles of Sean Connery","Date":"3 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Seems that the cast should ensure at least an average movie. And so I sat down for 102 minutes of unbelief. Beside Ed Harris no-one seems to own the skills of acting. Even Sean Connery, who I normally worship, must have had an off-day during the entire filming of Just Case. Not once in during the whole movie one actor could convince me.This made this movie look cheap and unreal.The story makes up a little. It is thrilling, and the plot is unexpected.Conclusion only watch this movie if you really have nothing more useful to do. "},{"Title":"Neither good nor believable","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Just Cause, a 1995 thriller with Sean Connery as a law professor who takes his knowledge into the real world when attempting to clear a black man of a murder conviction, is neither good nor believable, despite a surprising second half.Connery, once again playing the kind of dignified, seemingly all-knowing man of virtue that seems to be the only way in which producers see him, once again demonstrates why it took him so long to shake off the image of James Bond  he simply does not choose his projects carefully enough.  Perhaps that thick Scottish accent of his makes him unable to play an average Joe like a policeman or a common lawyer.  Except for his Oscar winning role in 1987's The Untouchables, Connery is always a special agent of some kind the pompous, somewhat mystical expert on Japan who teams up with a hot-headed, street wise cop in Rising Son, or the pompous, somewhat mystical tutor of the Highlander movies.  There's nothing mystical about the character he plays in Just Cause, and whatever pomposity he displays doesn't last long, but Connery is once again an aloof, I just came down from the clouds kind of guy; a professor of law who agrees to help clear a Death Row inmate of the charge that he raped and murdered a little white girl.  Connery succeeds, but ultimately regrets ever having gotten involved.The second half of Just Cause takes some genuinely surprising twists and turns, but there is always a lack of suspense to prevent anything more than mild interest.  The performances by Connery, Laurence Fishburne and Kate Capshaw are strictly average, but Ed Harris as a serial killer is so good, you wish he were in a better movie.  Credibility is a problem almost from the start.  A scene in which Fishburne nearly chokes Connery to death with a seatbelt is right out of a Bond movie.  So is Connery.   "}{"Title":"plot resembles abandoned roadworks somewhere in Italy","Date":"20 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The performances of Fishbourne (who appears strangely funny somehow) and (short featured)Ed Harris are remarkable, unlike Connery's who doesn't appear to find sense in his role and ends up in the motorial behaviour of a 80yr old man. In fact the screenplay doesn't make sense; imagine a 60 min. happy ending-plot plus a sudden turn appendix without any argumental structure in respect to the characters. It's more an accident than a screenplay and may be good for examination purposes at screen-wrights' schools. The more you remind the details the stronger this impression gets. The capital punishment is not an issue here, although it is a subject from the beginning; it sort of fades away without further comment. The subject-matter and environment could have been good. "},{"Title":"Disappointing Film That Could Have Been So Much More","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Just Cause is a disappointing movie about a law professor (Sean Connery) who is trying to free a condemned killer (Blair Underwood) on death row for a crime he did not commit.  However, nothing is quite as it seems and the film goes for chills and thrills but does not really deliver.  All the performances are sub-par and the film's screenplay and direction are misguided and somewhat annoying.  A real downer.  2.5 out of 5 stars.  "},{"Title":"Plot manipulation to the highest degree","Date":"13 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie is a crappy and forgettable Sean Connery vehicle. The performances are generally crappy especially by Capshaw, Fishburne, and the usually solid Ed Harris. Connery seems miscast as a Harvard Academic. The movie absolutely gets worse as it goes along. It is a third rate mystery that becomes extremely contrived by the time it unravels. The movie squanders an excellent supporting cast. George Plimpton also turns up in a minor role to add some gravitas to Connery as they debate the death penalty. The violence and the atmosphere pepper a third rate mystery/thriller that is manipulation to the highest degree. The scripting and direction are extremely poor. Connery's charisma and screen presence are the film's only virtue. Manipulative, Violent, and Ridiculous. 2/10 Avoid It. "},{"Title":"One weird trip","Date":"3 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" JUST CAUSE showcases Sean Connery as a Harvard law prof, Kate Capshaw (does she still get work?) as his wife (slight age difference) and Lawrence Fishburne as a racist southern cop (!) and Ed Harris in a totally over the top rendition of a fundamentalist southern serial killer.Weird casting, but the movie plays serious mindf** with the audience. (don't read if you ever intend to seriously watch this film or to ever watch this film seriously due to the spoilers) First of all, I felt myself rolling my eyes repeatedly at the Liberal stereotypes the cops are all sadistic and frame this black guy with no evidence. The coroner, witnesses and even the lawyer of the accused collaborate against him (he is accused of the rape and murder of a young girl) because he is black.Connery is a Harvard law prof who gives impassioned speeches about the injustices against blacks and against the barbarous death penalty. He is approached by the convicted man's grandmother to defend him and re-open the trial.Connery is stonewalled (yawn...) by the small town officials and the good IL' boys club but finds that the case against Blair, the alleged killer, now on death row, was all fabricated. The main evidence was his confession which was beaten out of him.The beating was administered by a black cop (!) who even played Russian roulette to get the confession out of him. Connery finds out that another inmate on death row actually did the murder and after a few tete a tetes with a seriously overacting, Hannibal Lecter-like Ed Harris, he finds out where Harris hid the murder weapon.He gets a re-trial and Blair is freed.I think... film over....Then suddenly! It turns out that Blair IS a psychotic psycho and that he used white guilt to enlist Connery. He concocted the story with Ed Harris in return for Blair carrying out a few murders for Harris.now Blair is on the loose again, thanks to Connery's deluded PC principles! The final 30 min. are a weird action movie tacked onto a legal drama, Connery and Fishburne fighting the serial killer in an alligator skinning house on stilts (yes, you read that right) in the everglades.That was one weird film.So the whole system is corrupt and inefficient, the cops are all just bullies and Abu Graib type torturers, but the criminals are really psychotics and deserve to fry.Truly depressing on every level! The system is completely rotten and the PC white guilt types who challenge it are seriously deluded too.Two thumbs down. Connery obviously had to make a mortgage payment or something. "},{"Title":"Laurence Fishburne and Sean Connery","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Laurence Fishburne is definitely climbing up the ladder thanks to John Singleton. Sean Connery, who produces this film, stars alongside of Fishburne as a professor (despite the fact that Connery hasn't got a degree to his name) who attempts to find out who the murderer of a young girl is in the light of Blair Underwood pleading his innocence and Fishburne presented as the antagonist. "},{"Title":"Predictable and Boring","Date":"20 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I watched this movie when it was showing on Encore because I thought it was going to be a court room drama about the death penalty and questions of justice in the U.S. penal system. I thought Sean Connery's role might be interesting as he dealt with the ambiguities that were likely to come up during the course of the case. However, as the movie progressed and everything fell into place without a hitch it became clear that Connery's character was being duped. It quickly changes into what at first looked like a compelling court room drama into your typical Hollywood-I-must-save-my-family-and-do-I-compromise-my-principles to do it. I was so bored with the formula (family kidnapped, car chase scene (apparently there is only one police officer in Miami), here take this gun while we chase them into the swamp) that I actually didn't watch the ending. But I could probably guess what happens and even if I'm wrong all possible endings are pretty stupid. I suspect that Hollywood has a giant (or not-so-giant) computer that automatically generates these formulaic scripts. "},{"Title":"TOTALLY  INVALID  Depiction of FLORIDIANS !!!","Date":"13 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Floridians have not acted in the way this movie depicts us for more than 150 years in most areas and for at least 100 years in all other areas! As a matter of fact there are so few TRUE FLORIDIANS in Florida that most people who live in Florida have NEVER MET A FLORIDIAN !!! I'd say 90% of the people in Florida come from other states OHIO, WISCONSIN, NEW YORK, PENNSYLVANIA, ILLINOIS, IOWA, INDIANA, NEW JERSEY, & a few other states -- but those are our biggest population groups.Ochopee is a tiny little bump in the road in southern Collier County (the movie states it's in EVERGLADES COUNTY -- there is NO SUCH COUNTY in Florida there is a GLADES COUNTY, but it is a long way from Ochopee, but OCHOPEE is in COLLIER). The majority of the people who live in Ochopee are Black -- that is correct about the only correct thing. Another thing, the COLLIER COUNTY DEPUTIES would never treat anyone the way the characters in this movie treated the rapist in this movie. Collier Deputies are highly trained and as far as I've ever seen in any of the 54 years of my life in Collier, I've never seen anyone railroaded or mistreated! I'm sure Collier has a few bad cops, just as anywhere, but 99% of the deputies uphold the law and peoples' rights -- ALL PEOPLES' RIGHTS! Collier County is not A Backwater or Hick-Town By Any STRETCH of the IMAGINATIO !!!!!!! As a matter of FACT, COLLIER COUNTY, is one of the MOST SOPHISTICATED AREAS in the USA (think PALM BEACH !!!!! As a matter of fact, PALM BEACH is JEALOUS of Collier county & it's seat, the City of Naples!!!!!!) The median home price is OVER $500,000.00 -- I saw a shack the other day priced at $279,000.00 !!! It was a dump, but it was only 2 miles from the beach!!! People who act the way people in this movie act might live in the backwaters of some states, but not Florida, not in the last 50 to 100 yrs or so anyway!!! I've traveled most of Florida in my life and I've only seen 1 or 2 backwaters where the people might act like those in this movie, but those places and the people in them are gone, or soon will be. It just disturbs me when people anywhere are misrepresented!!! This movie is a WORK OF FICTION. Enjoy, but with a grain of salt -- or the whole box of salt !!! "}]