[{"Title":"The Best Kind Of Popcorn Movie!","Date":"20 April 2007","Score":"75 out of 113 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" I don't see why people are making so much noise against this movie. We all know this isn't a history class. We all know this isn't realistic in any way. It is NOT and it's NOT supposed to be! I've never heard people say  The musical version of The Three Musketeers with Gene Kelly isn't faithful to the book. Frankly, who cares? If you want the true story, the realistic story, get a book or a documentary. What we have here is a true popcorn movie, the kind of film you put in your DVD player for a nice evening of no thinking, just enjoying. This is a Hollywood family movie, with 3 great stars, fancy costumes, beautiful scenery and great music. To me, this is some of the best entertainment! The kind of entertainment that cinema was invented for and that was so successful in the 40s and 50s. It seems to me that people today just can't enjoy that kind of entertainment anymore. And that is sad! So, please, stop complaining and just enjoy for Pete's sake! (lol!) "},{"Title":"Interesting Adaptation","Date":"8 December 2005","Score":"57 out of 86 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" Although many have criticised this film harshly, I believe it is unnecessary. It is an adaptation of the myth of Arthur, and is interesting. There is no magic, no Merlin (, no Morgana, no sword in the stone - in fact, no referral to Arthur's past. This obviously changes the myth quite substantially. Merlin and the Sword were key players in the typical Arthur legend, but this adaptation is good because Morgana often confuses people.It squashes what Camelot really is - an ideal - into about two and a bit hours of movie. Richard Gere is charming as Lancelot, a roving swordsman, and Lady Guinevere delivers an outstanding performance as the young woman torn between two loves. Sean Connery, is as always, fantastic. The best thing about this movie - to me - was that the love story was sensible. Instead of Guinevere and Lancelot cheating on Arthur, it becomes more of a love triangle, with deeper issues, as all three love each other (in different ways.)All this said, it isn't the greatest movie despite some excellent acting - the movie had a weak plot and Maligant is not a very convincing villain. But, if you're bored, home sick, or just want to watch some light entertainment, by all means watch this film - just don't expect Peter Jackson quality. "},{"Title":"Sean Connery has the voice, the look and the chivalrous character of the legendary King Arthur...","Date":"21 January 2004","Score":"59 out of 104 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" In 'First Knight' Connery has gentleness in his eyes, and embodies the best aims of the founder of the Knights of the Round Table... Arthur had his share of war... He had devoted his life to building a land of peace and justice... He looks forward to quieter days... He asks Guinevere to 'marry the king but to love the man.'Julia Ormond glows and smolders to fine effect as the passionate Guinevere who is confused about her feelings for the king and his first knight... Guinevere tries to convince Arthur that her will is stronger than her heart... She assures the king that she may look at him differently but not with less love... Richard Gere lacks the heroic stance required for such part... He is not colorful and flamboyant as Lancelot... He is simply Richard Gere... He lives by the sword, and fights for money... He is introduced as a wanderer, with no wealth, no home, no goals, just the passionate spirit that drives him on... Lancelot had never dreamed of peace or justice or knighthood... He rescues the Lady of Leonesse, and gives Arthur back his life itself...Ben Cross is arrogant as the powerful Prince Malagant, a former knight of the Round Table, with hatred in his heart... He dares to kidnap a lady who is almost a queen... Malagant doesn't care how many men he loses so long as he wins... He offers the king what is not 'his' to give.. In Jerry Zucker's film there's no Merlin, no malevolent Mordred, no femme fatale, just the city of Camelot seen golden as ever, the knights brave and loyal, the battles almost breathtaking in their ferocity, and the scenic beauty so fresh, so pure, so green... "},{"Title":"Exciting medieval story that  deals with a love triangle between legendary characters as Lancelot ,  Guinevere and Arthur","Date":"24 January 2012","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" Mighty and pretty spectacle about Lancelot , King Arthur , Guinevere and the famous romance in color magnificence . This spectacular production from Jerry Zucker that gave you ¨Ghost and Airplane¨ among others and only Columbia TriStar could bring it so magnificently to the screen including a majestic soundtrack and splendid cinematography . The classic story of romantic adventure come to life enriched in glamorous color and with such great stars as Richard Gere (roving spirit Lancelot), Julia Ormond (wonderful Guinevere), and of course the great Sean Connery (upright Arthur) in the classic love triangle . Restless Lancelot who lives by his wits falls in love with Guinevere, who is due to be married to King Arthur . Meanwhile, a violent warlord attempts to seize power from Arthur and his Knights of the Round Table , as they set out in fight against the traitor Prince Malagant (Ben Cross), a Sir Mordred-alike . Whilst in the meantime the bride Guinevere and Sir Lancelot betray the king in their own way . Adding the apparition of knights of the round table as Sir Kay (Christopher Villiers) , Agravaine (Liam Cunningham) , Sir Patrise (Valentine Pelka) and Sir Mador (McCormack) , though there doesn't turns up neither Merlin , nor Morgana LeFay and all things supernatural are out of this flick . This is an overwhelming tale with adventures, villainy,romance and heroism in the grandeur of big screen although in television set is lost its splendor .This sweeping movie displays adventures , thrills , a romantic love story , breathtaking battles and epic confrontation with a terrific climax final for a mortal confrontation . Excellent main cast as an attractive Richard Gere , a gorgeous Julia Ormond , and exceptional , as always , Sean Connery as Arthur , an aged and war-weary king who is forced to go to battle one last time . Rousing battle scenes with impressive production design by John Box , though is also used computer generator . Excellent settings , the castles ,outdoors and tournaments or jousts are well staged . Handsome story well written by William Nicholson though contains some awkward narrative elements . Luscious costumes and gowns specially suited for Julia Ormond . Colorful wide-screen cinematography by stylish cameraman Adam Greenberg . Emotive and sensational musical score by the classic Jerry Goldsmith . However this epic film never takes off as it should despite of pomp and circumstance showed . The motion picture is imaginatively directed by Jerry Zucker working at the peak of his powers . Other movies on the matter of legends of Arthur are the following  MGM's first wide-screen film titled ¨Knights of the Round Table¨ 1953 ( by Richard Thorpe) , the musical ¨Camelot¨(Joshua Logan) , the fantastic ¨Excalibur¨(John Boorman) and recently ¨King Arthur¨(Antoine Fuqua). The picture will appeal to aficionados with chivalric ideals and historic movies fans , it is a fine production that will lose much on small television screen . This spellbinding film is freely inspired on legends and supposedly based on facts and famed personages . In spite of there aren't real documents about legendary feats King Arthur , allegedly in VI century he was King of Bretons and then were created in 12th century some writings by notorious French authors who romanticized the legend as Chretien of Troyes , Thomas Malory that wrote the Breton series with their knights looking for the Holy Grail . Besides Godofredo of Mormouth publicized in 1136 the History Regnum Britanniae and in XX century John Steinbeck wrote about the events of King Arthur . The story concerns when the Romans had withdrawn Britain and the Empire dissolved into chaos,then rules the king Arthur, he achieved to maintain the Christianity and civilization in the west of England ,though no exactly congruent with the VI century , time was presumed to have lived but the film is developed in a high medieval panoply . "},{"Title":"A Wonderful, well-acted and produced escapist story","Date":"25 December 2011","Score":"15 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" I have watched this movie countless times over the years and it never fails to impress. Unlike lwjoslin, I don't purport myself as a historian. But then, the story of Camelot, King Arthur, Guinevere, and the rest are NOT historical figures in any true sense. They are all fictional characters in a fictional setting.So why write such a derisive review? To me, it seems clear that the reviewer is incapable of simply viewing this as pure escapist fare. He (or she, but I doubt it) most highly thinks very highly of himself. I hope that people were not put off by his diatribe. He, and those who may be influenced by his critique, need to remember that the entire story is fiction. It is not based, in any way, on historical fact. To make the comments he did, he must have forgotten that simple idea. It is fiction, and the story has simply been embellished in a new way.For me, this was a wonderful story of a wonderful time. It is a story which has been told many times on film within the past century, and has almost always been presented as a tragic event in an otherwise idyllic time. Why does he insist on tarnishing this telling by citing irrelevant facts? Do not be influenced by his trash. This is simply a wonderful, new twist on an old story, and it's very well done.Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Brother To Brother","Date":"22 January 2011","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" The Arthurian legend gets another reinterpretation in First Knight with an impressive Sean Connery as King Arthur. The last time Connery was at Camelot was his appearance as the Green Knight in Sword of the Valiant back in 1984. Julia Ormond is a fetching and beautiful Guinevere any knight worth his salt would saddle up and rescue her.Richard Gere is Lancelot and try as he might he comes off as way too American. This role calls for someone with the dash of an Errol Flynn and I'm surprised no one ever cast Flynn in a Camelot tale. Gere is not Errol Flynn, why was no one from across the pond cast? My first guess would be that Gere was a box office name, but certainly Sean Connery in the cast would take care of that.Some elements of Knights Of The Round Table got into the plot here. Lancelot who is kind of a medieval sword fighter for hire rescues the evil Prince Malagant played by Ben Cross. He's the Mordred of this story, not a believer in the ideals of Camelot by any means. His philosophy is that Arthur is mistaken, men don't want brotherhood they want leadership and he's just the guy to provide it. Cross is also thinking in terms of real politik, Guinevere's domain of Lynness lies adjacent to Camelot, good base for an invasion.Gere joins the Round Table brotherhood in part because of sincerely believing in the Arthurian ideals, but also to be close to Julia Ormond. If you've seen any number of Camelot based films or have read Thomas Malory you have some idea on how this will end. But in the case of this particular film, not completely.First Knight is not first by any means in Camelot films. But it's enjoyable enough for the fans of the leads. And Ben Cross comes really close to Stanley Baker's outstanding Mordred in Knights Of The Round Table. "},{"Title":"Exactly made as movies should be !!!","Date":"25 February 2009","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" I am a regular Hollywood movie buff, and heavily rely on IMDb user ratings, before watching any movie than relying on any other sources, and I prefer to watch movies which are usually rated at least 7 out of 10.So when I had a chance to see the movie First Knight, I was in a doubt whether to watch this movie with a low rating of 5.6/10, even with great actors like Sean Connery and Richard Gere, or to skip to some other movie.Luckily I decided to give it a shot, and oh what a movie it was. I really love the medieval age and other historic movies, and this is a gem added to the list. As reading some other reviews revealed earlier, that this is an adaptation of Arthurian legend, and not a true story, so I didn't bothered about the facts in the movie.It scores really high in terms of acting, fight sequences, chemistry between actors, and especially keeps you engrossed throughout the movie. As a movie, the story works well and has all the elements balanced.If you are a fan of historic movies, please don't trust the IMDb ratings for this movie. Just sit and watch this movie on a nice evening, and you won't repent it. "},{"Title":"A pleasant fairytale and action movie","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  This film deserves recognition for what it is  a good interpretation of part of a legend, with an excellent casting.Who else but Sean Connery as an ageing and dignified King Arthur ?Julia Ormond is a convincing and stunning princess with her graceful, touching beauty; her looks are also refreshing and different from all the ever-present boring blondes who get a part in anything because of their hair colour.As for Richard Gere he is as handsome, charming and fearless as Camelot would be.This film is not for historians or purists nor does it claim to have a documentary value. It has a sense of magic and the pace is well alternated between romance and action. The emotion and intensity are present thanks to the actors and the music, appropriate to all the scenes in the movie. That is what matters.Who cares about details such as a castle looking a bit dodgy, blue clothes (we have seen much worse and tackier in cinema history) or the odd line or fact. Never mind that. Just relax and escape  it is only entertainment at the end of the day, not a time for History or Legend Reconstruction. You are better off going to a course or reading a book, do not rely on films to educate you all the time.Why comparing films ? Let's just say there are different approaches to a subject, that is what makes the interest. Enjoy ! "},{"Title":"A beautiful and touching movie","Date":"11 April 2000","Score":"46 out of 86 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I am proud to say this movie is among my top 15 of all time, along with The Godfather I and II, Shawshank, Amadeus and It's A Wonderful Life.  It is not a chick flick, nor is it an empty-headed Richard Gere movie.  This movie is a compelling love triangle between King Arthur, Guinevere and Lancelot, while also being an exciting action-adventure involving a traitor to Camelot who threatens to destroy it literally and figuratively.Sean Connery is perfectly cast and superb as King Arthur. Richard Gere is often criticized as a poor choice for Lancelot because of his age, but come on!  The whole story is a medieval fantasy.  If Gere is 8 or 10 years older than he really should be in the movie, who cares?  We're not telling a true story here.  He seems a little awkward a choice in the beginning but ultimately gives a great, fantastic at times, performance.  Julia Ormond is who really elevates this movie.  She is stunning and radiant as Guinevere, the compassionate and brave Lady of Lioness.  Every medieval word and mannerism she produces is believable.Action fans will not be disappointed as this film has some amazing sequences, especially when Richard Gere runs the gauntlet.  Zucker really lets go in the battles, also.  Ben Cross plays a great villain.The end of this movie is one of the more moving scenes I've ever seen.  The performances by Connery, Ormond and Gere up to that point make what could have been silly or forced seem touching and beautiful.First Knight is a great and underrated film, not to be missed. It's a simple story that doesn't require a lot of analysis or understanding of folklore and mythology to enjoy.  Give it a chance! "},{"Title":"Another take on the Lancelot, Guineviere Love Affair","Date":"5 February 2012","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" Most people who saw this movie said that it was bad, and I expected it to be as well, but I decided to watch it anyway. The thing that sort of put me off the movie is that it was about the affair that Lancelot has with Guinevere, and that is something that I never really appreciated. I was expecting there to be a justified affair, which it is not, but this movie did turn out quite differently. In fact I ended up enjoying it.The first thing that I must say is that the cinematography and the sets were quite good. They created an impression of a real place of legend. The realm of Camelot came across as a legendary place which has been lost in the midsts of time. Unfortunately the screenwriters adapted the background of the story a lot - though the main push was that of the love triangle between Lancelot, Arthur, and Guinevere.The changes were immense. In the original story (not that I have read it, but I am going by the movie Excalibur and the mini-series Merlin) Guinevere was a lady that Arthur met at a party and asked Merlin to set them up. In fact Merlin did not even appear in this film, but then it was not his film. Even so, Merlin is an important character as he is Arthur's adviser. In this film, Guinevere was a lady in a realm bordering hostile territory and she was going to marry Arthur for love and political protection. The enemy was Prince Malagant, who was once Arthur's First Knight. He rebelled and is now wanting to destroy Arthur.Malagant is a constant threat, but the thrust is the love between Lancelot and Guinevere. They first meet when Lancelot saves her from Malagant's thugs, and then leads her back to the road. His character is of a roaming knight who charms ladies and does good for no reason, except that he wants to protect the weak. This is because in his past he watched his family be slaughtered in a burning church, and he now seeks to prevent that from happening to others. After they rescue Guinevere's province a boy approaches Lancelot and asks if he can go home. This is a direct reflection of Lancelot's pain as he no longer has a home to go to.His greatest struggle is the love he has for Guinevere, and his service to Arthur. He never wanted to join Arthur because he knew that he would betray him, but Arthur insisted that he do it. He is never far away though because he knows that Malagant wants to force Arthur into an uncompromising situation. But Malagant is only a supporting character, the real struggles comes in the conversations between Arthur, Guinevere, and Lancelot.These occur where the characters struggle to understand their emotions and how they feel for each other. Arthur is not too sure, he has never married and is not interested in marriage, unless the right woman comes along, and he wants this woman to be Guinevere. Yet he is not sure, and while talking with her, he is trying to convince himself that this is the right choice to make. He is afraid of being hurt, and unfortunately this is what happens. He wants love and when he catches Lancelot and Guinevere kissing, he realises that this is not what he has. Guinevere says that she loves him, but he is not convinced, show me the look you gave him. It is all about love, and he wants the love in the heart, but not in the head.Yet Arthur is a very level headed man. Most men, especially in those days, would have removed Lancelot's head without a second thought. Instead, he arrests Lancelot and puts him on trial in front of the entire land. This is probably was not the best idea because he is bringing a personal matter and exposing it to the people. He is putting Lancelot and Guinevere to shame with such a thing - something that Lancelot does not want. Of course, the threat of Malagant is always present. "}{"Title":"Live by the Sword, Die by the Sword","Date":"23 December 2008","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" It opens with the backdrop, At long last, the wars were over. Arthur, the great king of Camelot, had devoted his life to building a land of peace an justice. Now he wished to marry. But the peace was not to last. The most powerful of Arthur's knights, Prince Malagant, had long been jealous of the King's glory. Now he found cause to quarrel with Arthur and left Camelot with hearted in his heart. And so the land was divided again, between those who rallied to Prince Malagant, seeking the spoils of war, and those who stayed loyal to the King. And then there was Lancelot, a wanderer who had never dreamed of peace or justice or knighthood. Times were hard. A man made his living any way he could. And Lancelot had always been good with a sword&#x85; An awareness of a general negativity concerning this film is one of the reasons it's a more enjoyable than not. Even without lowered expectations, First Knight is an above average film. Jerry Zucker directs a series of well-paced action scenes with pomp and circumstance. William Nicholson's screenplay focuses on the love triangle formed with Richard Gere (as Sir Lancelot) falling in love with Julia Ormond (as Lady Guinevere) on her way to marry Sean Connery (as King Arthur). It isn't difficult to figure out the rest of the story.The three principal players are nicely suited to their roles. Mr. Gere plays Lancelot (the leading man) with nobility and nonchalance; he has a gracefulness which might have been utilized in other Errol Flynn-type roles, had he chosen to perform them. Ms. Ormond adds a considerable amount of spirited resoluteness to her Guinevere; this, combined with her physical beauty, makes her irresistible. Mr. Connery's King Arthur gives the film an old-world foundation. Ben Cross (as Prince Malagant) heads up a splendid supporting cast, with something old John Gielgud (as Oswald), and something new Stuart Bunce (as Peter), all dressed up in something blue.So, where's the rub? The valiant filmmakers took a chance by removing the mythological elements. The wizard Merlin does not appear. Excalibur has no magical powers. Stripped of its magic, the still noble Camelot is a nice place to visit, but you wouldn't want to live there.****** First Knight (7/7/95) Jerry Zucker ~ Richard Gere, Julia Ormond, Sean Connery, Ben Cross "},{"Title":"It's not that bad!","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I don't agree that this a horribly bad film. People really do like to crucify this film and I don't know why. Anyone ever see Mannequin 2On the Move, Aliens Go Home or Bats? This film surpasses all those stinkers. But I must say,however I can see where people are saying that it could have been so much more. Although Richard Gere is a fine actor, I believe they could have chosen someone who fit the role of Lancelot, a little better. Someone younger. Gere's performance also seemed a little stiff, and they could have chosen someone else with a little more spunk. Sean Connery too seemed out of place, although he is one is the finest actors of our day. He was much too old to play Arthur. Julia Ormond, however, was perfect for Gueniviere. She really was a delight to watch and brought a certain dignity to the character. Her classy acting and presence seemed to fit the story best amidst her misfit co-stars. I will agree however, that the costumes were a little off. The peasants were wearing costumes that seemed to much too new and nicely kept. The scenery, however was breathtaking and and theme of this movie is very romantic.It's no four star movie but common folks this movie was not all THAT bad. I give it a 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A good movie","Date":"26 May 1999","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I have spent a considerable amount of time studying the old, medieval tellings of the legend, as well as researching the 'real' Arthur (who existed pre-medieval, around the 6th or 7th century) and I enjoyed this interpretation. The only really bad thing that stuck out was the costumes. Many were not historically accurate. In particular, the costumes of the knights were terrible! Same with the construction of the round table room. It looked like something out of Star Trek. "},{"Title":"my favorite ending","Date":"26 April 2003","Score":"17 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  In almost all other interpretations of this legend, Guenevere is seen as a woman who cannot choose between two young men that love her.  In this movie, Arthur is portrayed as a very mature older man who knows he wants Guenevere as his wife but that she might choose him for the wrong reasons.  He gives her protection of her lands without marriage and she refuses.  He never loses his wisdom and never forgets his duties as king in face of his crazy private life.  Lancelot is presented as a wandering young man who knows when a woman wants him and cannot understand Guenevere's refusal of him time and time again.  However, he is not fickle, and has known true loss. His love for Guenevere is always constant.  Guenevere is in turmoil but is never seen as flighty.  She loves both men in different ways but does not know why.  Instead of her having to betray either man completely, the production allows for one of her lovers to die and encourage Guenevere and the other lover to be together.  I think this is a brilliant way to end the movie and one that allows all the characters complete fulfillment.This movie also simplifies the plot enough that the movie is not chopped and confusing or hours and hours long.  I never have been able to understand Morgan and appreciate a different antagonist.  I can see why this movie was not liked as it came out the same year as Braveheart and Rob Roy and wish the producers had not released for at least one year and it might have been better received. "},{"Title":"Yonder lies the castle of my fodder Part Two.","Date":"2 January 2013","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" First Knight is full of action,romance,adventure and good humour.There is the ultimate good guy - King Arthur - and,in case you're in any doubt,a very nasty bad guy called Lord Malignant or something so close it makes no difference.It has the slightly fading elfin charm of Mr Richard Gere as the nimble swordsman Lancelot,a man who says he doesn't care whether he lives or dies which rather gives him the edge in the swordfights by which he earns a crust,almost literally sometimes. This is a fine physical performance which only loses its edge when he is forced to think rather than do. We know little of Lancelot's history - a bit like Shane - but the inference is that he is the scion of some nobleman;perhaps born on the wrong side of the blanket. Rescuing the Lady Guinevere (Miss Julia Ormond)from the evil Lord Malagant he falls instantly under her spell despite the fact that she is betrothed(for political purposes) to King Arthur. The next time we meet you will kiss me,he says with a rueful grin. To be fair,Mr Gere spends quite a lot of time ruefully grinning,but he is rather good at it so why not? In Camelot at the celebration for King Arthur's forthcoming nuptials Lancelot does indeed win a kiss from Guinevere by winning some mediaeval form of Supermario to the acclaim of the gathered crowd and that brings him to the attention of the king(Mr Sean Connery). After joining the Round Table,Lancelot becomes a confidant of the King but his conscience is racked(cue for much brow - furrowing from Mr Gere) and the not - quite lovers are caught in an embrace by Arthur. Lord Malagant attacks Camelot,King Arthur is killed,Lancelot in turn kills Malagant and peace is restored to the kingdom.Huzzah!. Miss Julia Ormond is breathtakingly beautiful,Mr Sean Connery is the very epitome of integrity. Along with The Black Shield of Falworth,First Knight stands as Hollywood's finest entertaining take on mediaeval England. It sweeps one up from the start and deposits one rather breathlessly in a neverland Olde Worlde which never existed but should have done. No one in either movie actually says yonder lies the castle of my fodderbut I rather wish they had. "},{"Title":"forbidden love","Date":"20 May 2012","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" I love this movie,Richard Gere (Lancelot) was the hero, that won the heart of Julia Ormond (Guinevere).In this movie she was to marry the King.Which she did even though she loved the first knight.When they met he was just a common man that fought for money. That is my mom's take on the epic tale of King Arther and Lancelot. Mine I love this movie as well, it is one of the best renditions . About the legend of Camelot, I have seen it has adventure lust. And forbidden love , between Lancelot and Guinevere! But this tale of the sorted love triangle, has a dark side like all movies. It has a villain Ben Cross (Maligant) a cruel black hearted monster. Whose sole purpose was to dethrone the King and claim Camelot as his own! Until his untimely demise , by the sword of the first knight! "},{"Title":"Another energetic remake","Date":"30 September 2009","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" *Spoiler/plot- 1995, First Knight, King Arthur finds out that his pious honored wife has betrayed him & the kingdom by intimately being involved with one of his favorite Round Table knights.*Special Stars- Directed by Jerry Zucker. Richard Gere plays lead, Lancelot. Sir Sean Connery plays male lead as King Authur. Sir John Geilgud stars.*Theme- Right is might.*Based on- British Arthurian legends and stories.*Trivia/location/goofs- Connery played many kings in his career, mythical and real. Connery produced this film by his production company Fountain Bridge Productions.*Emotion- Another energetic remake of the Arthurian Round Table legend with a fine cast and visibly beautiful, worth seeing. "},{"Title":"My wife loves this movie","Date":"17 May 2002","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  My wife also likes Richard Gere, and that helps in her opinion.  This film is about forbidden love, and is geared for the female audience.  With Richard playing the lead in this historical soap opera.  It is a good movie, and balances the romance with action scenes.  I like the idea of brotherhood and Camelot, to bad the world could not have such honor. 7/10 "},{"Title":"respectful, well-made adaptation","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" Lavish retelling of the Arthur legend may not be as compelling as one would hope for, but it still entertains in its own right. In order to protect her people and village, Lady Guinevere (Ormond) agrees to marry King Arthur (Connery) in the hope that he can keep her safe from lawless tyrants. Unfortunately for all those concerned, she also has feelings for bold wanderer Lancelot (Gere), which only complicates matters further when he becomes one of Arthur's knights. The kingdom of Camelot is also in jeopardy as the former knight Prince Malagant (Cross) threatens to conquer and enslave it for himself. Intense swordplay, enchanting set design, and three perfect leads make this a real treat to watch. *** "},{"Title":"I was surprised each minute of movie","Date":"31 July 1999","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  This a very good film, may be it isn't really mach King Arthur and others story, but in all other ways it is great. Film is full of unexpected moments, you think it gonna be this way and you wrong, this is great. Very emotional movie ( take a girl to it), good action scenes, amazing operator work. After you have seen it once, you'll want to see it again and again...  "}{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I think that many people already know what they want to see before viewing this movie. They see their favorite interpretation of this legend and they are looking for a movie which follows those lines. This movie will not. It is unique in that way and concentrates on specific aspects of the legend while ignoring others. This does give the movie a feeling of being somewhat incomplete (like watching a cut version of the legend on TV) but for what it is, it is not a bad movie. I thought Connery was a good choice for Arthur and that he did a good job in the role. There are clear historical flaws in it, but they do not detract from the enjoyment of the movie. View it with a open mind and don't compare a unique interpretation of the story with others, expecting it to have all the same elements. "},{"Title":"Cmon, guys! It's a love story!","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Ok, I will be the first one to admit that it could have been done better. But does any of the female population reading this remember being about eight years old or so? Playing princess, waiting for that knight in shining armor to take you away? (A lot of us are still waiting for our knights in shining armor!)Remember how clean and perfect we pictured everything at that age, with bright colors, music, dancing, everyone smiling and happy. That is what this film is about. Not the reality, but perhaps more of the ideal... Sean Connery made a dignified Arthur. A little on the old side maybe, but I think that ads to the overall appeal of the story. Julia Ormond did well as Guinevere, very convincing and innocent. As for Richard Gere, he did seem a bit of an odd choice, but still fit the bill. Overall, this movie shouldn't be taken so seriously, but is an excellent fantasy in my opinion.  "},{"Title":"Underrated spin on the old theme","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Despite being told to give it a wide berth I quite enjoyed this film, mainly because it appeared to be a knockaround film that took itself seriously. Sumptuously filmed in various picturesque British locations it moves along quite nicely showing Lancelot as a loner swordsman who finds himself drawn into something bigger by King Arthur, excellently played by Sean Connery. Richard Gere isn't bad as Lancelot, who joins up with the knights of the round table for reasons beyond his wish to see justice for all. His lack of an accent is probably his greatest asset as though British actors were used for the support players many of them sound surprisingly like London taxi drivers. Julia Ormond is a little trembly as Guinevere, the person who wishes to do her best by her people and Arthur but cannot deny her love for Lancelot. She seems to be coming along quite nicely as the new Audrey Hepburn, though she hasn't been in much of late. The villain of the piece, Ben Cross as Malagant, is good in his role, not completely evil but bent on world conquest and jealous of all Arthur has built. From herein the scene is set for tragedy and it's all a matter of time before Arthur gets wind of the secret feelings between his wife and his best knight. Before this happens though you get treated to some excellent medieval fight scenes and more beautiful locations, courtesy of the last green bits of Britain. The only things I can say to detract from it are it's confused serious/non-serious state at times and Sir John Gielgud who pops up for no reason and annoys the hell out of me. Other than that I really enjoyed it, it's one of those films I feel I can watch over and over again and there is no higher praise than that. "},{"Title":"Au Contraire","Date":"8 March 1999","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Hey listen all!  Despite what others have said, I do believe this is the best version of Arthurian legend that I have ever seen, in movie form or otherwise.  The possible exception is Stephen R. Lawhead's book series The Pendragon Cycle.  First Knight did not resort to Merlinous gimmicks or fireworks displays of magic or sorcery.  Many forget that King Arthur very possibly was a real historical figure.  The sorcery so often portrayed in other versions is most likely a legendary distortion.  It doesn't even make for good entertainment when we see so much of the same.  First Knight was a truly unique movie with a good message.  In serving each other, we become free. My only qualm with the film is the presence of Richard Gere.  "},{"Title":"It's time the Inquisition comes back to burn some heretics","Date":"13 August 2007","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" I put 1/10 because I can not choose 0/10. Surely Sean Connery was in dire need of Money, Gere with a sword is like Mike Tyson performing Balet. This movie is a Joke and the use of illegal substance is highly recommended if you want to enjoy it more than 10 mins of it. The respect of the Legend itself stays within the use of the names, I have seen a beautiful cavalry charge with knights without armour, lances and shields, oh, no wait, I think they were actually stunt men from Star Trek. Don't pay money to watch it, terminate your friendship with whoever wants you to see it, never get married with a woman that liked it. You have been warned, nothing will ever give you back the time you will loose. "},{"Title":"much better than given credit","Date":"11 March 1999","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  The problem with First Knight is that it is old-fashioned.  It lacks cynicism and irony.  As you can see from many of the other comments, it was not well received by many.  Why?  I'm not sure, really.  I loved it tremendously.  It isn't for King Arthur purists who think that 'Le Morte D' Arthur' is the ONLY version of the Arthurian legend out there (as if legends can have only one version!).  First Knight is a visually beautiful, sentimental, and well crafted romantic adventure, told from the point of view of Lancelot, in this version a wandering sellsword.If you are looking for the mysticism, the magic and the tragedy of Camelot...you'll be disappointed.  This is a more optimistic telling of the tale.  It is also more streamlined.  There is no lady of the lake, no Merlin, no Excalibur, and no Morgana.  If you want to see all that, go and rent Boorman's Excalibur (1981), also a very good Arthurian legend, but very different from First Knight.  It is a much darker and more savage rendition of the tale, and the ending is also more grim and brooding.Here, you have only Arthur, Lancelot, Guenevere, and a villain who is essentially Mordred, known as Malagant (they even refer to him as a prince). It focuses on the love triangle and the final battles between Arthur and Malagant, which lightens the burden of storytelling considerably from Excalibur, which can be quite thick with plot at times (not that this is bad, it's just different).  I found myself not really missing all the magic and myth of the story, and enjoying First Knight for its strength  it is romantic, intelligent, and energetic.  The performances are all good (though the men are a bit old), and the music is simply gorgeous.If you don't mind that the legend has been toned down, but only to focus on a tighter storyline with fewer characters to encumber it, you will like First Knight.  If you have a problem with big movie star names playing ancient characters (Gere distracted many with his performance, but I felt he did a great job), or if you don't like deviations from the 'real' legend of Camelot, you probably won't enjoy this adventure/doomed romance for what it is. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite movies of all time","Date":"16 February 2005","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" I love this movie!! Julia Ormand and Richard Gere don't disappoint in this medieval action packed film. Love, Honor, Action, Suspense. I have to watch this a couple of times a year, along with Princess Bride and Braveheart. Julia gives an outstanding performance, every expression she makes gives such depth to her character Guinevere. A Love story surrounding the tale of the knights of the round table. There are also plenty of swords and battles. Sean Connery rounds out the cast as King Aurthur, a perfect match for his character. Richard Gere plays an honest happy go lucky traveler that falls in love with Guinevere. This is the only action film with wars and swords that my wife will watch with me. "},{"Title":"First Knight Is First Class","Date":"9 March 2006","Score":"31 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" A very pleasing all-around movie is how I found this Knights Of The Roundtable-type story and a good one for DVD, even one that's been on disc for quite some time. For an early DVD, this was a real treat for the ears with some great rear- speaker sound. The story, however, not the sound, was the main appeal of this film for me.The three main stars in this movie were very appealing Richard Gere as the cocky-but-good guy Sir Lancelot; Julia Ormond as Guinevere and Sean Connery, aptly cast as King Arthur. He certainly looks and acts the part, as does Ben Cross as the villain, Prince Malagant.This is a straight adventure story, too, with none of the hocus-pocus sorcery baloney who often see in these King Arthur stories. This is beautifully filmed with a city of Camelot that is awesome to view. Nice values in here, too, with - gasp - the importance of prayer mentioned. No wonder so many reviewers out there hated this message.This is simply a classy, great adventure and highly recommend to literally everyone who values a nice story that has values. "},{"Title":"Be On Your Guard, Fools On The Loose (at IMDb)","Date":"10 April 2012","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" It never fails. Every Arthurian movie that has ever been reviewed on this site has some version of these It's not accurate, It's not historic, So and so Knight was not like that, It didn't look like Arthur, It didn't look like Lancelot, It didn't look like Guinevere, etc. etc. This is when I get very worried about the would that is full of these people!This is the last time I am doing this because they clearly outnumber me.THERE IS NOTHING TO BE ACCURATE, FAITHFUL OR TRUTHFUL TO! They complain it is not faithful to FICTION. This is legend that was oral legend long before every being written down by anyone and it's been written down thousands of ways! I don't see these movies saying they are the movie of The Once and Future King. No, they are just one more telling of a what? A LEGEND! And, they even believe that this is a IMPORTANT THING! Get a life. Go outside some time. There is a REAL WORLD with REAL IMPORTANT PROBLEMS and CHALLENGES out there. Try worrying about them instead of raging that Richard Gear did not LOOK like LANCELOT (because I have a polaroid of the real one and he looks just like Gear ;). I mean, just how lame can you get (obviously an infinite amount.)I give this movie a 10 just to balance it out. Besides, I think it's a fun film! And as it's impossible for it to be historicity accurate, I don't have to worry about such foolishness. "},{"Title":"great film","Date":"26 October 2012","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" This movie was one of the best family movies . 10 out of 10 and for all of the complainers (try not to judge a book for its cover). The film is great and it displays values that a man should poses such ascourage love honor dignity faith and a lot more. I know that for all of you if a film does not have a sex scene or something tot laugh it is a bad film. Try to learn something!!! Excellent film to see with your family on a evening . Splendid casting! Great actors (all of them) Superb display of values! On my opinion today s generation should grow watching those kind of films instead of sf or others. Wonder why people turn out as they are today? See how they talk favorite music or movies....and it is enough to see what kind of person they are. "}{"Title":"First Knight","Date":"30 May 2008","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" From director Jerry Zucker (Ghost, Rat Race) this retelling of the Arthurian myths is quite good. Basically Lancelot (Richard Gere, not bothering to try an English accent, just Kevin Costner in Robin Hood) is a skilled swordsman who is not seeking a knighthood or reward, just peace. Lady Guinevere (Julia Ormond) is on her way to marry King Arthur (Sir Sean Connery), but is ambushed by the evil Prince Malagant (Ben Cross), but Lancelot rescues her. As they hide and head back to the kingdom, they fall in love, but Guinevere still wants to honour Arthur's wishes. Arthur has no idea of the love (till later), so he knights Lancelot and makes him a new member of the Round Table. Of course, when Arthur does find out he does not hit anyone, he does shout a bit, but he instead sees his life a bit worthless, and when Malagant comes back he is prepared for anything, even death. Also starring Liam Cunningham as Sir Agravaine, Christopher Villiers as Sir Kay, Valentine Pelka as Sir Patrise, Colin McCormack as Sir Mador, Ralph Ineson as Ralf, Sir John Gielgud as Oswald, Tom Lucy as Sir Sagramore, John Blakey as Sir Tor, Robert Gwyn Davin as Sir Gawaine, Sean Blowers as Sir Carados, Alexis Denisof as Sir Gaheris, Daniel Naprous as Sir Amant, Jonathan Cake as Sir Gareth and look out for comedian Rob Brydon as Man in Crowd in the opening sequence. Apparently this film was a box office flop, but then again, besides Connery who steals every scene and does it well, I guess this isn't the greatest of medieval films, but fun to watch. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"Sensual, earthy aspects","Date":"30 April 2008","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" With - I am hoping - not offending disregard for quality of acting or else, I found the shooting locations and earthiness of the characters Lancelot and Guinevere to be very refreshing. Although I may not have a proper way to evaluate the film as justifying of the subject matter, I gained pleasure from the châteaux, forests, and moors... Julia Ormond was breathtaking. Worthwhile to watch for that... I am sure there are plenty of more accurate films on the Camelot and related subject matter that do the story better justice. I am by no means recommending it as a satisfying film in that aspect. I recommend the film as satisfying in its sensual qualities. "},{"Title":"actually...","Date":"15 May 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Many people here have been stating that the villain in this film is not found in Arthurian Legend, and that the story has no basis.  The story is actually based on both Chreiten de Troys and Sir Thomas Mallory's versions of The Knight Of the Cart, a tale of the origins of how Lancelot came to Camelot.  The villain, who captures Queen Guinevere (although she was not Queen yet in the film) is indeed found in this tale, as Malagant, Melegand, and about 100 other similar spellings. The tale is indeed based in the Arthurian tradition, even though the screenwriters went into slightly different directions in incorporating the love story.  And yes, the character of Lancelot was changed, but that probably had more to do with Richard Gere than anything else.  Otherwise, I enjoyed the film, as Julia Ormond's wonderfully-acted Guinevere is one of the few versions of the character I actually like and sympathize with.  With Sean Connery as Arthur, no WONDER she had a hard time picking who to give all of her love to!  "},{"Title":"Yes, it could be better, but it is not that bad!","Date":"1 November 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Again a movie based on the story of Camelot and King Arthur. Yes there are better films based on the tale. But the actors did really all they could. Especially John Gielgud how was worth to see, but not enough. Also Sean Connery proofed that he is a great actor. Julia Ormond wasn't very well in form. But that wasn't the  only problem of this movie. Lancelot was like the prince on his white horse how won every fight. It was very unbelievable and sometimes it was stupid to watch. After all I would offer this film to people how love Julia Ormond, Richard Gere, John Gielgud, Sean Connery, Ben Cross... or when you love historical movies. When you don't love any of this things you wasted your time.Rating 7,5/10 or **1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Every girl's dream","Date":"28 May 2004","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  What girl has not dreamed of a handsome knight sweeping her off her feet? What girl has not dreamed of being a princess? What girl... you get the point. But First Knight is in no way historically accurate. Of course, it is a love story and only that. If you ask me, the girl was kind of a tramp. Was I supposed to feel sorry for her? She was playing both guys. OK, I just had to get that out. The only realy thing I enjoyed in the film was Connery's performance. He's been kind of letting loose with some roles. But he was impressive. Gere was alright. The story isn't horrible. But I wouldn't really watch this film a lot.6/10 "},{"Title":"Very very good!","Date":"27 February 1999","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Very good movie. I thoroughly enjoyed it. Any movie with Sean Connery, Richard Gere and Julia Ormond has to be good, and this definitely was. Sure it has some flaws in it, but that doesn't detract from some brilliant acting and enjoyable story line. The movie retells King Arthur and the round table in a very entertaining way, with fighting, romance, action, and very satisfying ending. Not as gory as Braveheart, and the battle scenes aren't as good, but the movie is just as good in a different, less serious way. Go and see it! "},{"Title":"A Sweeping Near Epic","Date":"6 February 2007","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" Let me start off by saying that if you are looking for a sprawling fantasy film of the King Arthur legend, this is not the film you should see. If that's the case you should see John Boorman's wonderful Excalibur. If you are looking for a more realistic and epic version of the legend, you have come to the right film. First Knight is a film of epic scope with beautiful sets, a sweeping score, and some terrific performances.The actors do a good job with the film though some are better then others. Sean Connery is perfect as the older but not always wiser King Arthur. It is definitely one of Connery's better performances as of late and he makes the relationship between him and the much younger Guinevere seem realistic and believable. Richard Gere's Lancelot does lack some of the believability of Arthur. This sis due mostly to the kung-fu sword fighting he does but look past that and you get a very well established version of the Lancelot character. The chemistry between him and Arhur and him and Guinevere is believable. Julia Ormond is a little bit lacking as Guinevere for reasons I really can't explain. Whiel she is at times still the usual damsel in distress, she does end up becoming perhaps the most three-dimensional version of the character to date. Add to these three a wonderful villain in the form of Ben Cross and a good supporting cast and you get a pretty darn good cast.The film's real star is the production design and other non-acting elements. The sets, particularly the Camelot sets, are spectacular to look at. The church set is also amazing and one of the film's greatest sets. Add to that villages and the other necessary assortments of medieval things and the illusion is complete. The other major star of the film is its terrific and sweeping score by the legendary Jerry Goldsmith. Goldsmith's terrific fanfare theme for Arhtur is one of the most terrific themes to appear in any of the late composer's scores. His action themes during the various battle sequences are beyond your usual action themes. Add on that the truly amazing choral arrangements added into the score and First Knight becomes something more then your typical action movie.First Knight rises above some possibly stale elements in the script and creates something better. With terrific performances, beautiful sets, and a sweeping score, First Knight is something much more then that. It is a sweeping historical near-epic that brings new life into the legend of King Arhtur. "},{"Title":"Best Arthur/Camelot Movie I've Seen - Excellent Lancelot/Lovestory","Date":"26 June 2005","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" Jerry Zucker is brilliant. I saw Ghost in the theater when it came out and it was my favorite movie for a number of years, and I eventually bought it on DVD. When I saw First Knight on video in the late 90's, I loved it and I eventually bought it on DVD too, and at the time I did not even know the same guy directed both movies! Jerry Zucker directed two of the greatest love story movies I've ever seen. I am surprised that First Knight has not been a bigger, longer-lasting and more talked-about hit. Not only is the relationship between Lancelot and Guenevere well done, but it is the best Arthur/Camelot movie I've ever seen. While it is not the traditional repeat of the sword and stone movie with Arther being the one main character, I think this great new vision of the story is brilliant. From an ordinary guy who watches a lot of movies This one is great! Action, passion, fine acting and good chemistry! "},{"Title":"Truth about Camelot","Date":"5 October 2005","Score":"12 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" I find that this movie is a much more realistic version of the whole King Arthur thing. No magic, and it all could really happen. Don't get me wrong i love magic and all the other elements in fantasy (i am a fantasy novel writer) but i think it's nice to have a more realistic storyline once and a while. And i think many are more likely to believe this version than the others. Such as Merlin (again a movie i also love). Sean Connery was great as the King he brought so many more options with that voice. For me some of his lines in the movie were the most memorable ones i have ever heard. I feel Richard Gere was OK. Not the best but OK and Julia Ormond was not too bad either. "},{"Title":"victim","Date":"9 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" a decent film. not perfect but far to be bad. because its virtue is the balance between errors and virtues. between Richard Gere as not the most inspired option for Lancelot and Sean Connory like an interesting Arthur or Sir John Gielgud in a small role, source for seductive air, real fresh air. First Knight is almost a victim. the competition with Camelot or other adaptation of legendary hero is the basic challenge. and the motif for not be at high measure of expectations. in fact, it is a correct story. each ingredient of genre is well used. the acting is far to be awful. it is only a film about a classic story, without huge ambitions - only the entertainment. it could be a nice introduction to Camelot universe . and it gives one of the most inspired Kings . the historical accuracy, the absence of characters/events roots are certainly sins. but it has the force to be a lovely story. and it is important for many viewers. "}{"Title":"Lancelot and Guinnevere The Disneyland Version","Date":"1 September 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" First Knight is an odd duck. Pretty much everyone is miscast. Julia Ormond overdoes pretty much everything, just relentlessly acting, and completely lacking the grace and subtlety required to play a noble. Richard Gere clearly was having a laugh he doesn't bother hiding his American accent most of the time, and plays Lancelot as a one-note ladies' man, instead of as the charismatic character of legend. Connery possesses the gravitas to play Arthur, and plays him sincerely, but he brings far too much baggage from being Sean Connery, to make him believable. The whole thing feels about as authentic as Disneyland's Pirates of the Caribbean ride. This is truly a prime example of Hollywood's excesses getting in the way of a good time. Yes, its fun if Richard Gere tosses his hair and acts all seductive, and yes I suppose its fun if there's a Wipeout-style obstacle course inserted into the Arthurian legend, but if there isn't a certain basic realism or internal logic to the characters, then a non-parodic narrative film like this is pretty well doomed. These aren't people, they're a bunch of cardboard cut-outs, play-acting around a round table. "},{"Title":"An unusual, bleaker and darker take on Camelot","Date":"23 August 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" I thought it interesting that they draw upon older and nowadays almost forgotten Camelot stories in this movie. It made the movie original, without going too far from the sources. One thing was totally wrong though, and I think this fact almost wrecks the whole movie. In the beginning Lancelot is pictured like some poor show-man, almost a con artist, who gives sword-shows for money in public places. This is something that the real Lancelot (I mean the Lancelot we all know) would never have done. As everybody knows, he was born a prince and got a magical upbringing with The Lady of the Lake. When he reached manhood, she brought him to King Arthur's court. At this time he was already a knight in armour. There can never have been a time in Lancelot's life, when he had to give shows for money in public squares (however successfully). This started the movie on completely the wrong note, and I almost stopped watching then and there!Also, Richard Gere is wrong for the role. First, he is too American. The first request for someone playing the leads in a Camelot story, must be their Brittishness... Also, Richard Gere is not handsome enough - although I HAVE found him attractive in other kinds of roles, such as well-tailored lawyers and businessmen in the city. But he is not handsome in the way we think of Lancelot as handsome extremely muscular, fit and manly, and at the same time unearthly, spiritual and saint-like... Richard Gere in this movie looks like any peasant!Julia Ormond was also the wrong choice for Guinevere. The only thing that was right about her was her slim and straight figure. Her face is much too ordinary, and there is no glamour at all around her. Sean Connery is perfect as King Arthur, though. VERY British, handsome, manly, regal and fear-inspiring when he is supposed to be fear-inspiring. Also a great actor, as ever.Also, I did not like that they changed the ending. In this movie, it was hinted at that Lancelot and Guinevere could have each other - now when the King was dead. This is nowhere in the original sources. And the love triangle is supposed to be a tragedy, not a happy ending! First Knight is a darker, bleaker and more realistic take on Camelot, but there are still things that make it worth watching the wonderful castle in itself, and the whole medieval world with lavish gowns, armour, horses, battle-scenes etc.. "},{"Title":"Silly movie","Date":"4 August 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" This movie enchanted me when I was a 13 year old girl. Recently I spotted it on Netflix Instant and decided to see if it held up 19 years later. Uhh, no. Medieval Han Solo gallops to and fro rescuing a princess stock character not once but TWICE and in between he pressures her to have sex with him. Julia Ormond is the picture of some dude's idea of feminine perfection, alternating between girlish impetuosity, over the top expressions of feminine fragility (It's so beautiful I'm almost frightened!), and gazing slack-jawed at her two love interests. BARF. Richard Gere delivers a stellar comedic performance as Lancelot, sword-wielding, moat-diving, swaggering and tossing about his luxurious locks. Even Sean Connery cannot make this movie less silly. But on the other hand, young Sir Davos is featured, and that's pretty awesome. "},{"Title":"I liked it very much!","Date":"20 May 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" I am not sure why this film received such a low grades, I do not think it deserved.Plot writers tried to reincarnate story of King Arthur and he knights of the round table. So little is historically actually known about it that all the film plot I consider pure fiction.Like all the movies of this kind it has rather good plot, which really caries us well into the film. It is interesting and dynamic although a little bit more made for the children then for the adults.Acting by Sean Connery is outstanding. These types of roles suit him so well, he truly shines so well in it. Other actors a little bit to be desired, I am sure that C.Z. Jones would fit better then Julia Ormond did.All in all if you have small children and you are int Anglo-Saxon history, this is a must see for you, otherwise you really should find time to see it anyways. ;) "},{"Title":"Sir, First Knight is an underrated medieval movie. It's Holy Grail material.","Date":"18 April 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" I think this movie is deeply underestimate. Directed by Jerry Zucker, the movie is take a new interpretation of the Arthurian Legend, giving the film, a new look into the old tales. Some of the film foundation comes from tales like Wace's Roman de Brut, Geoffrey of Monmouth's Historia Regum Britanniae, and others. The movie takes most of its story from the tales from writer Chrétien de Troyes whom credit for adding Lancelot, and the Holy Grail myth to most Arthurian tales. The movie is mostly based on Troyes's 'Lancelot, the Knight of the Cart' poem where Lancelot fall in love with Lady Guinevere. While, the poem has them, Courtly Love, (AKA love of honor & merit), the movie makes it feels they love each other with passion. The film opens with Lancelot (Richard Gere), as a vagabond and skilled swordsman nomad who travel town to town, to challenge anybody for a duel for money, rather than a noble Knight. On his way back from one such visit, he comes around Guinevere (Julia Ormond), the ruler of Leonesse, whom just decide to marry King Arthur of Camlet (Sean Connery) partly out of admiration and partly for security against Malagant (Ben Cross), who been terrorize her land. When she is kidnap by Malagant, he seek to rescue her. On the way back to Camlet, both falls in love with each other, and soon enough, an affair blossom that would hurt her kingdom and King Arthur forever. Can Lancelot and Guinevere keep their love, a secret or will King Arthur find out? Watch the movie to find out. Without spoiling too much. The romantic sub-plot wasn't that bad. It wasn't too cheesy. I really believe the morals of honor, and the misunderstood of love. I have to say, Richard Gere works his charm and I really didn't think he need the English accent. Julia Ormond is beautiful, and courageous. She is fine actress. You can see her torn between her love for King Arthur and Lancelot. There are a few things, I didn't like. The movie has this type ending if you are a good and true and honest person, you get killed and the guy who you did everything for, runs off with your one true love. Certain people were really upset by that. Still, Lancelot knows what is right and wrong with this. He didn't want to undermine it. Also, by not, having Lancelot, not being a knight in the beginning, the movie somewhat hurts the 'Significance of the Cart' part of the poem. The cart is significant to the story because it proves just how far Lancelot will go to rescue Guinevere. He does not think about his reputation being destroyed when he chooses to ride on the cart. By ruining his reputation, Lancelot also tarnishes the reputation of the king he represents; but his love for Guinevere outweighs all other issues that may arise from his actions. The action, we do see is amazing. I love the whole obstacle course scene. Still, some of the gauntlet is a little bit too dangerous & unrealistic. Lot stabbing swords. Come on, even with the provided protective gear that would kill you. I doubt anybody in real life was willing to get kill just to win a kiss from Guinevere. The action battle scenes are just entertaining to watch. I love the sword fight cinematography. The Battle at Leonesse was brutal and the Battle for Camlet was just amazing shot. The act of defiance against all odds, never surrender. This is probably my favorite final battle because there are so many movies where the two main people will fight the entire time whereas in this one they are realistically separated by other combatants. I love Lancelot's Blade Spam-and-disarm technique. Richard Gere really put some work into those sword fights. While Guinevere is distressed in Damsel, pretty much for the entirety of the film, she does put up a good fight during her abductions. Ben Cross is just chilling in this role. Sean Connery is wise and he really commands the movie. Just watch his speech before the Battle for Camlet. Awesome stuff. The smart dialogue is very memorable. What I did like about the movie is how absence the magical elements are, the film doesn't even have the magician, Merlin. I don't mind the demystification of the story as much as other people do. The score by Jerry Goldsmith was great. It's amazing what he got done in three days. Still, it's a bit short, but alright. Also the movie was beautifully shot. The Pyre at sea is how I like to go. Overall Watch First Knight. It's not as bad, as certain people make it out to be. "},{"Title":"well-made","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Respectful Arthur adaptation focuses on a love triangle between Connery, Gere, and Ormond, while they face the threats of mad tyrant Cross. The story is obvious to say the least, but redeemed by strong performances, grueling battle scenes, and truly breathtaking set design. Hard not to be just a little impressed. 3/4 "},{"Title":"Although hokey at times, very watchable ...","Date":"17 March 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  1st watched 12/20/1996 - (Dir-Jerry Zucker) Although hokey at times, very watchable King Arthur type flick with Gere & Connery stealing the show as the leading men.  Their characters are very suited for their parts. "},{"Title":"A very misunderstood movie","Date":"22 February 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  This movie was never intended to give an accurate presentation of King Arthur and his time, neither according to history or legend. The Arthurian legend is not even the main theme of the movie. The love triangle between King Arthur, Guinevere and Sir Lancelot is, however.The movie has three main elements. The first is about love and lust. The difference between loving someone and being in love with someone. The second is about morality. Right and wrong. Law vs. moral judgement. The third is about loyalty. Loyalty among friends and loyalty to a king. This is what the movie is about and this is why facts are less important.The movie is, as an historic document, completely useless. King Arthur wouldn't have been christian, the architecture and weaponry is of a much later date, knights would not have been caught dead wearing some of the outfits, and knights caught wearing the armor *would* be dead. This is all intentional, of course. This is to emphasize that this is about a legend, not historical facts. And legends are not factual, they're moral tales.Wonderfully stylish production design and a visually fantastic cinematography. Great acting and an intelligent script.If you didn't like this movie, you misunderstood it. See it again, and expect to see a fairytale come to life instead of Braveheart. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Touching","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I disagree with the first viewer's opposition to the cleaning up of the Guenevere/Lancelot legend. I found this film very touching, surprisingly delightful, and well-produced, acted, and developed, with enough suspense and action to keep me riveted and just the right amount of romance.I despised Lancelot from the moment I saw him, adored King Arthur, and loved Guenevere. This movie's a wonderful, clean version of the age-long legend for the whole family, but I will warn you... it's very violent. VERY violent. So if you're squeamish, skip it.  "},{"Title":"...But it will age well","Date":"18 February 1999","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  With so many negative reviews on this movie, I feel obligated to defend it. I enjoyed it.  I don't care what anyone says, Sean Connery looks great as King Arthur; no one can deny that.  And Julia Ormond, despite some corny dialogue, is still pretty convincing as Guinevere.  Gere plays a fine swashbuckling Lancelot, american accent or not (why does this annoy everyone so much?) giving the legendary warrior a very human edge.  Gere is a subtle actor, you have to look closely to see the emotion he is portraying, but it IS there.  And another thing, don't compare this movie to Excalibur.  It just isn't fair.  The two movies are attempting totally different things. Second, forget about the references to King Arthur and Lancelot, and just enjoy this movie for what it is  a highly romanticized medieval adventure with exciting battles, swinging swords, plate armor, and melodramatic romance.  Sheesh, lighten up, people!  "}{"Title":"Great movie thats both believable and emotional","Date":"10 September 2005","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" I completely disagree that this movie is barely watchable, i found this movie very interesting.Aside from the fact that casting, sets, plot, and many other physical aspects are all very high quality; this film manages to portray honer, love, and the perils of leadership exceptionally well.The film builds the character interactions in a way so that you actually begin to feel for each of them and their choice of actions. I think the ending is especially moving.The only thing i could say negatively is that Sean Connery obviously plays a very good role as king Arthur, and its probably his presence that pulls the film up to 9 stars, however it is still a worthwhile watch. "},{"Title":"Better than I expected","Date":"27 December 2004","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" Well, after looking at the vote score and reviews for this film, I wasn't expecting much, but watched it anyway since my wife is both a Connery and a Gere fan. I must say I was pleasantly surprised both by the plot, which was somewhat different from most Arthurian legend films, and by the acting. Anyone who criticises Connery's abilities should be forced to watch the death scene at the end so often in films, the hero delivers his dying words, and then flops sideways in an overdone dramatic flourish. There was none of that here; instead, Connery has Arthur just drift away, staring into the beyond, and somehow, goodness knows how he does it, the life just vanishes from his eyes! An amazing piece of acting, and worth seeing the film for, if nothing else is.Beyond this, however, there is plenty for the viewer to enjoy. Of course, it's not Shakespeare, and isn't trying to carry a strong message. As pure escapist entertainment, I found it passes muster, and if this was its First Knight, then the run should be a long one. 7/10 "},{"Title":"An Extraordinary Romance (Spoilers)","Date":"23 May 2004","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  There are spoilers in the following comment.First Knight is an incredible interpretation of the Arthurian legend, although it is undeniably inaccurate and happily ignorant of many important aspects of the original story. Anyone who has read The Once and Future King by T.H. White or Le Morte d'Arthur will testify that First Knight pays no homage to many pivotal characters and story lines, and of course, brazenly ignores the proper ending of the magical tale.However, the argument I will make is this First Knight was never intended to be a historically reverent production; instead, it focuses on the beautiful love triangle between Guinevere, Lancelot, and Arthur, and it does an amazing job portraying that portion of the story, if nothing else. Never have I seen such a romantic and pure love story, and much of this effect is produced by the film's capable actors. The ever-beautiful Julia Ormond, in particular, played Guinevere to perfection and managed to convince audiences that it is possible to love two men at the same time, though in invariably different ways. Her every gesture was poignantly suggestive of her increasingly difficult position in remaining loyal to Arthur amidst the burgeoning passion she feels for Lancelot.First Knight also contains the most gratifying climactical kiss ever, and the chemistry between Lancelot (Richard Gere) and Guinevere (Julia Ormond) is moving and very convincing.With that said, I believe this film should be judged not as a historical epic, but as a sweeping romance, and in this department, Jerry Zucker's film can do no wrong. Rating 10/10.  "},{"Title":"Baffled by the low rating","Date":"1 September 2006","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" I honestly can't understand how this movie has been rated an average of 5.5. It's very well written, not the bigger than life tedious epic that movies of this genre tend to be (such as Troy), but rather a simple yet touching story about the boundaries of friendship and loyalty.I can't say enough good things about Connery's performance in this film. Also, I looooved the actor that was cast as the villain, and even though Gere doesn't do wonders with his part as Lancelot (I never did like American actors in British-oriented movies, Costner in Robin Hood was the exception), he certainly doesn't take anything away from this lovely movie. A very nice angle to this oh-so-familiar legend.Enjoy -) "},{"Title":"The worst film EVER made.","Date":"30 September 2001","Score":"15 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  This film above all else illustrates perfectly the effect of corporate finance and star ego on the film industry. To take one of the greatest epic stories ever written and then to change it so completely that the only remaining similaritys are the names of the characters (but not the characters themself) makes you wonder why they bother to use the legend in the first place. The acting is crap and lacklustre, the plot is laughable, the sets pathetic, costume, sound, script there is not one decent thing about the film. The first time I saw it I actually walked out half way through, the only film that I have ever done that with. And I watched Spice Girls the Movie. Recently however it was on tv and I watched the second half thinking maybe it just needs time to get going but my god it gets worse. Everyone who was involved in the making of this film should be made to work stacking shelves in Tesco`s for the rest of their lives, they should never be allowed to even watch a film, let alone make one, again ever as a punishment for inflicting this b**tardisation on the world. "},{"Title":"King Arthur's tale made into uninteresting film.","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"28 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  This is a painfully bad retelling of the Arthurian Legend. The bad guys use crossbow pistols and wear black leather ala Road Warrior, The good guys look like a high school production of Camelot. Camelot itself looks like part of Disneyland.The story centers around Richard Gere as an unappealing Lancelot, Sean Connery as a doddering Arthur and Julia Ormond (Guenevere) who, despite being the high point of the film, is completely unable to convince us that she has any affection for the wizened Arthur.Bad guys grimace, music sweeps heroically, rousing speaches and predictability ensue, followed by a forgettable conclusion.Not worth it even for fans of the genre. "},{"Title":"You must not care whether you live or die","Date":"11 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" There were three medieval/British Isle films released in 1995 -- Braveheart, Rob Roy and First Knight. Mel Gibson's Braveheart is certainly the most epic of the three, but I found it overrated; which isn't to say I don't like it, I just don't feel that it's as great as the hype would suggest. I liked Rob Roy slightly better than Braveheart; it's very adult-oriented, violent and grim, however.I feel the best of the three, believe it or not, was First Knight, a believable take on the King Arthur/Camelot legend starring Sean Connery as Arthur, Richard Gere as Lancelot and Julia Ormond as Guinevere. They get tangled up in a bit of a love triangle.As I said, this is a realistic portrayal of the story so, thankfully, you won't see any of that silly magical jive with Merlin, Excalibur, etc. This explains why so many panned the film, but I don't get their beef, aren't there enough cinematic depictions of the Camelot tale for them to enjoy, like Excalibur? I'll put it this way, First Knight is to the Arthor/Lancelot legend what the film Troy is to the Helen of Troy chronicle.The film caught my fascination right away with the character of Lancelot. He is portrayed as an expert swordsman, drifter, loner and all-around lost soul. The beginning of the picture reveals something integral to understanding his character Lancelot takes on an intimidating dude in a swordfight contest at a village he just drifted into. After Lancelot prevails, the big guy asks him for advice on how to be as skilled a swordsman as Lancelot. Lancelot tells him that he needs a couple of obvious sword-fighting skills, to which the man confidently replies, I can do that. Then Lancelot tells him the last quality he needs And you must not care whether you live or die. This is a powerful scene; Gere plays the character very convincingly (in fact, if you hate Gere, this film will give you a new-found respect for him). This character-defining episode reveals HOW Lancelot is the only one able to prevail against an incredible and decidedly deadly weapons gauntlet later in the story. And, speaking of that gauntlet sequence, it's fabulous.The rest of the film is just a solid medieval/British Isle adventure, with the requisite forest scenes and all.One small criticism would be that, although I enjoyed the heroic episode wherein Lancelot rescues Guinevere in Malagant's cave fortress, its pretty implausible. But these are larger-than-life figures, right?Reviewer Craig Connell pointed out another notable aspect of the film It stresses character nobility and even the importance of prayer.First Knight more than satisfied my hunger for a medieval British isles flick and surprised me with the intriguing character of the suicidally brave Lancelot.If one doesn't have hang-ups regarding the absence of Merlin, Excalibur and the magical baggage that goes with 'em this is a quite entertaining film.GRADE B "},{"Title":"Very bad adaptation of Arthur's legend","Date":"8 April 2012","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" Better than doing nothing I suppose. If you have popcorn to go with it.The only resemblance to Arthurian legend are the names and a little of the plot. Probably would have been better if they just made up a mythological kingdom and characters. This is a terrible attempt to tell the story of Arthur, Lancelot, and Guinevere.Evidently all the money invested in this went to the actor's salaries. The Costumes look like they came from GoodWill Industries and the armour looks like it was made of recycled aluminum cans.Sean Connery is a great actor, but too old (IMHO) to play Arthur. Gere is horrible as Lancelot. If you want a good movie about King Arthur, get Excalibur. "},{"Title":"Good in pieces","Date":"13 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" (As a note, I have not read much King Arthur history/literature, so my comments will be made purely out of the content of the film, and not in comparison to how it may deviate from what people expect from the original story.) I like the first half of this movie. I've seen it at least twice for every time I've seen the second half--I usually turn it off before then. The first hour or so is fresh, enjoyable, and has (in my opinion) well-done filming. I don't know why, but it seems like everyone was getting tired about halfway through the writers lagged in the screenplay, the actors weren't as easy to associate with, the flow of the movie just seemed to run down a bumpy road before finally landing in a pothole near the end of the movie. To be generous, I would rate the first half an 8 and the second half a 4; thus my overall rating is a 6.If the movie had stayed as good as it started out (minus the cliché flashbacks to childhood disaster we've seen for so many of these types of heroes Batman Forever, King Arthur, The Saint...) I think it could have been a quality movie. In my opinion, your best hope of really liking this movie is to be a fan of one or more of the actors. A King Arthur historian would most undoubtedly find too much fault to be able to enjoy it. An action-adventure-seeker would find it mediocre in the battle scenes. And someone looking for a good romance...well, it's OK, but not enough to win the movie entirely. "},{"Title":"I loved Julia","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I didn't think this movie was fantastic but pretty good. All throughout the movie I was waiting for the scenes between Gere and Julia. I also loved the scenery and background of the movie All in all a 7 on 10 "}{"Title":"Moderate film","Date":"23 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  This movie could have been much better, if it didn't lack humor this much. Despite the fair cast, good acting, nice settings and nice story (although Arthur-purists probably won't agree), this film is only a moderate one (imho) Almost all of the dialogues are 'functional' and serving the storyline, it seems. I don't like this.(The only funny thing is the little crossbow, used by Malagant's men...I'm not very sure, but I don't think there were any crossbows in Arthur's story)  "},{"Title":"A new take on Camelot.","Date":"11 June 2008","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" I got the DVD for Julia Ormond 'Guinivere'. She did not disappoint me. She gave the somewhat uneven script a better effort than many other performers could have managed. She was obviously athletic and an accomplished equestrienne. There obviously was no stunt double needed to ride the spirited mare presented as a gift by King Arthur.I noticed the two carriages Arthur sent to fetch Guinevere seemed far too advanced for early medieval times. Malagant ambushes the carriages and separates the one carrying Guinevere from its escort. The left door is torn off Guinevere's carriage by a passing tree as the ladies on board jump to escape capture. Later, as the escort and all the ladies are reunited; the second carriage, with different colored upholstery, is used to transport Guinevere with fleeting use of the first carriage in some scenes. The continuity people broke down here.There were a lot of night scenes that too obviously were lit by modern lighting. There was a battle at night between opposing cavalry troops that seemed odd. To charge at an enemy at night over rough terrain was a guaranteed disaster. The horses would step in holes or trip over obstacles and fall in a tangled heap. That is why ancient warfare was almost exclusively conducted in sunlight.The film had some good moments. There was the matching of wits between King Arthur and Prince Malagant. These two warriors had fought together for years. They knew each other very well. When they came to blows, each one anticipated the likely moves and counter moves of the other. Of course, it was inevitable that one of them would become too clever for their own good and lose the struggle. And so it was in this war.There was the clever use of a boat to kidnap Guinevere. A seemingly harmless boat approaches the landing on the lake of Camelot with a supposed message for Guinevere. When she appears, she is abducted and whisked across the lake by means of a line attached to the boat that is drawn by a horse cart. No pursuit can possibly move quickly enough to intercept the boat. The abduction is aided by hidden swimmers that suddenly emerge from the water and prevent the sentries of Camelot from interfering. Of course, the swimmers would not be able to make an escape along with the boat. They would have to face the fury of the defenders and soon be overwhelmed. They sacrificed themselves deliberately to serve the interests of Prince Malagant.The love triangle at the heart of the film never seemed to work very well. Sean Connery was far too old to carry his corner of the triangle as King Arthur. His dynastic duty to father an heir would have seen him married years before, romance or no romance. A man as wise as Arthur would have quickly spotted the smoldering embers between Launcelot and Guinevere and taken steps to protect everyone from the disaster that threatened. The huge blunder of a public trial for his straying wife would have been a tremendous blow to Arthur's public standing. A blow he could ill afford in the midst of a war. Far wiser would have been to send Launcelot on his way and keep the matter secret.I was struck by the fact that none of the knights of the round table were married or seemed interested in the fair sex. Malagant had his brooding cave as a stronghold, but no women in evidence. That was far too contrary to human nature to ring true. Malagant could hardly attract a huge band of ruffians to serve him if they had to live a celibate life.Richard Gere did better here than one would imagine. He was a capable horseman and adequate with a sword to my untrained eye. Only when he opened his mouth did the suspension of disbelief falter. I can only speculate what criterion led to his casting for this role. Surely, a suitable British actor could be found to fulfill the role.I didn't notice any sparks between any of the major players. Individually, they were fine. Together, they just seemed disinterested in each other. Well, casting a film is an art, not a science.Overall, I can watch this film regularly and enjoy it every time. There are always new points to note and understand. "},{"Title":"Best Movie Ever","Date":"3 April 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" This was the BEST Movie I have ever seen I can't stop thinking about it it was sad to me I loved it! Richard and Julai did a good job and I loved Richard as Lancelot! I think it's the best movie it's my favorite seriously this was a Good movie no lie i really want to see it again even though i saw it two times it was a good-movie it wasn't dumb star wars is dumb not this movie though and the costumes were creative.So it really was a good movie,did I say it was a good movie it's the best ever. I have to make this longer so i will just say how much i love and love First Knight.. really i do I am serious it was sad because Arthur Dies it wasn't a bad movie Richard Gere and Julia Ormond did a very good job they did! this isn't that long so i have to keep typing overall the cast was great and everything the plot the story because it's so exciting and like you wan to know what is going to happen next and the kiss was fine i am not into kissing because I am only 13...anwyays so maybe this is long enough now..now..maybe maybe so yeah it was the best movie it was better than The Notebook... "},{"Title":"Guninvere goes to marry Arthur of Camelot, and on the way is saved by a brave knight, Lancelot, who falls in love with her, and swears to love her forever.","Date":"19 January 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" This is one of my favorite movies! It shows Richard Geere at his best, and is one of Sean Connery's better films. Julia Ormond is fantastic in her portrayal of Guinivere, and the story is historically accurate. A great find for couples who want an action flick and a chick flick in the same night. The fighting scenes are not too gory, and the love scenes are not too graphic. The Fencing is PHENOMENAL! Richard Geere really looks like he knows what he is doing, and proves that he can fence several times in the film. The costuming is not my favorite, I would have liked to see Julia Ormond (who by the way has the perfect body for the role) in much lighter clothes, with more of a feminine feel, but then again, flowy feminine clothes were probably not historically accurate. The acting is superb, especially by Ormond, who was relatively unknown at the time. I hope everyone rents this film at least one time, it is worth the money, and it will quickly become your favorite! "},{"Title":"Magnificent","Date":"1 January 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" This is basically a fantasy story that uses the King Arthur legend. Gere's Lancelot is a wandering mercenary in a medieval land who becomes a Knight at Connery's round table, and ends up clashing with Connery's Arthur over his bride,Julia Ormond, amid the backdrop of a land under threat from a tyrant. Among the things that make this movie great are the cinematography, the sets(especially Camelot and the beautiful Welsh countryside), the superb score, the action sequences and the refreshing aura of innocence and lack of cynicism which is reinforced by some of the minor characters like Peter and Mark. Gere is one of my favorite actors. He's taken a lot of flak from those who are probably jealous of his good looks. This guy can act and he's convincing as the brilliant swordsman. Ben Cross is excellent as Gere's Nemesis, Connery adds his big presence and Ormond looks good as the lovely lady of Lyonesse. "},{"Title":"You have my word","Date":"13 January 2004","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  This movie is wonderful.  It is a three-way love story.  Gere's character exhibits both passion & honor in a beautiful way.  He has much passion toward a married woman, but he promises never to kiss her unless she asks him to.  The way he holds his passion back is amazing.  It is really her who explodes & invites the kiss, & what a kiss it is.  The king shows his foolishness by having a public trial for his wife after he discovers the kiss.  Oh, what human folly will do!  It is the death of him.  The story, full of love & so many other human emotions, moves along well & sweeps you with it. "},{"Title":"cool movie","Date":"31 January 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  This Movie is so good! I watched it 5 knights in a row) Richard Gere is good in this movie. my favorite part is when Sir Lancelot and Queen Guinevere are kissing that fierce kiss. "},{"Title":"A surprisingly great movie","Date":"26 August 1999","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I try to stay away from Richard Gere movies. I also try to stay away from 80-year old Sean Connery doing sexual scenes. This movie, however, was very good. Both actors were outstanding, Gere as Lancelot, and Connery as the legendary King Arthur. Ben Cross played a good villain. "},{"Title":"life itself","Date":"3 July 2008","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" This is my favorite movie. Of all time. Sean's vibrating timbre, Julia's sweet face and regal manner, and Gere's irresistible charm. It is a lovely, fanciful place, partly dreamy, partly familiar. Full of truths and life lessons. It is not a dark telling of the tale. It has a marked absence of hype. It is a kindly film, that makes you want to believe in the goodness in Man.Some of you argue it is not how the legend goes ?If Arthur Himself could watch this film, he would no doubt say, It was not how I remember, but how I wish it were. "},{"Title":"Magnificent romantic  Camelot ruled by a noble King Arthur","Date":"8 May 2006","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" I understand the criticisms by viewers outraged that this film is not faithful to the Arthurian legends, although there is some variation even in the myths. Apparently this version draws more heavily upon the Arthurian material of Chretien de Troyes rather than on Thomas Malory's 'Le Morte d'Arthur'. Personally, I love this moral and compelling adaptation, far preferring it to the earlier movie, Excalibur. There is no magic or witchcraft here, only the more engrossing depiction of human strength and frailty. No malevolent Mordred, no magic sword Excalibur, no Merlin or Morgan le Fay, with their distracting sorcery that never much interested me. Likewise no Elaine, no Sir Galahad, and no gallant quest for the Holy Grail. This movie instead focuses on Camelot's love triangle. It examines themes of morality, loyalty, and love versus lust...played out against the backdrop of strife with one of Arthur's (apparently minor) enemies, Malagant, portrayed to arrogant perfection by actor Ben Cross.In this story, King Arthur's greedy former first knight, Malagant, has betrayed him and is now inflicting terror on the estate of Leonesse which borders Malagant's own lands...pillaging, burning, and murdering at will. The wicked Malagant covets Leonesse and ultimately Camelot for himself. The peasants of Leonesse appeal for help from their lovely & compassionate governing lady, Guinevere. Though emotionally wrenched at leaving her homeland, she decides that her people can best be protected by an alliance with Camelot and sets off for the promised marriage to its powerful but just king, Arthur. While en route her carriage is attacked and she is taken prisoner by Malagant. Guinevere manages an escape to the woods, where she is rescued by Lancelot, a wandering swordsman who attempts to seduce her. Though tempted, she resists his advances and makes her anticipated journey to Camelot. However, Lancelot unexpectedly arrives at the castle on the very day of her public engagement. After braving the gauntlet in a foolish but courageous bid to win a kiss from the future queen, he is invited to join the Round Table as Arthur's first knight. Although Guinevere chooses to marry Arthur as planned, she and Lancelot continue to share a secret attraction, even as the knight pledges allegiance to his king.The legendary Camelot is wonderfully portrayed, with Guinevere's first glimpse of Arthur's golden kingdom visually stunning and emotionally touching. The costuming is superb and the forest scenery breathtakingly fresh & green. Arthur's castle is spectacular, his Round Table dramatically depicted, his knights loyal and brave, the wedding scene truly beautiful, the brutal medieval warfare fierce, and the trial of the would be lovers gripping.Sean Connery is absolutely masterful, bringing the perfect appearance, demeanor, and voice to the role of the legendary king. Arthur is a mature, dutiful, fair, and gentle man of chivalrous character, willing to accept the bad with the good in those closest to him for he 'can't love people in slices'. This is a principled and Christian king, who seeks God's guidance and forgiveness in dealing with his enemies and eventually also with Guinevere & Lancelot.Arthur has waited long for love. Wanting Guinevere to come to him from love not duty, he generously offers her the protection of Leonesse without demanding marriage in return. When she refuses that offer, he asks her to 'marry the king but to love the man'. The scene in which he stumbles upon his wife & trusted knight locked in a passionate kiss is one of the most moving in all cinema, his face and actions conveying quiet control but also absolute betrayal and devastation. It is heart wrenching when he later asks Guinevere to look upon HIM as she has earlier looked upon Lancelot. The king nobly chooses a public trial of the pair to maintain a sense of open justice and honour in Camelot, even at the expense of his own personal anguish & humiliation and also the degradation & possibly even execution of his beloved Queen.The beautiful Julia Ormond is compelling as the confused, conflicted, but restrained & dignified Guinevere, who loves two men in different ways. She is a woman torn between her will and her heart...her sense of duty, gratitude, respect, and deep love for this older yet magnificent king, versus her forbidden passion for the bold & dashing young knight. Richard Gere charmingly portrays Arthur's first knight, Lancelot, a formerly roving & womanizing rogue who must deal with childhood traumas of his own and now struggles against passions that would betray his liege. There are no sex scenes in this movie, and Guinevere is physically faithful to her husband throughout, except for one unforgettable farewell kiss with the departing Lancelot. Even when the threatening Malagant rips off Guinevere's dress, she is still clad modestly underneath in a chemise and petticoat.So many memorable quotes from this film, but the two that stand out in my mind are the knightly 'brother to brother' pledge (with such tragic irony in Lancelot's circumstance) and King Arthur's invocation at the onset of each Round Table meeting May God grant us the wisdom to discover right, the will to choose it, and the strength to make it endure.Although the final scenes depart dramatically from the myths, surely they are among the most moving in the cinematic world. With his sword, the dying Arthur reinstates Lancelot as his first knight and bestows his parting blessing upon the pair, entrusting Lancelot both with his kingdom and his wife. During his last moments the king finally feels the warmth of sunlight from his beloved's face. A truly dramatic and spectacular farewell follows, in which the barge bearing Arthur's body is set ablaze by a flaming arrow, his knights (led by Lancelot) raising their swords in final tribute. Yes, these lovers now have the consolation of each other, though alas, both have lost their incredible king. Perhaps this is not the Camelot of the legends, but it is the Camelot I might have wished for. "}{"Title":"A Lousy Arthur","Date":"11 December 2002","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Recently when at the video store I got First Knight mixed up in my head with A Knight's Tale, mistaking the former for the latter. When I got home and realized my error I figured, 'Go ahead and watch it, how bad can it be?' Heck, it has Sean Connery, Richard Gere, Julia Ormand, and Ben Cross in it!The answer is that it can be pretty damn bad and a complete waste of time. So much so, that it's difficult to find anything good to say about the movie.  Casting Sean Connery as a believable King Arthur? Maybe if the film were made in 1975 and not 1995. Acting it's as wooden as can be imagined. The actor's have to be treating First Knight as just a paycheck. Direction, cinematography, score? Forget 'em, they're no improvement over the casting and acting.Don't make my mistake; this one is a loser.  "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  First Knight is one of the best movies I have seen.  While I enjoy Arthurian legend and fantasy, I find most fantasy movies fail to impress me.  This one is dramatic and very romantic, and the actors were well selected.  Richard Gere does an excellent job in this role, and the chemistry between Richard Gere and Julia Ormond was incredible.  The scenes between them were very well done.  If you are looking for hack-and-slash action, it is okay I suppose, but if you are looking for a dramatic fantasy love story with action, this is the one for you. "},{"Title":"Ridiculous","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  It's hard to categorize this film other than to say that it's ridiculous. Gere's Lancelot is a wavering, shifty buffoon, not a hero by any stretch. He has a 20th century American's attitude towards duty and honor which was quite appalling. (Since his accent was intact, one would almost think this was a time travel film, in which an American was transported back in time to deal with the King and Guenivere.)The costumes were laughable. They were 500-700 years ahead of Arthur's time, and were a distraction.What WAS that game all about? A HUGE medieval video game-style contest in the middle of the movie was preposterous.Sean Connery? Oh, no. Please get your dentures fixed, sir. The acting, even from him, was wooden. I was left dumbfounded by this foolish, preposterous, and DUMB adaptation. Skip it and rent 1981's Excalibur instead. It's one of the best, honest and beautifully filmed Arthurian Legend films of all time, with GOOD acting, fine sets, and great writing. "},{"Title":"one of my favorite joke ever !","Date":"27 March 2008","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" Don't watch that unless you really wanna laugh ! Seeing those jerks running and saying lame lines while wearing Star-trek outfits in what seems to be as wild as Central Park can cause injuries to your nerves. Be prepared to laugh each time you see Richard Gere and his perfect hair and teeth, be prepared to cry each time poor Sir Connery gets in and seems lost... And of course, you have this smelly love-story, which ranks down from universal and everlasting to that awful comedy they call love in college movies. Don't waste your time unless you really wanna laugh with friends (don't watch it alone, as the guys who made it really thought this was a serious movie...) and go get a copy of Excalibur by John Boorman.Definitely one of the cheapest film ever !!! "},{"Title":"#1 on my worst movies list.","Date":"30 August 2006","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" I've seen thousands of movies, and this takes it. I don't just dislike it, I hate everything about it. Tell me how a writer can possibly make an Arthurian story in which they kill King Arthur in an utterly non-canonical way? And how does Richard Gere ever get cast in films taking place in England? And how can one man singlehandedly tank a scene involving a lovely young woman in the green forest outside of Camelot? There are no answers...only more questions. I refuse to ask them anymore. I can only state that I suffered through this would-be date movie under duress. This was another in a long string of terrible movies to haunt the early nineties. Virtuosity anyone? How about the dreadful and plodding Age of Innocence in which Daniel Day Lewis' inner monologue forced us to check our watches repeatedly during the lighthouse dilemma. Back to Richard Gere, how's about Sommersby? This one actually rates highly with many people. Wait...she can't tell he isn't her husband? And neither can anyone else? Far and Away? God, did I really see all of these in the THEATER??? "},{"Title":"glamorous but tame and shallow","Date":"26 September 2000","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  The actors in this film are first string, but they aren't given much material to work with.  This is a fantasy version of the King Arthur legend in that it skips any attempt to be historically accurate to any medieval era.  But, while a fantasy, it also completely avoids the notion of wizards, prophecies or magic.  I got the feeling the script writers weren't given much latitude at all on what they could do with the story, and so we get a by-the-numbers generic King Arthur and Camelot plot with the only new twist being a lot more emphasis on Lancelot.  The battle scenes are big but not realistic.  The Camelot set is cartoonish.  The plot is on a comic book level.  The film is just a showcase for the three glamorous leads.If only someone would take on the difficult task of making Bernard Cornwell's rich King Arthur trilogy into films.  Cornwell has shown what you can do with a little creativity, imagination, and a flair for historical accuracy.  So what if King Arthur is a legend?  That doesn't mean someone like him couldn't have lived and that his exploits, friends, and enemies couldn't have had drama, depth and personality.  When I read his books I was not only entertained but believed they could have actually happened.  When I saw this movie I thought fake from beginning to end. "},{"Title":"Mediocre, but moderately entertaining.","Date":"15 April 2007","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" I have no great love for this film, nor too many ill feelings for it. It's a respectably well shot film, but lacking in being grounded in any sort of fictional reality. By that I mean it's pretty obvious that the Arthurian name and legend were tacked on to this piece to authenticate it for the audience.Which is really too bad, but I suppose a necessary evil to get people to come see the film when it was first conceived and released. There's nothing here to really brag about. Everything looks fairly professional for this sort of film, but the genre falls more into the romance category than period film.One wonders why Richard Gere was cast as Lancelot. He's a solid actor, but he doesn't strike me as a French knight. Then again, as I and others have mentioned, there's not much here pertaining to the Arthurian legends save for a handful of proper nouns. Connery is an okay King Arthur, but has two ham-filled moments that seem both forced and telegraphed, while Julia Hormond seems to be playing more of a runaway bride than monarch-to-be.For a film depicting the middle ages the art direction is highly sanitized. For sets, costumes and props seem to be awfully clean; almost sterile. And, upon reflection, considering the cast, story and plot, it's evident that this was intentional, and that the aim of the film was to deliver an adventurous romance than anything speaking to the actual legend.Most people reading this review will have seen the film, but, in case you haven't, and you're interested in what I have to say about it, then the best I can do is call it worth a single night's rental. The film is what it is, so don't expect too much from it. But on that note it's not exactly a B-movie, though teeters on the abyss of being a mockery of itself. "},{"Title":"So much blue...","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"12 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  A boring, turgid interpretation of the Arthurian legend.  If you're looking for Merlin, Excalibur, and the Holy Grail, don't look here.  Don't bother looking for an attempt to create a more realistic, historical viewpoint of ancient Britain, either.  This film is all about the love triangle between Arthur, Guinevere, and Lancelot.The casting is atrocious.  I love almost every performance of Sean Connery's I've seen, but he was not meant for this film.  He's just too old.  Kings may have often chosen much younger women to be their brides, but King Arthur as a dirty old man just doesn't jive with the legend.  Richard Gere as Lancelot is also completely wrong.  He could have at least tried to fake a British accent.  It's not that difficult; if Madonna can do it, I'm sure he could.Besides the casting director, the person who designed the sets should have also been fired.  Camelot at night looks more like Las Vegas than a medieval castle lit by candles.  I'm not usually one to be bothered by details like that, but it's truly distracting.  Not nearly as distracting as the excessive use of the color blue, though.  The clothes are blue, the castle spires are blue, the furniture is blue.  Blue everywhere.  It's the only memorable part of the movie, and the the only enjoyment I got out of the film was watching to see what else would turn up blue.  It's supposed to be the Kingdom of Camelot, not the Kingdom of the Smurfs. "},{"Title":"Do you love bad movies? This is the one for you!,","Date":"11 September 2006","Score":"26 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" How on earth did Sean Connery, Richard Gere, Julie Ormand, Ben Cross, Sir John Gielgud, and other actors of note, ever get roped into making this awful atrocious movie? The word hokum is undoubtedly a compliment in this case. Surely it wasn't for money? Nobody's that greedy or hard up. Or did they all think it was a good idea at the time? If so, they were badly mistaken.The supposed Norman armour looked like something that was dreamed up for (and thrown out of) Star Trek or Flash Gordon. Actually the styles of (designer) armour on display here range from the bizarre to the unbelievable with shades of the ridiculous in between. Disregarding that they were all made out of modern material, uniforms were not worn by any military in Britain until Cromwell's New Model Army in the 17th century. Until then recognition of both friend and enemy alike was by banners etc., and was all a bit of a hit and miss affair (just like this movie in fact). On reflection I can't recall seeing a single banner in the entire film.The fabled King Arthur wouldn't have been Norman anyway. He was supposed (debatedly) to have been a 5th or 6th century Ancient Briton, some say with Roman ancestry, and to have lived long before the Norman Conquest was even thought of. One theory even puts forward the view that he actually was a Roman who'd remained in Britain after all others had departed. Whichever of the many theories you prefer, you'd have to agree that he certainly wouldn't even have seen a Gothic building let alone lived in one.The moralising (or should I say demoralising) script was not only absolutely dire but downright silly. Almost as silly as the gas fire in the middle of the Round Table.I don't think that Britain was actually mentioned in the script, so perhaps if this re-telling of a powerful story had been set anywhere (a planet somewhere in the far reaches of Andromeda comes to mind) instead of in and around Camelot, and with a different set of characters, the movie might have been acceptable. As it is, it has to go down in the comedy mode. Except that it wasn't meant to be one.Richard Gere as Lancelot has to be the one of the worst casting mistakes in movie history, that is if you discount John Wayne as Ghengis Khan (and the Surely this must be the Son of God! Centurian), or a 30 yr old Robert Taylor as Billy the Kid. And Sean Connery as King Arthur doesn't rate much better. The only good comments I can make about the whole production is that there's a rather nice musical score lurking somewhere behind everything, and Adam Greenberg's cinematography is rather good. For those two points alone I've given it an extra star, but it's still an awful movie.In conclusion, this has to be a Follywood production that cannot be missed...otherwise you'll never know how bad it is! "},{"Title":"Romantic melodrama","Date":"5 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" This is a well wore story. This one doesn't add much to it. The only interesting thing new is the actors involved. Sean Connery is the elder King Arthur. Julia Ormond is Guinevere whose own realm is under constant attack by Prince Malagant (Ben Cross) a former Knight of the round table. Richard Gere is Lancelot who keeps rescuing Guinevere.This film isn't grand enough to be a spectacle. The CG is primitive and limited to far away scenes. It isn't gritty enough to be realistic. It is just good enough to be watchable. It's more a romance melodrama.The acting is above par. When you have Sean Connery as King Arthur, you can't get much better than that. Richard Gere as Lancelot is more of a problem. He doesn't have the heroic act down. He's more smarmy than sincere. And Julia Ormond is regal without the heat. "}{"Title":"An Underrated Gem...","Date":"31 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" I have read a number of negative reviews of this film, including the criticisms that Gere is miscast, & that it's not historically accurate (even though it is about fictional characters-???)While these people are of course entitled to their opinion, I think they miss the point' F.K. ' was NEVER intended to be a remake of ' Camelot ' (1967), or ' Excalibur ' (1981). Rather, it is its OWN story, with its OWN identity, which just happens to also utilize the characters of Arthur, Lancelot, & Guinevere. In fact, you get the vibe that is an ' Alternate-Reality 'version of that realm, sans the sorcery, and with Gere as a kind of California-Slacker-Type-Hero, which he actually plays very well.So when taken on its OWN terms, it is an example of exquisite film-making.M "},{"Title":"God uses people like you, Lancelot. Because your heart is open. You hold nothing back. You give all of yourself.","Date":"12 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" First Knight is directed by jerry Zucker and co-written by Lorne Cameron, David Hoselton and William Nicholson. It stars Richard Gere, Sean Connery, Julia Ormond and Ben Cross. Music is scored by Jerry Goldsmith and cinematography by Adam Greenberg.Lancelot (Gere) falls in love with Guinevere (Ormond), inconvenient since she is due to be married to King Arthur (Connery). Meanwhile, Malagant (Cross), who has been expelled from the Round Table, plots to seize power from Arthur and the rest of the Knights of the Round Table.This is a different Camelot, this is principally a period piece love triangle involving King Arthur and the Knights of the Round Table. To prepare for that instead of expecting a dashing all action picture full of magic and mystical malarkey, can only aid the viewing experience. This is mature well written stuff, very well crafted by Zucker and his team, though the production fluctuates in style (the fight scenes are averagely staged but everything looks gorgeous). Cast are mostly fine, where even though Gere looks odd, somehow out of place with the period, he turns in an acceptable performance considering the humanist screenplay to hand. Lack of chemistry between Connery and Ormond is a problem, while Cross barely registers as a villain of note. Goldsmith provides a heart lifting score, impressive given that he was brought in at the last minute when Maurice Jarre jumped ship.All told it's an enjoyable picture that doesn't linger long in the memory once finished. But I was armed with the knowledge of what sort of narrative I was getting. Had I paid to view it at the cinema on release, I'm pretty sure I would have been just a little miffed, especially given that we also had Braveheart and Rob Roy that year, two scorching hot period epics. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Memorable kiss, a movie for R. Gere fans","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  This is a movie for Richard Gere fans. Although it has some flaws, it presents a handsome, athletic Richard Gere in a romantic role. The nighttime views of Camelot are beautifully shot. And the kiss between Lancelot and Guineivere is one of the most passionate on screen kisses in years. When King Arthur says, Look at me like you looked at him, it is heartbreaking. I think this is a chick flick, and for Richard Gere fans, it is definitely worth seeing. Others can move onto something else.  It could have used better writing. Could have used better casting.  "},{"Title":"One that breaks the mold ...","Date":"12 December 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I used to think no movie with Sean Connery can be all bad.  Then I saw this monstrosity.Mr. Zucker should go back to being part of Zucker, Zucker and Abrahams -- he/they had a flair for idiotic comedy.  His romances have all but spawned a new subgenre the idiotic romance.  Take Ghost.  Is that supposed to be a romance, a whodunnit, or a comedy? First Knight is especially awful, second only to Robin Hood, Prince of Thieves for mixing medieval legends and telling none well. What's up with that chrome-and-black-leather armour?  Is this supposed to be the sadomasochist's King Arthur?Avoid at all costs.  Despite the too-shiny armour, Boorman's Excalibur at least gets much of the legend right.     "},{"Title":"Chivalrous Love","Date":"22 July 2004","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  First Knight was directed by Jerry Zucker in 1995. Sean Connery plays the legendary King Arthur of Camelot. Prince Malagant (Ben Cross), the most courageous knight of the round table, was envious of King Arthur's power and glory. He left Camelot with the intention of raising on army and becoming the king. The days of peace were over for King Arthur, who wanted only to settle down and marry his beautiful and independent fiancée Guinevere (Julia Ormond). When Guinevere was attacked by Malagant's men twice, the fearless Lancelot (Richard Gere) came to rescue her every time. Guinevere and Lancelot instantly fall in love, but she marries Arthur anyway. King Author is greatly impressed with Lancelot and offers him a place on the round table. Lancelot accepts only to be close to Guinevere. After a victorious battle, Lancelot tells Guinevere that he is going to leave because he believes in Camelot and doesn't want to dishonor his pledge. They kiss and say goodbye when King Arthur walks in on the deceitful act. Arthur puts them on trial and the whole city attends. At this time, Malagant disrupts the process and demands that King Arthur deny his position as king. King Arthur proudly stands up to defeat Malagant and is shot by three arrows. Lancelot kills Malagant and another victory is won. On his deathbed, Arthur gives the kingdom to Lancelot and tells him to take care of Guinevere. First Knight is a movie that exhibits passionate love, spectacular battles, and knightly bravery all in one. The main idea of the film is to show how powerful love can be, even if it means death. Love can take away all reason of what right and wrong. Love is innocent and defines life. Even though the movie brilliantly shows the romance linking Arthur, Guinevere and Lancelot, it should have showed more battles and interaction between Arthur and his men.First Knight mainly focuses on the four main characters, King Arthur, Lancelot, Malagant, and Guinevere. The movie gives a good illustration of these characters and how they shape the story. The costumes seemed realistic to the legendary story of King Arthur. The city of Camelot was depicted as a clean and well protective city. The scenery gave it a nice touch to the tone of the movie. Overall, I rate First Knight four stars.  "},{"Title":"It's a fantastic film","Date":"5 December 2002","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I think First Knight is the best film I've seen in my life. I believe that it is the best performance of Sean Connery, that it's one of greatest actors (perhaps THE greatest one)in the world. The story is good, the screenplay is fantastic and the actors are all very good! Sean Connery is the best, but I think also Richard Gere have used all his talent to do this film. Julia Ormond plays very well her role and Ben Cross is perfect for his part. I can't understand because his average is 5.7. I think it isn't possible to give to this film less than 8!! (I think its right average is 10!!!!!!) So, can you explain me why you don't like it???Thank you,Gianluca "},{"Title":"An awesome adventure!","Date":"22 March 2001","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Great scenes! Wonderful adventure touching loyalty, furious battles, tragic betrayal. Altogether, this is a great movie that you shouldn't miss! Any movie that make me, Mr. Macho, shed a tear, has got to be worth watching! "},{"Title":"where are you BRYAN ADAMS?","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  This movie was great. It was great because it had a great cast and nice direction. My chief complaint is the soundtrack, this is where people could have done a terriffic job and put a BRYAN ADAMS song ala EVERYTHING I DO IT FOR YOU in ROBIN HOOD (which honestly would have went much better here). I like the way they took liberty on changing the legend to make the story different. And though many didnt like the ending, I thought it had a meaning that was kinda cool. Also some scenes were trully fantastic. It's sad that this film came out at the same time that BRAVEHEART did because people compared the two right away and that wasn't fair cause both films are completely different. very sad really, cause this film was good. I mean let's face it, GERE as LANCELOT and CONNERY as ARTHUR..man that was GREAT! "},{"Title":"The riding scenes at green field are the most beautiful i ever....","Date":"30 March 2000","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Riding the horse with the beatiful lady at the green field is one of the best scenes i have ever seen in my whole life.  The quality of the feelings of actors are excellent.  The scenarios are all perfectly represented.Connery and Gere were superb!  "},{"Title":"Richard Gere as Lancelot, Give me a break","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  This film was a total pile of garbage from start to finish, if I had of paid to see this I would have been really ticked off. If one is going to make a film about the Knights of the Round Table, then one should do it in the manner of Excalibur or the book Arthur Rex. That is why the story has been so popular for so long.  Tinkering with essential elements of the story, like making Launcelot some kind of a vagabond will only lead to the kind of waste of celluloid film that this was. I wish these so called artists would leave good stories alone, instead of trying to interpret something else into them. "}{"Title":"I'll keep this short, as effort is pointless...","Date":"26 September 2008","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" Like I said I'll try to keep this short and sweet. No point in wasting your time on how stupid this movie is.When it first came out, I was about 9 and I thought it was cool. I just watched it again a while ago and thought it was the dumbest piece of crap ever. This film made me realize that Richard Gere sucks, he is equal to Kevin Costner in Robin Hood. And overall an overrated actor. Connery is awesome but he phones his performance in. Maybe because Jerry Zucker directed he thought he was doing a comedy, then when it turned out he was making a 'serious' film Connery was disappointed. If you want to know what convinced me that this movie sucks At the end when Lancelot and Guenivere are on trial...All the bad guys just pop up along the walls and COMPLETELY surround Aurthur's army. So I guess nobody noticed the enemy's army marching through your giant front gates? As this tends to be the only way to get into a castle.I am not an expert on the Aurthur legend but I love the stories and interpretations and I thought this was by far the worst one.When Sean Connery is alone in his chambers shouting Why, why WHYYYY!? I don't think he realized the camera was rolling, and he was thinking about agreeing to do this film.Stick to the spoof genre Jerry Zucker, you're a king in that department (no pun intended) "},{"Title":"A great Pick for a Date","Date":"5 May 2003","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  First Knight is first Rate, the first time I saw it I was thinking this doesn't follow the book at all so throw out the book and watch the movie.  I really Love the great mix of Action and Romance. Some of the Best fighting chorography&#133; I've seen in a while. Richard Gear is charming for the ladies and Heroic for the Men.  Julia is beautiful and does such a great job as Lady Guinevere. I give this movie 9 stars and two thumbs up.What can I say this is a great action adventure Romance.  "},{"Title":"Medieval Hollywood on crusade","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  As a reasonably well-produced look at a comic-book Camelot, the main entertainment value of First Knight is its ability to inspire gales of derisive laughter.  Acceptable cast, mostly wasted  Sean Connery is a natural choice to play King Arthur, but why couldn't he have done so in a better movie?  And was it necessary to put him in a Benny Hinn pompadour?  And are we to believe that a tough, experienced old soldier like Arthur would come so unglued upon catching Gwen and Lance in a slobbery wet kiss?  Julia Ormond starts out smart and resourceful as Guinevere, but as the story unfolds -- and unravels -- she turns into a blubbering, stammering weakling and never recovers.  Richard Gere plays Lancelot as a surfer-dude jock, charismatic and athletic, and drifting from town to town as a freelance duellist in a way that medieval peasants NEVER did, since the right to bear arms was reserved to the peerage.  And why is he a peasant nobody in the first place, since the Lancelot of Arthurian legend was the son of a king?  John Gielgud is utterly wasted in a tiny, thankless role; so is Ben Cross as a sneering cardboard villain.  As is often the case with medieval Hollywood, a lack of research glares at us from the screen. Why are all the swords identical, as though issued from a munitions factory?  Why is Camelot apparently going through its blue period?  Why does the knights' daily garb look like a Star Fleet uniform accented with stainless steel accessories?  Why the abundance of tiny pistol-grip crossbows a la Mad Max?  What is a windmill doing in 6th-century England?  Why not a dish antenna while we're at it?  And where the hell is Merlin, especially since John Gielgud is standing around with nothing to do?  All told, despite being good for unintended laughs, and despite having just enough well-timed bursts of (mostly-contrived) action to keep the story moving, make no mistake  this is a bad flick.  How bad?  Let's put it this way when I got home, I watched Excalibur and Monty Python and the Holy Grail on tape back-to-back, then spent the next couple of weeks reading Malory's Le Morte d'Arthur, just to de-tox myself. "},{"Title":"What a stinker!","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"13 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I have just been laughing away to my self reading all the other reviews of this movie. Oh dear ) Yup, if you have any fore - knowledge of the Aurtherian legends, then this film will make you grind your teeth in dispair. I think my sister had rented it, I already knew it would be bad. I still watched to the end - with a grim, half wince, expression, as if witnessing a car crash. It is everything bad about hollywood - honestly - they should just donate the money to charity and kick the script writers in the shins. The fact that they had to butcher a fine story as well ... anyway... I'm sure you have read all the other comments ... I wonder if it will become one of those 'so bad, it is good' films, because some of it still makes me giggle. The fact that the uniforms the knights all wore looked more like Star Trek jerkins, and the 'Its a knock out' challange the Gere (who should be beaten with a pointy stick), are notable points of lunacy. Ok, I'm done ) "},{"Title":"Not only stupid, but ugly","Date":"6 March 2006","Score":"14 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" What woman would ever have trouble choosing between Sean Connery, even an old one (James Bond!), and Richard Gere (American Gigolo)? Guinevere's dilemma becomes ridiculous! Besides, the point of the Arthur tragedy is that Guinevere and Lancelot DO betray Arthur. Here, they just think about it and kiss once. (An abstinence-only Camelot legend?) On top of that, the movie is hideous. The costume designer should never be allowed to work again. Everybody wears some combination of blue and yellowish brown. Why would Arthur and his wife and his knights all wear the same colors? Why such ugly colors anyway? I agree with most reviewers that this movie is a terrible waste of some decent actors. "},{"Title":"In my opinion, one of the worst movies ever.","Date":"31 December 2000","Score":"15 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  In my opinion, one of the worst movies ever. This movie shows how Europeans think the Americans like to see the middle ages. A Disney-like castle, weapons, machines and armory invented centuries later. If it would have been a pure fantasy-movie with no connection to reality it would be still a bad movie but perhaps not that bad. Richard Gere is totally missplaced as Lancelot (One of the funniest scenes was the one on the battlefield in slowmotion that looked more like a shampoo commercial than a historical movie). All in all totally stupid. "},{"Title":"Julia Ormond is a treat for the eyes.","Date":"9 December 1999","Score":"15 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  The best reason for me enjoying this film was the beautiful Julia Ormond. She is such a  treat to watch that I can`t forget her. She gives a great performance and i enjoyed her. She shined all the way through.The scenes in the forest with Gere and Her was the best part and is what i remember most about this fine movie.Another reason is my liking was the adventure, these kinds of films often provide great setting`s and beautiful landscapes, First Knight provided it, especially the forest scenes were a treat for the eyes. The movie also contained fine music. The action was well staged and suspenceful.Maybe Richard Gere isn`t everybodys dream for the part as Lancelot, but i liked him, he is a good actor and his hair was fine.  The movie also contained a good performance from handsome actor Sean Connery. "},{"Title":"Swords, sorcery, and some really bad acting.","Date":"24 February 1999","Score":"15 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  In the fine tradition of schlock fantasy films like the Beastmaster and Deathstalker series comes First Knight.  Like those films, it features bad accents which rapidly fade, sets and matte-paintings that LOOK like sets and matte-paintings, and several machines that obviously run on electricity. It's a shallow retelling of Arthurian legend that eschews the things that make Arthurian legend exciting -- all the magic is trimmed away and it becomes nothing more than a soap-opera in tights.  Even the directing is utterly clueless.  The battle scenes are filmed in a Cops style shaky-cam that is not only jarring but slightly nauseating.The odd thing about First Knight is that it sports some top-shelf actors doing bottom-shelf acting.  Julia Ormond is perpetually dazed as Guinevere, Richard Gere plays Kevin Costner as Lancelot, and in the worst shock of all, Sean Connery can't seem to muster up a single emotion or facial expression. A telling scene is when he interrupts L&G in the act of love, and merely stares blankly at them, looking more bored than anything else, which was basically the audience reaction as well.  Even Arthur's death is so poorly acted and terribly filmed that it elicited laughs from the entire audience.If you're looking for a good retelling of Arthurian legend, see Excalibur. If you're not at all picky, or merely a rabid and indiscriminate Richard Gere fan, First Knight will at least hold you over. "},{"Title":"First Knight is King","Date":"30 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" The old tale of a love triangle about King Arthur, Lancelot and Guinevere is told in this wonderful film adaptation of the legend. First Knight is a king-sized movie with grand performances, a royal story, and rich costuming and sets. A golden movie for lovers of romance and the Arthurian legend.I love this movie. And I am highly disappointed with the IMDb rating on it. This film, First Knight takes a much deeper look at the three-sided romance (which is important to the legend) than most of the films on the Arthurian legend. I feel that Connery, Gere, and Ormond captured the passion, love, suffering, pain and heartaches of the characters very well. First Knight is King! 10/10 "},{"Title":"first knight","Date":"26 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" In the movie First Knight, the peasant Lancelot went all over the country to fight any one for money. Everyone he fought had lost to him. Lancelot ended up in Camelot and in Camelot There was a king. The king's name was Arthur of Camelot. Arthur became king at a young age. Lancelot falls in love with Guinevere, who is due to be married to King Arthur. Meanwhile, a violent warlord tries to seize power from Arthur and his Knights of the Round Table. Princess Guinevere was kidnapped by Malagant's army Lancelot goes and saves the Princess. King Arthur is very grateful to the poor peasant and makes him a knight of the Round Table Princess Guinevere objected to this. Guinevere was falling in love with Lancelot. She loved Lancelot but she also did not want to give up the crown for she may loses the protection over her country. "}{"Title":"Don't see this movie if you are expecting to watch something about the Arthurian legends","Date":"6 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" I love Arthurian legends and I like this movie because I realized from the first minute I watched it that this movie is not about Arthurian legends is a half-romantic half-adventure movie based on the characters from the Arthurian legends and any similarity with the legends is a mere coincidence...So, please, if you're looking for real stuff on Arthurian legends don't watch this movie, but if what you're looking for is a movie to chill-out, relax and enjoy some romance, adventure and drama but not too deep... this is your choice...Anyway, the movie does not try to be historical and I accept you don't like it or you think is a bad movie but don't justify your opinion saying the movie is not historically accurate... because this would be as wrong as saying Gladiator is a bad movie because it doesn't follow the real history... "},{"Title":"First Knight?-A better Title would've been Sir. Lancelot","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  First Knight-The Title of this film should've beenSir. Lancelot because this movie is not about King Arthur, nor does it follow the classic story of King Arthur. although King Arthur plays a major role in this film, this film is about Sir Lancelot.this film is about how Lancelot wins over the love and effection of the Queen, and wins the admiration of King Arthur,and how his love for the Queen is a forbidden betrayal of the King.I felt the Acting in this film is superb. However there are times that the story in the way its presented in this film slows down and gets dull at times, but the brutal battle scene is one of this films best highlights and is perhaps the single best battle scene of any medieval movie ever, and there is some really good action sequences as Lancelot goes to rescue the queen after she is kidnapped. The costumes used in this film are the best of any King Arthur movie ever!!! the computer generated Camalot,and the old english country side used in this fil are Beautiful to look at. The music score is one of this movies weakest points, the music in this film is very weak and uninspiring. All in All this is an entertaining movie. its short fall is the fact that the story speeds up and then slows down, and an very weak music score.-If you are in the mood for a really good Medieval story -I Highly Recommend Robin Hood-Prince of Thieves over this film. but First Knight is entertaining and worth watching. I give it 3 out of 5 stars - A slightly better than average film "},{"Title":"Richard Gere as Sir  Lancelot ?!?!?!?","Date":"27 July 2009","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" Oh my this movie was bad. It might have been better had Richard Gere not played the part of Sir Lancelot. Someone should have had a talk with the casting director. It is the story we have come to know for those of us who have followed the King Aurther and the Knights of the Round Table myth. Sean Connery plays the role of Arthur but brings nothing to the part that is interesting, and walks around stiff and delivers his lines like he wants to speed things up. Julia Ormond plays Guinevere and also brings no charm to the part. Ben Cross is the villain as Prince Malagant and really is the only interesting character in the film. Gere well, just hangs in the woods a lot.Want to see a better film about King Auther and the knights of the Round Table? See John Borman's stylish Excalibur. "},{"Title":"There are better Arthurian movies out there","Date":"5 February 2007","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" The movie, First Knight by Jerry Zucker is in my opinion a terrible rendition of any Arthurian legend; granted I have yet to read the tale of Lancelot and Guinevere. The story telling of this film and it's relevance toward legendary accuracy is not what I am questioning for this movie. The methods of telling a tale of love, chivalry, and war used in this film are terrible.First of all, casting is an important role for any film to be a success or a failure. The actors in the movie not only have to look good in front of a camera and studio lights, which it appears is the only aspect that was taken in for First Knight, but the actors have to be able to play the part they are given convincingly. Richard Gere has the noble look, but never once in all of his movie career history has he looked the war torn, experienced fighter type. He looks no more like a real knight than the sun could be disguised as the moon, the role doesn't fit him at all. Sean Connery however could have been a good choice for King Arthur had his script been better. In this movie, he comes off as a peaceful man who'd never lift his sword for fear of straining is back. As he is a former James Bond, he also falls under the category of looking nice in front of lights and cameras despite not fulfilling a key character's role.Aside from role selection, the acting overall is weak. None of the characters are convincing of their roles. When fighting, the knights have very little to no armor and the choreography is so poorly executed that it looks as though the actors could fall over from the wind blowing as easily as they do when they hit each other. I've seen better high school film fight scenes than this movie puts forth. On that note, King Arthur, King of the Britains, never raises Excalibur, the most renowned sword in history, in battle. The only time he makes a motion to fight for himself; he slightly raises the sword and then gets shot by four arrows. These arrows and weapons are also ill convincing; I'm almost positive that crossbows the size of a small handgun, as all of Malagant's soldiers carry, were not readily available at the time that these Arthurian legends were supposedly taking place. On that note, the end of Arthur's life is not even a valiant one. How is it that the legendary King Arthur is taken down by a lowly villain's group of henchmen and a man who's betrayed all of the country by deceiving the King defeats the evil villain and takes all the spoils? I just don't understand the logic behind this kind of screenplay. Lancelot's always the one saving the queen, a woman who doesn't even want to love him, while Arthur, the man who single handedly united the kingdoms, sits back and plans matters for far too long. There isn't even a redeeming battle between Arthur and Lancelot to save this poorly written love triangle. This movie is just about making a pretty chick-flick out of a classic legend where everything ends up happy and the pretty boy takes it all. I don't recommend this for personal viewing. "},{"Title":"It's just too easy to slam this movie","Date":"13 April 2001","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  There is really no need for me to go and re-hash the ways in which this movie did not line up with any accepted versions of the Arthurian legend, the way none of the movie was true to any historical period, or why it was miscast or why the actors did a lousy job. Plenty of other reviews can tell you those things, go ahead and scroll down.What I would like to mention is that whether or not the above comments are justified, I don't see how anyone can ignore that the SCRIPT for this movie was appalling. Whether or not Richard Gere was a good choice, how COULD he do a good job with such terrible, Mills & Boon type lines??? The only question is, why did he sign the contract? Oh, for the money, right, I forgot. Same goes for Connery though it is less forgivable in my eyes that such an actor should do such a crap film for money only. Well who knows, maybe all Arthur's best scenes still lie on the cutting room floor.Despite being an Arthur Devotee for the past 18 years and having read more versions of the story than I care to admit, I am quite willing to see the possibility that this movie could be enjoyed purely as a love triangle, and not as a version of the Arthurian legend. But, sorry, even this angle doesn't work, the script is still bad, the plot still has big holes. As far as I can see, the Zuckers (yes the whole family is involved, event the kids had bit parts, check the credits) simply thought, 'let's get some big hollywood names, a really famous legend, and make it look gorgeous, and we'll make a mint!!!' Well someone obviously blew the budget before the script was written.Also, whether or not the details of the movie were period or not, is irrelevant - as others have pointed out, this is a LEGEND, it doesn't matter whether it is true to period. But what does annoy me personally is the cream marble everywhere at Camelot. Hello, we're in Britain here, not Venice!!!!!!! I can forgive the Disney-esque blue outfits on everyone. I can even forgive the leadlighted windows. It may be a legend, but it's a BRITISH legend, this is not Ben Hur or Quo Vadis! But hey, Zucker, you may have appropriated the characters and locations of a famous legend and put them to service in a money-spinning venture that totally betrays the original spirit, but don't feel you have to take EVERY opportunity to insult your audience.Anyhow, bitching aside, it just doesn't matter which way I look at it. This wasn't a good movie. The only good thing I can find to say about it is that, Italy or Britain, the movie did look very pretty.Just one last thing - PLEASE can someone make an Arthur movie with a decent script and actors? The Fiennes brothers could do Arthur and Lancelot, though they're not the only ones, Gwyneth Paltrow would do a regal Guinevere with the necessary intelligence and element of playfulness (which I think Cate Blanchett lacks - not that I'm hung up on having a blonde Guinevere), Pete Postlethwaite would make a great Merlin, Jonathon Rhys Meyers or Willem Dafoe for Mordred, Michelle Pfeiffer or even Uma Thurman for Morgana. I'm sure I've missed characters and people out - have to fit John Malkovich in there somewhere - but you get my drift. "},{"Title":"Umm ... no","Date":"7 October 1999","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I was really excited when this movie came out.  I saw Excalibur when I was much younger, and loved it, and have been a big fan of the Arthurian legends ever since.  With First Knight, I thought to myself  Cool ... this generation's definitive portrayal of King Arthur and the Knights of the Round table.By the time First Knight had limped along to the scene near the end where Richard Gere's Launcelot is running into combat, in slo-mo, nostrils flaring so comically that the entire audience roared laughter, I had given up any such expectations.Why?Well, let's see.  The sets were ridiculous, the script was silly, and the costumes were SO bad that they actually distracted me from whatever interactions happened to be going on between the people who were wearing them.I heard in a making-of show that the costume designer had been going for a combination of Western European and Japanese styles, when designing the armor.  However, as noted by a previous poster, the effect was more Star Trek than Age of Chivalry.Okay, to end this review on a high note ... Connery and Ormond did the best they could with the script and direction that they were given.  But if you're a fan of either, and haven't seen this movie yet ... you're not missing anything.--JDB "},{"Title":"Save us somebody","Date":"1 March 1999","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Is Hollywood starting to go insane? How was it that this picture ever left the film-factory? I don't remember who made this movie, but that isn't important; cause how did someone even manage to think that an Arthurian story could ever survive without one of its most important characters - Merlin? Although containing some great actors - Sean Connery, Richard Gere and Julia Ormond - the movie is still a failure; and I really can't understand why Richard Gere - even if he is a fine actor - is in the movie, as Sir Lancelot!?! Come on - This must be some kind of expensive joke from the director's side. So my advice if you still want to see a movie about King Arthur - see John Boorman's  Excalibur instead. "},{"Title":"Pretty standard Camelot fare","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" The first time I saw the movie I liked it pretty well, but it did not hold up on a second or third viewing. Not much depth or texture to it. Sean Connery is a very good Arthur in love with a much younger Guinevere. His talents show up well when he has to show the dilemma of having to deal harshly with two people he loves who have betrayed him.Richard Gere is completely lost playing an Englishman, even one of centuries ago. He does a much better job playing a fighter pilot in training (Officer and a Gentleman), than he does as a knight of the round table.Julia Ormand seems to treat her role as Guinevere the way a manikin might. She looks pretty, smiles when the director tells her to and frowns when she is unhappy. She did nothing that convinced me she was in love with either of these two men.The movie is too much like most of the others. Camelot on Broadway is a better production with Julie Andrews and Richard Burton...you can do as the late JFK did and listen to the album and get a greater depth of enjoyment than seeing this production.Or see King Arthur 2004 which is much closer to the historical Arthur the the Camelot versions. Learn a bit of why there was an Arthur legend. "},{"Title":"Even worse than I previously had commented","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  When Shakespeare enriched the English language about half a millennium ago, he could not possibly have conceived such a putrid object being created by humanity, and as such he, understandably, did not create a word loathful enough to describe this portion of fecal matter.I accidentally stumbled upon it two nights ago, and in an act of desperate boredom, I watched a few minutes of it.The monumental waste of talent in Ben Cross and Sean Connery is offensive. The only performance that belongs in this movie is that of Richard Geere, whose ability to under-perform actually slips him below that of the script for lack of quality.His acting talent and this film substitute are made for each other.There should be a warning issued before and during the presentation of this...thing, something like the warnings we get for good movies... Warning, this movie may actually fail to stimulate enough of your brain cells sufficiently to sustain life. Viewer discretion is adviced. If your IQ is greater than your 2 year-old's shoe size, avoid watching this film without a defirbulator machine nearbyThis movie is like a cheap wine. it is excellent for putting down in some very dark place and avoiding. "},{"Title":"How could you go this far wrong?","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  When you're making a movie about King Arthur and you have Sean Connery as Arthur... it seems impossible to believe that it would be anything but a great movie.Sadly, the people who made this one have defied the odds, making one of the worst movies I have ever had the misfortune to see. Since the Legend of King Arthur has been around for a long time, it seems a bad move to not trust it.They made up some villain rather than using Mordred or Morgan LeFayThey changed Lancelot's backgroundThey changed the whole dynamic of the triangle that this story is supposed to be based onand all that enhanced by one of the worst scripts you can think of.I wish I had never seen this movie... minutes of my life lost forever!-Uncle Milo "}{"Title":"don't waste your time...","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  If you have read, or have even heard of, the Legend of King Authur then do not waste your time with this 'garbage film' for it bears no resemblance to Le Morte D'Authur. If you like movies set in medieval times then do not watch this absurdity because it certainly has no historical merit.  "},{"Title":"Horrid","Date":"15 June 2007","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" The first time I saw this movie I thought it was great. A little background. I grew up in a household that viewed TV as sinful. This was the first movie I ever saw. I loved it. Recently I was in the mood for some nostalgia so I rented First Knight. I cannot say enough bad things about this film. Here are the things I disliked about it in no particular order. 1. Not faithful to the Arthur legend. 2. Their idea of sword-fighting is two people standing still and swatting each others swords. Pathetic. 3. Way too much blue. Everything is blue. If the Smurfs told the story of King Arthur there would be less blue used. 4. Richard Gere? In a period piece? With an American accent? Really? 5. For living outside and fighting all the time Richard Gere certainly is clean. 6. The tactic that the attackers use to draw the defenders away from the coach is literally the oldest one in the book. However the commander is not reprimanded. Anyone who fell for that should have been immediately demoted back down to his level of competence. 7. Period incorrect armor and weapons. 8. Mindless drivel that passes for dialogue. 9. Julia Ormond is a pathetic actress. 10. The directors seemed determined to undermine all suspension of disbelief. At every moment of the movie they remind you not just that it is a movie but also that it is a bad movie. "},{"Title":"From such legends, great fairy-stories are borne","Date":"18 December 2002","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"    The British Isles overflows with folklore, legends of history, great tales of yore &#150; perhaps more than any other place on earth, apart from China perhaps. Anyway, in `First Knight' we have an excellent example in which I never felt I was watching King Arthur, Lancelot and Lady Genevieve, but was watching Richard Gere, Sean Connery and an always beautiful Julia Ormond.Perhaps I would have been better off occupying my time with a game of chess at least my first knight would have sown havoc among the enemy pawns before having to send in my second knight. Ah, and I always play black white chess pieces below my glasses always put me off my game. I am a great believer in all those legendary tales handed down over many generations &#150; Bruce and Boadicea, Robin Hood  and Wallace, King Arthur and all that. However on most occasions the matter is overboiled in classic Hollywood tradition, with the result that I tend to clutch my abundant grey hairs &#150; with no intention of doing Sean Connery out of a job &#150; sighing deeply into the beard I never let grow, though this may be due only to the fact that I have been in love with Miss Julia Ormond since I first clapped eyes on her. And who would not be? Luscious in the middle of a forest looking a little like a cross between Maid Marion and Penelope Cruz, my masculine instincts take over. Miss Ormond and I were born just a bare 15kms apart (and 20 years I should add), but it might just as well have been in different galaxies. Beautiful filming in the Snowdonia National Park, Wales.  If you do not mind the rain, take a drive slowly down from Llangollen to Y Bala and Llyn Tegid, over the mountain to Trawsfynydd and down to the castle at Harlech. Go back through Betws-y-coed without forgetting to go up Llanberis this is the wealth and wonder of Wales, even though you may not be able to pronounce any of the names. I warn you it stops raining very occasionally &#133;&#133;&#133;I had hoped for something more serious, less frivolous, but the box-office success instinct takes over, and Jerry Zucker (and all his little Zuckers among all those great stars mentioned, plus Ben Cross) only attained a rather childish interpretation of the Lancelot fantasies. Good viewing for a wet or cold Saturday afternoon and the kids are bored with the umpteenth showing of `Beethoven' (I just love the opening music!) and you want to relax a couple of hours on the sofa with your wife in your arms and your kid daughter on your knee. So cannot think why our regional TV station put this one on at half past ten on a weekday when the yawning tendency is unbearable and it is nearly Christmas and the stores fill up with jovial Father Christmases who all look a bit like Sean Connery&#133;&#133;. Even with music which sounded plagiarised from Gustav Holst during the badly-edited tremendous battle scenes, this film is about as exciting and attractive as recycled toilet-paper. Now, if Sir Gawain Zucker had limited himself to his speciality of stupidities `made in America', such as `Airplane' and the absolutely insufferable `My Best Friend's Wedding' and had left British folklore alone, I would not grieve so much.From such fairy-stories, great legends are borne. Or have I got that round the wrong way, too?   "},{"Title":"Some days it doesn't pay to leave the castle.","Date":"19 May 2007","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" An ex-girlfriend insisted we see First Knight when it came out in 1995. Since then I've done my best to put the painful memories of both behind me. Unfortunately, on a recent Saturday morning, when my FIOS package let me down again (oh, for reruns of MST3K!), TNT reopened those old wounds.I have nothing against the Arthurian legend. In fact, I actually enjoy it and there have been some well made movies on the subject (see Prince Valiant (1954) for a lost treasure). However, First Knight is not one for the ages. Why Jerry Zucker chose to step out of his successful Top Secret, Airplane, Naked Gun, etc; comedic comfort zone to produce this joust wreck is as mysterious as Excalibur. Although, people were laughing in the theater during some of the fight scenes and a bizarre scream in a church. And why did screenwriter William Nicholson sandwich such a woeful tale in between Nell and Galidator? Throw in industry nobleman like John Gielgud, Jerry Goldsmith, and Walter Murch how could this movie miss the mark so badly? First Knight does not work on any level. The plot is weak and contrived, the dialog is unbelievable, the costumes out of historical place, and the pristine period sets perplexing. Now some observations on the performances of the principlesJulia Ormond At least in those days they were still actually casting British born actresses to play British characters, sparing us from having to spend two hours listening to the likes of Gwyneth Paltrow or Texan Renee Zellweger blather on in their phony English accents. For that alone, I'll give her a pass in First Knight.Richard Gere First of all, I've never really got this guy. I can remember when he made a splash in Paul Scharder's American Gigolo (1980). The movie and the character perfectly captured a moment in time and culture in America as did Saturday Night Fever, albeit to a lesser, if not more seedy and shocking, extent. He followed that up with more success in Officer and a Gentleman (1982), which is not holding up well by the way, but then what? Can you name another memorable role Richard Gere has played since? (And Pretty Woman does not count. You could have put Richard Petty next to Julia Roberts in that puff fest and still made mega box office). Yet, every year they trundle him out again for another big budget shot. Like I said I don't get it. Anyway, casting him in First Knight made as much sense as allowing him to present at the Oscar's. I'm sure it looked good on paper, but what you got was something totally repellent. At least he had the decency to keep his Philly accent.Sean Connery In 1988 Connery won the Academy Award for his supporting role in The Untouchables. To his credit, he was able to parlay this into a major jump start to his sputtering career and carry it right through the 90's. His performances seemed to fall into two categories; well crafted, as in Medicine Man and The Hunt for Red October, or mailed it in. His work in First Knight was definitely a quick trip to the Post Office. There were scenes when I thought he was actually in danger of nodding off on his sword! He probably realized early on this was a loser. But a true professional (see Gene Hackman) will step up his game and make the best of lesser material. He might have made it tolerable had he tried, but trust me, watching Sterling Hayden run about in a wig is much more compelling then enduring Connery's uninspired speeches in a medieval hair piece! Next time I see First Knight peek above the parapets, I think I'll just call my ex-girlfriend and start a fight instead. It would be much less painful. "},{"Title":"Horrible, horrible movie","Date":"19 May 2007","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" I'm baffled by the number of people who actually liked this movie. How anyone can watch this crud is beyond me. Aside from the blatant attempt to cash in on the popularity of Arthurian legend (this story has nothing whatsoever to do with King Arthur, despite the use of some recognizable names), this movie is just plain terrible. There's nothing worse than a bad movie that passes for a good one. The campy B-movies of the '70s and '80s were bad and everyone involved with them knew it. First Knight could fall into that category, but it doesn't. It's just bad. The look of the film rivals some of the best after-school specials of the time period. When I came across it on TV, I thought it was an episode of J.A.G. until I saw Sean Connery. The script reminded me of coffee commercials and the acting aspired to such. What was up with that swinging sand bag and sword gauntlet thing? It looked like it should have been the thrilling climax to Revenge of the Nerds VII Nerds in Camelot. Avoid this stinker like the black plague. "},{"Title":"Worst retelling of the Arthurian Legend ever.","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"8 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I was disgusted with this movie.  The characters in the movie were not believable at all, nor did they have any similarity to the people you find in other tellings of the story of King Arthur.  What happened to the relationships between these people?  What happened to King Arthur in this movie to turn him into such a horrible person?  I have never been so disappointed in a movie character before.  The King Arthur I know would not have been leading the charge to execute Guinivere.  He should have loved her, but this King Arthur had no feelings at all except for hatred.And it wasn't just Arthur; there was no depth to any of these characters. There was nothing to make you feel any sense of connection to them at all. If you don't care what happens, why bother watching at all?  This movie was just a waste of time. "},{"Title":"This film is not worth a comment","Date":"24 February 2000","Score":"8 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  The only thing I want to say about this movie is this.I never left the theater before a movie had ended. For the first time in my life I had the urge to leave after having only seen a quarter of it.Bad movies normally become very funny. First knight even surpassed this criterium. For me, this was one of the worst movies I have ever seen, alongside some low-budget Chinese ninja movies, which were hilariously funny. "},{"Title":"TRASH","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"9 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Perhaps the WORST attempt to tell the story of Arthur, Lancelot, and Guenevere ever made.  From poor costuming to a complete inability to follow even the most basic fundamentals of the Arthurian Legends, this movie has it all. "},{"Title":"This was the worst movie I have ever seen (honest)","Date":"1 August 2000","Score":"9 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  First Knight.  The absolute worst of all time. So bad, it's classic, and worth renting.I can't believe Sean Connery is in this flick.  But then again, he has been in some crap lately.This film left my jaw open through the whole thing.  I don't know where to begin.1. CostumesThe period specific medieval costumes looked strikingly similar to something out of Planet of the Apes, but worse.  I'm sorry, but designer sequenced velour robes, and tinfoil Armour were not conceived of during the dark ages.2.  ActingRichard Gere??? Lancelot??? Come on folks....Ricky is cute and everything..(I mean surfer boy cute)..., buy somehow surfer boy doesn't fit Lancelot.Sean Connery?  I won't even go there.I need help critiquing this flick folks.  I just can't believe this wasn't a comedy.  I was convinced that this was comedy 20 minutes into the film. Then I realized it was taking itself seriously.  Then it became pure entertainment.I'll look forward to every new Sean Connery flick that comes out.  "},{"Title":"Worst Movie","Date":"9 November 1998","Score":"9 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  This is such a bad movie that it should be shown to Film schools students, for them never to do such trash. The Arthurian legend is totally perverted in a movie whose special effects are incredibly weak. The actors may be the worse part of the work  Richard Gere turns Lancelot into an old American gigolo, while Sean Connery seems to have spent more time playing golf than playing Arthur. As to Julia Ormond, she is the most forgettable Guenievre in the Film history. Not only does this movie betray the legend, but it is also ridiculous and boring. "}{"Title":"Irredemable crass reworking of a marvellous legend","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"10 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  The Authurian legends are great filmic material - apart from spectacle and lavish display, there are feuds, and a large number of intrigues.This film looks at the story of Lancelot (First Knight), played by Richard Gere, and of Arthur (played by Sean Connery). But forget the intrigue a musical such as Camelot might produce; this film ends in a cop-out way inaccurate and unfaithful to the legend, the historical period and the cultural customs.Should you be au fait with the story of Arthur's love for Guinevere and Lancelot, and the dilemma this brings to the Round Table, AVOID First Knight. It twists and distorts myths in a nasty way.  In short, I'd sayIrredemable - poor acting; lousy twisting of the legends and a waste of Gere and Connery's talents. As Ormand hasn't any talent to talk of, it's kindest to say it's a waste of her beauty. Avoid. "},{"Title":"Not recommended!","Date":"13 December 2005","Score":"11 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" Though I really can't comment about the 'accuracy' of the story as I'm not a follower of the legend, as an entertainment venue I found First Knight to be lacking in most everything .... imagination, suspense, believability, emotion, depth, character/plot development, and any discernible dramatic conviction by the actors. I found myself neither liking nor caring about anyone in the film, though not for lack of trying! I kept watching, waiting for something good to happen/appear to make this film appealing, but salvation was a no-show. When the end credits rolled I gave up . . . but not before having to endure one of the most tepid, uninspired ensemble deathbed scenes 'performed' by name-brand actors I've ever seen. Upside of the movie? ... some pretty scenery and a few gorgeous galloping horses. Sad. "},{"Title":"Bad","Date":"18 January 2001","Score":"11 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Let's see, a big budget update of the Arthurian legend with Sean Connery as King Arthur.  How could you go wrong with this starting point? Well... you could start by casting Richard Gere as the least compelling Lancelot in the history of film, and then put him into the obstacle course straight out of American Gladiators.  Throw in a stone faced Guinevere by Julia Ormond and a lame script with insipid dialogue and voila.  That's not even mentioning the handheld crossbows that the villains sport, perhaps the least inspiring misuse of a historical weapon since the exploding cannonballs in Cutthroat Island.Final judgement - One bad movie.One out of 10. "},{"Title":"TERRIBLE! Don't let the cast fool you!","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"12 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the worst movies I have ever seen!!! As one who saw/read a few versions of the King Arthur & The Knights Of The Round Table, this is by far the worst version I encountered. The script is simply horrible - I wouldn't be surprised if someone sued the scriptwriter... Sean Connery should have known better. The actors put on a poor performance, and when it happens to all the cast (yes, even Connery), I can blame only one person - the director. I think I had much higher expectations from this movie, but I didn't expect too much of it... and I definitely didn't expect THIS! The movie simply hits rock-bottom. Avoid it at all costs, and warn everyone you care about. "},{"Title":"A film I dislike","Date":"21 May 2008","Score":"16 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" First Knight is not a particularly good film of King Arthur. It tries to talk a more realistic approach, not focusing on the magic, but I think that it fails on that level. The King Arthur legend hasn't transferred to film that well. Firstly the film is well written or well directed. The casting was poor. Sean Connery was not a good choice for playing Arthur, they got a Scot playing an English King and even though I'm a Bond fan, Sean Connery is a particularly good actor after that. Richard Gere is the most wooden actor in history and just can perform. He shows no emotion and can't even be a good action hero, seeing that he doesn't tend to play action roles. He can't even do a British accent. The relationship between Guinevere and the two leads was not believable. I didn't like the fact an older actor playing Arthur and that the two characters are meant to be a similar age. It was also hard to believe the relationship with Lancelot because of Gere's performance. I also felt that Camelot was not grant enough. The whole point of the city was that not other city could match it for beauty and was a symbol of England's glory. The film was also not particularly loyal to the Arthur legends and this is another example of Hollywood butchering an English legend, similar to Robin Hood films. A good thing about this film is the sword fights and battles were well done.This film isn't worth watching, and is one of the reasons why I don't rate Richard Gere as a actor. "},{"Title":"Atrocious!","Date":"16 October 2005","Score":"39 out of 80 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" I absolutely loathe this movie - it is one of the most awful screen adaptations of the Arthur story to date.First of all the casting is all wrong - Julia Ormond as Guienevere and Richard Gere as any kind of historical person is simply laughable. Sean Connery could have been OK as Arthur but he delivers a very weak performance, mostly due to the horrid script I believe. Perhaps he realised the kind of crap they were creating and lost interest.The story in itself is an unforgivable rape of the Arthur mythology - the idea to take a minor villain from an obscure medieval romance and turn him into the one that overthrows Arthur's reign is simply atrocious. Arthur's realm is portrayed as a weak little kingdom that topples over at first sight of trouble, and Arthur himself comes across as a jealous despot. The Arthur story - especially the love triangle between Arthur, Guinevere and Lancelot - contains a lot more depth than this movie shows you.Also, the fight scenes are seem a little meek and the knights' armour seem more like something from Star Trek than any kind of actual medieval protective gear.If you want to see a good Arthur movie, I'd recommend Excalibur, Merlin or even the latest installment; King Arthur. Avoid this heinous atrocity of a movie at all costs! "},{"Title":"Ho hum chivalry","Date":"11 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" I was not terribly impressed with First Knight. It tells the eternal triangle story between Arthur, Guinevere and Lancelot, and shoehorns in a couple of battle set pieces as part of a subplot concerning baddie Prince Malagant seemingly just for the sake of it.The film seems conceived as a vehicle for Richard Gere, although he seems singularly ill at ease throughout it and, for my money, Julia Ormond walks away with the movie. Even Sean Connery gives the impression of phoning it in. Ben Cross' Malagant is perilously close to pantomime villainy.The production values look high but not terribly convincing and the battle sequences are, frankly, poor - lots of clacking together of swords (a la 1950s swashbucklers) with lots of modern blood, but practically no convincing engagement between participants.I suppose this would pass a couple of hours if there was nothing else on TV and you didn't have a good book. "},{"Title":"Night on Camelot.","Date":"7 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" I really don't have that much to add to the other comments. I've never been in thrall of Arthurian legends, though I've tried to get into them. Really, I have. But in the course of my experiences they've come to me only in bits and pieces. I once tackled Malory's Le Morte d'Artur without success.At any rate I can't criticize the extent to which this movie sticks to the legends. I don't know for sure that it matters much. There's no sword in the stone, no Lady in the Lake, no Merlin, no magic. It's a love triangle involving Richard Gere's Lancelot as a swinging rogue, Sean Connery as a jealous and bitter Arthur, and Julia Ormond as the object of their affections.The love story is punctuated by battles with lots of horses and whirling swords in dank forests. I was put off almost at once by the use of conventions unworthy of a serious narrative. The long swords are handled with such speed that they must be made of aluminum. And their movements are accompanied by a whoosh-whoosh sound I'd expect in a cheap action flick.The heavy is the swarthy and stubbled Ben Cross as Malagant -- dressed in black. He's dastardly and always ticked off at something. You think he could crack a joke about a priest,a minister, and a rabbi or something. And that sword of his! There has been a wave of ugly weapons on screen over the last twenty years, and you could feel the director itching to come up with a sword that looked as repugnant and lethal as Rambo's knife. But they couldn't do it without violating history, so they simply gave the first hiltward third of Malagant's sword serrated edges on both sides. Very useful, I'd imagine, because when you're done chopping flesh you can cut a loaf of bread with it.Nobody would permit guns in a movie taking place in the Dark Ages in Europe, so, in their place, we get small, one-handed crossbows. These weapons serve exactly the same purpose in this epic movie about King Arthur as they do in a cheap Monogram grade B Western from 1935 starring John Wayne in a jumbo white cowboy hat.The knights sit around the round table dressed for a colorful costume party with matching accessories. Or maybe some kind of initiation ceremony for a secret society.I didn't watch it all the way through. I've seen too many action movies, I suppose, and I don't mind love conflicts that have some heft behind them but this was sterile and formulaic.Sorry. "},{"Title":"Didn't like it...at all","Date":"4 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" I have no problem whatsoever with the Arthurian legend, as a matter of fact I love it. Which is more than I can say for this wretched attempt at a retelling.Starting with the redeeming qualities, it is beautifully filmed, with lovely costumes, cinematography, sets and scenery, and while he has been much MUCH better Sean Connery manages to steal every single scene he's in as the suitably charismatic King Arthur.(note if you want any charismatic actor to play a charismatic character, look no further than Connery-he may have been in some clunkers but he is always worth watching). Everything else I am afraid fails, and miserably.The script is not witty, charming or playful, it is cheesy, too 1990s and contrived. The story takes a while to get going, the direction is unfocused and the score is generic(was that really Jerry Goldsmith, the composer behind The Secret of NIMH, Legend and The Wind and the Lion?). Other than Connery, the other acting is not good at all, the worst being Richard Gere. What on earth was he doing; if you found Kevin Costner too American and I know people did(including me admittedly, at least Robin HoodPrince of Thieves had Alan Rickman), Gere plays Sir Lancelot with a Philadelphia twang(???). Julia Ormond is ravishing to look at as the constantly imperilled Guinevere, but her looks don't match her acting which is bland, while Ben Cross is ridiculously pantomime as Prince Malagant.Overall, watch it if you want but sorry I don't recommend it. 2/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"hey it`s not Excalibur, but it is good","Date":"23 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  i did like this film, although it`s not quite as good as Excalibur but it does come close. The war scene is very impressive in fact it`s better than the war scene in Excalibur, if your into military strategy like i am then you got to see this scene (and the scenes in braveheart). Their are a few things i did not like about this movie, first the choice of actors, don`t get me wrong i like them all it`s just that Arthur is supposed to be a boy king in this movie Arthur is old enough to be Guinevere`s grandfather. I think Gere did a nice job as lancelot, but not outstanding. To me this movie is a hit but not a classic like Excalibur is!! rating (best of 5 stars).....3.....  "}{"Title":"Any Arthur is better than none","Date":"22 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" I liked the movie - well, except for Richard Gere as Lancelot; bad, bad casting. But Sean Connery's Arthur is as regal as one could wish, and Ben Cross is villainous enough by any standards. (Well, he does kill King Arthur, people! This is unlikely to get him nominated for sainthood.) Julia Ormond doesn't have much to do but look beautiful and be rescued now and again. The fact that her Guinevere prefers Richard Gere to Sean Connery proves the queen is no rocket scientist to begin with - did I mention what a hideous casting error Richard Gere was? Still, as I said above, any Arthur is better than none, and it is a pleasant enough tale of chivalry and swords. There are worse ways to spend a slow evening. "},{"Title":"Breath of Fresh Air","Date":"1 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" If you are an Arthurian purist you probably won't like this version of the classic tale. William Nicholson's screenplay focuses on exactly what the title refers to the First Knight of Camelot. Portraying Lancelot as a nomad, the story line eventually brings in some of the classic characters, Malagant, Arthur, Guinevere, but leaves out the magic and the lore behind the traditional story.Witnessing Richard Gere portray Sir Lancelot and Julia Ormond as Guinevere takes some getting used to. However, Sean Connery as an aged King Arthur is a perfect fit too bad we don't see more of him.The scenery, story, soundtrack, and the performances are forgettable but the movie does have moments of each that make it worth watching. While this is a twist on an old myth, when the movie actually gets to the traditional story plots that we know and love you will recognize that this view of such a classic tale is a breath of fresh air.I recommend it for viewing but don't rely on it if you are going to be tested on Arthur the next day ;) "},{"Title":"Ahh - of course - this IS a comedy! SPOILERS AHEAD","Date":"23 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Slipped this in our VCR for the cast - I'm a big Sean Connery fan, thinking after justing finishing Timeline by Michael Crichton, that we were in a an entertaining evening of advenures from Camelot's tales, we were wrong.Ok, maybe we should've known - Jerry Zucker directed - Airplane, right? Yet another clue - casting Richard Gere so clean-shaven in EVERY scen that we couldn't have been more than minutes from a triple-blade... (Oh, they didn't have them back then, did they?)We really enjoyed this movie -- for those of you who thought this was as serious romance or fantasy tale, you missed the boat.  This is one of the best comedies I've seen in a long time.  Right up there with King Soloman's Mines with Richard Chamberlain.After about 15 minutes, we were rolling with laughter - felt like we were in the front row of Mystery Theater 3000 - guessing the upcoming lines, and loving the scene with the slo-mo close-up of Gere near the end riding his horse - hair flying, lips jiggling, towards yet another heroic damsel-saving sword-fight.I can tell women want me by their eyes - love the dialogue! (where's Julia Roberts when you really need her?)Armies of bad guys showing up out of nowhere in sheep's clothing, nobody watching the castle's defenses during the wedding feast  - plot twists!Double-knit Star Trek uniforms for the knights of the roundtable! - great costumes!Camelot looking like a Las Vegas casino!  - irony!And getting put to death for a kiss? Gotta love it!Give this a 9/10 - just remember where to file the tape... "},{"Title":"The only kiss is worth more than the rest of the film","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I do not consider this film even as a re-telling of the Arthurian story, so conventional are the characters and their relationship to each other in time and space comparing to the little we know about it. But well, American versions are always known for their originality! ;-) It seemed to me that it was only a legendary surrounding for a very romantical love story, which provides the appropriate complications for the growing of tension of retained passions. And even this story is only a pale frame around the bright explosion of their only one, achieved through so much suffering ;-) KISS! This should be written only this way and is the 5 seconds moment for which the whole film wins my bravo! -) (Except the actors constellation, of course). "},{"Title":"It's about time....","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  For all those that say that this film has no basis in Arthurian legends.....I would  say you are absolutely correct but to be honest, I really didn't care!  I love this  movie, and the reason I love it is BECAUSE it has no basis in Arthurian legends.   As I sat down to watch this, I was expecting the inevitable, the part whereGunivere would chose Lancelot over King Arthur, and when it came to the endof the movie and that didn't happen, I was shocked!  I've read almost all the  variations of King Arthur, except for Sir Thomas Malory's.  And after reading all  those different versions and having to KNOW exactly what's going to happen 20  pages before it does, I got tired of King Arthur, and I got tired of the story and I  thought that it was so sad that there wasn't one version that ended on a happy  note, but this movie does.  What can you say about Sean Connery other than he is WONDERFUL.  Perfectas King Arthur, and all his heartache and anger I thought was incredibly well  portrayed and justified.  Normally in any of the King Arthur stories, I hateGunivere, but in this one, I liked her and was able to relate to her.  I didn't like  Lancelot in particular but that is probably because I don't like Richard Gere that  much.This movie is for anyone who is tired of being depressed by the same,melodramatic and sorrowful endings of all other King Arthur movies and wants a  refreshing story that ends by making you feel proud, not sad for King Arthur.   8.5/10   "},{"Title":"Even Merlin Couldn't Save This Handsomely Mounted Travesty","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Fine color photography, and (mostly) sets cannot compensate for a ridiculous take on the Autherian legend.  Lancelot as a amoral, lovable rogue?  Give me a break.  NOBODY could have done much with the part, and Richard Gere acquits himself as well as anyone.  SURE, he could have affected a British accent, but it wouldn't have helped much (I don't remember anyone complaining about Connery playing a Scottish Russian in HUNT FOR RED OCTOBER).  No, the REAL problem with FIRST KNIGHT is that the writers have taken a familiar story and moved it so far askew that it must occur in a parallel universe (where, perhaps, Madonna is celibate).  The jarring age difference between Connery and Ormand precludes the kind of passion necessary to generate any tension in the love triangle.  Connery never seems all that fond of Gere and Gere and Ormand are forced by the dictates of the story to generate much impact in their own feelings for each other (though that climatic kiss is pretty promising).  What we have here is a handsomely mounted, stupefyingly revisionist, frequently boring and ultimately unsatisfying movie.  For real movie fans, compare the burning boat ending with the much more satisfying one in THE VIKINGS. Now, THAT'S how it's done. "},{"Title":"Quite weak, far from the myth, some nice visuals","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  One of the most forgettable films about the Arthurian legend. The only saving graces are some nice visuals and the interplay between the main characters. Not worth the money for a movie ticket, DVD or video but you don't have to switch off if it runs on TV. "},{"Title":"Why mess with a legend?","Date":"24 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  First Knight had promise.  It had Sean Connery as King Arthur and Julia Ormond as Guinevere.  Richard Gere was ok as Lancelot but what happened to the rest of the Round Table?  Where was Excalibur?  Did Merlin suddenly vanish?  And what about Mordred and Morgana? (I think that's her name.) Anyway, those characters populate the Arthurian legend and give the story of King Arthur a grand scope that was lavishly shown in Excalibur.  First Knight seems to drop all of that and focuses on the relationship between the three remaining characters.  Good score by Jerry Goldsmith, and a nice performance by Connery, but that's about all. "},{"Title":"How should I put it.......BAAAAAAAAAAAAAAD VERY BAAAAAAD","Date":"18 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  The only reason I stayed to the end is because my wife had fallen asleep and didn't want to disturb her.Attack of the Killer Tomatoes ranks a few rungs above this one.let's see...See through plotAwful acting (Connery exepted)No resemblance whatsoever to any existing version of the Arthurian legendWhat else? ....Oh, yeah, did I say it was BAAAAAAAAD very BAAAAAD?No discovery, no betrayal, no redemption, no hope, no mistery, no magic, nothing that makes the Arthurian story what it is, a lesson in the endurance of the human spirit and the eternal belief in the eventual triumph of good over evil.But not on this movie. Here evil definitely triumphed. Just look at the result...No,  just a mindless process for getting Gere to take over for Connery (I refuse to use the character names,..it's blasphemy!)Did I say it was BAAAAAAAAAAAAD very BAAAAAAAAAAD?If you want to torture anyone with an IQ above their shoe size, force them to watch this movie twice. (three times may be fatal)By the way, it was BAAAAAAAAAD very BAAAAAAAD!!  "},{"Title":"another dull, dreary swordfighting tale","Date":"25 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  This movie was not what I wanted in a tale about the Round Table. Richard Gere, a talented actor, was not right for this part. But then, maybe no one was. I found the plot to be very shallow, and the dialogue wasn't far behind. The derring-do knight and the damsel in distress is an overdone story, and this film offered nothing new. 1 star. "}{"Title":"Uh ...","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  As others have stated, all the good bits were in the previews. The film gave me the impression that Mr. Zucker and company were so overwhelmed at signing Connery, they couldn't concentrate on production. Sad, as it had potential. "},{"Title":"slow paced","Date":"21 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  i found first knight to be a bit slow and i felt that the cast should have been a bit younger if they wanted this film to succeed. richard gere is in his fifties and sean connery is no spring chicken yet here we have julia ormond playing the part of the girl in between and she is a lot younger. i know age isn't everything but the chemistry just wasn't there. sean conery played his part very well as he usually does so it was not his fault this film did not plunder.the script was terrible and they could have done so much better had they used the character merlin. in summing up i gave this film a 4 . "},{"Title":"It never rains in Hollywood England","Date":"15 August 2009","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" This movie is surely tailored for Sean Connery. Some Hollywood producer must have come up with the idea Hey, Sean Connery didn't play king Arthur yet! He's already been Rihcard III and Robin Hood (and many other legendary characters) so, hey, let him do an Arthur! That's about all the reason I can see for making such an awful attempt at recreating Arthurian legend. There have been only a couple of notable takes on it. First, of course, being Excalibur, a sincere and straightforward portrayal of what is essentially a fable. The second is King Arthur, an attempt to put the story in more historical context.This, unfortunately, is one of those based-ons where you wonder why the hell did they bother at all and how is this a favor to Connery. Firstly, there is no similarity to the original but in names, secondly, the new story sucks. First Knight is a washed up, politically correct, disneyfied, action-packed, picturesque soap-opera.Why did they try to make a period piece? And what period this is anyway? Star Trek costumes of Arthur's knights? Pocket crossbows? Camelot lit like Manhattan? Is it never raining there? In a nutshell, how much money did they invest into research? None. Obviously it all, quite undeservedly, went into Connery's and Gere's fees, so they just watched other Arthur movies for reference and touched them up a bit.I must say something to people who defend movies like this with eternal argument hey it's not supposed to be accurate, it's just a movie. If you believe this crap you're a blithering idiot. I feel sorry for you, because you lowered your expectations and will forever be reason why Hollywood continues to produce crap like First Knight. When a movie has budget of tens of millions of dollars, it better be good. If it's based on something (novel, history, legends) it better be faithful to the original material (or at least examine it in thought-provoking fashion). Save excuses for your kids' school-plays, I'm lucky I didn't have to pay for this. "},{"Title":"Sean Connery as Arthur, Julia Ormond as Guinevere, and Richard Gere as Lancelot are the best yet.","Date":"6 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Many will disagree with my summary comment, that Connery, Ormond, and Gere are the best yet in their respective roles. I think they are, because they bring us to a point where we figuratively join them at Camelot, rather than simply seeing them as characters on the screen. This has as much to do with modern filming and sound techniques as it does with their acting. While it is a fictional story already told many times in different ways, I hold this version in high regard. The picture on the DVD is really superb, and the Dolby 5.1 sound track surrounds where it should.SPOILERS - please read no further.Lancelot has no home, travels randomly and makes money by challenging townsfolk to sword fights. He never loses because he is so good, his specialty is flipping his opponent's sword up in the air, disarming him. Quite accidentally he sees Lady Guinevere's travel party ambushed, he ends up fighting off 3 men to save her. Later he captures a wayward horse, intended for Guinevere, and is invited into Camelot. There he witnesses a kidnapping of Guinevere by water, he follows, rescues her again. Meanwhile falling in love with her. Arthur invites him to fill the empty position at the round table, Guinevere urges him to leave Camelot instead, but he stays to be near her. After one battle, Arthur comes upon his now wife and Queen, Guinevere, kissing Lancelot. Both are put on public trial, but Arthur's enemy attacks, Arthur says 'let's fight', he gets mortally wounded, Lancelot kills the bad leader, on his deathbed Arthur wills his kingdom to Lancelot, who also gets Guinevere in the bargain. Last scene, Arthur's body sent out to sea on a wooden raft with kindling, a flaming arrow follows. "},{"Title":"The Legend of Camelot larger than life; less than magical","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  First Knight is the most realistic movie about the Camelot legend, and the most emotionally engaging by far. The costumes are exquisite, the performances (especially Julia Ormond and Ben Cross) are exemplary, and the writing is extraordinary. The sword fights are among the most exciting I've seen. The idea here was to create a swashbuckling romance, focusing on the love triangle between Lancelot, Guinevere and King Arthur, and the tensions between Prince Malagant and King Arthur. The idea was not to tell a story of magic, and die hard fans of the Camelot mythology (especially of Merlin and Excalibur) will find it missing here. Most movies that try to explore the magical side of Camelot, such as John Boorman's Excalibur, the MOW adaptation of Marion Zimmer Bradley's The Mists of Avalon, and Hallmark Entertainment's Merlin, failed to capture hearts, only imagination. Jerry Zucker's First Knight does the opposite. It is too bad a Camelot movie hasn't yet done both. I also felt Jerry Goldsmith's score for First Knight had room for improvement. He can do better than this. But as a package, First Knight is a marvelous movie, worth owning. "},{"Title":"Simply Wasn't Believable (Possible Mild Spoilers)","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Thumbs down for this spectacularly misguided Arthurian film.  I grew so frustrated that I found myself responding aloud, rather incredulously, to the action on screen - fortunately, I was watching the film alone )I saw no chemistry between Arthur and Gweneviere whatsoever; they professed to love one another, but there was simply nothing there.  The relationship that came across was more father/daughter than future husband and wife, so every time they shared a kiss, I found my stomach turning.The chemistry between Lancelot and Gweneviere, on the other hand, was excellent, but the other side of the triangle was so poorly portrayed that the conflict felt false.I was also frustrated by the storyline.  I have no problem with unique interpretations of the Arthurian tale so long as the story itself seems to know where it's going Mists of Avalon (the novel) was excellent, for example, because its purpose and perspective were unified throughout.  On the other hand, this tale seemed to be confused within itself it vaguely followed the traditional story for a while, then branched wildly away at the last moment.  Whatever small part of me was still involved with the story dropped flat when it turned so unexpectedly.Sean Connery's Arthur was not heroic, just dull.  Richard Gere's Lancelot was delightful at first and appropriately heart-renching in his later dishonor.  His final turn, however, seemed forced and ungrounded.  As for Gweneviere - she started off as a fascinatingly strong character, but her story arc later forced her to swoon and submit.  Halfway through the film, therefore, the character lost its luster.I definitely would not recommend this film.  I'd say the best thing it had going for it was its set design - the Golden City really was quite beautiful.  It outshone everything else, from weak and drifting plot to cardboard script and performances. "},{"Title":"Awful.","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Some historical/literary corrections First, there *was* a King (not Prince) Malegant in some of the original legends. He kidnapped Guenevere (didn't they all?) and Lancelot rescued her from his castle by crossing The Bridge of Swords, leading to Lancelot and Guenevere's first tryst. It's another of those get the queen, get the kingdom subplots, which also happens when Mordred usurps the throne (cf. Hamlet). But certainly there is NO version of the story written before this one (or since) in which anyone but Mordred does Arthur in.Second, the crossbows. Arthur, if he existed, reigned around 470-500 CE. Crossbows were invented about 700 YEARS LATER. Crossbows with trigger action and metal-shafted arrows were invented IN THE TWENTIETH CENTURY. So I say BAD art director! BAD!Now, I could rant endlessly about other ways in which this movie defies the legend. But even for an audience interested in this film as an independent work of art (and I use the term loosely), there was much to hate. Poor acting (even from Connery), loose plotting, prosaic visuals , etc. On the whole, a disappointment, not even good enough to be called brain candy. "},{"Title":"A golden cast reduced to purest dross","Date":"22 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  A masterful piece of reverse alchemy from director Jerry Zucker and writers Lorne Cameron and David Hoselton as a golden cast is reduced to purest dross. First Knight promises a romantic romp of the kind that Hollywood does best. If only! If you are curious to see how lazy direction and a stinker of a script can neutralise the talents of Gielgud, Connery, Ormond - each capable of taking a film by the neck and shaking some sense into it (even Gere can pull it off on occasion) - rent it on video. In 30 years of movie-going First Knight stands out in my mind for scoring the highest number of unintended laughs from an audience. Indeed, it left me wondering if Zucker was not under the impression that the Naked Gun series was a gritty cop thriller. "},{"Title":"excellent movie","Date":"6 May 2004","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  if you are into medieval times this is the movie to watch. in order to understand this era you need to read the history books.  i didn't like history but as i got older i became interesting different historical events...also there are more information on the Internet which it made easier for us to get fact about the medieval times, it has also costume they wore and how is change as time passed.  if you go to historical site in you local area you can also find store that has medieval swords and other swords as well.  i have one comment to the person who said that fighting with sword its boring, that was the weapon they used to defend and fight in wars.  we are way to comfortable with the century we are in.  too much technology, computer that we use to program weapon. we don't have to be close to the people.  medieval times they had hand to hand combats. "},{"Title":"So bad... oh, so bad so bad!","Date":"3 June 2003","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I had always heard that this one was a very bad film but I had a hankering for some pretty Welsh scenery, having traveled there a few times in the past couple of years, where the Authur legend runs rampant. But this movie, if you dare call it that, is SO horrifingly deficient of the legend, so historically incorrect that I couldn't look past it. And Richard Gere as Lancelot? C'mon! I respect Sean Connery as an actor but to cast Lancelot with SUCH an American boy (no accent, mind you!) it was  just too much and Authur seemed just like an old guy. I didn't mind Julia Ormond, and didn't even mind her turmoil as Gueneivere (much better than the lascivious take in the recent Mists of Avalon--gak!) because she gave the role some dignity. But in the film overall there was NO myth, NO lore, NO legend, NO MERLIN and HELLO-- NO EXCALIBUR. What happened here?? Why can't anyone do this story right? In the time of Gladiator and the LOTR trilogy, someone ought to figure this one out. Next upcoming attempt is Authur, with Kiera Knightly (next year I think) so we'll see what happens. Someone should really think about remaking Elcalibur with all the glory, legend, magic, and beauty that it could hold-- and this time cast it realistically! "}{"Title":"Interesting try...","Date":"28 March 2000","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  ,... But whoEVER thought of the idea of filming the arthurian legend and cut away Magic, Merlin, Morgana, Mordred and Excalibur. This movie is outright horrible! It's full of anachronisms (crossbows, telephone poles, blue outfits for everyone, wierd armor... I could go on and on)  It IS a charming love-story, however. But since all the elements of the arthurian legend is cut away, there is no point in seeing it as an arthurian tale. See it for what it is a beautiful love-story set in some odd parallell-universe.  If you're looking for an arthurian tale, see Excalibur or Merlin. "},{"Title":"Hugely disappointing","Date":"13 December 2005","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" This retelling of the King Arthur legend is a huge disappointment in every respect. Sean Connery and Richard Gere are both very good actors but they're so hugely miscast here it's really ridiculous.Connery brings charm and elegance into everything he does, but here he misses simply because he's too old for the part. His relationship with Guinevere is never believable, sparks never fly and I really couldn't help but laugh at the crucial moment when Arthur becomes a broken man because of her infidelity with Lancelot.Gere doesn't fare any better as Lancelot. His romantic affair with Guinevere doesn't seem too out of place, I mean, Gere looks good enough. It's just Gere doesn't belong in a medieval film, at all. He was totally wrong for the part of David and here he's even worse. His smug, arrogant look suits him so well in many parts but not here, Lancelot doesn't come across as any kind of hero but rather as an opportunistic prick who'll stop at nothing to steal Guinevere from the King.Julia Ormond, who was so charming in Legends of the Fall, is completely on sedative here, doesn't seem to be trying her best at all. Ben Cross injects some form of life into his villainous role but the terrific John Gielgud is completely wasted in a minor part.Production values are tip-top and the movie looks and sounds great. It's got some great action sequences and Richard Gere does really look good with a sword (maybe he should play in Highlander movie some time), so many elements in the film work well. If only the script were better and the cast had been different the film could have been very good.John Boorman's 1981 film Excalibur covered the King Arthur legend much better, included the famous Excalibur sword, the wizard Merlin and the quest for the Holy Grail (all these elements are missing from First Knight). Check that one out instead. "},{"Title":"Dismal","Date":"10 April 2002","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  The best acting in this wooden, tiresome film is the by the straw knights in the battle scene at Lyonesse.  Oh, and Winchester Cathederal does a good turn as Camelot... practically animated by comparison to Julia Ormond and Richard Gere... oh especially Richard 'woodentop' Gere. How is this man famous?? Is a willingness to show your bum on screen really all it takes??  Dire script, dreadful acting... you know when you are cheering for the bad guy to win, the film is in trouble... "},{"Title":"Nononono","Date":"25 February 2007","Score":"7 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" Richard Gere in this kind of movie? Na-ah not good. The acting of the movie isn't really that good, although Connery is okay. There is so many movies about Arhtur, Lancelot etc and of those I've seen this is probably the worse. Gere ruins it all. He doesn't fit to this movie. Gross! Not a very interesting movie at all...The music was okay, but that was about it. Movie got boring quickly. Camelot looked like the Disney castle thing. The ending where Arthur is dead on a float against the sunset is beautiful, but that's about it.It could be better cast choices because as said, Gere is too... what can I say? Modern! His face is totally wrong for Lancelot... "},{"Title":"- NOT for purists - Arthurian Bizarre Love Triangle","Date":"15 February 2008","Score":"9 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" In general, I enjoyed this film. I like the Arthurian legends, Sean Connery, Julia Ormond and Richard Gere. And I am not a purist of any kind. If you can not tolerate updating, improvisation and revision of your favorite myths and legends, avoid this film at all costs. Excalibur is a very minor character, most of the knights of the round table are treated interchangeably, Camelot is depicted as a libertarian/democratic utopia, and the events of the legend are somewhat rearranged. Gere does not even affect a British accent, let alone Medieval expression. And where is Morgana and her son? A few aspects of this radical revision of the legend of Arthur, Guinevere and Lancelot bothered me - I thought Gere did an admirable job as Lancelot, but also thought that he was terribly miscast. Gere is as American as cheeseburgers and has limited physical acting ability. However, he managed to handle the action scenes quite well - with some help from the camera and director, and his accent and mannerisms did - if perhaps too much so - emphasize his difference from most of Arthur's milieu.Ormond steals the show. Connery brings his usual dose of regal manliness and that classic voice to a charismatic and powerful portrayal of Arthur, and Gere is anomalous, a little humorous and disorienting, but charmingly human. The film is nicely shot, though there are too many close-up exploitations of star-power. The editing and directing are fine, but note the comments about Gere above.The basics of the story are as follows - Guinevere (Ormond) is a young lady of Lioness whose marginal lands are threatened by upstart Prince Malagart. Malagart is out to prove that Arthur's way, and Camelot itself, are an aberration. Lancelot - a drifter with a knack for sword fighting - rescues Guinevere from an ambush launched on her wedding caravan and is immediately smitten. Whether out of love or honor, Lancelot helps her to regain her escort and he runs off into the woods and his itinerant lifestyle. Guinevere marries Arthur and Arthur plans to defend her lands. Lancelot resurfaces and gets himself placed at the round table, but his motives are suspect.All three of the protagonists are in love with each other for one reason or another and the battle scenes are not half as moving as the dynamics of their relationships.Recommended for romantics. Not recommended for purists or action fans. "},{"Title":"A truly dire movie","Date":"17 November 2004","Score":"9 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" This is probably one of the worst films I have ever seen.I watched it at the cinema shortly after it was released and would rather have been at the dentist.The plot is terrible, Connery is badly miscast and, as usual, does nothing to hide his Scottish accent (shame Arthur was Welsh/ English)Richard Gere is absolutely terrible as Lancelot and, the costumes were totally ridiculous - looked more like a panto than an Arthurian film........and so much more.I hope the cast are suitably embarrassed at having been associated with such inane rubbish.Absolutely dreadful - it should never have been made. "},{"Title":"Classic literature turned comic book.","Date":"21 February 2005","Score":"26 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" Bad, very bad. Even with Connery aboard, still bad. The classic story of Arthur is turned into Jello with this one. The whole experience of Arthur relies on the softly focused mystical aura that surrounds him and his supposed time. This film gives us nothing but day-glo colors and Richard Gear prancing around like an idiot dodging hammers and whirly-gigs. What is that? Connery is far too old to pull Arthur off. Arthur is young and idealistic. That fact is much of what makes the legend what it is. He sets a new era in motion then dies before he sees it take hold. Arthurian legend has always suffered at the hands of film makers and this more recent example causes much suffering. Over simplified, over colored, overripe, just plain bad. Looking for the Arthurian legend on film? John Borman's Excalibur is still your best bet. I only give it a two because it has swords. "},{"Title":"Were horses harmed in the battle scenes?","Date":"8 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" We hope no horses were harmed in the battle scenes.. something the film board in the UK and thousands of animal rights groups in the US opposeSean Connery is wonderful and Richard Gere continues his courageous support of Tibetan monksThe cinematography is beautifulThe script is averageThe plot is an eternal oneYour will chooses me. Your heart chooses him is a good line.The ever burning fire in the middle of the round table isa beautiful symbol.The voice of the Guinevere actress is like music. "},{"Title":"Connery vs Gere","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I thought that this was a pretty poor version of the Aurthurian legend. While I was watching it, the one thing that kept going through my mind was Poor girl, she has to choose between Sean Connery and Richard Gere. When I mentioned this to my wife, she said Sean Connery, every time. "},{"Title":"Maligant, Indeed","Date":"5 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  (Spoiler warning)I saw this movie when it first came out in 1995 and that was my first comment upon leaving the theatre (Maligant, Indeed). I just couldn't believe that they would take the magic out of Camelot. When you do this all you're left with is the love triangle and if that is case you'd think the writers would try to make the love between the main characters the most powerful thing in the movie. They didn't. One scene in particular points this out. After Arthur catches the Queen and Lance in a compromising position he goes to the chapel and lets out the biggest yawp of a 'Why!!!!!'. This just seemed so unwarranted. As much as she protested otherwise, it was obvious that this Guinevere married Arthur out of a sense of duty to her country.I will say that I always get caught up in the climax of the movie. The swordplay in the movie is very good.  "}{"Title":"Too falsely heroic","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I thought that this story was pretty weak.  I mean it was great to see Lancelot in such a heroic role but I thought that the love story was pretty weak compared to many of the literature books.  I also felt bad for Arthur about this but at the same time thought that he was a moron that could just never swallow his own pride.  It seemed like a short movie even though it was not.  I just don't understand why there was such a fuss over this one little town.    "},{"Title":"where's the beef","Date":"26 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  So, no Excalibur, no Merlin, a knight named Malagant which no one had ever heard of and last but not least Arthur, played by Sean Connery who is at least EIGHTY years to old for the part.  At least there's the beautiful Julia Ormond to look at.  Two movies and a book.  Rent Excalibur, that even if it's not a great movie I think it captures the Arthurian legend in a better satisfying way.  And Lancelot du Lac (Lancelot of the Lake), also read The Mists of Avalon. "},{"Title":"Another Camelot movie, another reason not to make them...","Date":"8 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  While a big fan of the Arthurian legends I failed to enjoy this movie at all. Sean Connery, as per normal, was fantastic, but I don't know where Julia Ormond learnt to act. The vapid look on her face served her well in Legends of the Fall, but it just didn't work here. I began to wonder what at all Lancelot would see in her, and this was before Lancelot even appeared. Once he did I began to wonder what she would see in Lancelot. While I enjoyed Richard Gere in Pretty Women, I am yet to find another movie where he has been as suited to the role. This wasn't it. The main characters ran around saying the rather poor lines in a British accent while crusty old Gere stuck to his American one. Maybe with a different Lancelot this movie would have worked. Arthurian movies should restrict themselves to Merlin-like concepts, where we know it is a complete farce, but are enjoying it too much to care. "},{"Title":"Too inaccurate to enjoy","Date":"31 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" **Contains spoilers**My knowledge of the Arthurian legends is limited, but I know enough to safely say this movie was too inaccurate. It focuses solely on the love triangle between Arthur, Guinevere, and Lancelot. There is no mention of Merlin, the Lady of the Lake, or any other magical things. I believe Avalon is key to the Arthurian legends, but this movie was about love and Lord Malagant. I've never even heard of him (maybe he's just not as popular as Galahad and Gawain), so I don't believe he was the cause of Arthur's death, as he was in this movie. I also found it too unbelievable that all of the sudden, on his death bed, Arthur asks Lancelot to take care of Guinevere.Some people argue that this movie was not meant to be accurate. Well, even if you don't know much about Arthur I still wouldn't recommend it. In my opinion the script seemed too modern and there were no standout actors. I think Richard Gere is great, but I did not like him as Lancelot at all.I give this movie a 4/10*If you'd like to see a movie about Avalon's role in Camelot I would recommend The Mists of Avalon. "},{"Title":"Farce Knight","Date":"17 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Jerry Zucker, the director of 1995's `First Knight,' is no stranger to comedies. After all, he directed the original `Airplane!,' which was hilarious. Perhaps that helps explain why `First Knight' is itself so bloody hilarious &#150; albeit unintentionally. First of all, if you're trying to make an Arthurian action/adventure/romance, cast anyone (and I mean ANYONE) but Richard Gere as Lancelot. His depiction of the &#145;first knight' of Camelot makes Kevin Costner's Robin Hood seem likable and charismatic by comparison. At least Sean Connery, playing King Arthur himself, helps to alleviate some of the pain, and Julia Ormond is a perfect choice for Guinevere. Even so, they cannot change the fact that the film is built upon the foundations of a limp, cliché-ridden screenplay that must have borne more than a passing resemblance to a cheesy romance novel.`First Knight' depicts a squeaky clean Camelot (and I mean that literally &#150; forget everything you think you know about the squalor of Medieval times) in which Lancelot arrogantly stalks and pesters another man's wife until she somehow submits to his complete lack of charm (and acting skill). Let me just say that the improbability of ANY woman submitting to this smug, personality-deprived man is exceedingly high. Yet when Ormond's otherwise appealing Guinevere does just that, and betrays the righteous Arthur, you're actually SUPPOSED to take her side and, worse yet, Lancelot's. Huh?! And of course, this absurd plotline is surrounded by another absurd plotline, which pits the knights of the Round Table (the good guys) against Prince Malagant and his minions (the bad guys, as though you couldn't tell).Hollywood films don't get much more melodramatic than this. Add some horrible (and I mean HORRIBLE) sword fights into the mix and you've got yourself a bad movie that tries desperately, but futilely, to be something more than the sum of its parts. On the plus side, it IS entertaining. In the strangest way, this clichéd tale is rather compelling. It's compelling in much the same manner as a man teetering on a thin layer of black ice is compelling &#150; you know he's about to slip and fall, and you want to be there to see it. The natural reaction is to have a chuckle. Well, `First Knight' has plenty of chuckles in store for you. At the very least, you have to hand it to Jerry Zucker &#150; it's way better than `Rat Race,' and twice as funny.  "},{"Title":"Le Mort d'Arthur","Date":"16 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  This film is not so bad if you read the comments on IMDb first, and don't go into it thinking that it is something it's not. What you won't find is medieval realism, or (even minimal) faithfulness to Arthurian legends. (I have read Malory, Tennyson, and T. H. White, for that matter, over the years) But you have some attractive actors doing a costume action/drama. It's like the writers were told who would be playing the leads, and wrote the film for them. Even without the false pretenses of the film makers, this one isn't very good. Grade D+ "},{"Title":"Testimony to Corp Hollywood.","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  To do this movie justice in a sound bite, I find it difficult to settle on an adjective; flat, stilted, and uninspired top the short list.Appreciating this movie requires one to set their good sense and basic expectations on the shelf.  A few people that have been numbed by the standard Hollywood cookie cutter movie actually seem to like this charade. But alas, it is obvious that Hollywood's cookie cutter has cut the heart right out of the story.  And if you wish to know why no person should like this movie, I will explain.It is acceptable to cut out the mystery and magic of Arthurian ledged, but not a single person should sit still when they replace it with cheap, sterile Hollywood tricks.  For example, how can a respectable person honestly suspend their disbelief enough to accept a secure jail with a ready made escape route built right into the center?  Did the jailers never notice the 10' wide passage maked with the escape route sign?Furthermore, you should protest at entire armies appearing out of the middle of no where (which happens at least 3 times) as a lame excuse for a plot twist.  Don't mistake the thrilling surprise as something clever.  It was a surprise because it was unreasonable, not because there was planning or thought behind it.This entire world was portrayed, though striking at some points, straight from the imagination of a creatively challenged 10 year old.  Who else would dress medieval knights in polyester star trek uniforms?Finally, the writers should all be summarily shot.  Did you really buy the line - `kneel or die?'  It was o-so-lame.  That's it.  If I have to do the movie justice and give it a suitable descriptive sound bite, lame is my choice. "},{"Title":"Ugh...","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  This film blows, plain and simple.  Take, for example, the scene in the forest when Guinevere asks Lancelot where he learned how to make rain pour down a few leaves into her mouth...I thought the people in Leoness were just trying to hide in the church until the movie ended and they could safely come out, but NO!  King Arthur forces them out and makes them suffer like everyone else who had to appear on screen.  And what was up with the costumers and production designers on this film?  Why did EVERYONE and EVERYTHING have to be draped in blue? "},{"Title":"Sickening to the stomach.","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  The only reason I gave this 4/10 is because I appreciate unique interpretations of the Arthurian legend.  Unfortunately, while unique, this interpretation made me want to lose my lunch.  Richard Gere is perhaps the worst actor to cast as Lancelot (except for maybe Jim Carrey).  Sean Connery as an elder Arthur is interesting, but is left with a flat character due to the poor plot-line.  Ditto for the beautiful Julia Ormond as Guinevere. The story-line becomes even more unbelievable in the latter part of the movie, and the ending is not only stupid, but not even dramatic -- just sappy.  If you decide to rent it, fast-forward to Connery's death-scene the only good part of the movie.  If you decide to watch the whole thing, bring an airline barf bag, or any handy waste-receptacle suitable for holding your intestinal contents. "},{"Title":"Blah (spoilers)","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I admit I only half-watched this movie (I was preoccupied playing Diablo 2) but I did manage to pick up a few things such as that Camelot was a very cheery place with rich hues of pastel blue and yellow where people wore Star-Trek costumes; meanwhile villains wore studded leather costumes and sport serrated edges on their.  It's hilarious when a low-budget film like the classic Monty Python and the Holy Grail is more realistic than a big-budget fiasco such as this.I don't think this film sucked because it lacked Merlin, Morgause, et al.  It sucked because it just wasn't very good.  So it was a story about the love triangle of Arthur, Lancelot and Guinevere?  Fine, alright, that's what the movie is going for.  But who cares when these characters are about as exciting as toast?  Julia Ormond is enjoyable to watch, that much is hard to argue, but the movie doesn't have much of anything else going for it.The battle scenes certainly don't hold up.  In fact, they rank somewhat lower than the battle scenes in MP&THG (which were intentionally funny), if I may allude to that film again.  Combatants don't swing their swords with gusto and there is no great clashing of steel.  Instead, they seem to gingerly fence with each other.  Instead of sounds like CLANG! there are lot of feeble little tinks and clinks.  Take the final battle between Lancelot and Malagant; I really hope knights didn't fight like this back then.  When Malagant's mouth opens in comic disbelief when Lancelot bests him, it is just completely hilarious.  You have to see it to believe it, though I don't recommend watching this film to anyone. "}{"Title":"A terrible take on the Camelot Story","Date":"10 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  It astounds me how movie makers can ruin such fantastic legends. The only reason I can give as to why they have changed the Arthurian legend for this dire piece of work is that they have never read it. The only thing that they have from the original story is that Guinevere ran off with Lancelot. Thats it!! They don't have the attack of Mordred Arthurs evil son, they have Malagant...a rather unoriginal and pointless villain. There is no Merlin or Morgan Le Fay...just a bunch of people in the wrong type of armour for when the story is originaly set. As an Englishman I find it quite irritating to know that people can dirty the name of one of our greatest legends. I say through the film onto the road and reverse over it...six times. Its the only way! "},{"Title":"Call me a purist, but this telling was not up to the original standard.","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I wanted so badly to like this movie. I've read so many versions of the Arthurian chronicles and I've liked all of them; the Mallory telling remains my favorite. But this. This was an insult to anyone who paid attention in their British/World Literature class, and was most definitely a slap in the face to anyone familiar with the Arthurian Legend in any form. Each and every scene is a direct contradiction to anything recorded. Sure, it's supposedly a legend, and therefore open to artistic license, but this dismal rewrite becomes nothing more than a good idea gone horribly and terribly wrong. They could have at least gotten the names right. And maybe one or two events? Again, call me a purist, but I refuse to believe Arthur died in anything close to that manner, and I'll go to my end defending it. And this Malagant (whoever the heck *he* was, I recall his name nowhere in anything I've ever read) becomes nothing more than a plot device to spice things up when the dialogue starts to get slow again. You can't just bring in the villain because the lines are petering out! By the end of the movie you can just about time his entrances by the steady breakdown of whatever plot is left. And just where was Merlin? Shame on Sean Connery for doing this farce of a movie; I expected much more from an actor of his stature and talent. The chemistry between Gere and Ormond is at absolute zero; he should really stick to movies with Julia Roberts if he'd like to succeed at the box office. Connery is a decent Arthur for all that, but he cannot save this movie. Nothing, not even King Arthur himself, could save this movie. You want magic and interest and Camelot the way most people picture it? Rent Merlin, the NBC miniseries that came out in 1997 or so.  "},{"Title":"A big disappointment","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  This movie was a big disappointment to me, especially when I knew that Sean Connery was going to be Arthur.  Although he didn't do a bad job, he didn't really do a good job either.  Julia Ormond could have been a good Guinevere but she was only ok.  Richard Gere was horrible as Lancelot, I hated the character from the beginning and did not like this portrayal of Lancelot as a selfish, greedy, bullying lout.  What happened to Lancelot being a paladin-like figure?  The only good thing I have to say is that I liked Ben Cross as the villain, although I didn't recognize the name from any books I've read (Prince Mordant or whatever it was).  I did like the pistol crossbows, and the cool looking armor that the Knights of the Round Table wore. Overall, a very disappointing movie and one I probably won't watch twice. "},{"Title":"It was a sorry example of a classic..","Date":"27 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  I had such high hopes when I found out about this one it was filmed in Gwynnedd (Wales), it had Sean Connery in a leading role, so what could go wrong?In the end, it was a sorry example of an Arthurian failure! The intrigue was flat, the characters were flat, the acting (yes, even Sean Connery) was flat. For those with anything more than a shred of knowledge of Arthurian legend, this one was a travesty! No known Round Table heroes (Sir Patrise? Sir Magan?), apart from a Richard Gere so out of place, even my Granny noticed. I sorely missed Merlin, which would have been a better part for Sean, with Richard then as Arthur.. The fighting was ridiculous, the bad guy (Malagant? Why not simply Mordred!) unbelievable in his stupid obsessiveness. Camelot (it's only a model!) seems not to have been guarded at parties, too stupid for words.  "},{"Title":"Not the best version of Arthurian legend","Date":"30 October 1998","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  This movie looked so promising on the commercials (despite having Richard Gere in it) but when I went to the theater, I found that ALL the good things I'd seen on the commercials were it.  Don't get me wrong, I love the Arthurian legend, and I enjoy reading/seeing different versions and interpretations of it.  This interpretation was not well done.There are so many intriguingly dark aspects of the legend--love, betrayal, magic, incest, lies, etc.  I don't think the story benefits from being cleaned up because it robs the story of much of its depth. Richard Gere made a dismal and unbelievable Lancelot, and the movie fell far short of its potential. "},{"Title":"What a flop!!...","Date":"13 April 2008","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" ... And i don't mean in terms of box-office earnings!Are you nuts?? This movie in personal top-15 favorites?! The best Arthur/Camelot movie???!!! Seems you haven't seen many!Hollywood does it again one of the greatest stories ever known is turned into a glossy, heartless, meaningless, insipid torment for all of us who love the Arthurian legend! As i recently read in a TV-guide, Gere needs a cup of coffee and a slap on the face to liven-up! And what a terrible waste for Connery as King Arthur... Go see Excalibur for God's sake! Or Merlin! Or even Sword of the Valiant The Legend of Sir Gawain and the Green Knight! At least it's more sincere...And that wraps it up!P.C. I wonder, why didn't Zucker stay with the comedy style and had to turn serious? "},{"Title":"Barely watchable","Date":"26 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  This is a pretty worthless movie; it pretty much only succeeds in turning the story of King Arthur and Camelot into a sappy romance. I can only say one positive thing about the movie at all; the sword fights were sometimes well-choreographed. Apart from that, everything in the movie is incredibly average; the acting is wooden, the cinematography is daft, the plot is uneventful... I could go on. As said, the only good thing about the movie is the sword fighting scenes, and they're not great. I guess the story is pretty accurate to the original source material, but if you just want the story, you might as well just read a book about it; or watch one of the other movie versions, as I think most of them are a lot better. As for the actors chosen in this one... Sean Connery is not a bad actor, but he's too old to play the role, especially with most of the knights being half his age. Richard Gere... eh, I've never been a fan of him, as he mostly does by-the-book romantic comedies. In this one he plays exactly the same role as he usually does in the romantic comedies, only with a slight lonely cowboy touch to his character, for no apparent reason. I don't know any of the other actors, so I can't compare them to any of their earlier work, but I can't say that any of them did particularly good jobs portraying their respective characters. I wouldn't recommend this movie to anyone, except for people who like the story, love at least one or more of the main actors or seriously dig sword fighting... normally, I would fall into the last category, but it wasn't enough to save it for me. 5/10 "},{"Title":"The Defiled Beauty","Date":"28 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers herein.You already know that the production values are poor and the artistic center of this is skewed. You already know that Connery (a vocal actor) and Gere (a dancer) just don't have the moxie to carry this. You probably already know that the power of this legend, refined over many, many generations was capriciously modified by Hollywood. One of the worst writing decisions I can imagine.I was going to write about the defiled beauty of the legend first, but as I say, you already know that. What intrigues me is Ms Ormand. She is an intelligent actress, someone who understands and seeks out complex projects. She knows the Russian narrative spirit and has sought out several roles in that tradition. I count Smilla in that tradition -- the book was a clever study in shifting the narrative inside and out and infusing it into an environment,Her first real film role was also her most marvelous `Baby of Macon.' That surely is one of the ten most narratively rich and ambiguous films ever made. She is the central character. But alas, her career was ruined by a cattle of Hollywood glamour managers who paraded her through one disaster after another Tony Hopkins trying to be Pa Cartwright; Harrison Ford trying to be intelligently funny; and here struggling with Connery's stentorian sledgehammer.In `Baby of Macon,' she was serially raped. Same here. "},{"Title":"Where is Sir Galahad in the IMDb credits for this film?","Date":"5 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Romance","Review":" First Knight is a much better King Arthur movie than King Arthur. At one point Sir Sean Connery leads a battle and then at the right moment sends in his troops held in reserve formation to win the fight. I haven't seen Julia Ormand in an A list movie in years. She is sadly missed.My Daughter Julia said I hope no one steals my Planet Coaltrain Spaceship and tries to go to Mars with it. Julia had all of her toy animals taken away from her for two weeks for going to her mothers room before 8am on a Saturday. JULIA said Even the toy animals I love were taken away. I tried to hide some in a bottom drawer but then I was afraid that I wouldn't get to see you Daddy as Mommys punishment for keeping some stuffed animals. I told my daughter Julia that she can get up any time she wants when She is with me her Daddy and she said Yay!. I will try to get Julia some more toy animals soon.To all of the people concerned about viruses and bacteria being used to stop global warming remember that as American Shadow Vice President I did not sign the plan. Remember to buy surgical masks and several years supplies of nonperishable food and water. May the Lord bless you and keep you, may he lift up his countenance to you and give you peace.Yhwh. as the Presbyterians and others like to band together and say. The other movies of Sir Sean Connery and Richard Gere are also worth your time watching. "}]