[{"Title":"The Woody Allen formula can be enjoyable even without him","Date":"13 April 2004","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Gwyn and Matt have finally gotten engaged and it looks like she will get what she wanted - a happy marriage just like the rest of her family. However as she looks around with clear eyes she realises that all her family are involved in bad marriages and affairs.  As a result she begins to get cold feet, worried the same will happen to her.From the style and music of the opening credits right through to the to-camera conclusion that mirrors the `need the eggs', this film is like a tropical version of Annie Hall with a female playing the Woody Allen role! Even if it is not a total mirror, it is impossible to watch this film without seeing Allen's influence all over it.  So immediately large sections of the audience will want to turn off, however I love Allen so am happy to give this a shot on that basis alone.  As a film, it's plot is just a collection of messy relationship through which Carrie, sorry, Gwyn learns lessons.  It isn't substance rich but that's the point - instead it is quick and rather witty, never sitting still for very long but being quite fun with it.The cast also helps as they do some very fun turns despite some weaknesses. Parker is good and her New York personae certainly seems to fit the material.  Bellows is rather bland for the role but there are some great little bits from Banderas, Farrow and Mazursky.  It's always good to see Pollack and Piven but Campbell demonstrates why she hasn't moved into a successful film career by reading her lines with all the emotion of iron (although she looked great in the beach-shoot scene).Overall this is a fun little film that is quite slick if you are a fan of Woody Allen's relationship neurosis films.  If you're not then you'll probably do well to avoid this film. "},{"Title":"Makes me lose my faith in user ratings","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"19 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I always have used viewer comments and user ratings as guides to what I want to see with near 100% success, but luckily did not rely on the rating and some of the flame comments that this flick received.The soundtrack is excellent, the mood is Miami, the Allenesque milieu is perfect for those attracted to it and not limited to urban New York backdrops for its appreciation.Sarah Jessica Parker is outstanding, Banderas sends himself up perfectly as does Mia Farrow.  Other supporting cast is very strong, script is well-written and sparkles in places.  I can only attribute the relatively low rating to those that don't like Woody Allen movies; they surely would not like this. "},{"Title":"Funny, hip and heartbreaking... no easy feat!","Date":"10 December 1999","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of those movies you either hate or love at first sight.Certainly it has an Allenesque feel to it (It may not be a mere coincidence that Mia Farrow is one of it stars, doing a marvelous send-up of the kind of characters she used to play for Woody, from Hannah to more closely Alice Tate), but there's so much more to it than that!Sarah Jessica Parker is the link in the story, but not necessarily the main knot. Take Antonio Banderas's turn parodying himself and the suave latino lover typecasts, or Carla Gugino's bubbly charm, or Barbara Garrick's bravura performance as the too-briefly seen Terri. Of course, good things always may come hand-in-hand with lackluster spots... one of the biggest here? Naomi Campbell sitting pretty and saying Fuck off with as much enthusiasm as a laptop computer with a british accent. She is typecast alrigtht, but instead of playing with the possibilities like Banderas did, she just walks by as in a catwalk, but she is remarkably far from fantastic.Now that brings us to another contrast, for Gil Bellows' performance as Matt, the understated and understanding fiance is nothing short of great. His smile can lit up a room (common knowledge) and yet when he has to unburden his anger and pain he does it in a way that is quiet and convincing. No high drama, no storming through doors. His character is a man in love but pushed too hard by his beloved (Parker) so his empathy is believable to a fault. His is one of the most delightful moments of the film, including the possibility of salvage at the closing.The scenery goes well with Mark Isham's excellent score and yes, these characters are perhaps a bit too neurotic to be really lovable, but that is the point of it all, and this movie proves it, hands down.Definitely not a masterpiece, but a good, entertaining and also aching film that is in no way forgettable after all. "},{"Title":"Mature comedy","Date":"18 February 1999","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I found this movie extremely enjoyable, with a knockout performance by Sarah Jessica Parker and a nice jazzy soundtrack. Parker creates an interesting character, which is difficult in a movie like this because a lot of it is her reactions to everything going on around her. The supporting cast is also first-rate.  My only gripe is the title of the movie, which is meaningless. "},{"Title":"Early Sarah Jessica Parker is fabulous...","Date":"28 November 2004","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I would disagree with the previous user comment. Miami Rhapsody was both funny and intelligent. Indeed it saunters along with the rhythm of a Woody Allen flick but this is simply because it captures characters in dialouge rarely heard in most Hollywood films. Furthermore...it was truly refreshing to get to see Sarah Jessica Parker in a role (pre-Sex in the City) that really uses her talents as both as comedian and dramatist. It was super refreshing to see a neurotic thinking womens role that toyed with the notion of marriage and commitment. We may think it is overdone now with the re-runs of Sex in the City and all...but put yourself back in 1995. So Yeah...I liked it. "},{"Title":"What marriage and Miami have in common.","Date":"24 May 2001","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Miami Rhapsody is a conversational light-hearted chick flick with Parker at the vortex of a Miami's family's many relationships. The film focuses on the Parker character's musings, contemplations, reflections, and conclusions in an easy going, unpretentious, gentle, and lively way. A must see for Sarah Jessica Parker fans and an enjoyable low cal flick for all others. "},{"Title":"A Miami-set Woody clone","Date":"2 August 2003","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Sarah Jessica Parker is a young, female version of Woody Allen.  That's pretty much what you get with this movie.  Everyone was criticizing Kenneth Branagh (and John Cusack, to a lesser degree) when they did their Woody impersonations in Celebrity and Bullets Over Broadway.  But no one seemed to mind when Parker did it in this movie, which Woody Allen had no link to even though it feels that way.  Add Mia Farrow to the mix, and the clone is perfected (nevermind the fact that Mia and Woody were estranged when this was made).  I found a few funny moments and lines (the business with the monkeys and Parker's reaction to them is memorable, but again totally out of the Woody school).  But in the end this is a second-rate Woody Allen film, best suited for rainy days when there is nothing else to watch and you stumble upon this on cable TV. "},{"Title":"Woody Allen???","Date":"21 December 1998","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I can´t seem to find any connection to Woody Allen other than Mia Farrow and the style, this movie is obviously made by someone who liked Allen's Husbands and wives. If you have seen that, then there is no need to see this film, it´s the same! "},{"Title":"Written by David Frankel...","Date":"4 September 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" and well-directed. Anyone who has ever lived in or visited South Florida will enjoy this film. Sarah Jessica Parker is very good, and I am not really an ardent fan of Sex and the City.Mia Farrow and Paul Mazursky portray an older well-to-do Miami couple ...what shall I decorate the den in, sea foam or teal..., Mia wonders. While lines like that could seem vacuous, they are humorous when presented in an intelligent way.Infidelity, boredom, job frustration. SJP has some excellent lines, like when she tells her grandmother ...your generation had something to fight against Nazis...what does my generation have?... . Also when she is demoted at her job, her boss tells her not to buy into the glass-ceiling theory; she says, as a woman I don't have to buy it I get it for free everyday. Anyone who has ever worked in the superficial world of advertising will get a few laughs.Antonio Banderas is also in a small part, as Farrow's paramour.This film deserves a watch, especially because there are so few intelligent romantic comedies. Definitely worth it. "},{"Title":"Insightful commentary on trials and tribulations of marriage.","Date":"8 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This comedy follows the relationships of a husband and wife, their 3 adult children, and their romantic partners.  The couples' relationships cover a spectrum of durations, from the one couple just beginning to plan a marriage, one married for less than 6 months. one with a young child and another on the way, and the long-time married.  Only about half of marriages last, and a good portion of the rest suffer from infidelities, neglect, boredom, etc.  These are the issues considered by the unwed daughter, played by Sara Jessica Parker.  After watching the movie I went to IMDB to see if Woody Allen wrote or directed it.  It seemed very much like one of his.  SJP plays the Woody Allen character, very creditably.See it from the beginning; this is not one to pick up in the middle! "}{"Title":"I stopped watching the SuperBowl for this! The  Great  Movie Giveaway","Date":"1 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  What can I say for Miami Rhapsody. First of all it is very Woody Allenesque but the thing that made those movie good is that Allen really hates himself ,and vents his frustrations on camera talking about all the things that happened in childhood and in his family life. Gwyn Marcus(Sarah Jessica Parker) character never gives any reasons for all her scarcasm she just goes on and on at a annoying pace. She has rich parents so here's my One-Liner. My brother cheating on his wife so here's my One-liner. Her character doesn't exist before the movie it like she's born yesterday.She did not come from a broken home and was not abused as a child so why all the cynicism.  A line did mention that she never went out much back in high school because she was so skinny A Hat Rack (her words not mine) If so she must have been Invisible because she still is skinny.The movie wasn't so bad it had a good pace the scenes without Parker are actually great even though there are few not that's  her fault. The flashbacks are well placed it would have been better if the Writer/director had taken five minutes just 5 min to build Gwyn's neurosis right in the being of the movie and then maybe a Flashback or two then I could have felt connected to her but instead the writer just hands them out to her and all the characters in the film like a lottery. Speaking of the lottery the studio must have had a raffle and the director must have won permission to make this movie in that contest. Finally I would however recommend watching this movie Miami Rhapsody first and then W. Allen's Husbands and Wives second orManhattan to Compare and Contrast the two.  "},{"Title":"Stands the test of time","Date":"12 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I watched this movie again, probably for the fourth time.  I originally saw it in the  theatre, and I do recall enjoying it.  I have subsequently seen it every once in  awhile on television.  Upon viewing it again last night, I was struck at how well it  has held up over the past eight years or so. Yes, it does mimic the style usually associated with Woody Allen, but that is not  a bad trait.  There have been numerous films fashioned to replicate Allen's choices, most recently The Sidewalks of New York, the Ed Burns film from 2001.And although Miami Rhapsody is not as good as Allen's best works, it is a well- structured and a well-acted piece. Sarah Jessica Parker is well suited for the movie, and, as always, she plays her  part well.  Mrs. Parker is not an actress with great range, but when plugged into  the right project she shines.  Her delivery and timing in comedic roles has always been reliable, even if she has been in some very poor movies (e.g. If Lucy Fell, Hocus Pocus, Striking Distance).  She has established herself as a  star in the past few years on Sex and the City, and her character in Miami Rhapsody is very similar, like Carrie's long-lost doppleganger living in Florida.This film is definitely worth watching if you enjoy Sex and the City; and, the  sharp writing and likable characters make the viewing of this movie extremely  enjoyable, whether it is your first, second, or third time seeing it. "},{"Title":"Exceptional and Wholly Underrated","Date":"24 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Having read the redundant Allen references I must say I didn't have any while watching Miami Rhapsody.Ruth Gordon's name sprang to mind, though. She wrote many of the exceptional lines for women such as Katherine Hepburn. And spoke them in Harold and Maude (an absolutely brilliant and unique movie.) The wonderfully witty lines by all participants in this movie are highly clever and extremely well delivered. No particular fan of SJP lately, in this she was excellent! Beautiful, witty, funny and insightful! The epitome of what every woman is (when not pretending otherwise.) I love this little gem. And regret that others don't see its true worth.Today's movies are based on such different expectations, never realized and all made for those with lowered realities. "},{"Title":"Excruciatingly funny, one of the best and cleverest scripts ever, Parker shines brightly","Date":"1 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Gwen (Sarah Jessica Parker) has a steady boyfriend and a great job at an advertising agency. But, that's not good enough for her parents. At her younger sister's wedding, the duo hound Gwen about setting a date for her own nuptials. To make peace, Gwen and her boyfriend go ahead and mark the calendar. However, in short order, Gwen learns that her own mother is having an affair with a male nurse (Antonio Banderas). And, that's not all. Perhaps there are more family members indulging in extra-marital activities. Does Gwen's potential marriage have a snowball's chance in Miami? This is a terrific film, very funny and very clever. The script is awesome, as, for example, Gwen asks her mother why she is involved with a nurse, you mean, not even a doctor?. That's just one line but the movie is loaded with them, to the point of infinite joy. Parker has her finest hour, even considering where she has gone since the film was made. Her Gwen is lovely, funny, brilliant and acerbic. The rest of the cast is also quite wonderful, with Mia Farrow, Gil Bellows, Carla Gugino, Kevin Pollack, Jeremy Piven and more. The Miami setting is exotic and beautiful, the costumes are first-rate, and the production values are mighty. If you have somehow let this film pass you by, rectify that mistake. Head to the library or video store at once, even if you are supposed to be working, and sit down to laughs and laughs in abundance. "},{"Title":"Same Sex Different City","Date":"20 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is Sex and the City set in Miami. Sarah Jessica Parker does exactly the same thing she does when she's Carrie. Sit at a laptop, go on dates (even though she's engaged) and ponder about life whilst comparing it to friends and families.It's like if Sex and The City and The Royal tenenbaums met each other in a more realistic way.Antonio Banderas, Mia Farrow and Jordan Marcus are very entertaing also. However Naomi Campbell isn't. So thank god her screen time is just under 5 minutes.It's a good entertaining movie though and funny in parts. I recommend it. "},{"Title":"So-So Comedy with great cast; some hilarious scenes!","Date":"3 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  As a big fan of Sex and the City and Sarah Jessica in general, I have decided to try and watch as many Sarah Jessica films as I can. This is a fun film but definitely not as funny as LA Story. Sarah looks great,  and I noticed in the credits that Patricia Field who dresses the Sex and the City gals is the costumer on this film as well. I liked the Woody Allen-style story. It makes my own life seem more normal as we can really get into to the actors crazy thoughts and worries. My favorite character in the film is Antonio. His interactions with the ladies were hilarious! "},{"Title":"Reviews tend to lie.","Date":"11 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If I had gone by the reviews I've seen of this movie, I never would've watched it, and that would've been my incredible lost. This movie is fun, witty and amusing in a way that kept me entertained the whole way through. "},{"Title":"Woody Allen Goes South","Date":"11 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Hmmm...Sometimes I watch this movie with the mute on. I just enjoy seeing all the scenes from my former hometown.  I have to say that Kevin Pollack gives an absolutely fantastic performance as the philandering heartless husband.  However, his paring with the mythically-sized Naomi Campbell is about as unlikely as a marriage between Howard Stern and Dr. Laura.Watch it if there's nothing else on...especially if you live up North and it's winter. Seeing palm trees and sun, even on TV, can greatly reducing the symptons associated with Seasonal Affective Disorder. Don't forget the mute button!  "},{"Title":"enjoyable, light fare","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I have watched Miami Rhapsody in part twice but never from the beginning to the end, but I was enjoying it the second time  because I thought I was watching Sex in the city.  I like Sarah Jessica Parker and Mia Farrow in the movie,  but the line concerning Arabs and Republicans not compromising, turned me off.   It wasn't the trashing of Republicans that bothered me, but was bothered about the statement about Arab people. Unfortunately, Mr. Frankel has spiritual shutters on his eyes. "},{"Title":"Annie Hall Part Two??","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a decent movie but WOW is it derivative, SJ Parker is playing basically a female Alvie Singer from Annie Hall, especially the monologue at the end is almost a word for word reworking of the one at the end of Annie, substituting Miami for needing the eggs.This character is also a bit similar to Carrie Bradshaw on Sex and the City, this may be how she got that job... "}{"Title":"Very intelligent, mature comedy with a message, I rate 7 of 10.","Date":"5 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Every movie's title needs to make sense, and this one, Miami Rhapsody, makes perfect sense.  It is set in Miami, and the definition of rhapsody is, a highly emotional utterance  a highly emotional literary work  effusively rapturous or extravagant discourse.  The short synopsis is this - mid-20s girl is engaged to be married, has a great relationship with her live-in boyfriend, but suddenly she, in succession, finds out that all those close to her, even mom and dad, are having marital problems, and she begins to have serious doubts if marriage is the right thing.  In the end, she says, Marriage is a lot like Miami. It is hot and stormy, and dangerous, but if it is so bad then why is there still so much traffic?The writing and diolog delivery are very clever, and the editing is just so good, I found myself constantly marveling at how good that part of the film is. I like Woody Allen in small doses, but this one I seemingly never tire of.CAUTION -- SPOILERS FOLLOW --Sarah Jessica Parker is great in the lead. Now I understand the Woody Allen references. In fact, imagine a female delivering Woody Allen-esque lines and you have Sarah's role in this film. Antonio Banderas as the Latin lover who seduces her mother (Mia Farrow), and comes very close to bedding her too, is also excellent. The one big problem I have with this film is its apparent cavalier treatment of infidelity. When mom first tells daughter she suspects dad is having an affair, and daughter later discusses it with dad, the subject could well have been dad has hair on his back. That's how calm and accepting they all were of infidelity, and the same later when it is revealed that mom is also bedding grandma's male nurse, Banderas.  Similar to the various other couples who are cheating on their spouses.The film starts and ends with Parker in her therapist's office, all the time talking into the camera. The film is done as a series of flashbacks with commentary, after she tells the therapist that once she was engaged. She ends up losing the man, but her parents, and also all the other couple infidels, all realize that they had simply given in to temptation and in the end loved and appreciated their mates and all was heading in the right direction. And Parker's character learned that in spite of all its pitfalls, relationships and marriage are still worth pursuing. So, all-in-all it is a personal growth movie, involving primarily Parker's character, and the rhapsody told in the film is solely to show how she achieved that.  I rate it a very solid 7 of 10. "},{"Title":"Great film","Date":"10 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I have seen this film two times and I like it sooo much!!! Sara Jessica Parker is such a good actress and the other actors do a great job too. It is not a usuall Hollywood-Love-Story and it is more funny too.I can recommend this film to everybody, who likes S. J. Parker, Woody Allen-Films and sitcoms. If you don 't like any of this, you will also like this film. "},{"Title":"Likable, if derivative comedy","Date":"15 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Thin, but enjoyable romp involving a young, unmarried Jewish woman and her married family and friends--all of whom seem to be miserable and cheating on each other. Ersatz Woody Allen, as it aspires to be, but not quite on the level of, say, Hannah and Her Sisters. Odd to see Mia Farrow here (playing Sarah Jessica Parker's mother), as this is basically a retread of the work she was doing with Allen earlier in the decade. Parker is infectious, rattling off the sometimes-precious lines with professional aplomb, supporting cast is quite colorful, yet this tale doesn't have much of a point, and as a film it has no motivation beyond aping Allen. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Funny, multi-leveled and entertaining.","Date":"11 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie.  Each relationship peels back layer by layer to reveal to us one of Life's biggest realities - none of us are really in control.  Great for a fun evening - especially if you're a Sarah Jessica Parker fan. "},{"Title":"a great movie","Date":"14 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" One of the best movies by Woody Allen even if he himself did neither write it nor directed it nor starred in it, or, for that matter, has no direct role in making the movie whatsoever (as far as I know).I love almost all movies by Woody Allen and I love this imitation simply because it is not only an excellent imitation but also an excellent movie on its own.I wonder if there was a secret collaboration between Allen and David Frankel. I wouldn't be surprised if this were the case and what we are facing is an insider joke.Maybe in 1995 Allen was not yet ready to move his movies away from New York, and this is the product, "},{"Title":"It's okay to admire Woody Allen, but not cool to imitate.","Date":"6 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I was distracted while watching this movie by the nagging sense that Woody Allen had written the screenplay, but for some reason declined a credit. Parker's lead character talked like Allen, made some throw-away cracks muttered ala Allen - the whole thing was disconcerting. Of course Mia Farrow, who plays Parker's mother, is one of the principals - that can't have anything to do with the similarity of writing style. Antonio Banderas was fun in his part as male nurse and so were the scenes of South Beach. If you're nostalgic for Miami then it's a good rental. But probably you're better off just watching Hannah and Her Sisters again. "},{"Title":"Boredom and trouble in the bedroom","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Dull look at several couples who are no longer able to relate to each other so they either break off the relationship or start sleeping around. This was painful to sit through for me but it did point out that the boy/girl stuff is more flash than bang.  "},{"Title":"Can tape be turned into useful stuff like toilet paper?","Date":"5 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I won't even bother with details of movie goods/bads on and on. This is trash. Forget any connections with Woody. I started watching because opening credits show a list of decent actors. I finished watching maybe out of masochism or perhaps because they are pretty people and I was bored anyway. This dreadful thing should be great example in film class of what not to do in just about every movie-making dimension. Not even bad enough to be worth the tape. Has anyone yet perfected the process of transforming celluloid and videotape into toilet paper? "},{"Title":"As good as people say","Date":"5 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Americans think that actresses speaking with an English accentmust be acting. Poor Naomi Campbell falls victim to thissyndrome. She can't act, and doesn't even know where the camerais. And while we're on the subject of the two nations divided by acommon language -- Mia, Kenneth Branagh rhymes with manna;the G is silent. Loved the film. xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx "}]