[{"Title":"Made me think, might make you think too! great movie!","Date":"18 January 2005","Score":"38 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" A fantastic movie demonstrating the self righteousness of people on the far left and right of the political spectrum I'm right, your wrong, end of story. It's very rare that a film which might be described as a political dark comedy shows the faults of people on the right and left who know that they're always right and it demonstrates that there's really no right or wrong (the homophobic priest wishes to kill all gays, but then the students kill him. Who's right and who's wrong? I suppose it depends on who YOU agree with.). I'm left of centre on many domestic social issues, but this movie made me stand back and think am i sure I'm always right?. People to the far left or right believe in themselves so much that this movie wont change their views, but I treat people people with conflicting views with a bit more respect today. Fantastic movie! "},{"Title":"90's Political/Philosophical Dark Drama","Date":"6 February 2005","Score":"24 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is one of the several dark dramas dealing with political/philosophical issues that seemed to invade the big screen in the 90's. Another prime example but with less heavy drama and more fantasy/comedy is Dogma starring Ben Affleck and Matt Damon. This 1995 film stars several actors that were big names in the 90's - Cameron Diaz, Bill Paxton and Jason Alexander. The story is very dark and bleak indeed. A group of young college-age liberal intellectuals meet daily to discuss the enemy that are conservative extremist and anyone they feel are full of hate. Though well-meaning and clearly sensitive people, they begin to justify a series of murders. These murders are committed as they invite individuals they despise and disagree with politically and philosophically. They poison the wine using a blue decanter. Visually and dramatically, the movie is one of the few good dark movies that came out of the 90's. Art direction in the film seems to gravitate towards symbolic Diego Rivera style art, especially during the opening and closing credits.I feel that some of these then unknown actors (mainly Cameron Diaz and Bill Paxton) were overly dramatic in their roles but then again they were struggling to get recognized as actors. This was still before Bill Paxton would enjoy success in later films such as Titanic in 1997 and also Twister which he starred opposite Helen Hunt. Cameron Diaz came on the Hollywood map with Something About Mary. Even like this, their dramatic acting is logical and believable. The leader of the group of friends is the most brainwashed of the bunch, nearly conducting himself as a cult leader. In a way, this movie looks at how a cult can function. Also this movie is a caution tale there is possibility for evil in both the extreme conservatism and extreme liberalism. It seems quite appropriate a story for today's divided country. It's sad to say America is losing its democratic roots in favor of an elitist and partisan climate. I found to be a great and poignant movie. "},{"Title":"A true hidden gem.  Another Paxton triumph","Date":"22 June 1999","Score":"22 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It was a warm summer night and I was in the video store with my girlfriend.  Hey, this movie has that guy Bill Paxton in it, isn't that the guy you like?   I thought I had seen every Paxton movie out there but I was pleasantly surprised that there was one that I hadn't seen.  So we rented it and even though Bill has a small cameo in the film, I enjoyed this film more than I thought I would.  First the acting by the major actors is incredible and all the cameos by famous faces is fun to watch.  Luke ( Courtney B. Vance ) is my favourite character in the movie.  He seems to be a little more intelligent, a little more sinister and a little more angry than the rest of them.  And it is his persona that I look forward to seeing in every scene.  I looked forward to see what he was going to come out with next. What sick, twisted but convincing point of view that he would coerce his cronies into believing.The story is about a few friends that are liberals at heart.  They have their pretentious meals and drink their pretentious wine every night and talk about what is wrong with the world.  Then Paxton comes into the picture and he changes everything.This film didn't get a whole lot of attention when it came out, but now with Paxton's star clearly on the rise after Titanic and A Simple Plan and Cameron Diaz in the upper echelon of actresses, this film may appeal to more people.  And you should do yourself a favour and make yourself one of those people.  This is a great film.  And besides the entertainment value, it really has something interesting to say.  Deciding whether or not you agree with it is half the fun. "},{"Title":"I say we bury the cracker and have dessert.","Date":"26 June 2004","Score":"16 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It's hard to review politically-themed movies without bringing out your political ideology. So here we go Like the characters in this film, I am a liberal. THE LAST SUPPER deals with five idealistic left-wing college students who are also roommates. Their names? Jude (Cameron Diaz), Marc (Jonathan Penner), Luke (Courtney B. Vance), Paulie (Annabelle Girsh), and Pete (Ron Eldard). Get it? Jude, Marc, Luke, Paulie, and Pete? Last Supper?Well, with these elements of symbolism aside, here is the concept of the film A bunch of liberals inviting conservatives for communal dinners and killing them after the slightest disagreement! How many people here can honestly say they never thought of that? When the film opens, four of the friends are waiting for the last one (Pete) to arrive during a dark, stormy night. Meanwhile, they religiously watch a conservative political figure (Ron Perlman) on television like they usually do. When Pete finally arrives, he invites Zack (Bill Paxton) the trucker that gave him a ride to dinner. But during the feast, a political discussion starts burning up. Zack is a right-wing extremist who fought on Desert Storm (Was that even a war? I always thought it was a Republican propaganda.) and thinks Hitler was right about many things. When the discussion turns into a series of puns exchanged between Luke and Zack, a violent struggle ensues with Zack eventually being stabbed in the back. Soon, the friends start reacting to the murder on their different ways. Paulie is in hysterics, Luke keeps his calm cold-blooded figure, and Jude remains sarcastic. (People disappear all the time. Especially in Iowa, we probably just saved him from an alien abduction.)After covering up the body, the five apostles decide to repeat the process. Luke has an interesting concept If you could go back in time and kill Hitler when he was a frustrated student, would you do it? And so begins the body count Their guests usually consist of the kind of pathetic people one left-winger usually hates. One of them is a homophobe priest (Charles Durning) who affirms homosexuality is the disease and AIDS is the cure. Can you really blame these people for wanting to poison the fellow? This scene is incredibly well done, from the first-rate dialogue exchange from the students to Charles Durning's perfectly timed acting. Annabelle Girsh's hilarious death sentence just has to be seen. (I think it's time for dessert.)As the group continues to make the world a better place, their victims start to become less and less threatening from a date rapist (Mark Harmon) to a spoiled teenager (Bryn Erin) who sues her school because they are making sexual education mandatory. Unfortunately, none of these scenes end up having the same dramatic (and comic) impact as the first two because they are unbelievably brief, leaving the audience gasping for more. The film soon endures the machine gun-editing technique of putting up about 30 scenes in six minutes set to a carefully-selected pop tune in order to sell the soundtrack. There is a subplot involving the disappearance of a young girl who is being searched by the local police department headed by Sheriff Stanley (Nora Durnn) which look like they belong to a different and more serious movie. This is actually unusual since you would expect the goofier moments to come from an ex-SNL cast member. Or should you? The answer as to why these scenes are even in there comes much later on in the film. Frankly, Nora Durnn's scenes (Not counting the ones where she actually interacts with the students) could have all used some cuts.Character interaction could cause another serious pet-peeve to audiences who relate to the people on-screen. The only character who seriously remains constant throughout the entire picture is Luke, while the others all seem to switch personalities. In one scene, Paulie is extremely against the killings while Judy is totally for it. But later on (In one of the film's funniest sequences) the actresses seem to switch roles. A hysterical Judy ends up screaming out that they shouldn't be killing people while Paulie coldly replies They are not people, they are people who hate! The Pete character is seriously undeveloped while Marc is hardly any better. The film does eventually pick up with the very last victim they choose, which I won't spoil. Not counting the suspenseful showdown, nothing really happens during the last 15 minutes but dialogue exchange in the dinner table bringing up usual liberal vs. conservative topics, and there is where the movie truly shines like it did with the beginning. It's a shame it had to end, really. Conservatives bashed this film as the ultimate proof that liberals run Hollywood, not realizing the film does defend them to one extent. It doesn't matter how fun the characters' concept seems to be, it's still sick and it goes against one of the major freedoms that liberals should be defending The freedom of speech. Out of the film's then-unknown lead actors, the only one that really made it to be a star is obviously Cameron Diaz. But no matter how underdeveloped the characterization is, all the actors are able to keep us entertaining. Courtney B. Vance and Ron Perlman seem to own the film during the last moments. As for the dinner-guests, they end up being more well-known cameos. Aside from Durning, Harmon, and Paxton, get ready to see Jason Alexander having a (short) blast as an anti-environmentalist businessman.THE LAST SUPPER is still one strong freedom of speech defense argument well-directed by Stacey Tile who heads up an interesting young cast and a well-done premise. Had the film remained in the dinner table more often, it could have been easily one of my favorite black comedies. Now&#133; wouldn't this be interesting as an actual thriller?(3.5/5)  "},{"Title":"Well worth a gander","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a film that can be viewed on two levels.The first level is that of a straightforward black comedy. Five liberal students, who think they have the answers to all the world's ills, have their comfortable world invaded by a redneck racist who is invited in for supper after coming to the aid of one of the students when he has car trouble. Naturally there is a clash of politics and, after a violent argument, the racist is accidentally killed. They decide to bury him in their garden instead of reporting the killing. What follows is a continuation of an earlier debate they had been having; would people be justified in murdering someone if they knew he was evil? Their answer is yes, and soon they are inviting other rightwingers for an evening of dinner, debate and death. On the first level the film is okay.It is on the second, more cerebral level, that the film really succeeds. The great irony is that the liberals become intolerant, revealing the dangers of political correctness and the very real possibility of a left-wing police state in which alternative views are crushed in the name liberal values.A good soundtrack, some sparkling cameos by the dinner guests, and a knockout performance by Ron Perlman as the conservative commentator make this largely overlooked comedy well worth a gander. "},{"Title":"Wicked black political satire","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"15 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a wicked black political satire of some left-wing intellectuals who decide to strike against right-wing extremists. It has an excellent cast, especially with Courtney B Vance, Ron Perlman, and Cameron Diaz (who is a real surprise).It also has a brilliantly witty script, like a 90s Oscar Wilde or George B Shaw with more sharper bite. I thought the setup and the climax were particularly effective, especially at handling complex political questions with an easy-to watch and a very engaging approach(which I have to say IMHO is rare for American movies). A totally professional production all round. This is the way smart independent films should be, and it's a shame not all of them are this clever or perceptive.Obviously not meant for all tastes, but if you're fairly open-minded and like intelligent dark satire, this is a real treat. "},{"Title":"I love the ending!","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I must say, I'm not what you would call a liberal. I'm a Democrat, but I don't consider myself one of those limousine liberal -- re rich, white middle-class people who have never endured poverty in their live, and yet somehow can feel for those currentlys uffering. Yeah, right!All that side, this is a wickedly funny movie and completely unpredictable. I love the intense scenes with the cop and when the liberals start to contemplate rather they should kill or not kill their dinner guests. it's just great stuff!Imagine, all these tolerant liberals sitting around judging people on what they say and starting to actually LIKE killing. Pretty soon they're killing because of the power of killing, not because they want to rid the world of evil -- which, ironically, they've become, since they're knocking off everyone and their mom, including the cop, who is just doing her job.As the saying goes, I can't tolerate intolerable people!And stay for the ending. It's a KILLER! Ron Perlman is GREAT. "},{"Title":"Witty and provocative","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Cerebral, subversive, intelligent, knowing, and thought-provoking, The Last Supper is one of the highlights of my video collection. It is also archly funny, for those who like their humour black and strong. The performances from the ensemble cast (even Diaz, who you might have thought was there for box office alone) are uniformly superb, and the director uses clever imagery and other visual tools to help the story along, lifting it above what could otherwise have been a simplistic cinematic piece. Ron Perlman's boisterous conservative steals the show expertly, and you are left laughing and shuddering with equal measure for a long time after the credits roll. Recommended to everyone with a brain. "},{"Title":"A frustrating, confused, sometimes amusing black comedy!","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film works on some levels, but fails on some as well. The major flaw is that it gives us no one to root for, and we are faces with these so called anti heros who we are meant to feel something for! The second flaw is that I found that in most cases, I agreed with the person they were 'doing in' over themselves - It is never a good sign in a movie when you like the so called bad guy more than the anti heroes!The film plays like a stage play, and I was surprised to learn it was just made for film! It would be great at a live show, but is too slow and boring to take up 90 minutes of screen time! The film is ok, but nothing worth writing home about! "},{"Title":"Quite refreshing","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" A very nice film, that shocks you yet amuses you at the same time. A few familiar faces Bill Paxton, Ron Pearlman and the yummy Cameron Diaz, although everyone in the cast does a good job.I went to see it in a sneak preview (so did not know what I was gonna get) and it turned out to be an excellent choice. A must see. "}{"Title":"Stephanie what ARE you thinking!?","Date":"19 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Stephanie. You seem to have missed the whole point of the film.  Oh dear. So you presumed that the whole premise of the film was to show that these liberal thinking students were totally right, and that everybody else was wrong??  So, why did they all end up insane?  Why did they end up dead?  Why did the right wing television personality come out on top,  instead of buried in the tomato garden? ..I think the thing that upset me the most was that Cameron Diaz's character was killed also, so tragic wouldn't you say? "},{"Title":"Fantastic Theme!","Date":"3 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" An unusual dark comedy about the unconscious forces which propel all ideology, whether it be of the conservative right-wing, or liberal left-wing variety. In its premise, it reminded me a little of the play Le Malentendu (The Misuderstanding) by Camus. Sure, some of the acting was a bit wooden and yes, the characters did lack depth, but there is little space for depth of character development in a movie of this genre anyway. The questions it asks are philosophical, about the nature of the human mind in general hence the way Marc and his girlfriend at first were turned on, then gradually became estranged as their gratuitous villainy became more conscious was a comment on the dark side of sexuality; the same comment was made about human aggression when the character who shot clay pigeons for a hobby suddenly decides to shoot a real live bird - in fact, that seems to be a decisive moment in the film, the expression on the character's face when he shoots the bird says it all. It may be unpleasant to think about these aspects of our nature, but I wish more intelligent films like this came out of Hollywood. "},{"Title":"Underrated piece of work","Date":"28 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Why this movie did not make it to theatres is beyond me. Very underrated with excellant work by all the actors. 5 liberal friends invite a man over to dinner and in the course of a shuffle kill him. As it turned out their beliefs were different from him they wonder if the world would be a better place if people that were like him (i.e. racist, homophobic,etc) were not here anymore. So they invite people over for dinner and give them a chance before they off them. Very well written acted and directed and a very good ending with the five jerks getting what they deserved. Just rent it!!!! "},{"Title":"Warning  may cause indigestion!","Date":"26 July 1999","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  No wonder none of the characters succeed in convincing any of their guests to change their minds -- these people are so superficial and inarticulate they must surely be grad students in one of those degree-mills that advertises in the back of magazines.  If Courtney B. Vance's character is a Ph.D. candidate in political science, how come he hasn't already figured out what Ron Perlman's character has to say about extremists and centrists? You've never even had sex! is supposed to deflate the argument of the teenager opposed to mandatory sex education?  Of course, this is about as intelligent as the debates get.  The rest of the time they just giggle when someone says something they don't like, or resort to infantile name-calling.  The whole movie is a chore, but it has given me a good idea.  What if a group of people started inviting over directors, screenwriters, producers and actors who made stupid movies that insult the viewer's intelligence, and murdering them???   "},{"Title":"A good movie, for people who can enjoy a fairly intelligent movie *contains spoilers*","Date":"25 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have to say, after watching this movie for the six/seventh time, I finally get it. Which is what is amazing about it; you don't figure it out the first time, even though it may seem obvious at first. It is an interesting portrayal of how people who feel strongly about their views, evolve into what they hate most, in order to make the world a better place, by killing people they think are evil. The ending is the only that still is a bit confusing; Did they fail to kill the next Hitler, who then killed them? Did he kill them in self-defense, in order to save himself? Did he kill them to punish them for committing murder? Nevertheless, a good movie. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Ingenious","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A great piece of work, the twists and turns in the plot are excellent, and the musical score is superb. However, one cannot begin to describe it without giving away a piece of it. A must-see, one of those barely known gems. Anyways...a very nice movie.  "},{"Title":"Great satire - very dark comedy","Date":"6 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I thoroughly loved the movie (even bought the soundtrack).  To get things out of the way, I'll out myself as a liberal grad student upfront.  But, I think that this film speaks to how people go about social change.  We're not expected to kill and maim for our ideals in a civil society, but liberals and conservatives both do make outlandish accusations regarding the impact of one another's viewpoints.  Some people take their opinions to an extreme and kill for them (not to focus on any conservative movement that target physicians at work...).Political ideology aside, this is an interesting movie about transformations.  The characters (Paulie & Pete) who are most opposed to the plan at the outside become blood-thirsty.  Mark and Jude basically started out with a 'kill'em all' attitude and realized that their motivation has strayed.  Luke acts the ringleader and we start to question his motivations as his character develops.I realize this movie isn't for everybody - but I was surprised to see how low it's rated here and all of the negative comments.  I've seen this movie multiple times, and I enjoy it more each time.  And, my conservative friends like it too, due to the very savvy nature of Ron Perlman's character.  He ultimately shows the key to intelligent social change, even if his actions give us a different m.o.All and all, I loved this movie. "},{"Title":"Good beginning, repetitive development, but what an ending!","Date":"16 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Well worth watching. Not a great deep movie in so far as the issues are presented in a very stereo typical fashion but as a thriller comedy with a great moral ending it scores high marks. As previous reviewers have noted, you need to hang on in through a repetitive 30 odd minutes in the middle because the ending is not only worth the wait, but for an other wise rather shallow movie, pretty thought provoking - it may well over turn one of your own cherished presumptions concerning what you would do in a certain hypothetical situation set in 1909 - and what would you do ? Watch the movie, it's great & I've given nothing away here.. ... "},{"Title":"A comical introspection.","Date":"27 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If you can't laugh at yourself then you're destined for an unhappy existence. As a generation-Xer in the 90's this film showed me a comical snap-shot of myself. How many of us would love to emulate what this group did?I don't normally appreciate black comedies but this one gave me plenty of chuckles. The film touches on some delicate issues without delving too far beneath the surfaces. If you're looking for enlightenment you won't find it here. If you're looking for entertainment involving subject matter many of us are concerned about, this is well worth viewing.  "},{"Title":"Great film with an absolutely perfect ending.","Date":"20 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was blown away by this movie.  I saw it first on video a couple of months ago, and it is still with me.  The psychological and moral issues are presented wonderfully.  It's great to see how far the different characters are willing to go with their scheme.  Sure, you wonder why no one discovers the goings-on at their house, but then you remind yourself it is a movie, not reality.  Ron Perlman is fantastic as usual.  The whole film was great, but the ending is what made it one of the best movies I've ever seen.  "}{"Title":"Pretty good film","Date":"16 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I got this movie out of the comedy section and I thought it was good although I did not think it was a comedy.  I liked the way they rationalized their ideas by saying they were killing future Hitlers but in the end the guy who figured out what they did gave the best answer to the Hitler question by saying that he would talk to Hitler.  The movie was really weird.  It was not what I expected at all.  I recently saw a movie called A Shallow Grave that reminded me of this movie.  If you liked Last Supper you should see that too. "},{"Title":"Excellent storyline","Date":"2 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie brings out a moral story that probably all of us have known subconsciously. And it does it beautifully. I can sum it up by using Norman's quote (one of the characters) toward the end of the movie There are always extremists on both sides of the spectrum. And sadly, we can't achieve anything with those extremists. Those are the ones that make the most noise, but the decision makers are the moderates. Well I'm not sure if Norman can be considered a moderate (his speech makes him one, but his action at the end of the movie - poisoning all 5 of them - can be categorized as an extreme measure as well). But he ended up being the decision maker for this story. It's also karma in a way (what goes around comes around). One of the commentators for this movie says that The film even concludes that's it's morally righteous to kill a right wing pundit if it prevent him/her from someday rising to the office of President. That is COMPLETELY the wrong intention of the movie. I don't think the movie even remotely endorses that idea. Having watched the movie twice, there's not one incident in the movie that suggests that. The movie brings out the irony of how extremists think. The group of 5 students think the victims they kill are extremists, while THEY are the extremists themselves without realizing it. And Norman, at the end, even though claiming he's a moderate, uses extreme measure as well by killing all 5 of them. He should have left that decision to be made by the police. I also love the humor of this movie. There are scenes that I feel ashamed for laughing because there are dead people in the scenes. The acting of the cast is great too. So if you are one that enjoys deep, intense storyline and actually WATCH the movie and understand what its intention is, then you will like this movie. This is one of the movies that I'm not hesitate to bring over to a friend's house, watch it, and discuss it. "},{"Title":"Fun, but easily misunderstood black comedy -  Spoilers","Date":"2 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Judging from a number of comments, people seem to view this movie as a typical example of the liberal Hollywood agenda.  This view of the movie seems patently rediculous to me.  In this movie we are not supposed to identify with the 5 main characters.  We are simply supposed to understand thier relative viewpoints.  In doing so, we are allowed to follow their transformation from the yuppie, do-nothing winers that Bill Paxton's character accuses them of being, into the Hitleresque death squad that they eventually become.  This film does not take a political stand to say the least.  Every character in the film lacks depth, not because it is a poor film, but because the characters are supposed to lack depth.  The fantastic twist at the end leaves us with the understanding that the Right-wing talk show host pragmatist (no saint himself) has killed the 5 liberals who represent Hitler.  This film takes a deep hard look into the terrible potential of well-meaning people to become perverted by ideology into performing the most heinous of acts.  Contrary to what many of the reviews of this movie on this website suggest, it seems more likely that had the political ideology been reversed, conservatives would have been outraged at the portrayal of the five conservative college students as bloodthirsty monsters, and blamed liberal hollywood for demonizing their position.  "},{"Title":"Biting political commentary -- and funny!","Date":"1 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  **WARNING -- SPOILERS WITHIN**I love films that make me think, and The Last Supper definitely did that. It was similar to the book Animal Farm in some aspects and is a good study of the shared theme (becoming the thing one hates most.)  The main actors' performances seemed a bit wooden in the beginning, but once the plot got rolling along I was treated to some frankly amazing characterizations and emotional changes.  It took me two tries to figure out the ending, but that is the sign of a good movie to me.  I liked having to sit down and mull over the last 20 minutes or so of the film, but I was still confused until I saw the movie for a second time and caught the subtle time jump at a crucial point that I had missed the first time I saw it.  For those of you who still don't understand what happened, have patience.  Watch the movie again and pay particular attention to the scenes where Ron Perlman's character is waiting for the rest of them to return.  I'd spell it out here, but I've given out already more spoilers than I care to.  If you still don't get it, my e-mail addy's up there. <g> "},{"Title":"Gets you thinking","Date":"10 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was a very good movie, although I don't agree with some reviews saying that the message at the end was that these liberals weren't ruthless enough. As the film progresses, it is made increasingly clear that they are running out of control, murdering anyone who displeases them in any way and generally acting no better then those they pertain to oppose. The ending sums that up, by making Ron Perlman's character switch positions with the liberal group and thereby exposing the similarities between the two. They have become just as extreme and damaging as they thought he was, and their apparent deaths are not a sign of their failure but of their just desserts. "},{"Title":"Good movie, recommendation","Date":"8 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I liked this film enough to see it twice. Very funny, clever, black humor, unpredictable, and an ending that shocks and pleases. The film is not perfect, it gets too serious towards the end and there are too many murders, after awhile it just gets tiring see so many people get knocked off. But the writing has a lot of clever jokes and puns, the performances are all great-even the cameos. This is a very original film! "},{"Title":"One of the most underrated movies of all time...","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Last Supper might not be the most cinematic of films, but it definitely should be watched by you.Give it a try, you might learn something about politics, art, and how to kill that jerk on TV who needs some killin'.The music was especially inticing (where can we find it?!?) with some spectacular acting and even a bit of cool cinematography (at least at the end). The script was profound with realistic and witty dialogue. An ending you might not get, but still gets the message across.The title of the film might turn a lot of people off (especially people who would SEE the movie), but trust us... it will be something you'll end up buying... or completely hating... but at least it'll get you to feel SOMETHING, and won't that be an interesting change? "},{"Title":"Anything this malicious has to be good...","Date":"14 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  What a great story line! One of those movies that nobody has watched, but everyone should see. Anything this wonderfully malicious without apologizing for it deserves two thumbs up. The movie is definitely weakened by a lack of fluidity and believability, but the premise is hilarious and comes off very well in the end.  "},{"Title":"Really dumb","Date":"7 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  What could have been an intriguing theme, liberals self-destructing as a result of their own all-consuming moral rectitude and arrogance, is undermined by a very superficial and unintelligent treatment. Even the old warhorse philosophical question 'would you kill Hitler' is trotted out. This movie needed a much more intelligent script and some real actors (appallingly bad!).   "},{"Title":"A Very interesting script.","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When i heard what the last Supper was about i thought the concept and idea was very interesting and unique. Although silly at times this does live up to expectations and is highly watchable. This is the story of a group of post Grad students who like to have a big slap up meal on a sunday night , to discuss the world and it's problems . Politics, Religion and sex being the main topics. One sunday they have an unexpected guest who's extreme views ager them and lead to his death. instead of being horrified they get the bug and end up  inviting people with views they disagree with only to poison them and bury them in the garden. They eventually start killing people for views that arent extreme and thing get out of hand. As i said things do get a little silly and i would like to have seen this done in a more serious manner but after all this is a black comedy and it very good. I can think of a few people i would have invited such as Margeret Thatcher, The Pope , The Arch Bishop of Canterbery and any Militant left wing councilor who fights for the right of the ethnic minority lesbian asylum seekers! 8 out of 10.  "}{"Title":"Arsenic and Old Lace plus politics and almost character","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I just read through 48 comments and I think nobody mentioned Arsenic and Old Lace, which is an obvious source for the idea of quizzing guests and, as a good deed, giving wine with arsenic to those who'd be better off dead.Here the story is set against a familiar political divide, and as the murders (and cameos) follow one another, the criteria for getting killed become distressingly looser until the audience becomes impatient for the inevitable retribution.  All this exposition of criteria takes considerable time, and evidently character development needed to be sacrificed.  I'm sure that in creating a large group of murderers who all share a house, the creators had something in mind (other than Friends) and we get the impression of an attempt at characterization but it doesn't jell.  The movie would have been better off with just one couple in on the plot; that's all Shakespeare needed for Macbeth. "},{"Title":"Bad movie","Date":"7 January 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  As I read the user comments for this movie, I'm shocked at the rave reviews this movie is getting from some users.  This movie has an interesting premise, but it ultimately fails because of poor character development and the unappealing actors who portray them.  I understand that as the movie goes on we are supposed see the toll these murders are taking on the grad students, but the characters are so unlikeable that I don't know why we should care.As somebody has suggested, this movie doesn't know what it wants to be -- a wacky dark comedy or a morality tale.  If it was the former, perhaps then we could ignore the huge plot holes.  There are also storylines that seem to go nowhere.  What's with the kidnapping storyline?  And why all the sex scenes between Annabeth Gish and her Jewish boyfriend?  It's just all bee-zar.2/10 "},{"Title":"Two-Sided Political Ignorance","Date":"15 October 1999","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"   If I were to rate this film solely on the premise, I'd say it was a good idea, but I will do no such thing. While I understand the message behind it, all the right-wingers seemed like one-dimensional stereotypes...utter buffoons. I've got some serious objections to lumping anti-abortionists, and people who object to '60's-style environmentalism, with neo-Nazis, homophobes, and male chauvinists who dismiss women who cry rape, but then I should've expected this from the Hollywood left. And what's with killing a librarian, just because she didn't like Catcher in the Rye? God forbid if they had invited any road geeks over for dinner. Also, when was the last time that you saw a movie where an unapologetic American war veteran, who fought in any war after W.W. 2 wasn't written as a nutcase, or a fascist? That man  deserved to die not because he fought against the illegal occupation of Kuwait by Iraqi troops, but because he was a fan of Hitler, a child molester, and because he tried to kill those five college kids. Yet after they killed him, they thought they could try to get away with it by using an INSANITY PLEA?! Anyone with a two-point I.Q., on either end of the political spectrum could see that this was an act of self-defense, except for them. I guess they WEREN'T as smart as they thought they were. Still, thanks to a line by Ron Pearlman, it does get me to think about whether or not I would kill Hitler before he rose to power. Maybe not in 1908, but in 1928, ABSOLUTELY! "},{"Title":"It's just balls.","Date":"13 December 1999","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  To get it out of the way, I have to say that I found The Last Supper to be pretty much the worst film I've seen for a long time.  And that's including RoboCop 3.  I accept it's a low budget film, but that's no excuse for the leaden script, the bizarre pacing and direction, and basically wasting what little effort was put into it.  The guest stars were all good - indeed, Ron Pearlman was the most likeable character in the film, and I'm talking about his 'fascist politician' scenes, too.There is nothing to recommend about this movie - the characters are obnoxious and self-assured wannabe standup comedians.  My friends and I sat stoney faced as one liner after failed one liner dropped limply from the 'clever and witty script'.There were moments when character development threatened to appear, as some sort of depth was introduced to the 2D stars, only for it to vanish as if it had wandered in only by accident and didn't want to cause a fuss.In fact, the characterisation was possibly the reason I hated this film so much.  It seems the writers were too busy trying to show the friends enjoying each others' company so much that they forgot to include any reason why.  As best I could tell, it seemed they all got together for the conversation/meal evenings purely so they could compete in witty banter and grin.And for some reason there was an odd are-they-aren't-they sexual tension between the dark haired woman and the black guy that went nowhere and did nothing other than take up valuable story time.  Which was probably the point - the entire film could have been condensed to a five minute short, and would have benefitted innumerably from the need to cut the chaff.The almost final scene, in the kitchen (I won't give any details away, for those who want to see it.) was almost farcical, as the mood violently swung in directions I didn't think possible.  The conclusion was obvious, inconclusive, unsatisfying and ultimately reflected the movie as a whole. I guess, in that sense, you could call it a success.To sum up, this bites.  A stellar cast and an intriguing premise result in the worst film of the nineties.  Burn it.  It must be stopped. "},{"Title":"Contrived to the limits of believability","Date":"16 October 1999","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  What an amazingly contrived film this is!  It makes a cheap attempt at intellectualism - proposing a controversial angle on liberal activists' non-action - but falls far short of developing this into something meaningful.  The occassional image-manipulation of footage is a poor attempt at casting this as an art film - these flimsy cliches left me cold.  The characters are clearly underdeveloped and out of touch with reality - as must the scriptwriter be!  Choose this film only as a desperate last resort. "},{"Title":"Looked like a straight to video stinkeroo","Date":"22 June 2008","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" A group of self-righteous liberals decide to start killing people who have beliefs different from their own. Their victims emerge from leftist central casting and are typical caricatures as viewed by their murderers. Apparently anyone who disagrees with their world view and doesn't repent during dinner deserves to die.This just happened to be on HBO when I turned the channel and the description sounded interesting enough, and there were recognizable actors in it. Figured it might not be too bad.The production values themselves seem relatively OK, its just the story and acting that is weak beyond belief. How they got any recognizable names into this stink fest is the real mystery here. "},{"Title":"Rubbish","Date":"23 May 2006","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie would've been a hoot amongst some of the pseudo-intellectual Arts students when first released. But it was rubbish, the politically incorrect dinner guests were all crude stereotypes, and the ethical 'discussions' at the dinner parties would have been better left as an msn conversation rather than turning it into a script and subjecting viewers to sit through it.So in short, this is a movie about a group of lefties, who despite the lefty catchcry of tolerance, murder a bunch of people who hold differing opinions to them. Now dark humour can be funny, if accompanied with some humour to begin with. But this wasn't funny. Unless one finds the murders in themselves to be funny? It came across as being nothing more than the scriptwriters deepest fantasy, that he tried to turn into a lighthearted romp. Perhaps someone from the other end of the political spectrum should rewrite 'The Turner Diaries' as a dark and witty comedy. I wonder if there will be the same lack of outrage that accompanies the release of these kind of movies. Perhaps Mel Gibson might direct it? I hope you dear readers perceive that I'm being sarcastic... "},{"Title":"What if...","Date":"25 October 2003","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'm thinking, What if I didn't waste time watching this trash, disguised as entertainment? Would I have done something more productive? I think, yes. Even if I spent the entire time banging my head against the wall for the whole time, it would have been a far better endeavor than watching this trash.While ultimately this film tries to make you think about tolerating the opinion of the next person, it conducts its' lesson by creating conservative stereotypes as manifested by left-wingers. So if the roles had been reversed, liberals would be screaming about this film years later. But since the Hollywood community is controlled by left-wingers, you don't hear a peep out of anyone in that industry about the horrible personalities created by this film.The sad thing is that the characters created in this film are really how Hollywood sees conservatives. Left-wingers actually create these people and truly believe that this is the way conservatives think and act. Of course, conservatives don't think and act as depicted in this film but left-wingers don't understand this point. This is the main reason why liberalism is a dying idealogy in the U.S. It's an idealogy that just doesn't get it. It creates enemies that don't exist and in fighting these imaginary enemies, their real opponents walk away the victor.This might have been a good film if the conservatives in the film were real. That their opinions were those of real conservatives. But the problem would have been that the liberal characters would have been seen in a far worse light than just murderers; they would have been seen as irrational lunatics that can't see reason. And that's not what the director was trying to show. The idea was to show liberals as being well-intentioned yet mistaken in their methods.If they had done the film correctly, conservatives would be invited to supper, they would have explained real-world thinking to the liberals, and the liberals would have killed the conservatives simply because they could not grasp what mainstream America already embraces as its' philosophy. But, again, this would have taken the film in too far of a supportive perspective of conservatives and that's certainly not acceptable to the producers of this poorly conceived tripe. "},{"Title":"Jaded, occasionally funny, but dead-on","Date":"2 May 1999","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is not really a comedy, dark, light or any other kind.  The movie is very jaded and cynical in its presentation. The plot goes that the group of five kill off dinner guests weekly.  With lots of colorful symbolism, a slew of cameos, and strong performances by 3 out of the 5 group members, this movie grew on me after viewing it and thinking back on what I witnessed.  I'm not going to give away anything but the last 20 minutes of this movie more than make up for the flaws, which there still are a quite a few.  The first knock I have on this movie is that Cameron Diaz's and Annebeth Gish's performances are not really that great.  Diaz is cast as one of the most important characters, but her acting ability is tested greatly as she has to deliver most of her lines behind a table, without her best attribute (her body) showing.  Her weak ability to speak her lines becomes obvious with the excellent performances of the rest of the cast.  Gish's problem is the weakness of the character, because she plays the one of the five that could have easily been written out.Other problems in this movie are not as important.  One is that half way through the movie becomes repetitive.  The director shoots this part quickly, and with a tongue in cheek style, but it still comes across dull. The policewoman character is added to the story and is pointless and just used as a character builder and attitude change for one of the five.All criticism aside, watch this movie.  If it gets to the middle and you aren't sure you want to finish it, FAST FORWARD and watch the end.  The speech given is perhaps one of the best political speeches I have heard in a film.  The final 20 minutes is the 1 inch layer of icing on a partly damaged cake.   "},{"Title":"An amazing documentation of modern liberal tolerance","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film is offensive and obnoxious but it pretends to be intellectual and thought provoking.  It's all based on the ethical question is it moral to kill someone if you know they will eventually incite or motivate others to kill?.  However, except in the case of a child murderer, the characters just kill ordinary people with right wing political beliefs.  Of course, in all instances the right wingers are cartoon-like one-dimensional yokels while their murderers(the heroes of the film) are deep thinkers who anguish over the decision to kill others not for what they've done but what they say and believe.  At first I thought it was a satire on liberals who pretend to endorse tolerance but have not an ounce of it for anyone who doesn't share their views.  I was a bit taken back when I realized it was quite serious. The film even concludes that's it's morally righteous to kill a right wing pundit if it prevent him/her from someday rising to the office of President. I predict this film will be referred to in the future as an example of the disconnection of Hollywood and mainstream America. "}{"Title":"feels manufactured","Date":"20 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Jude (Cameron Diaz), Pete (Ron Eldard), Paulie (Annabeth Gish), Marc (Jonathan Penner) and Luke (Courtney B. Vance) are liberal grad-students having a dinner in Iowa. It's a yearly tradition that they invite someone to have an open discussion. It's a stormy night. Pete invites over Zachary Cody (Bill Paxton) whose car broke down. Soon, Zachary shows himself to be a racist, religious redneck. He's a Desert Storm vet and a Holocaust denier. The discussion turns heated with Zach holding a knife to Jewish Marc's throat. Pete tries to turn the table but Zach breaks his arm. Marc kills Zach by stabbing him in the back. The group argues. Luke convinces them to bury the body. Sheriff Alice Stanley (Nora Dunn) is investigating a missing woman. The group decides to kill more people being the judge, the jury and even the executioners.This group is too smart to not call the cops after killing Zach. At least, the two girls who had nothing to do with the killing would go to the cops. It would be a better story to not have the liberals stumble into the first killing. Let them be fully cold-blooded killers in a school project sort of way. The whole thing feels very manufactured. This is more of an exercise rather than something with real feelings and real characters. This is something made up around a warped dinner party. "},{"Title":"Funny dark comedy about extreme political views","Date":"17 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a dark comedy/drama about extreme political views and intolerance. The point of the movie is that some people just wants to be told right and have whatever opinion they have prevail in society.The message is supposed to be that both extremes are just as bad, and the arguments of both parts are just as simple minded and void of deep, that's intentional. But also that both have the right to exist and is healthy for a society to have a wide variety of opinions. None of the characters are supposed to be geniuses or deliver any intelligent argument, on the contrary they're meant to be very close minded. It's obvious that the characters are supposed to be opinionated, self righteous and vapid...not to mention over the top stereotypes (and i mean both the hosts and the guests). The movie itself it's an exaggeration to illustrate a point.As the plot progresses the characters get more sucked into violent actions (by conviction or group pressure), the bodies start to pile up and the situation spirals out of control. The only character that is more on the normal side, is the cop/sheriff (Nora Dunn). Side note I liked her performance by the way, and I usually don't like her acting, but she was OK in this one (although not very memorable).I'm sad to see some of the people who made reviews for the movie didn't get what it was meant to say or bother to watch this all the way through (because it's mentioned in the movie near the end, in case you are a bit slow). But that is exactly the point of the movie, some people just wants to be told right and have whatever opinion they have prevail in society.On the comedy side, it's got a mild feel of screwball without going too crazy with it, that was very enjoyable. To put this in other words it doesn't go into Clue or Arsenic and old lace territory, is more subtle but is still noticeable. The comedy moments are very controlled, but is still very funny if you relax and just watch it, instead of taking sides. To sum it up, the plot is original enough to be interesting and it's very funny if you don't get defensive. It delivers what was promised. "},{"Title":"Biting political satire to die for","Date":"15 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Never let it be said that only the British can do political satire. Here we see five (liberally-minded) housemates start poisoning all those who they believe will cause more harm than good in life.Hardly a topic for comedy you might think, but then what you get is the blackest of black humour imaginable. However, it's not just darkly comic, but it also poses quite a few questions about morality along the way. You'll find yourself agreeing with both sides' points of view at some stage I'm sure.Plus, all the performances are equally strong - Cameron Diaz in a most 'un-Cameron Diaz-like' role, but it's Ron Perlman and Bill Paxton who probably steal their respective scenes.If you're looking for a laugh-a-minute comedy with a feel-good vibe to it, then steer clear. However, if you're after something much nastier which will make you think, while even raising the odd smile, then give this a go. "},{"Title":"A guilty pleasure!","Date":"6 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Takes the proverbial eye for an eye to a whole new level, with an ending both unexpected and... well... perfect.This film is dark but delicious albeit a bit (or very!) morbid. I actually found myself getting too angry listening to the first dinner guest and almost stopped watching, but hung in there and soon perked up once his fate became known (terrible, I know, but hey, this was only 2 years after the Bush II era and I was still reeling from the endless atrocities...) Disturbing plot? Very. But hell, it was therapeutic!A guilty pleasure for sure (but only for the obvious half of the population. ;) "},{"Title":"Fun movie. May be slightly offensive, don't expect realism or profound thinking.","Date":"20 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Some very liberal grad college students have guests over to discuss politics. However after an incident with one ex-soldier, they start inviting over highly conservative individuals and poisoning them one by one. The movie is fun, I like the premise and the graphics. However it's not serious or believable. I don't like how they put it together. For example the very first guest was a priest who was very offensive towards homosexuals. He was condescending and harsh. However he never indicated any intention to physically harm homosexual individuals. All he said was that he believed they were sinning badly, he wasn't carrying out any act on them. I don't think he was an appropriate way to start the killings at all, they should have started with some gun wielding far-right redneck who made multiple threats about killing black people or homosexuals. They could have then progressed to some fatcat individuals destroying the environment, poisoning water supplies, inducing slave labour. Even though the writers missed these opportunities to highlight the real issues, they do seem like liberals. The people with strong conservative viewpoints are portrayed as illiterates. I realize we are seeing things from the point of the liberal college students, but there's more to it than that. A kind of dismissal of topics such as abortion as being something that should 'obviously' be allowed. I resent that, abortion is a really serious matter where you are terminating something that is a little too close to being a human for comfort and not a clear issue. I think they got the idea of Courtney B. Vance as being completely for the killings, and proactive with them sometimes, and that idea was great. At first one of the girls was against them, however she reversed it way too easy IMO. I think they should have kept her on as being the one who didn't like the idea. I think they did the ending more or less perfectly also, and it redeemed some of the offence against conservatives. "},{"Title":"Strange political effects","Date":"17 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie is a raw satire about intolerance. It' s not really about political right or left wing views, but about people who fail to understand what freedom of speech really is. The main characters don' t think about their own limits - just the other people' s. This group of elite students conceived their own mission, a mission to get rid of everybody who they think have the wrong opinions about the society. As mention in the movie - i you travel back in time and met the young artist Adolf Hitler, knowing what he would do as a grown man, would you kill him to save millions of lives? I probably would, but to change history - what consequences would that make for the future? That' s the question I asked myself... This is the debut for director Stacy Title, the theme is controversial, and the product has a visual style that appeal to me. The actors are very good, Title and her staff have apparently picked the right cast, and everybody did an outstanding job - even the guest stars. Stacy Title haven' t done anything memorable later in her professional career - which makes me wonder why, for with this production, she hit the nail on the head. "},{"Title":"VERY dark satire but well-done","Date":"12 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" A bunch of liberal grad students (played by then unknown Cameron Diaz, Ron Eldard, Annabeth Gish, Jonathan Penner and Coutney B. Vance) accidentally kill, at dinner in their house, a seriously deranged conservative (Bill Paxton) and bury the body. They figure they did the world a favor and invite ultra conservatives to their house, poison them and bury the bodies in the back yard. Among the victims (in cameos) are Charles Durning, Mark Harmon and Jason Alexander. Nora Dunn plays a policewoman investigating all the disappearances.DARK dark black comedy but it's well-done. The script is sharp and witty and insults BOTH conservatives and liberals. With the sole exception of Vance (who's horrible) the acting is good and we see hunky Penner with his shirt off and walking around in his underwear. Well-directed too with a good eye to compositions and color. Great music score too. If you examine the plot closely there are loopholes and lapses in logic (like they bury about 10 people in their backyard and the neighbors never notice?) but still this is funny and makes you think. Ignored at the time of its release this made a little splash on VHS and deserves to be rediscovered. "},{"Title":"Never really catches fire","Date":"12 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I thought this was a good idea for a movie. Before seeing it, I had mixed feelings. From what I've seen, I was pleasantly surprised. I thought it would be mediocre. Actually, it is that way as the movie progresses. And that's where the problem lies. Once it loses steam, it barely recovers. It gets off to an interesting start, as we watch Bill Paxton chatting with everyone. Then he gets really upset, accusing everyone of being politically incorrect. But after this guy is killed, and then buried, the movie isn't as interesting (I enjoyed the subplot about the sheriff's missing girl case. But what does this have to do with the main story?). As for some of the other dinner guests, you've got an ideal cast Jason Alexander, Mark Harmon, Charles Durning. But the movie seems too proud of itself. When these characters are not at the dinner table, I wasn't buying any of it. So, a marginal recommendation.**1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"*SPOILERS HEREIN* Didn't quite get the ending","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This black comedy actually was quite funny in its own psychosis, but it was a little too implausible.Okay, the ending confused me. *spoilers* Okay, so they invite the guy over to dinner, and he figures out that they are murderers. The black guy wants to kill him, but the others convince him not to. But when they sit down, the dinner guest has put arsenic in all their drinks. So they all drink it and die, and it turns out that the dinner guest will turn out to be like the next Hitler? So they had to chance to kill Hitler but didn't take it? I'm very confused. Maybe i got it all wrong. Can somebody please explain this to me? "},{"Title":"crazy film","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  well, i'm actually in the middle of watching this movie right now. it's not too bad really. one of those dark comedies. the only thing that really gets me, is the fact that the group of kids is speaking about how evil Hitler was, yet they are doing essentially the same thing. killing people because of what they believe. yet they say Hitler is evil, and they are doing a good deed by killing people. i am really hoping that part was meant as some sick joke. otherwise, this film is fairly amusing. sick, but amusing.  "}{"Title":"Amazing Ron Perlman","Date":"29 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Just a quick personal interpretation about the ending and the outstanding performance by Ron Perlman.*spoilers*To my mind, the final could be the answer to the morale question  If you met Hitler in 1930, and knew everything that was going to happen, should you kill him ?And the answer is given in the film  if you met Hitler in 1930, knowing what was going to happen, it's HIM who would have killed YOU, and not the other way around !Generally speaking I love situations where the answer to a yes/no question is cactually not yes or no. I loved this movie !  "},{"Title":"If anyone got a good idea about the ending can you e-mail me your comment!!!!!!","Date":"12 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is not disturbing but it makes you think about all those peopleyou know that love their way of thinking and will kill if ever challenged, Those people that you get soemtimes together with and you think you know so well and would ever think about getting away with murder or stuff like that. This is the story of a group of 5 friends that get disturbed beyond belief by an  accident in one of their sunday reunions and from then on they decide to take  out all the bad guys on society by quick arsenic death, theres one scene that i love between a 17 year old girl and a graduate black guy who tells her that  all she needs is a hard and stiff C#$% to shut her mouth! That line is gonna stick  to my head for the rest of my life, the ending is a thinker, open wide for all the people out there who like happy or sad endings, Ill give it a good 9 out of 10 on thrillers. "},{"Title":"Should I really be laughing?","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Films don't get any darker than this.  A group of friends deciding the fate of various members of the community over dinner.  A little part of all of us just wishes we could do the same!  Great performances from all the leads and a funky soundtrack adds further weight to a great plot.  Love it or hate it, this film has to be seen to be believed. "},{"Title":"My Personal Favourite (I root for the underdog)","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Last Supper is a hidden gem of a movie.  It is dark, funny, and brilliant.  Any viewer is likely to be amazed by the celebrities in the cast of a movie that no one has really heard of.  It is one of the few movies that is about politics and never lets that about get in the way of the audience being engaged by the film.  I have now watched this movie over seven times and it is a personal favourite of mine.  If you like dark comedy, this film is definitely for you. "},{"Title":"Great but horrible.","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  (contains plot spoilers)I really don't know what to say about this movie.  It's very extreme in both ways sometimes extremely funny, while other scenes are extremely boring and useless.  It's a very nice story, but then again there are some things in the story that are completely unnecessary (like the love between Paulie and the Jew.  Etcetera.  The first half hour is very good and deserves a 10 out of 10, but other parts are just so bad that they deserve no points at all.  Very strange.The main story of this movie is great a group of young people invite someone over to dinner on sundays, but one night the guest seems to have some fascists ideas and gets killed more or less accidently.  The group is convinced by the black guy that they did a good thing (he said that maybe this guy had become the second Hitler if they hadn't killed him) and they decide to invite people with extreme opinions every sunday.  If they can't convince him to change his mind, they'll kill him.  Of course this leads to a lot of problems inside the group. Some things in the story aren't worked out very well (like the kidnapping of the girl Jenny and what it has to to with the group) and some things don't matter at all, but in general it's a great idea and a nice story.I can't talk about acting unless I talk about the characters first.  The characters are one of the bad things in this movie they constantly change their minds and are all developed in totally different ways.  This is probably caused by a minor directing fault you don't really know how much time passes when the director decides to speed the story up a bit.  According to the images and the weather about three or four months have passed (at least I thought), but according to the bodies in the garden it's only 10 weeks.So you don't know very much about what happened in between and what could have changed the characters, you can only see that they have changed.  This way it looks like they've gone totally mental, when the director could have slowed down things a bit and thus could have created psychological depht instead of an almost psychopatic change of mind (example de zwarte).  It's also quite unrealistic that the person who didn't want to do it at all the first time they talked about inviting someone over every sunday becomes one of the most fanatic killers, and it's certainly unrealistic that she changes her mind again later on.As an actor it's of course very hard to play these characters. Cameron Diaz is quite convincing, the one with the broken arm however, was just plain irritating.  Because there are so many actors on screen at the same time it's hard to focus on individual acting, and all I can say is that near the end, the actors seem to have less and less fun and are just trying to get this over with.But of course this is a comedy, and you normally rate a comedy on how much fun you had.  The first half hour was very funny and had original jokes with a good level.  Not like Jim Carrey pulling faces, but the type of humor that leaves you rolling on the floor without attracting all of your attention so you can still focus on the story (Example the group discussing while Jude is trying to pull a knife out of a murdered guest).  You see this in a lot of quality comedy's and it's nice to see it in an American movie instead of the usual tasteless sex jokes like in Deuce Bigalow or Me, Myself & Irene...The crew started out with a great, but they ran out of ideas at the end and that way the movie loses its rhythm. Some bad acting and lousy characters without any depth or realistic development add to the feeling that you saw an amateur movie.  But anyways it was good fun and it's a source of discussion (what would YOU do when you would sit in front of Hitler with a knife in your hand?).  Go see this movie. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A gutsy dark comedy like this shines bright in a gutless age of filmmaking. Stacy Title and writer Dan Rosen have concocted a brilliant concept a group of progressive grad students decide to get revenge on all the arch conservative a-holes they hate.  Ron Perlman does a great job as right wing talk show host and the grad students' nemesis.  I thought this was the best film of 1995 and you'll see what I mean once you dine on a viewing of 'The Last Supper'.  Bon Appetite! "},{"Title":"The Best Supper","Date":"5 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I can thank enough to my friend who showed me this movie. It's one of the most brilliant, original and smart movie ever.Who do you blame when things went wrong? What will you do? And What happened if you took an obligation to be the prosecutor, the judge, the jury, and the executor?The beauty of this movie is because all of us have this primal instinct, of rejecting others opinion and willing to choose our own path and thinking despite others. So we won't have any problem blending the situations and thoughts peering in this movie.And the solution is even better. It is indeed clever and striking conclusion.The casts are playing loosely and natural, and funny, and true entertaining.It is a must for everybody who loves intelligent and original movie... Come; I invite you to the best supper you ever have! "},{"Title":"yielding to temptation","Date":"18 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I caught this one on the telly at the weekend.I am surprised that only one previous reviewer has mentioned the great similarities between this and Shallow Grave from 1994, the year before this was made.  Rather a similar theme, and both movies done strictly in black comedy mode.The premise of the film, ie actually killing people for their views, was interesting and I was looking forward to how the theme developed!  Overall, however, the treatment lacked the subtlety it deserved.  In particular, the writers yielded to the temptation of allowing the plot to descend, at least in one case, to violence just because one of the five is in fact a bit of a nutter.  Shame, really, but it seems a direction that a lot of U.S. films take, but usually just more mainsteam i.e. Fatal Attraction, The Hand That Rocks The Cradle, Single White Female, etc.My only other criticism was that its limited sets (ie the house and the garden basically) made me feel a bit like I was just watching a play.VERY nice ending though. "},{"Title":"To act or not to act...","Date":"23 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The movie deals with a serious problem. Most people have a set of ideals and wish to live by it. The question is are you just going to cherish your ideals, or are you going to act by them? In this movie, the problem is at first being discussed, by thinking of a virtual situation and how youre going to act in it. For example you meet Hitler when hes still very young and is still far from the man he is in WW2. Yet you know hes going to kill several millions of innocent people. Are you going to kill him or not? After a group of liberal students accidentally kill a racist, this question is more acute to them as ever, and eventually they decide to act they invite people with extreme opinions for supper, try to persuade them, and if it fails, they kill them. However, after a short period of time, the supper gets shorter and shorter and theres hardly any persuading left. Actually, as an outsider watching the film, you notice that some of the students themselves somehow start to resemble their victims. Some actually seem to enjoy the killing, while others start to get into more and more trouble with their conscience. Eventually this ends into a climax when the TV-top-extremist they invite turns out to be quite a nice and not at all extreme man. The moral is quite clear yes, sometimes you must stand by your ideals by acting by them. However if you believe in democracy and liberality and things like that, everyone is entitled to have an opinion of their own and you dont have the right to silence them all you can try to do is convince them. "},{"Title":"A Unique Black Comedy With Bite","Date":"8 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is really terrific little black comedy. I rented it because I couldn't find anything I really wanted to see, and I'm so glad. It's got a serious, thoughtful message half-hidden under a hilariously wicked veneer of liberalism. Great music, good performances, and its unusual premise help. The way it was staged, almost like you were watching a play, was also interesting. Sleeper alert this is a straight-to-video gem.  "}{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"9 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Last Supper is definitely one of the best movies I have ever seen. The suspense, dark twisted storyline, and fascinating characters will leave you thinking about it for weeks. The basis of the story revolves around 5 liberal grad students who decide that their contribution to making the world a better place will be to invite one closed-minded person over for dinner once a week, and poison them if their views cannot be altered. Great performances by all the leads, and excellent cameo appearances by many well known celebrities. I rate it an easy 10/10.  "},{"Title":"Beautiful!","Date":"12 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film is beautiful!  It has everything!  It goes from humorous to profound to just plain corny, all in the space of a few minutes.  Though widely unregarded( It didn't screened at my local multiplex or independent. ), it was definitely one of the best films of 1995, and is certainly one of my all time favourites.  Its over-the-top killing of every stereotype the writers could think of just lets you see past the murder so that you can ponder more deeply the question that it raises  Should you kill someone if it will make the world a better place?This whole film is backed up by superb performances (and performers )all round, from people like Cameron Diaz, Annabeth Gish, Bill Paxton, Courtney B Vance, and, the highlight of the film - Ron Perlman.This is a great film that will get you thinking - 10/10. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies I have ever seen.","Date":"10 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Well I have seen many films in my life and am constantly questioned on which ones my favourite a question that has constantly bugged me, I used to throw up films such as Pulp Fiction, Shine, Power of one, but now I can put another movie on my list  The Last Supper, this movie is amazing the best part of it is the premise it's based on the question of whether or not you would kill a young Adolf Hitler to save those millions of people and if so does this justify or rationalize murder?????????  Just Watch it. "},{"Title":"A group of liberal, graduate students decide they can make the world a better place by poisoning people who are evil after they accidentally kill a racist jerk.","Date":"10 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  One of the most under-rated movies ever, The Last Supper is an incredibly  original movie that works on so many levels.  Vey few people have seen this  movie, which makes it a great one to rent for company when you need a can't  miss movie.  I have never shown this movie to someone who didn't like it.   It's biggest weakness is a lack of consistency in the type of movie it  tries to be.  One scene will have you laughing, while the next one will  have you on the edge of your seat.  However, despite the changing tempo it  is a great flick that you could be thinking about for days.  It does not  try to shove an easy answer in your face, but leaves you to think about  wether they were doing the right thing or not.  The movie is made even  better by some great performances, especially by Courtney Vance, Ron  Pearlman, and Cameron Diaz, and some great music that really adds to the  effect of the movie.On a scale of 1-20, The Last Supper gets an 18. "},{"Title":"Intriguing dark comedy with wasted potential","Date":"24 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Very, very dark comedy with an intriguing premise and great acting. Lots of cameos from various celebrities as the dinner guests, ranging from Bill Paxton to Ron Perlman (Hellboy) to Jason Alexander. Of the five main characters, Courtney B. Vance's character Luke is by far the most interesting, as he's just as extreme and 'evil' as the people they're poisoning. Thought the premise is interesting, the film is far too short, and doesn't go much beyond 'invite a conservative guest over, kill them, rinse, repeat'. I did like the ending a lot though. It's an entertaining and interesting watch, with some hilarious bits (the bit with the lady who doesn't drink wine had me in stitches) and a definite message, though it's neither overtly liberal or conservative. "},{"Title":"Very Good","Date":"20 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Critics say that the let down of this movie was it's cast.  I am kind of in mind to agree because most of the cast including Cameron Diaz at the time are second rate actors but that doesn&#145;t mean that is the downfall of this clever black comedy.   Cameron Diaz was in the mood for dark films in the late nineties as The Last Supper was not the only one.  There was also Head Above Water, Very Bad Things and a Life Less Ordinary. We follow a bunch of politically minded misfits who are so involved with the world today that they would kill people to protect it.  Not because they have hurt someone or do one bad things but because their morals aren't the same as theirs.  A little poison and a few sips later they are dead and being buried in the backyard with tomatoes plants to cover the evidence.There are terrific cameos by Bill Paxton and Mark Hamon but Ron Pearlman is the man who steals the show as Norman.Though it is a interesting and thought provoking story, this is still just a normal film and before you know it people are panicking and truth and honesty gets the better of them all.  Before you know it you have them all squaring up to one another and trying to keep everything hush hush.   Through all this we see a lot of black comedy and a bit more black comedy tills the just deserve are finally dished out at the end.Interesting film about politics, friendship, death and tomato trees. "},{"Title":"I, personally, love this movie.","Date":"9 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I don't care what anyone says. This is in my top 5 favorites list. Sure, there was some poor acting at parts, but in my opinion, all that does is create more of a realism. It adds more to the film than it takes away. Plus, this movie has so many sides and personalities within, that everyone can relate to someone in here. Maybe not a main character, but atleast one of the dinner guests.One thing I did find funny though, is someone on here said something along the lines of Cameron Diaz giving the only good performance in this film. That's good stuff. "},{"Title":"supper's ready!","Date":"20 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Try to analyze this the year is 1919 and the action takes place in Wien. You are in a caf with a young man called Adolf Hitler. At the moment, he's not one of the most horrible murderers that the world knew. Are you going to kill him? Remember this he hasn't killed no-one yet. This enigma fills with enthusiasm five students who took into their heads to eliminate the fellows which ideas of the far right can be considered as dangerous and harmful to the society.This movie tries and succeeds to show that although we are endowed with good intentions, we can be induced to commit blindly crimes, so-called for the public good. But there is one thing that these students forget of course, these victims who are either members of the far right or either supporters of nasty opinions remain human beings who killed no-one (except Zack who is the murderer of a little girl) and it's normal that the woman-cop wonders about Zack's disappearance. As the film goes along, these students who, at first, are filled with good feelings are coming to become real sadistic executioners their meals become questionings and they're even inviting a minor high-school girl! At the end, after they had invited a far right leader, they'll be caught in their own trap because this far right leader isn't so rough and racist as he looks like. The most racist isn't the one you think about...The performance is globally correct except Cameron Diaz who isn't up to it and fits quite badly in her role. Nevertheless, a fine black humor, some brilliant dialogs that encourage reflection and a sober making make this movie, a honourable success even if this one lacks of his appeal during the outside sequences to the meals "},{"Title":"Darkly comic fable!","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Last Supper is really an under-rated movie. I watched this for the first time with some friends at a dinner party. My husband and his friend were horrified, whereas the two women at the party, me and a friend, couldn't take our eyes away from the screen. This movie was actually a lot better than the film the guys wanted to watch. Anyway, there are great performances all around - and apparently decaying evil flesh creates beautiful tomatoes.  "},{"Title":"What a splendid movie","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  What a great movie. Totally original storyline. Very well done. Everything about it screams great movie, yet few people have seen it. What a pity.Being a bit of a liberal myself, I got caught up in the idea behind the movie. I suppose it would turn off conservatives. Still, I highly recommend it. It is well produced, well directed, and certainly well acted.Courtney Vance is amazing, as always. But the rest of the cast are amazing as well. It's as if Cameron Diaz wasn't a star at all, and that's one thing that makes it great. Great cast, no egos. I highly recommend it.  "}{"Title":"A highly underrated gem!","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Last Supper is an engagingly dark 'what-if' comedy which has all the ingredients of a cult hit- passionate dialogue, murder, stormy weather, bodies in the backyard and more celebrity cameos than an Altman Film!!!!It's kind of disappointing that the Last Supper hasn't received the attention that it ought to. Not only does it provide a running commentary on the way individuals operate in society, it does it in a way that is accessible and 'user-friendly' to all people. The balance between the 'comical' and the 'serious' works perfectly.A highly impressive feature of this movie is the strong performances that it generates from its characters.  Courtenay B. Vance plays the character of Luke with such control and charisma that one can only feel mesmerized by his performance. Annabeth Gish is a real delight as Paulie, a character who is trying to come to terms with the world around her, and Cameron Diaz is uber-cool as Jude.If you watch The Last Supper with an open-mind, then you'll appreciate the movie for all it's worth.  Highly recommended viewing! "},{"Title":"One of the best movies ever","Date":"6 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie has almost everything in it. Its a mix between comedy and thriller. The people starring in this movie are all from the new breed of actors. There killing everyone who does not agree with their idees. The victims are played by `more older actors. This gives the movie a funny undertone. I especially like the ending of the movie, the open ending of who kills who.p.s.I especially like Cameron Diaz in this movie, or all her movies.  "},{"Title":"Well-crafted, on many levels...","Date":"9 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of those movies that gets better with every showing.  I was amazed at all the themes they packed in here.  First, there is the color scheme of the movie when they bury the murder victims, they plant tomatoes.As they start racking up victims, you can actually see the depth of their sin by the number of tomato products (sauce, catsup, etc) in their kitchen; it provides a nice red motif.  Also, the biblical references don't stop with the title (the Last Supper theme turned around so that the disciples are Judas)  there's a few Adam and Eve references thrown in (not just aural, either), and even a shocking context of the scene where you see the Jewish guy with a bloody knife.  And I'm sure that I've just scratched the surface. . .  "},{"Title":"Dirty Harry...where are you?","Date":"14 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is a sophisticated? remake of Magnum Force, just a bit harder to believe. The big difference, in principle, is the victims in Magnum Force had committed crimes for which they were going unpunished, where the victims in this movie were guilty only of having opinions contrary to their so-called liberal killers. Liberal = tolerant of the ideas and behavior of others. Hmmmm, apparently not. What are the chances of 5 out of 5 educated people, living in the same house, being psychopaths? On the other hand, maybe I missed something here. Just one person's opinion. "},{"Title":"Shallow Grave Light","Date":"12 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When I saw this movie tonight it struck me how it is in many ways similar to Shallow Grave. However, while Shallow Grave is at times a difficult and disturbing movie to watch The Last Supper never becomes too provocative or too disturbing. While the acting was top notch in SG, it is not as good here. The Last Supper is also too repetitive, but sure, if you don't have anything to do for a couple of hours, I guess this is pretty good entertainment. (4/10) "},{"Title":"college students play God with fatal results","Date":"17 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Disappointing,  though I really wanted it to succeed as the premise is compelling a bunch of college students, brimming with ideal liberalism are confronted by a redneck bigot who gets violent and ends up on the receiving end of his own knife = poetic justice; maybe the world is a better place without such people.But, and here is where the cracks started to appear, it was an accident, and the ensuing catalogue of guest/victims who end up pushing up an unholy glut of tomatoes from their graves in the garden, were all planned.It is such a big gear change and demanded a scene which demonstrated common purpose. It didn't happen and the characters then appeared mindless and demented not, as was intended, motivated to put the world to rights by removing bad people.It did not succeed in putting me on the horns of a dilemma, and left me feeling cheated. "},{"Title":"A bizarre comedy about political extremism.","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I couldn't help but chuckle all the way throughout this film.  As a pretty staunch conservative, I was admittedly a little intrigued by the stated plot.  How was Hollywood going to insult my beliefs this time, I thought to myself as I read the box at the video store.  What I found was actually a pretty even-handed black comedy that disparages the craziness of any political extremism.  In fact, I think the liberals got worse treatment here than the conservatives (a definite first in Hollywood).The conservative characters were largely just caricatures of their real-life counterparts.  This makes for a very humorous look into some commonly held beliefs on the right side of the aisle.  The right-wing radio host was a ridiculous exaggeration of Rush Limbaugh.But in the surprising end, it's the wacko liberals that are painted as hypocrites (as many of them often are).Whatever your political ideologies, watch this film and place your tongue firmly in your cheek.  It's a classical sleeper flick that deserves more notoriety. "},{"Title":"Revenge of the sweetest killer Tomatoes in Iowa","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a very python-esque film, a group of pretentious grad-students decide that the world will be a better place without all those people that disagree with their beliefs (ie. all non-liberals).  The premise being that they should have one last chance to redeem themselves during a dinner and topical debate.  Soon, the dinner becomes a formality that just gets in the way of killing people.  The imagary relating to tomato-crops adds to the surrealism of the film.  If you have nothing better to do, this film is good fun, but don't look for any deep meaning. "},{"Title":"Provocative material, an interesting cast, but it gets all balled up by the finish...","Date":"25 November 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Group of grad students in Iowa--roommates living in a large house with a big backyard--invite a stranded trucker to dine with them one evening which ultimately results in a confrontation over beliefs and ideals, culminating in the man's demise. Soon after burying the obnoxious lout, the liberal gang comes to an agreement why not clean up their state (and, thereby, the country) in the same fashion, one Conservative Republican at a time! Poorly-made dark comedy is shot and presented like a lame television show, even though the intrinsic idea in Dan Rosen's screenplay is a provocative one. The students share a united dilemma (how long should they let a potential victim ramble on with his or her hate-speech before they treat them to their brand of poisoned wine?), yet Rosen doesn't develop the ensuing turn of events with any aplomb. Worse, the liberal youths (meant to be as extremist-left as their victims are extremist-right) quickly turn smug and psychotic, losing their quirks and misguided appeal. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"It's murder for dinner...with impeccable table manners.","Date":"26 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" A group of upper class liberal college students decide to kill people who disagree with their political beliefs via arsenic laced wine at their weekly Sunday dinners. Power drunkenness and guilty consciences rifle through the group and come to a head when they get their political would-be-Hitler seated at their table.This is an intelligent black comedy with a unique style, exceptionally well written dialogue, strong performances and very eclectic music choices. A gem. Ron Perlman has a small but pivotal role as a loud conservative TV personality. He has some great small moments throughout the movie but really gets to shine at the end when he puts the students in their place. Favorite line(s) spoken by Ron Perlman This was in the paper today. They want to do another Gay Pride Parade. I mean do you really think a bunch of Gays and Lesbians strutting through town constitutes a parade? Does anybody remember what it was like when we were kids and we had parades that meant something, that were about real wonderfully festive events with people dressed in wonderfully inventive costumes like kings and queens...you know, actually now that I think about it, that does sound a little bit like a Gay Pride March.This is worth a buy. "}{"Title":"dull","Date":"25 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie thinks it is far more clever than it actually is.  The initial premise - a group of liberal students act as judge, jury, and executioner to several dinner guests with extremist views - sounds interesting, but it is presented in an extremely dull and one-dimensional way.The group of students are impossible to like, and anyway, isn't their philosophy of 'making the world a better place' as bad as one of the extremist views put forward to them (put all homosexuals on an island with a limited supply of food and let them die).  The movie veers into black comedy in places but doesn't succeed there, either.  And most damning of all, the thing turns out to be a major bore. "},{"Title":"... feh.","Date":"22 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Last Supper has a lot going for it. It makes fun of both ultra-right-wingers and of self-righteous left-wingers. Like The Sixth Sense, it uses the color red to carefully dye the house of the roommates until it appears to be dripping in blood. It shows the corruption of the mind which will inevitably occur as a result of murder, and it displays the old saw about how the road to Hell is paved in good intentions.Problem? The acting is pretty dry. None of the roommates are remotely likable, and their inevitable comeuppance loses some of its punch as a result. All of the characters, both the executioners and their prey, are excessively one-sided and flat, and no one is making the slightest effort to give any of their characters depth. The result makes the film a bit hard to sit through.  "},{"Title":"A place at the table...","Date":"22 December 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The dark and slippery satire THE LAST SUPPER is an Orwellian farce, which, whether or not it intends to be, represents the distasteful course that American liberalism has taken over the past few decades. As a meal, THE LAST SUPPER hopes to serve up food for thought, but proves to be more fast food than grand cuisine. And, before we end the lame and obvious food metaphors, let's just say the film has a meaty premise, but is hard to swallow because it is half-baked -- okay, three-quarters baked.The plot is simple five rather smug and pretentiously liberal graduate students in Iowa, the heartland of American conservatism, have a weekly ritual of inviting a guest to Sunday dinner so that they can have philosophical conversations about politics. Apparently meant to be self-indulgent and self-congratulating chatter more than real debate, the intellectual hour goes astray when an unexpected guest proves to be a far right lunatic who expresses his sympathy for Adolph Hitler. Before the dessert gets served, it is the guest who gets carved up and the new Sunday night ritual becomes supper and a homicide. After some superficial debate, the housemates decide that they would be doing the world a favor by disposing of potential Hitlers before they became real life Hitlers. It is liberal activism taken to its not-necessarily-logical extreme.Their guest list (of cameo guest stars) begins with the lunatic war vet (Bill Paxton), a homophobic priest (Charles Durning), a male chauvinist (Mark Harmon) and an anti-environmentalist (Jason Alexander), but quickly degenerates to lesser villains (played by lesser actors) that include an anti-abortion activist, a librarian who dares to object to The Catcher in the Rye and a virginal teenage girl who doesn't approve of sex education in school. The checklist of villains (in rapidly declining order) is obviously meant to show how easily the power to destroy can become indiscriminate and, indeed, addictive.The film has been deemed anti-conservative by some because the supposed heroes are lefties and their victims are from the right and, at least at first, espouse only the most extreme notions of conservatism. But the point is that the various dinner guests do not represent typical conservative thought, but are grotesque caricatures of right wingers. The war vet -- seen through far left eyes -- can't be just patriotic, he has to be a crazed fascist. The priest can't merely see homosexuality as a sin, he has to be virulent in his hatred. The anti-feminist has to be a proponent of rape. Etc., etc., etc. The quintet of killers are not heroes or even anti-heroes, or even psychopaths, but clean-cut, well-educated, well-intentioned typical liberals who become drunk with their own sense of self-righteousness. Their hunt to destroy future Hitlers blinds them to the reality that they are the future Hitlers. For what was Hitler, but a man who thought he could build a better society by eliminating the undesirables? The right-wing victims are such obvious caricatures that they do not inspire anger or hate, but uncomfortable humor, not unlike guest stars doing a skit on Saturday Night Live. The weakness -- or perhaps the point -- of the left wing assassins is that they are so blandly uninteresting as individuals. This preppy death squad -- Ron Eldard, Cameron Diaz, Annabeth Gish, Jonathan Penner and Courtney B. Vance -- are so homogenized and banal as individuals that they only can be moved to action as a group. The message is that Hitler alone couldn't accomplish much, but a group willing to rationalize any atrocity as a means to a just end is the real danger to society.It is as a critique of modern liberalism in the era of political correctness that the film is boldly, almost brazenly, sly. The groundbreaking liberalism of the 1960s, a call of dissent in the name of openness and equality, has slowly faded into the background. Diversity has become the liberal buzz word, but it is, literally, skin deep diversity, not diversity of thought. It is said that we become that which we hate the most and as such liberal idealism has increasingly become a dogma of intolerance, double standards and self-indulgence. Liberalism is no longer the antithesis of conservatism, it is the mirror image.Of course the basic message of THE LAST SUPPER could have been told as well, but differently, with the political roles reversed. Indeed, had the film been made in the 1960s, I suspect that it would be conservatives serving the wine to liberals -- and I suspect that the film would have been satirically sharper and more outrageous. Certainly, in that case, the film's casual religious symbolism might have made sense, religion being a favored main dish to the right. But as is, THE LAST SUPPER's attempts to mock religion seem like a lame afterthought -- an ill-considered seasoning, as it were.The film is better as a concept rather than a story and lacks a punch. Instead of being spicy or zesty or deliciously decadent, THE LAST SUPPER seems to be served up as something that is good for you, nutritious rather than satisfying. Especially the finale when the last Last Supper is with a conservative talk show host played by Ron Perlman, who may or may not be the Hitler that the we are taunted with throughout the other meals. Just desserts are served up with an ambiguous twist that is as jiggly uncertain as Jell-O. THE LAST SUPPER makes the worst social faux pas of all by sending its viewers away only half filled and hungry for something more. "},{"Title":"a serious waste of time...","Date":"17 October 2005","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" this movie was not intelligent or funny - just a strange sign on the times... it might have been thought-provoking for some, but i found it extreme, over the top, unnecessary, gratuitous (!), and, well, kinda gross. way, way too obvious - oh, liberals killing conservatives is hypocritical? no way.the scene in which the kids kill the priest was particularly upsetting. supposed to be a joke, yes, but the man was depicted with too much humanity for the humor to come across with any force whatsoever - it felt pathetic, instead.flat, boring, upsetting in all the wrong ways. only reason i'm not giving it a score of 1 is that it kept my attention - initially - long enough that i had to watch the whole damn thing. "},{"Title":"Stupid movie!","Date":"10 October 1998","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Very stupid! All of the guests but the abortion activist had very logical point of views and this movie just proves how young people like the 5 hosts know nothing about life. They have opposite point of views of everything that is logic and, unfortunately, it's the same in the real life... "},{"Title":"One of the most under appreciated films of all time","Date":"25 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" You're a time traveler. It's 1909 in Austria. You're in a pub having a schnapps with a stranger, a young art student with one testicle. Let's say his name is Adolf. Adolf at this point in his life has done no wrong. He's not bitter. He's not angry. He's committed no crime. He does not bring knives to dinner. He has not killed anybody. He certainly hasn't started a world war. Your point being? Do you kill him? Do you poison his schnapps to save all those millions of innocent people?This movie tackles one of the most challenging questions of philosophy in the most entertaining way. Hollywood never stops surprising me. What an excellent piece of art! "},{"Title":"The Political Divide","Date":"14 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Take a moment to read through the reviews about this movie.Almost to the letter, all the 1 stars were conservatives that hated the movie, & no doubt, they are, sometimes by their own admission, the most reactionary people in America. They are trained to instantly hate any one that disagrees with their views.And this is a movie that is about liberals killing conservatives.And then you move over to the other side & the politics shift, the people that gave it ten stars are, well...moderates.The people that absolutely loved it, the ones that gave it 10 stars are the least reactionary crowd in America. They are the people that share the belief that extremes are bad, left or right.So walk into it however you want, good or ill. But read through the reviews first. Take a moment to realize that the people that hate this movie are the extremists that it is warning us against "},{"Title":"Dig in","Date":"7 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" You could also call it, before they were Stars. Especially true in the case of Cameron Diaz! Right now she's starring alongside Tom Cruise and others, but back then not that many really knew her (despite her breakout performance in the Mask). But it's not her movie, it's an ensemble picture. And everyone in it is really good.The movie is very talk-y and you might not like that. But it does dig deep into human psyche. And while it is very philosophical at the beginning, it gets almost primal towards the end. The good thing is, that you can decide if you want to enjoy the movie as wicked, dark comedy or really read between the lines and get all the stabs it takes (no pun intended) against humanity/society! "},{"Title":"Divisiveness Leads to Murder.","Date":"19 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a pretty amusing send up of self righteousness and political extremism on the small scale. Five liberal room mates -- Diaz, Eldard, Gish, Penner, and Vance -- at a university in Iowa share a full-course meal in their home with a young man who reveals himself to be an unashamed macho war monger. A fight breaks out and the guest easily overpowers the wimpy hosts but is stabbed in the back by one of them. The victim burps, falls to the floor and dies.For the most part, the instrument of the deliberate murders that follow is poisoned wine. Let me recount the names of some of the right-wing victims Bill Paxton is the dedicated warrior; Charles Durning as a minister who thinks queers deserve to die of AIDS; Mark Harmon as the ne plus ultra of male chauvinism; Jason Alexander as a man devoted to despoiling the earth; Pamela Gien as a librarian who thinks that Catcher in the Rye is pornographic. She doesn't drink so she has to be stabbed in the back.But this is the kind of comedy that doesn't need an excess of gore to be funny, so there is no gore at all. The ludic element lies elsewhere -- partly in occasionally clever but noetic unknowables. Example If you were alone with Hitler in 1929, knowing what you now know, would you let him live? Partly the humor lies in ancillary themes. The Gang of Five decide to bury their first victim in the back yard, resulting in a suspicious-looking mound of earth. They put a tomato plant on top to disguise its contours. Eventually they have half a dozen huge tomato plants growing on the graves and there is a super-abundance of red ripe home-grown tomatoes. At first they can the tomatoes but the cabinets are finally filled. Then they slice them and hang them up to be sun dried. The tomatoes keep coming and getting bigger. They begin skeet shooting the tomatoes. They swing at them with baseball bats. Their last supper is spaghetti with marinara sauce. Another scene has Carmen Diaz planting pansies around the borders of the graves but it simply make the place look more like a cemetery than ever. (She gets PO'd when Vance rips them out.) And one of the roomies is a painter. He recreates, in a monstrous manner, Michelangelo's The Creation of Adam from the Sistine Chapel. On the dining room ceiling. (It should have been Da Vinci's The Last Supper.)They run into trouble when they manage to persuade a rabble-rousing, right-wing TV maniac, Ron Perlman, to have a good meal at their home. During the dinner, before he is served the dessert wine, he cheerfully admits that he only rants on television because of the ratings, that in actuality he is full of crap. He thinks both extremes are dangerous and that centrists control government and always will. And if he met Hitler alone in 1929? No, he wouldn't kill Hitler. (The hosts reach for the dessert wine.) Instead, he would do his best to talk Hitler out of his designs. The connivers hesitate, then scurry outside for a discussion.Left alone in the dining room, the phony right-wing nut job lights a cigar and wanders around. He's about to pour a glass of the dessert wine but it smells funny to him. Then he picks up a local paper and reads an item about all the missing locals. The penny drops and he stares back at the bottle of poisoned wine. Lieutenant Columbo should have such intuition.It's all kind of amusing, so why isn't it funnier than it is? Great material, nice photography and lighting, and no clunk performances, but I kept thinking what Ealing Studios might have done with this plot in the mid-1950s. There would have been less extravagance in the performances for one thing. The room mates keep arguing and shouting at one another, leading to a scene in which one is about to shoot another with a magnum. There would have been fewer victims, probably, and more comic elements attached to each murder. Some of the victims are hardly seen, getting barely enough screen time to say a few words before their demise. There is discontinuity in some of the characters too, and it stands out. Carmen Diaz is flippant about the first murder but anguished for no reason by the last. Except for Courtney Vance, Jr., who remains consistent, their positions through time are erratic. And sometimes the mood shifts violently without justification.But, these qualifications notwithstanding, I kind of enjoyed it. I still wish it had been made in the mid-50s by Ealing, but it's kind of fun, and welcome relief from most of the garbage showing up on the screen lately. "},{"Title":"man who came to supper","Date":"4 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" One of the blackest comedies of the 1990s portrays a group of left-wing activists murdering right-wingers at dinner. Yes, very grim, but they know how to keep everything in good taste the whole time. Probably the funniest character in the movie is Ron Perlman as a Rush Limbaugh type on TV (he calls for a return to the Reagan era).Admittedly, The Last Supper isn't any kind of masterpiece. I guess that they could have improved it some by looking into how these various individuals on both sides of the political aisle arrived at their views. But otherwise, it sure pleased me. Some of the ill-fated conservative characters made my skin crawl.Also starring Cameron Diaz, Courtney B. Vance, Annabeth Gish, Bill Paxton and Charles Durning. "}{"Title":"A good man is hard to find","Date":"1 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Five liberal friends - sweet Jude (Cameron Diaz), sarcastic Luke (Courtney B. Vance), naive Pete (Ron Eldard), painter Marc (Jonathan Penner) and his girlfriend Paulie (Annabeth Gish) kill violent thug Zachary (Bill Paxton) and develop a plan based on the old would you murder young Hitler? moral dilemma (The conservatives are effective. They do things. All we do is buy animal-friendly mascara).The movie skewers fanaticism on both sides, mocking both the ignorance of a certain right and the arrogance of a certain left. Both the increasingly blood-thirsty friends and their hilariously stupid guests are mercilessly made fun of. The best performances belong to Courtney B. Vance as Luke (I say we bury the cracker and have dessert) and to Ron Perlman, chewing scenery as ultra-conservative Arbuthnot (We took this country from Indians but what were they doing with it anyway). Diaz, Gish and Eldard are adequate; Penner, however, is amateurish. The actors playing the doomed guests (including Charles Durning and Jason Alexander) have fun with their small, cartoonish roles.Decent black comedies are a rarity today, so hooray for this one.7/10 "},{"Title":"7 on a scale of 10","Date":"12 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I do not believe this movie was designed to make any political statements. All the characters and their views are far too shallow for that. I think the goal was one thing and one thing only - the moral of the story. And, to interpret the moral of the story, you have to understand the ending. I think there are several plausible interpretations.The most obvious is that they got what they deserved. They committed murder and they deserved to pay for it. That's nice and clean and follows the format for a million other movies.Another option is that they became the very thing they had grown to hate - that being the intolerance of others.A third option is that they had their chance to kill Hitler, but they were unable to see Hitler in front of their eyes. The point being that the Hitlers of the world survive to commit crimes because people fail to see their evil until it is too late - as it was for them.A fourth option is that all the extremists in the movie die except for the one person who walks the political fence. The point being that the only way to succeed (or even to have a meaningful message) is to manipulate the audience.A fifth option is that they weren't murdered at all. He couldn't have known the wine was poison. He simply didn't want to take any chances. The point being that if you play with fire, you will get burned. And, in his case, the more perceptive and inquisitive you are, the better your odds of survival.As to the movie as a whole, it was very average. The acting was generally weak to non existent. However, Ron Perlman was excellent as the lone survivor. A few of the worm feeders were relatively good too. But, ironically (and perhaps not coincidentally) the 5 primary actors sucked. They really did. I honestly wonder if they didn't cast a bunch of weak actors in those roles JUST SO they would show how pathetic their killing rationale was as a balance to the pathetic political rationale of their victims. "},{"Title":"Red or White Wine?","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Yuppy group of idle liberals kill over-simplified, repugnantly excessive conservatives in this film which tries to make a crusade out of being liberal.  The premise actually is quite fresh, and the film definitely has some flair to it.  The group of college graduate school leads are all personable and believable in their roles, yet none of them have any real depth.  Cameron Diaz is playing one end and for no reason starts another end of personality.  This Jekyll and Hyde type acting resonates throughout the performances of the five liberals that decide to do something and act like conservatives by killing those that disagree with them.  The rules they choose and use for their killing ventures are interesting and much of the story has a philosophical/political twist.  I do, however, wonder how the film would have been taken if it had been done, as one other reviewer noted, with the roles of conservatives and liberals changed.  It does seem, to use another well-worn cliche, that what is good for the goose certainly would not be good for the gander.  Anyhow, the film is fun and entertaining.  The guests that end up dead and buried are the most fun as we see the likes of Bill Paxton, Jason Alexander, Mark Harmon, and Charles Durning hamming it up.  Durning gives a great performance as a priest.  Nora Dunn also gives a nice, smooth performance as a local law person.  But acting kudos go to Ron Pearlman as a loud-mouthed tv conservative that seems to be extremely moderate in person.  Pearlman has some great lines and does some of his finest acting here.  the end of the film left me grossly unsatisfied.  I wasn't a 100% sure what the director was trying to do.  It could be taken a couple ways, though I think I know what was trying to be done.  It would have ...and could have...been bettered handled without the political heavy-handedness at the end.  A nice way to while away the time if nothing else. "},{"Title":"Neat idea, poorly executed...","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The plot is interesting, and could have made for good film, the this movie falls on it's face. Ugly. I wouldn't suggest giving up the hour or so of your life to view it. Cameron Diaz is great, but can't carry the film, especially with the poor writing, directing, and for the most part, supporting cast.Be afraid... "},{"Title":"Finally, the right movie Great morality play","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Yes, there are the Bubbas in here, the oppressed Jew, the pot-smoking college students, the brilliant black political scientist...all stereotypes but the writing makes you forget it.  You careen from murder to murder, and feel that the deaths are somehow just, until......  The movie goes where vigilante justice usually ends, but you are challenged and entertained every step of the way.The healthy tomatoes growing in the back yard can give you some pretty wierd thoughts, especially when you know that their 'fertilizer' was poisoned with arsenic.  Made me wish I knew more about chemistry and photosynthesis.  I do remember that arsenic has a way of deteriorating the brain cells when given gradually long before death ensues.The laughs are many and certainly provide the tension relaxer that's needed when so much murder is afoot.  Why did I think of Lavender and Old Lace while watching this?  See if you do.  Well worth the price of the movie. But require a 'movie review' when you lend it out.  Should lend to some fascinating conversations. "},{"Title":"A unoticed gem of a movie","Date":"27 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  There are two reasons in which I watched this movie. First it stars the sexy Cameron Diaz, and second I read the review about it in a T.V. magazine. So I thought, I might as while watch it, and I have to say that this is a original and very funny movie.  I love the story in how the liberals are trying to rid all republicains in their neighbourhood. It started when they invited this racist to their house so that they can have a civilsed chat, however he becomes agressive. Instead he gets killed inself defence. This ordeal gives an idea to them. They think that it would be a good idea if they invited people, who had very conservative policies, to dinner and kill them off with arsenic. However this gets out of hand. I cannot give you the ending away. The acting is brillant especially those of Cameron Diaz, Courtney B Vance and Ron Elard.This is a great movie and should be watch by everyone. and I leave you this question;If you travelled back in time to 1920 in Austria, and saw a young artist by the name of Adolf Hitler, would you kill him ?  "},{"Title":"This film is under-rated for a reason","Date":"12 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was just terrible.  It was not at all what I thought it would be like - thought provoking, interesting, etc.  Instead, it is trite and overly pretentious.  As I watched the movie, all I could think about was how the writer(s) must have sat around thinking how brilliant and deep he was. This movie was predictable, repetitious, and overall, boring.  It is a waste of time, money, and shelf space at Blockbuster.  Out of a possible twenty, I give it a two - but only because I liked the scene where the artist guy falls down in the garden.  That was the only funny part in the movie.  If you want to waste about two hours of your life and maybe kill a few brain cells while you're at it, then by all means, see this movie.  If not, then see something that's actually worth the rental fee. "},{"Title":"Excellent dark comedy","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have had the pleasure to watch many great dark comedies over the years, and this one is probably the best of them all.  This movie is simply outstanding.  The five leads all give terrific performances, and yet they are all upstaged by the brilliant acting of Bill Paxton and Ron Perlman in brief, but pivotal roles.  Even when the film got somewhat predictable, I still found the movie to be engrossing.  As you can tell, I just found this film to be irresistible, and I can't recommend this film strongly enough. "},{"Title":"Beautiful film representing the open mind vs. the closed mind.","Date":"31 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie had such a powerful ending I was shaking by the time the credits began rolling.  It's almost a good versus evil conflict, except it shows how the open mind can close itself even when it tries to protect itself.  I know those of you who have already seen this movie might not understand it, so watch it again.  Those that haven't, this is what you can look for.  I'm afraid to give ANYTHING away about this movie, this is something that you just HAVE to watch. "},{"Title":"Interesting but not as daring or as intelligent as it wants to be","Date":"7 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A group of student liberals have regular dinner discussions with guests.  One night their guest doesn't turn up and they invite in a trucker who had stopped to help one of the group, Pete.  However Zach's opinions are very against the liberal views of the other and a fight ensues that results in Zach being stabbed and killed.  The group decide that they have done `a good thing'&#153; and plan to invite lots of extremists around whom they disagree with and try to change their views and if they can't &#150; then kill them.  This plan starts well but the focus and ideals of the group drifts somewhat.This wants to be clever and dark and intelligently funny and for some of it it is.  However when the film needs to do more than just float ideas (i.e. it needs to have plot) it falls to bits a little.  The idea is good (but can you imagine if the politics were reversed!? What an outrage!) and almost is enough to drive the film.  The slide of the group into extremism is good and you think that the film's point is that extremism is bad and the middle ground is always the greater good.  Norman Arbuthnot seems to back this up but the conclusion is weird and seems to say that Liberals need to stay on their ground and not give anything away lest they be defeated &#150; how very Hollywood.  It's a shame because this messes up the whole idea of this being intelligent or thoughtful.The casts are colourful and well known but not all that good.  The main group are very one dimensional and very unlikeable.  It's challenging because when Zach insults them for being all complaining and no action &#150; I agreed, I dislike the wealthy liberals who sit and complain about everything.  And none of the group manage to be `characters' to the degree that I found anything to like about them.  The `victims' are also mainly caricatures of the political ideology they inhabit &#150; but at least the majority of them have some points to make rather than just going against everything &#150; this is more the case towards the end where the victims become less worthy of death.  Perlman is excellent and is really the only character that the film has.Overall this is semi-intelligent, based on a good idea and makes you think.  However the smug liberal group are the heroes and this is likely made by people who all had exactely the same sort of dinner parties in plush colleges (without the murder of course!) &#150; so don't be expecting too much of a political comment to come out of Hollywood trying to be insightful or intelligent! "}{"Title":"Good beginning but very bad after it","Date":"31 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw the film on tv, and I must say I was into it for the first 20 minutes, but what then came was very very poor, I just turned my tv off after an hour because I couldn't watch any further too this kind of bad jokes, bad story, bad filming, bad characters, bad everything... So all you really filmfreaks who saw films as Memento, American history x, traffic etc...DONT WATCH IT because its a piece of **** and a waste of your time "},{"Title":"Dire attempt at black comedy","Date":"24 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Last Supper annoyed me almost beyond words.  The basic idea is interesting, but the implementation is thoroughly implausible. Avoiding spoilers (although there is not much to spoil), I don't think that arsenic could possibly be used in the manner described and the denouement would be impossible under the circumstances set out in the film - either you can detect the smell of fatal quantities of arsenic in wine or you can't.  I'm not some chemist in pedants corner ranting about a device that doesn't really matter, the whole lousy plot hinges on this nonsense.  Similarly, the way the wooly liberals suddenly switch into murderous anti-right witch-hunters is unconvincing to say the least.  Every character is two dimensional except for the right-wing TV pundit.  The main characters are meant to be intelligent graduate students who thrive on debate, but a group of doped-up fail-destined sophomores could knock their debate into a cocked hat.  Talented people were involved in the movie but the talent was wasted on this one.  I'm starting to rant - the movie was intensely irritating and I have now got it off my chest.  Recommended only for masochists or connoisseurs of truly dire movies. "},{"Title":"Disturbing","Date":"10 February 2005","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" A group of graduate students invite people (one at a time) for dinner and discussion. Their first guest in this movie is Zachary, a truck driver and Desert Storm vet who believes Hitler had the right idea, that Jews stole then and steal now, that the Holocaust was an exaggeration, that liberals accomplish nothing and they wouldn't be able to fight if they had to. He gets the others so riled that ... well, I won't say. But the students begin discussing the ethics of going back in time, if it were possible, to stop Hitler. Would they kill him or merely try to convince him he was wrong? Meanwhile, Zachary may be a suspect in a kidnapping.Guest no. 2 is the kindly Rev. Hutchens, who believes the relatives of AIDS victims deserve no comfort. After all, those who got AIDS committed a mortal sin for which there should be no forgiveness. The dinners continue, with guests expressing more and more outlandish opinions. Some are not jerks, such as the sweet teenage girl who believes sex education should not be taught because family values are more important. And then there is wacko TV commentator Norman Arbuthnot, who may go into politics but probably shouldn't because he appears to be as demented as Hitler. Meanwhile, the students begin arguing more and more, while the garden never looked better. It's a special fertilizer they're using.If this is a comedy, it's a very dark one. But I couldn't help laughing as ... continued improvements to the garden were made. And some of the weird opinions expressed were really funny. I didn't like the students--or their way of dealing with those who disagreed--but I did like Charles Durning a lot as the good Reverend, even if I didn't care for his opinions. And Bill Paxton did quite a good job as Zachary.The best thing about the movie is that it gets a person thinking about other people's views and how bad it is to have unpopular opinions. We have freedom of speech in this country, and the right to our opinions, and this is what it means. "},{"Title":"great psychological work","Date":"3 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie brings up a lot of major and provocative questions. It is not a work of film art, but it is a work of psychological art. The thoughts and questions that I find myself having are far more penetrating than the aesthetic questions that I have about this film. Advice try to answer and address the questions posed by the film, and don't try to analyze this film as a piece of visual or film art. It will be more rewarding for you. This is a great film for two reasons one, the film presents a lot of issues that I think intellectuals should try to answer, and two, it shows off the acting skills of a lot of young actors (at the time). I would highly recommend this film to anyone who wants to have some questions to mull over. "},{"Title":"Hypocrisy at it's finest...","Date":"1 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Not to spoil it, but this film is about a group of friends who after an accidental death of a child molesting murderer in their home, take it upon themselves to start filtering out the bad seeds of society in a civilized manner.Before they now it they've amassed a garden of corpses and have embarked upon a journey of group serial killings.As things progress the group gradually starts to run into problems with coping, morality and simply agreeing on who they kill.It's a really great film. Some of the ppl they kill simply over mundane or trivial opinions.The ending is a great twist however I just recently watched it on cable and am fairly certain the DVD version I had originally watched has a different painting at the end which is quite comical.It is totally worth seeing.8 out of 10  "},{"Title":"LEAVES A BAD TASTE.....","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I can't decide if this is a propaganda piece (and which side it supports), or just a shallow, 'ain't we cool' vanity production.  I guess the latter, as it flogs the Hitler Conundrum as previous reviewers have indicated.  So if you're in the mood for a queasy feeling of befuddlement...go ahead. "},{"Title":"The joke is on everyone (a little more on the liberals though)","Date":"19 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" It has been funny to read some of the misunderstood reviews of this film. First off, if you haven't seen this film, stop reading this or any review and go and see it with a fresh open mind.At first I thought this was in fact going to be one of those ultra PC Hollywood thought police movies. I started to gag when I saw all the caricatured stereo types- especially the reverend. I thought, they haven't been to my church. We have an entire ministry fund for people with AIDS- gay or not. So I was getting a little sick of what I thought was going on in front me.Well, then it all started consuming the liberal characters in this film. It was quite chilling, because I know people like these characters. Unfortunately, there probably are people who shut the film off before getting to the end. And at the same time, there are people who were cheering these characters on, only to find themselves not being able to look at themselves in the mirror after watching this film.A few liberal reviewers either are really blinded by their own self righteous ideas of true freedom of thought and speech, or they didn't watch the ending, because in the end the joke is on YOU. "},{"Title":"Refreshing message","Date":"29 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Sorry BANSHEEFAN, but you obviously don't understand this films message. Let me help you out.This is not a Pro-left-wing/anti-right-wing movie.This is not a pro-assassination movie. Not even in a funny way.This film is an indictment of extremism whether it be left or right-wing.THIS SHOULD BE OBVIOUS!The characters in this film could also easily be a metaphor for Stalinism, Pol Pot, nazi-ism or any other fanatical, murderous ISM you choose. This movie is so refreshing in that there is finally a Hollywood movie that dares show liberals as the true antagonists and conservatives(with the exception of Bill Paxtons character) as the- more or less- victims. The film is funny and yet scary in the sense that there are people I know personally that are so self righteous(just like the films central characters)in their beliefs, that they cannot conceive of anyone having the right to an opposing view. The movie conveys this attitude so well. The question asked about Killing Hitler before he had a chance to come to power is a valid one, and may validly be answered in the self defense killing of the first victim, but as killing becomes easier to the house-mates, they begin to see Hitler in anyone with a different view point. Finally, any small deviation from the accepted point of view, justifies a death sentence. They have become Hitler. Hope this helps. "},{"Title":"A okay dark comedy with a message.","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Three male and two female liberal grad students have right-wingers over for dinner, poison them, and bury them in the back yard. An ok film which becomes somewhat redundant with all the ultra-conservative stereotypical dinner guests espousing the opinions we just love to hate, TLS does wind up well and makes an important point which has to do with the on-going and age old tug-of-war between left and right and its role in keeping the majority centered. TLS is a no frills ensemble production worth a look for those who haven't yet seen it. "},{"Title":"Actors versus Writers","Date":"17 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Superficially this is a political movie, and to judge from the comments here, lots of viewers think it is proliberal. What a gas, even though there's a terrific speech at the end about the influence of media as constructed politics.Take it as politics if you wish, but there's another story here.Any film is another battle between actors and writers, They stand on opposite sides of a huge philosophical divide, no matter how moderate their utterances. Actors truly believe &#151; they have to &#151; that all life comes from the living and all a writer can do is slice or sculpt a bit small enough to consume and large enough to attract.Writers believe &#151; at least in their hearts &#151; that everything is created, that weaving a world takes work. Actors are puppets brought in at the very last moment to provide air to inflate the balloon. Yes, you humor, even encourage them, but relatively speaking they are mere tokens. In this case, we have the writing moved from outside the movie to on-screen. Our gang of five graduate students become the determiners of what happens, who lives and dies, Our guests are actors, literally dumb yobbos who (except for the last guest) grasp a role and play it because that's what they are given.Virtually no one has a political opinion determined rationally, we are all actors, victims of what is written. That's the point here. As the story goes, there are twelve deaths (counting the girl and the cop) to align roughly with twelve apostles present at the last supper. The thirteenth presence at that meal was the Great Actor. So actors win this round, as they always will in politics and religion.This movie isn't as dumb as you think. That's the point.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3 Has some interesting elements. "}{"Title":"What if you kill somebody whose death makes the world a better place?","Date":"17 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" It's 1909 and you're alone with a young artist named Adolph. Do you kill him? A hypothetical question becomes real for a group of friends (Cameron Diaz, Ron Eldard, Annabeth Gish, Jonathan Penner, and Courtney B. Vance) that inadvertently have a gung ho ex-Marine (Bill Paxton) for dinner.They decide that the world could be a better place if they removed some of those who pollute it with their thoughts, words, and actions. Come on, you've probably thought of the idea too. Wouldn't America be a better place if someone had gotten rid of a few right-wing nut-jobs before they could do serious damage to the country? They choose one each Sunday - anti-gay (Charles Durning), anti-literacy (Pamela Gien), anti-environment (Jason Alexander), etc. - you guessed it, until they come up with what they consider the ultimate prize - a Rush Limbaugh type (Ron Perlman) that causes them to pause. Is he really bad, or just out for money and publicity? Is that a bad enough reason to kill him?The answer and ending were a perfect ending to a funny movie. "},{"Title":"Liberal death squad with merlot and tomatoes Watch this and imagine the reaction if this were about conservatives killing liberals.","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The main premise here is that a nice attractive group of very liberal twenty-somethings decide to become a Latin American style death squad. They are all nicely politically correct, liberal of course, highly educated, artsy, with no real discernible income but yet live in a wonderfully beautiful house in a rural setting.  It'd be interesting to see the reaction were a nice, young, attractive group of conservatives were shown killing those they disagreed with in exactly the same plot--I'd suspect the howling would be deafening even seven years later. But this is a left wing death squad, so I suppose for Hollywood, it's okay.Of course this death squad doesn't do things messy, they don't put people in gulags (like Stalin) or grab people off the street and put them in vans only to be thrown out of planes over the ocean (as in Argentina); no these folks are a yuppie death squad--they kill over al dente pasta and a nice rich merlot.  But of course the point is the same--to kill one's political enemies when they simply refuse to agree with you.The plot is certainly interesting, in that it has complexities that are worth considering The liberal group becomes increasingly agitated as it goes on with its grisly business, in strangely different ways. In one scene, they laugh delightedly over the death of a cleric, yet are horrified when one of their own seems to be dying accidentally.The group moves from the obviously guilty racist, gay hater, priest, pro-lifer to the more dubiously guilty The poor woman who simply doesn't like Catcher in the Rye and the police officer.Ron Perleman, as the archconservative Rush Limbaugh style talk show host, puts in a wonderful performance, mostly because I'd guess he's got the most to work with.  Most everyone else has only a one note part--in particular the liberal death group are incredibly vapid.  It's hard to know whether they are written that way on purpose, or simply because the writers simply didn't think they were vapid--just really the way people ought to be. It'd be nice to think this was part of the irony, but the ending tends to contravene that notion.The culmination is bizarre, in fact, worthy of some weird extremist group It implies that the real problem with this death squad was that they were insufficiently ruthless in their quest, in their decision to kill. The disappeared in this movie are, by and large, cartoons of their real life counterparts--which is of course the first thing one does before providing reasons to indulge in despicable acts demonize them as less than human, as ultimately evil, subhuman.As before, this movie would be held up as a horrifying example of intolerance if it were exactly the same, yet the politics were entirely reversed.  Worth seeing to see one of Hollywood's instances where their real extremism shows through.  "}]