[{"Title":"Don't see how it deserves a 3.2","Date":"6 December 2005","Score":"45 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" At least a 5 would suffice. Like come on this movie is meant for kids and those whom love that little nostalgia yeah it was corny, and yeah, it was really stupid. But fellows, that is the power rangers. Many teenagers such as myself grew up on it. We fed on the corniness of having huge robots to make one mighty robot. It's just sad how people will judge a movie based on power rangers because power rangers aren't cool anymore. Most of these people believe it isn't because society tells them, hey you kid, you're what, 10? Yeah... well, f.y.i. you;re a loser for liking power rangers still, move onto anime. What else is sad... is how critical people are. It's a KID'S movie. Yeah, sure, Finding Nemo was funny for everyone but, Power Rangers was never meant for adults. Simply, children. If it was for adults I'd say hell yeah, a 2 is out of remorse, but since i remember the good old days. I'm giving this movie a 5 because yes, there is much better movies, but this movie is good for its purpose. Or at least was. "},{"Title":"This Movie is the Shiznit!!","Date":"15 May 2005","Score":"45 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" This film is not meant to be at all meaning full to an adult audience. I however saw this film as a child and loved it. I wish that children's films were still like this today instead of that animated junk. This film was terrific it has a pretty great story lovable characters and great villains. I fell bad that this terrific series has gone down the poop shoot with about 9 remakes of the characters. I think that a lot of people that were children when this came out would agree here. Not to mention the film had an amazing soundtrack. All in all for a children's film i think that this film was worth the money and i suggest this movie for the newer generation of children too! "},{"Title":"Power Rangers on DVD wow!!!","Date":"15 May 2005","Score":"41 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" When I was 8 I used to rush home from school to watch the Power Rangers fight their new baddie of the week. I thought it was great! And then the movie came out and I was able to see them on the big screen. I've gotta tell you that it was fantastic! As an 8 year old I fell in love with Tommy (my first crush) and couldn't help but laugh at all of the jokes. 10 years later I found it sitting on a shop shelf, WHAT! POWER RANGERS ON DVD??? NO WAY! SO, as you do, I bought it and it was just as good as I remembered. Perhaps not for the same reasons though. Some of the jokes have worn off but as a now 18 year old I am understanding all of them now. I still find Tommy to be absolutely adorable and I have found this trip down memory lane to be quite an exciting adventure. I would recommend this movie to anyone who was a fan of the show as it is quite funny to see them talking with their fists all of the time no matter the context and the different fashion back then. How often do we see teenagers dressed with their shirts tucked into their jeans with a nice brown leather belt? Ha ha ha. I thought this movie was great for a laugh. POWER RANGERS ON DVD??? WOW!!! "},{"Title":"Brings back so many memories","Date":"1 November 2007","Score":"32 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" 1994 was the year of the Might Morphin Power Rangers, I was only 9 years old and was such a huge fan. I remember the summer of 1995 my friends and our parents took us to see The Might Morphin Power Rangers The Movie and we thought it was the greatest movie ever made. I know that's sad, but we loved the show and the movie lived up to a great episode with an even better budget. I hadn't seen the movie since '95, but my boyfriend and I went to Target and found this movie on the $5.50 shelf and I grabbed it for old times sake since he was also a Power Rangers fan when he was a kid. We watched it and I have to say that despite how bad it is and how mega cheesy the lines and acting are, Mighty Morphin Power Rangers The Movie is what it is. It was aimed at kids and was terrific for them, the story was so bad that it was actually good.The rangers are living their lives in the fast lane, they're sky diving and roller blading, I mean is there anything they can't do? But anyways, all that is put on pause when Zordon warns the rangers of Rita and Zed's evil plan to raise Ivan Ooze. Ivan is planning to take over the world when he shrinks Rita and Zed and is putting all the kids parents under a powerful spell to make them do his bidding. Ivan then visits the command center and destroys it leaving Zordon in bad shape and now the rangers have to save the world on top of saving Zordon and become the powerful ninjas to regain their powers and defeat Ooze.Mighty Morphin Power Rangers The Movie is extremely silly and cheesy, but I don't know what people were expecting when they watched it that it got such a bad rating. It's one of those movies that is so bad that it's actually good. Although Zordon's face will haunt my dreams for a long time, it was classic the way the actors who played the rangers presented their lines, I loved how they would fight and do back flips, yet could say their lines perfectly without sounding out of breath. Also how they replaced certain rangers with people who looked like they were picked out of a kick ball team line. But Mighty Morphin Power Rangers The Movie is a classic film I think in a sense and will be a true time capsule of 1995.10/10 "},{"Title":"Major guilty pleasure","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"23 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I hate to admit this, but Mighty Morphin Power Rangers The Movie is one of my major guilty pleasures. I really shouldn't like this movie since it's aimed squarely at kids. But to my astonishment I did. It's no classic to be sure. It's mostly ridiculous. It's absurd in many ways. However for some odd reason, it entertained me. The thing I liked best about the movie is the six young actors who play the Power Rangers. They're all good, although I wish the screenplay would have let their characters delelop better that it did. Then this movie would have been better. I wish this movie, as well as the TV show, could have been aimed at teenagers instead of kids. Then some of it wouldn't be so juvenile. However, this movie is nowhere near as childish as the terrible second movie Turbo A Power Rangers Movie.  One good thing about Mighty Morphin Power Rangers The Movie is that you don't see much of two of the most brainless characters in the history of show business, Bulk and Skull. Cut those guys out! The six actors who play the rangers (Karan Ashley, Johnny Yong Bosch, Steve Cardenas, Jason David Frank, Amy Jo Johnson, and David Yost) give far better performances compared to the two actors who play those goofballs (Jason Narvy and Paul Schrier) in this movie and on the TV show. Of all of these actors, only Johnson has gone on to some fame (on TV's Felicity). Mighty Morphin Power Rangers The Movie has better special effects than on the show and in Turbo, and that helps alot. This is one odd picture. It ain't all that good, but it's not all that bad either. **1/2 (out of four) "},{"Title":"Fantastic Fun!","Date":"22 April 2005","Score":"27 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" This movie was released when I was a kid, and I was already a huge fan of the Power Rangers television series (the original series is still the best!). This film had all the right ingredients from the series, with added fun like new costumes, villains, locations, etc. And of course, all the stars look fantastic in it, and if you're a fan of the series, you'll be amazed at how much better the film comes across on screen. The action scenes are well set out and of course, there is lots of cool graphics (bigger budget means bigger looks!). But don't just think it's all about the action- there is a lot of fun mixed into it all as well. Lots of fun, and can appeal to a large range of audiences. Sure, it may just be a 'kids' film, and is not exactly Oscar material, but it is perfect for what it is! Remembering that this series is one of the most successful children's series in the last 20 years, the film is a definite must for all fans. "},{"Title":"Very cheesy kid stuff","Date":"26 September 2002","Score":"25 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I saw this thing in the theaters, people. Can you believe it? And I actually took the material seriously and thought it was probably the single coolest thing I would ever see in my lifetime. Thank God I went on to my 11th birthday. One of my friends still digs all things Ranger, so he started playing it during play practice breaks. After having it sit on my shelf for so long (yes, we actually own the video...shut up), I couldn't believe how much I had forgotten. The horribly obvious wire work with Billy, the 'cool' new plastic suits (as opposed to the cheap spandex suits of ye olde television era), the offensively dumb Ivan Ooze villain, and especially the giant foam skeleton of a triceretops that attacks our heroes (wow, this movie has EVERYTHING!). The whole thing just screams Early 90's, when all kids could think of to do for fun was pretend to be Tommy and break their buddy's arm while pretending he was Lord Zedd (crap, I actually remember who Lord Zedd is!). Things are just corny from start to finish here, like the new and improved Ninja Rangers with their spiffy Early 90's Computer Animated Zords (gotta love the Frog Zord). From what I remember, Turbo was even more insipid than its big brother, so if you have to choose which one to watch during your Elementary School Nostalgia-Thon Fest Bonanza, go with this puppy. Trust me, even though it's Grade-A junk food, it will make you laugh with the memories. 2/4 Stars "},{"Title":"well...","Date":"17 August 2006","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" This could possibly be the best movie in cinematic history. It is well made. there is a good story line, and of course it gives you the erg to run out and break some ones arm, or leg, or ribcage. No, but in all seriousness the movies pretty horrible, but its a good horrible. the kind of horrible you watch with you're old buddy's and roar about how impressionable you were when you where, oh lets say six? what really got me going was how when they talking at the same time and do the same arm movements. How ever i must admit, i think i have a crush on the pink power ranger again... You have to love the nineties and I'm sure we will look back at the 2000's in ten or twenty years time and laugh the same way we are now. "},{"Title":"It is what it Is","Date":"3 January 2007","Score":"13 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" This Film, is what it is. Its a children's adventure movie and thats all. It should not be compared to anything else, and it should not be judged the same way great films are judged. Its an original idea, and its bold. Its a non Disney production, meaning its fresh new and exclusive to my generation. Sure there is better children's entertainment, but that doesn't mean that this example is 'bad'. All i know is that I have a ball watching it now, just as I did as a kid, and that all the little children I know, enjoy it just as much as I did, meaning it cant be all bad if its standing the test of time, and reaching out to kids 12 years after it was made. Its a good time, and a good source of escapism for the adults that are dragged into seeing it. I do recommend it. If you watch it, just to negate, reject and make fun of it you will not like it. But that goes for any movie, including Star Wars and pretty much every modern family classic from Lucas/Spielberg. "},{"Title":"enjoyable","Date":"31 March 2004","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Ok i admit it i was into the power ranger thing back in the day. This is a fairly decent big screen adaptation of the TV series. dont get me wrong but at the time Power Rangers was the Biggest thing in Childrens Entertainment. I went and saw this movie. i enjoyed it. nothing negative that i can say about it, i think its a Quirky film appealing to the tween market. This movie is better than the series when they get their Ninja Powers.  but that was about it. BTW the new series is looking like it is back in stride with the originals. It nice looking back on this film as what childhood meant to me. Turbo, isnt that nice of a movie by all means. out of the two Power Ranger Feature Films pick Mighty Morphin Power Rangers The Movie. Cast is from the TV series. enjoyable adaptation "}{"Title":"A mighty fine mighty morphin offering!","Date":"23 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Although this film differs to the main story arc from the series as a stand alone, its still a great in the eyes of many! MMPRTM hit the UK around the time the white ranger was introduced and even before we knew three rangers (Jason, Zach and Trini) had left the show. The story focuses on Ivan Ooze, an evil villain who wants to get revenge on Zordon for imprisoning him 6,000 years before. Zordon refers to a group of young warriors like yourselves (the power rangers), so we'd assume that the rangers of that day were responsible.Ivan is freed by Rita and Zedd, but overthrows them and begins an assault on earth immediately, disabling Zordon and his command centre, and destroying the rangers powers at the beginning of their first battle with his Ooze warriors.The rangers must travel to Phaedos to get new powers (similar to what happened when they travelled to the desert of depair for the same powers in the TV mini-series Ninja Quest). While they are away, Zordon is dying and the earth is being overrun by Ivan. Just as they arrive from the planet with their new powers the rangers meet Ivan's giant mechanised warriors and must call their new zords into battle. Phwoar! Will the power rangers succeed? Of course they will, they always do! ;) Great performances from all including the new additions to the team Steve Cardenas, Johnny Young Bosch and Karan Ashley. Kim has a few great one liners, and Ivan is just evil! A must see for all ages... a great fantasy adventure even if you didn't care for the series itself. "},{"Title":"It's Morphin Time! big screen style!","Date":"8 October 2005","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Well, Well, well.... what can i say about the movie version of the Mighty Morphin Power Rangers? in one word.. AMAZING! This Story follows the journey of TV's favourite superheroes Tommy, Billy, Kimberley, Rocky, Aisha and Adam, as they fight their latest enemy Dr Ooze! but they unluckily lose their powers when Ooze destroys Zordons command centre and they need to find the Ninja Powers before he destroys the world, (leading back to the TV show storyline). They fight some baddies on the way and when they get new Powers, Zords, its back to Angel Grove, where they need to finish Ooze forever. The action is great, the effects are great and everything about this movie is great because of the great cast, although i did prefer Zack, Trini and Jason to Adam, Aisha and Rocky but O well! Amy Jo Johnson is as sexy as ever, David Yost (Billy) is always great and David Frank (Tommy) is always an OK character but overrated! this was my favourite movie as a kid and its also a little of a guilty pleasure when i watch it now! this is the best Spin Off to come out the Original Power Rangers EVER! and don't bother watching any other lame spin off, this is the one for you! "},{"Title":"a failed attempt","Date":"3 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" i saw this film as a child i was 11 when the power rangers hit our screens and i'm still hooked on the slowly fading series, but as far as film transfers went i was disappointed when i saw this film then and although i have it in my collection it still leaves me with a feeling of loss, this film was full of bad special effects lousy fight scenes and a story which dragged on for far longer than it should have, the made for TV transfer was better in everyway, the rangers lose their powers in the first 15 mins and then regain them for the last, the costumes where terrible and even though it was soposed to be a continuation of the series characters where lost, designs changed and continuity, well i think they just gave up on that concept, unless you are a real power rangers fan like me who can stomach a film worse than any episode on TV then i wouldn't advise you to watch this film. "},{"Title":"Doesn't quite cut it for me.","Date":"29 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Has there ever been a show that entertained kids whilst at the same time taught them right from wrong, good from evil- like the Power Rangers? I don't think so. I was such a huge fan of The Mighty Morphing Power Rangers and this movie was a nice addition to the TV series. Personally, looking at this film now, I feel that the script needed improvement and because of this, the casts performances weren't as good as they could have been- I wasn't a fan of the new rangers i.e. Rocky, Adam and Aisha to begin with.The one major complaint I have in regards to this film is the new zord they have. What was the art department thinking when they designed that?! It's gruesome.I think that (overall), this film delivered what was expected of it, and that was- a fun film. It offers members of every audience a little something- at least- and that's what indeed makes this film a 'guilty pleasure'. "},{"Title":"Fun to look back at my youth","Date":"22 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  In a movie/TV forum on a message board someone brought up the old Power Rangers TV show. I'm 17 now, and when the show first came on I was 7 years old. After reading through the thread I wanted to go back and watch some of the episodes for old times sake. So I went to a video store and found the movie for really cheap on DVD and I bought it. And you know what? I loved it. I felt like a little kid again watching it. It brought me back to a simpler time and it was fun to go back and watch.If you're an adult who was too old to watch the show when it was on of course you're gonna hate this movie. The acting is horrible and the special effects just reek. The one thing about it I'd say everyone could like is the Ivan Ooze character. He's pretty cool. But if you're like me and you lived this stuff when you were little you should be able to go back and watch this and just have fun. You don't care about the horrible CGI, you don't care about the bad acting, none of that matters.I really find it funny how some people here talk about this movie like it was made to be anything else than a movie for kids. Damn, lighten up people. This wasn't made to make you think or tug at the heart strings. It was made for kids.  "},{"Title":"They call this a movie... and it shows.","Date":"30 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  When I first heard about a Power Rangers movie (long ago), I was thinking, Japanese footage on the big screen. When the movie came out, I decided to check it out.The MMPR movie doesn't have much of a groundbreaking plot (bad guy is free, Rangers must kill bad guy, save world, blah blah) and the special effects aren't exactly awe-inspiring, but at least you know those are movie effects, not like Turbo's big-screen television episode. The first film was clearly superior because of the time, effort, and money these people has put into making a film look better than the TV show it is based upon. Some of the fight scenes are better than on TV. The impressive final battle made up for an ugly Megazord (well, I thought it was ugly). The orchestrated soundtrack wasn't reused on television. And there were only two instances where we had to hear that damned Go Go Power Rangers theme song in the whole movie.The MMPR movie isn't the greatest piece of work out there. It doesn't have any major elements that will introduce new fans into the world of spandex-wearing heroes fighting rubber monsters from Japan, but it makes for an enlightning ninety minutes. "},{"Title":"Not at all bad","Date":"21 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I will admit that is an entertaining movie based on a fairly entertaining TV series (for the first few episodes). I have not seen this film for a number of years and when I last saw it I was a much younger child, so my opinion might change if I saw this movie again. But from what I can remember, it was enjoyable. I particularly liked the villain Ivan Ooze, who had some good lines and the movie had some catchy songs including a bubblegum early 90's pop classic by Shampoo. I liked the skydiving scene and the computer animation bits were good. The fight scenes were okay but my main grouches about the movie were as follows1) The violence was a little much in some parts but I suppose that is typical Power Rangers. I don't think anything really serious would come of the violence...2) I hated the side-plot with that boy and his father and the zombie parents. Power Rangers tries to be too sentimental at times. It is bad when they are too violent and it is bad when they are too sweet and sugary. Bulk and Skull were totally out of place in this movie and were really annoying.Apart from that, I think this is a reasonable movie that most kids would probably enjoy. "},{"Title":"Decent special effects and a wondefully bad villain make this a better kiddee movie than Pokemon The First Movie","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Alright, this movie did have some cheesy lines from its main group of characters the Power Rangers. But Ivan Ooze, played to near perfection by Paul Freeman, is just so darn sarcastic and evil its hard not to enjoy yourself. He spewed out every single memorable line, for example, Tommy, the White Ranger (and the leader) says, in an over-acting tone We're the POWER Rangers . Ooze just gets this devilishly humorus look on his face and goes Oh! We're's my auto-graph book?! in this funny Western accent.Another good performance was from that Amazon chick who helped the Power Rangers.But the main highlight was the fight sequences. They were well choreographed, most notably the fight with the Ooze creatures in the construction sight, and with the Temple guards on the planet Phados.The special effects didn't really show up in the movie until the final battle with the new Ninja Zords, huge robots that the Power Rangers use to battle the machines that Ivan is using to destroy the city.A few of the robots kinda blocky, ie The pink Ranger's, but the Falcon, The Frog and the Ivan Machines all look well done for a 1995 kiddee flick.A few complaints are the swish-swash sound effects that the Power Rangers have when doing karate chops. Thankfully, these are only used when morphed, which they are a total of three times in the movie.Another is the animatronics on Goldar and that Pig dude. They looked like Greedo from the first Star Wars.One last complaint is the sub plot with the kids saving their parents from leaping to their dooms because they were hipnotized by Ivan and told to do just that. The main kid, along with Bulk and Skull (who, while annoying, have a few good lines at the begining) could of been cut out.The soundtrack is well done (most notably is The Red Hot Chili Peppers doing a cover of Setvie Wonder's Higher Ground, and a chatchy tune called Trouble by the flash fire pop group Shampoo) as is the instramental score (minus the electric guitar and the Go Go Power Rangers theme tune)Overall, this is a well done kids movie, and the mega cheesiness that is in the seires is almost comleatly absent, and has a devillishly funny villian. Worth a renting or maybe a buy if your kids really like it.Rating PG (for sci fi and fantasy violence, as well as the Amazon chick being ready to fall out of her top)Stars 3 and 1/2 out of 6 (Worth a look see, but not excellent)When to see it Rental or a buy if your kids like it. (now, cause its been out of thetres for a while)You locked me up in that container for 6,000 years! Do you have any idea how boring that is?! Plus, I've had a Jolly Horse since the Rennisance.Oh, the things I have missed! The Black Plague! The Spanish Inquisition!...The Brady Bunch Reunion! "},{"Title":"I disagree Raven","Date":"31 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Raven, I have to disagree with you there. Your comments seem to be one sided. While the Rangers do advocate the use of strength and prowess in battle instead of negotiation, it is not without reason. One of the former Rangers, I believe it was Jason David Frank, who put it best. He said that the monsters that the Rangers fight are just that. Monsters. The kind that hide under little kids beds, or in their closets. Not the kid down the street.Add to that the fact that each episode, up until about Power Rangers Zeo in the series collection, had a distinct moral, such as teamwork compassion, patience, etc.As for the movie in itself; it is MHO that its moral is that of teamwork, courage, compassion, and looking out for the wellbeing of others.Take this as you will. "},{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  A great movie.  I myself am not a fan of the power rangers but I loved the movie anyway! It has a lot of action and compells me to watch again & again  "}{"Title":"Losing its Power","Date":"22 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I've got good news and bad news. Here, there is dual cause for celebration, and dread. The good news In Mighty Morphin Power Rangers The Movie, the Saban-backed children's television commodity-turned-feature-length movie is pretty much everything fans of the awesome color-coded defenders of good could ever want. The bad news is, that's about it. This big-budget feature-length movie plays out pretty much like an extended version of the television show, and doesn't really offer much - to outsiders or the hardcore fans accustomed to the high-kicking action and special effects.As a fan of the Power Rangers from about 1994-1996 when I was between the ages 9 and 11 (the movie features the best and most popular cast from the television series, when Power Rangers were at their peak), I was one who eagerly waited in anticipation for a Power Rangers movie. I collected the toys, and I watched the show almost religiously on weekday afternoons on Fox Kids. Believe me when I finally saw the movie, I was blown away.In 2007, I'm 21; I've grown up. But I've still found myself attached to a lot of stuff from my more youthful years; Power Rangers aren't one of them. Some of it's because I haven't watched the show since the cast from the '94-'96 season changed, and a recent viewing of Movie offers little to a former fan. Maybe it's because I, like my favorite high-kicking teenagers, grew up.As a youth, it's easy to fall in love with this stuff. You got cool-looking characters, really bad guys, lots of kung-fu action, crazy plots, cheesy dialogue, and explosions and stuff. If you're an adolescent into things that go BOOM!, you're in the right place. I was one such adolescent with a big imagination and wished he had awesome morphing powers like his heroes. Some parents even got angry because they believed Rangers taught kids to fight out their problems rather than talking them out. Please.If you were into the show, you remember that six teenagers of the fictional city Angel Grove, California, were chosen by the being Zordon to become the hyper-charged Power Rangers, ninja-like warriors sworn to defeat evil everywhere it reared its ugly head, with awesome powers and their Zords - gigantic machines that represented prehistoric animals that could be used to fight their enemies in kaiju-style showdowns. Aisha (Karan Ashley) became the (second) Yellow Ranger, Adam (Johnny Yong Bosch) became the (second) Black Ranger, Rocky (Steve Cardenas) became the (second) Red Ranger, Tommy (Jason David Frank) became the White Ranger, Kimberly (Amy Jo Johnson) became the Pink Ranger, and Billy (David Yost) became the Blue Ranger; Billy was always my favorite. Together, they defined teamwork and were perfectly suited to fight off the extraterrestrial and domestic evils that threatened mankind.In Movie, Ivan Ooze (Paul Freeman, chewing up all his scenery) is freed from a 6000-year imprisonment when Angel Grove construction workers accidentally stumble onto his lair. The nefarious Lord Zedd and his motor-mouth wife Rita Repulsa and their two minions Goldar and Mordant go to meet him and allow his revenge on Zordon. But he must first deal with the Rangers. After a few confrontations with Ooze's foot-soldiers, Ooze attacks their base, which leaves robot Alpha 5 short-circuiting and Zordon with only a few days to live. This renders the Rangers without their powers or their Zords, and they must journey to far-off Vados to receive new powers. With help from bikini-clad warrior chick Dulcea (Gabrielle Fitzpatrick), you can pretty much bet your $8 that this trip will be worth it, again, if you're a fan.For those of us who are die-hards for Mighty Morphin Power Rangers The Movie, screenwriter Arne Olsen and director Bryan Spicer ensure that this is one adventure that won't disappoint. Except for a few minor changes, Spicer and Olsen stay remarkably faithful to all that we knew and love about the source material. This is also the first incarnation of Rangers to feature completely original material, instead of stock footage borrowed from Japan's Super Sentai, the show that inspired Mighty Morphin Power Rangers. The choosing of the show's original stars instead of new actors was also a plus.Problems abound in Movie, the simple fact that it seems like an extended of version of the show. A rundown an evil appears, and the Rangers come together to fight it. The movie pretty much follows the same formula, except it's 101 minutes of your life that you'll either love or want back desperately. Original Rangers show was never much for performances (so it's a moot point here to even mention it), and the dialogue never really goes beyond typical Ranger-speak (Let's do it, guys! or You ooze, you lose!).The one having the most fun, however, is Freeman. Unrecognizable under some heavy-duty prosthetics, he relishes playing the bad guy ten-fold in the best (and somewhat hokey) performance. Comic bullies Bulk (Paul Schrier) and Skull (Jason Narvy) are remarkably underused, and youth Fred's (Jamie Croft) is also underused. Most telltale about how much we've grown up, are the film's CGI special effects, which were brilliant for 1995 but have obviously dated and are yet another reminder that this is a film showing its age from a time when television was so much simpler.I guess Mighty Morphin Power Rangers The Movie found its audience 12 years ago but will definitely have a hard time finding new viewers. I personally loved the cast and the show, but have a hard time looking at the movie now. Regardless of my misgivings now, 10 years ago this was it and probably about as good as it was going to get for the Power Rangers. Unfortunately, this is all we have left of the glory days when the Power Rangers ruled the world. When they lost their powers in the movie, some people today might wonder why they didn't lose their powers permanently.4/10 "},{"Title":"A Movie that fits children who loved the TV show","Date":"24 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" As we were running intruder-safety drills at my school, I noticed in my teacher had the Mighty Morphin' Power Rangers movie and I remembered how I use to watch the movie until I gave it away. I remembered how much Inoticed the difference between the show, how it was filmed and what emotions they may or may not have put in in. I really enjoyed watching that movie a long time ago. It was definitely made for the kids and that is what I think the film critics missed. I mean come on! Its not supposed to be some sort of Academy award-winning movie that sets the standards for all movies. It actually had a pretty good story though some of the side-villains are made up of cheap plastics. Overall, the movie was great and the action sequences were pretty exciting for a child my age at that time. "},{"Title":"From the small screen, to the big screen.","Date":"27 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" 6 teenagers are chosen by Zordon and are given powers to fight the evil of Rita Repulsa and Lord Zedd. I was only 10 years old when Mighty Morphin Power Rangers first hit the air in 1993. It was my favorite show beck then... and it still is one of my favorite kid shows today. (Yes, I watch all the new seasons!) The reason I loved it was because of the cool characters, cool looking costumes and awesome looking zords. Who never wanted a Zord action-figure when they were a kid? Everyone I know had one! 2 years later, before Season 3 aired on TV, Mighty Morphin Power Rangers The Movie came out. I loved it when I was a kid and I still enjoy it today. Sure, it's no acdemy award winner... and will never be as good as other superhero movies like Batman Begins or Spider-Man 2, but Power Rangers is aimed for kids anyways. "},{"Title":"Changed my Life","Date":"23 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" OMG this movie was amazing. After seeing this movie i was inspired to get a job and have a family. I now fight puppets for a living in miniature city sets. Power rangers, if it wasn't for you I would still be on the streets eating rats and drinking out of a sewage pipe. I love power rangers. The way the black one kicks those bad guys butts was truly cinematic gold. The use of sparks instead of blood reaches out of the screen and knocks you in the face. Every battle leaves you awestruck and wanting more. Oh just talking about it makes me want to pop some over-sized man in a squid suit from space right into a mini building that immediately explodes into a burning fury of sparks and paper mache. Who i am 30 years old and can barley get out of bed every morning but somehow this movie rejuvenates me. My excitement before seeing it helps me overcome my lose of breath and my constant chest pains. Bravo MMPR, Bravo. My hat goes off to you for such a glorious display of action and mayhem. My mother saw this movie when she was dieing of cancer and it gave her the strength to go out side and douse herself in gasoline and light up a cigarette. I know it will change your life as much as it has changed mine. "},{"Title":"pretty bad, indeed","Date":"22 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This is a horrid movie.  Completely dumb in every aspect that it delves in.  An insult to movies, and art itself.  You know what I think they did wrong with this movie?  They didn't make it a comedy.  Certainly, there were scenes in the movie that were meant to be humorous, but they failed and there weren't enough attempts anyway. The way I see it, this movie is a joke.  I laugh at failed scene after failed scene filled with drama that would be excusable in a bad, colorless, fuzzy, and altogether terrible soap opera.  This has some of the most cheezy special effects I've ever seen.  The music is okay, but usually just plain stupid (not as bad is in Turbo A Power Rangers Movie).  Suspense that, well, just plain bored me.  Everything is a joke. There is one thing in this movie that is not horrible.  That is Paul Freeman's performance as Ivan Ooze.  I believe he realizes that the movie he is in is terrible.  Instead of being dramatic, in every scene he strives to find some sort of punchline so that the audience will have a harder time dozing off.  I respect that.  Unfortunately, this movie was made about five teenagers who look like thirty year-olds and have nothing better to do than save the world and do pointless karate moves with some very fake sound effects.  Yep, a real shame.  3/10 "},{"Title":"Successful Entertainment","Date":"13 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Although the plot of the movie had severe clashes with the original plot and settings of the show, I believe that a successful and effective product was spawned. Bizarre twists were added into the movie such as the skydiving sequence, the introduction of the ninja zords, Ivan Ooze, and not to mention a scantily clad warrioress for extra eye candy. Even if these elements had nothing to do with the original show, they did raise the appeal of the movie to the general public. Excellent special effects and an absolutely fantastic soundtrack made this movie quite enjoyable to a long term fan such as myself. Even with a dislike towards Power Rangers, one is able to sit down and enjoy this movie.  "},{"Title":"It's Morphin' time!","Date":"4 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  As a kid, MMPR was like, my favorite TV show ever (as was every little boy's), and every day I would kung fu fight and punch and kick and have fights with my brother - he would be Jason, the red ranger, and I was Zach, the black ranger. And this was part of the reason I went to see the movie at the cinema.The other reason was, because of it's violence, MMPR was cancelled here in New Zealand, before the end of the very first season. So, I was naturally interested in the new White Ranger, plus the addition of Aisha, Rocky and Adam, as I never actually saw Trini, Zach and Jason leave.Okay, so the movie wasn't ever gonna win any Oscars or Golden Globes (maybe a Golden Raspberry, though!), but at the time I saw it (8) it was great fun and I enjoyed every moment of it from start to finish.And while, the only ranger that seems to behold any acting talent behind those heavy-looking power helmets is Kimberly, the Pink ranger (Amy Jo Johnson - who also came to become part of the core cast for 'Felicity'), they're basically just fighting in it, so they really don't have to act an awful lot.I've seen it quite a few times since my naive 8th year, but still like it (perhaps I'm in a state of reminiscing, or extreme denial) - it's fast-packed, funky and a good 90 minutes to keep kids quiet. "},{"Title":"Better than Turbo The Power Rangers Movie...","Date":"31 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The first series of Power Rangers was good, then it all went down hill. The movie is better than Turbo The Power Rangers Movie but still could be ALOT better. It suffers from a very bad script and below average acting. Ivan Ooze is not scary and the special FX are extremely poor. This could have been a good childrens martial arts film but instead it's...not. "},{"Title":"Monumental!","Date":"6 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" This movie is everything you've ever wanted out of a Power Ranger movie. Everything was done so professionally it was a movie that literally glittered like gold. Every facet from the show was here, but all of it was given a new coat of paint. The uniforms were jazzed up, the zords were upgraded, the fights were bigger, the stakes higher, the plot bigger, the villain was badder, the emotions ran higher, hell, even the command center was even improved. Everything that you loved from the show was here, and everything that you loathed was gone it was Power Rangers the way it ways always meant to be. SPECTACULAR.WATCH IT. LOVE IT. REVEL IN THE FANSERVICE.Even if you've never watched Power Rangers, it's still a pretty good adventure flick. "},{"Title":"It depends on you.","Date":"10 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I have heard plenty against this movie.  Many of the points cited by those who decry this film are valid.  Yes, it has martial arts action.  Yes, the dialogue can be cheesy.  Yes, it can be considered violent.  What is not pointed out is this what you get out of it depends on you.  The characters are the main force of this film, showing teamwork, loyalty, courage, discipline, a true love, a sense of duty, a sense of humor, and respect.  It can be used to encourage values, to teach when to fight, standing up for  what is right, doing good, and love without sex.  I'm not saying this film is appropriate for unsupervised small children.  What I'm saying is the PG is more than just a rating; the parental guidance is needed.  With the help of mature perspective, this movie can be a powerful teaching tool. "}{"Title":"Enjoyable","Date":"30 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Don't judge it b4 you see it, it's really fun! 7 out of 10 Rated PG for fantasy action violence. "},{"Title":"Friends","Date":"21 October 1998","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The movie was very good, it was about friends helping one another out by keeping a job factory from being shut down. They also helped their mentor Zordon. I have seen this movie 10 times. The only thing that I did not like was the foul language, that was used. "},{"Title":"The Power Rangers TV series basically went to hell after the movie...this movie was good though...","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Back then when I was a kid,I thought that the Power Rangers were cool,but now I realize that all of the rangers are geeks...just plain geeks.The last time I watched this movie was when I was like 6,and I thought the movie was the best thing ever made,but I just watched it again to see what it was like,and it was just plain average.This movie does have some good pints,it has some pretty good fight scenes,good make-up effects,and just the fact that it was the classic Power Rangers,it wasnt Power Rangers Zeo,or Time Force,or whatever else they came up with,it was just the old good Power Rangers.there was some stuff I didnt like about the movie,for one,I didnt like the acting,it just didnt really seem convincing that all 6 kids were heros,but when your like 5 years old,you dont really care for stuff like acting.Another thing I didnt like was that the Power Rangers' suits didnt look all that great,but again,the suits look good if your 5.The new villains were pretty clever,but those ooze things dont have the vibe that the old puttys had.Overall,Power Rangers The Movie is a great movie if your under 7,and its a good movie if your over 13.7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Globalization commenting on globalization?","Date":"15 May 2004","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  One thing I've noticed when watching this movie again (caught it languishing on the sleepy annals of daytime TV) is that there is an overriding theme of anti-globalization. The whole mass manufacturing of the 'ooze' to brainwash the parents of Angelgrove, seems to be like some grotesque fast food enterprise. Is this the intelligent, political message we've all been trying to find in the movie? Well, hardly, as the whole Power Rangers franchise, in its day, was one of the most wealthiest and popular businesses, and it dominated the television and toy industries. I remember I was seven years of age when the movie was released. However loathsome you may think of it now, when the movie was launched, prepubescents everywhere were celebrating. It was what the countless hordes of kiddies were waiting for. The irony is, is that I was among those ranks of enthusiasts, who believed that the Power Rangers vehicle was deified or something. But the real irony is that we were all brainwashed, as if we had guzzled our own healthy dosage of ooze. Oh, how naïve.The script, is of course, utterly abysmal. The movie's entire dialogue seems to be a disgusting volley of clichès. Their purpose was probably to add a touch of humour, but their delivery were so unforgivably corny they were all swallowed by the audience (apart from those too young to know) like lead bullets. They are so dull I can't remember any. There is some unintentional laughs when Tommy stops the monorail from plummeting from the tracks 'just in time'. Everyone knows that they'll be practically teetering on the edge before they are dramatically saved. I remember I used to vehemently abhor Bulk and Skull, but now I actually feel sorry for them. They are a duet of desperate low-lives who just seem to get in the way, but we sort of sympathise with them, because they are just so inordinately hopeless. It is true there is nothing beyond the hammy kung-pow karate theme, but the people who saw it in 1995 (exempting the submitting mothers who promised to send their kids to the cinema as long as they'd just shut up) weren't expecting a Sartre-style treatise on existentialism, but to consume more vacuous action from the Power Rangers. Naturally, its more of the same its basically an episode agonisingly stretched to feature-length. To my juvenile anger, Lord Zed played a very small role in the movie's plot. Instead you have eccentric despot Ivan Ooze who had been 'woken' (as most movie horrors are resurrected) who does have a sort of shine about him, but he's still terribly drab in parts. You can imagine the parents raising a smile to a couple of his sardonic comments.To be fair, the acting isn't totally irritating. The Power Rangers were marginally better than they were on the small screen, but for anyone watching the movie today, there is little to get excited about. They are predictable and so therefore of little interest. What I still find interesting today is the costumes, such as the dinosaur fighter statues that emerge from the rocks. They look like overgrown Henson puppets. And Ooze's cloak looks like its made from purple tin foil.The effects were advanced for their day, I'll give them that. The whole plot is like one behemoth of a computer game, so without special effects, the movie would have been further flawed. But once again, they have painfully dated, and the scene where Ivan Ooze extends and morphs into one of his giant metal insects is hysterical.Still, its the classic schmultzy 'and they all lived happily ever after' movie, and as long as you ignore the lukewarm script and just prepare yourself for a film that doesn't delve beneath the surface, you'll find it's an alright movie to watch, maybe once, with the children or the family. Its no Citizen Kane, but then what in today's film industry really is?And no one can deny that the Power Rangers were something almost everybody raved over in the early nineties they were at their popularity zenith when this film was released in 1995. It WAS a big part of many children's lives, who wished something exciting as this would happen in real life. And lets face it, for many children the watchful eye of the Power Rangers would be something comforting, a protection against the bleakness of the world. Shame it's just so awful today.  "},{"Title":"Wait Till The 2017 Movie","Date":"3 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I've only seen this movie once. It was back in 1995, in the movie theaters. Man, that was 20-years ago. I have seen a couple of scenes from the movie since then, but I haven't seen the movie the whole way through. Though, I can still remember some of it from back then. It obviously wasn't a movie I cared to see again, because often times I think of the movies you really like are movies you'd want to see again. Some kids watch the same movie everyday Interestingly, as an adult another movie I left a review on which I remember renting 2-years ago and enjoying enough to watch it 3 nights in a row after renting it and immediately bought a copy and regularly go through scenes is a movie called Junior High Spy.Mighty Morphin Power Rangers is a childhood memory of mine. I went from being obsessed with Power Rangers to no longer caring about them. I stopped watching the show after the second season which was mostly when the show seemed to lose it's popularity. I mean I remember seeing so many kids dressed up in school as Power Rangers during the Halloween of 1994. But, the year after I only remember one kid dressed in a Power Rangers costume. I wasn't aware what was going on with the show during the 3rd Season. I think it's interesting how I went from being obsessed with that show to no longer really caring about them.I feel like the show went downhill during the second half of Season 2, around the time 3 rangers left. I think most of us preferred the original 3 over their replacements. I also started to realize as a kid that the show became predictable and even though Lord Zedd was supposed to be superior over Rita, more of his monsters were taken down more easily than Rita's. The show just stopped appealing to me as a kid, and I imagined coming up with my own plots.Many years later, I'd watch Zyuranger and buy the episodes on DVD. Man, I didn't know Power Rangers was from a Japanese TV show at the time. Watching Zyuranger I can't believe that I'm watching something older than the Power Rangers and what inspired it. I like a lot of you think Zyuranger is a better T.V. show and better done than Power Rangers. It wasn't common knowledge back then like it is now, that Power Rangers used it's footage from a Japanese T.V. show. Since Power Rangers was so popular back then, I wish Fox Kids would have taken time to show us more where the show came from, possibly even showing subtitled episodes of Zyuranger back then on Fox. Imagine how American kids from back then would have reacted if they could have seen episodes of Zyuranger and compare it to Power Rangers?I've mostly talked about my thoughts on the Power Rangers. But, let me explain the movie. Well, years later when I watch episodes of Mighty Morphin Power Rangers I notice how this show wasn't entirely well done or well thought out. There seem to be plot holes and continuity errors. It was a little the same with this movie. I mean I noticed as a kid how this movie drifted from the series. We have the same characters play the Mighty Morphin Power Rangers, but there are numerous things different from this movie than in the series. It doesn't feel like it's canon. This movie also took place in Australia. I'm not sure why they had to go all the way there. Interestingly, some of the episodes that were made around the time this movie was made were also filmed in Australia.Here's what I remember about this movie. I'm sure we all remember the opening scene which was skydiving. I wonder if that was actually the actors who were skydiving, though probably not because they'd have to be like professional skydivers to skydive as well as they did in the movie. It also would have been hard to film it, as cameramen shoot from different angles? They could have had professionals skydivers, or they could have just used a green screen to make it look like the characters were skydiving.I remember enjoying this movie. If you watched Power Rangers back then, you'd probably think the movie was enjoyable. I liked Ivan Ooze as a villain. However, I also remember around the same time I saw this movie when I saw the Power Rangers on stage. That show seemed more canon to the series than this movie and was a fun experience back then. You can see it on YouTube now, and it seems like a lot of people preferred that over the movie.They're working on a movie that is expected to come out sometime in 2017. I'm sure we've all noticed how a lot of TV shows that we remember when we were kids that even had previous movies made for them, are having new movies made based on the original versions with 21st Century action and special effects. They've done that with Transformers and they're working on a second Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles movie when a lot of us prefer the original 1990s Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles movie.I'm waiting for the next movie. I feel like almost any film can be good if they have the right director who can come up with an entertaining movie. I bet the next Power Rangers movie will be better, or at least make a lot more money than the previous Power Rangers movies including this one which had a theatrical release.Well, that's it and I give this movie a 5/10. It entertained me, but it could have been better. "},{"Title":"Gets points for attempting to do something nice with the license but, the movie is ultimately mediocre","Date":"9 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" This movie is all over the place and while it's notches better than the Power Rangers Turbo movie, that isn't saying much.At times the movie is exhilarating and fun to watch. The opening skydiving sequence with all six of the Power Rangers was very well made.The antagonist of the film, Ivan Ooze was alright. Other times, I shake my head in disbelief in that that could of done so much more with the Power Rangers license and made it better.The part where the Rangers lost their powers and became ninjas I just wasn't too fond of.I don't even know. I just wished the Power Rangers fought more than just generic baddies and putties in the film. You think Tommy could of had an epic showdown with Rita Repulsa or something. Speaking of which, it's worth noting Tommy and Kim are basically the only two Power Rangers that get any sort of screen time. The other four Rangers are just kinda there.It's completely mindless fun to watch but at the same time, that's why this is just a mediocre film (at best) and that no one other than kids past the age of 10 will find something to enjoy here. "},{"Title":"A really cool Power Rangers movie!","Date":"17 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Mighty Morphin Power Rangers The Movie is one of my 25 year-old sister's movies that she used to watch, so I thought I would review it.Before the film was released, there was a television series, followed by another series of TV shows after this film and in 1995, Saban Entertainment and Twentieth Century Fox decided to team up and bring us the first POWER RANGERS movie, MIGHTY MORPHIN POWER RANGERS THE MOVIE, an Americanized motion picture based on the Sental series.While many says this film is a bomb, I think some people has also enjoyed this film and accepted it for what it is. I have heard that there is a reboot being made and released by Lionsgate for a 2016 release and I really want to see how it's going to do.The six main actors playing our Power Rangers may not be great, but they could have been a heck of a lot worse, because they're playing heroes with superpowers, what is not to like about this film? The suits for the Power Rangers are made out of armor and I hope they are like that for the reboot of the film series.I love the plot of the movie, too, and for them to go against Ivan Ooze was really cool and the ending climax of this movie was just fantastic and I watch the new POWER RANGERS show that is being shown on Nickelodeon and the new show is very amazing and fantastic.The music and visuals are really great for a movie like this, as well as they were in 1995 and the production design was really amazing in this film.Overall, I love MIGHTY MORPHIN POWER RANGERS THE MOVIE and it is just simply a classic film. 8.9/10. "},{"Title":"The Power Is On, The Big Screen","Date":"1 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" As a kid I was one of those who was crazy about the Mighty Morphin Power Rangers if you grew up in the 1990s you know everyone was crazy about the series.I can remember during the second season I saw a TV spot for the movie at first I thought I didn't believe it then I saw it again and It just made me go what? I couldn't believe that they were making a movie for it. So I asked my dad to take me and he did he took me and my brother to go see it and it's one of the movies I can still recall the reaction and the emotion I felt in the theater and I saw it 20 years ago when I saw it in 1995 in theaters.The movie centers around the Power Rangers Tommy The White Ranger (Jason David Frank),Kimberly The Pink Ranger (Amy Jo Johnson), Billy The Blue Ranger (David Yost), Rocky The Red Ranger (Steve Cardenas) Adam The Black Ranger (Johnny Yong Bosch), Aisha The Yellow Ranger (Karan Ashley) as they battle against a foe that has been imprisoned by Zordon and now seeks revenge.Ivan Ooze (Paul Freeman) has been in a egg for 6000 years and after he is freed by Lord Zedd and Rita Repulsa he begins to attack the Power Rangers.After getting the movie on DVD and watch it again it did bring back the memories of my childhood but of course I look at it through an adult point of view and it has been interesting to say the least.But nevertheless the film is one of the few that ever made me cry in the theater, normally I could handle it but for this one it didn't happen I shed a tear or two in the film and it also made me laugh at the comedy of the film which are still funny as they were back then.Also the soundtrack and music for the film is pretty well balance with something for everyone from classic songs to a score that helps tell the story of the film and looking at it now it's quite the score that you can't help but respect because it help tells the story of the movie. The music just so well balance for a film targeted to kids. The stunt and actions scenes were where the film took off for kids as that's what we wanted for I remember in the theater everyone cheer when the Rangers morph. The story of the film worked for Power Rangers fans. The film is better for those who grew up with the series and for those who are fans of power rangers but some might like to check it out for those who just want to see what was the big thing back than. Nevertheless the film is just a piece of nostalgic. Seeing the movie on the big screen is one of the best times I had at the movies and still feels that way when I watch itMighty Morphin Power Rangers The Movie is actually an enjoyable film and it would be good for any fan of Power Rangers and the kids might enjoy it.I give Mighty Morphin Power Rangers The Movie an 8 out of 10 It's Morphin Time! "},{"Title":"A really cool Power Rangers movie!","Date":"12 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Mighty Morphin Power Rangers The Movie is one of my 25 year-old sister's movies that she used to watch, so I thought I would review it. Before the film was released, there was a television series, followed by another series of TV shows after this film and in 1995, Saban Entertainment and Twentieth Century Fox decided to team up and bring us the first POWER RANGERS movie, MIGHTY MORPHIN POWER RANGERS THE MOVIE, an Americanized motion picture based on the Sental series.While many says this film is a bomb, I think some people has also enjoyed this film and accepted it for what it is. I have heard that there is a reboot being made and released by Lionsgate for a 2016 release and I really want to see how it's going to do.The six main actors playing our Power Rangers may not be great, but they could have been a heck of a lot worse, because they're playing heroes with superpowers, what is not to like about this film? The suits for the Power Rangers are made out of armor and I hope they are like that for the reboot of the film series.I love the plot of the movie, too, and for them to go against Ivan Ooze was really cool and the ending climax of this movie was just fantastic and I watch the new POWER RANGERS show that is being shown on Nickelodeon and the new show is very amazing and fantastic.The music and visuals are really great for a movie like this, as well as they were in 1995 and the production design was really amazing in this film.Overall, I love MIGHTY MORPHIN POWER RANGERS THE MOVIE and it is just simply a classic film. 8.9/10. "},{"Title":"Its no masterpiece, but its a good one","Date":"21 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" You all know how much I love the show, but now here is what I thought of this movie. Mighty Morphin Power Rangers The Movie is very much non-canon to the show because of the suits, Zordon's look, Angel Grove being shot in Australia, etc. Heck, Turbo A Power Rangers Movie is like the only one that is canon because it serves as a bridge between Power Rangers Zeo and Power Rangers Turbo. Also, the production quality in both films are different. Lastly, there was an episode of Mighty Morphin Power Rangers where the Power Rangers get new Zords and becoming Ninja Rangers, and the name of the episode was called Ninja Quest as it was a retelling on what the movie did. With that said, the premise of the movie is the Rangers are participating a Charity Drive for the Angel Grove Observatory as they receive a call from Zordon, and warns them that Earth is in danger and that Ivan Ooze is about to return after being buried in an egg chamber 6,000 years ago. Unfortunately, Lord Zedd and Rita Repulsa had already freed him and commanded him to destroy Zordon. The Rangers arrive too late as Ooze leaves them to fight his Oozelings, and entering the Command Center by destroying it as well as Zordon with him being outside of his time warp. The Rangers began to loose their power as Zordon is about to die soon, and Alpha sends them to a planet where they can get new powers. Ooze turns against Rita and Zedd and takes charge over the situation of the Rangers as he plans to brainwash the parents of Angel Grove as they dig up his Ecto-Morphicons to destroy not only Angel Grove, but taking over Earth. So its up to the Rangers to get new powers to save not only Zordon, but to save Angel Grove and Earth. I do remember watching this movie growing up as a kid, when it was on an old VHS copy that it really had Mighty Morphin on it as on later DVDs took it out. I hope this gets a Blu-Ray release for better picture (no DNR) and sound as well as a great amount of special features. Also, put Mighty Morphin back in. If I did a documentary for this movie, I would go into much detail about how the behind the scenes went as well as the issues. If Shout Factory did this besides me doing it, then it is all in good hands. Anyway, I thought this was a fun movie to watch. I do appreciate that the filmmakers were trying to make a high quality version of the show from being cheap, but now it looks dated which I will get to that in a second. I thought the cast did alright with their acting abilities, which I know everyone wants to poke fun of their acting. I know I can find some bad acting, but mostly I rather find is some good acting. So all in all, they did what they had to do. Paul Freeman who you may know him as Belloq from Raiders of the Lost Ark plays Ivan Ooze in the movie, and I thought he was good in it for being both evil and over the top at the same time. The makeup of him looks really good as well as the suits that the Rangers wore in the movie. The story itself was told fine, and I can tell that tone of the movie is trying too hard to be a dark movie but I give them credit for trying. Hopefully, the reboot can do something better with that as well as making it fun. I also do like Graeme Revell's score for making it suspenseful and exciting. I do enjoy the updated version of the Power Rangers theme song with Dreams by Van Halen and other songs that I enjoy. Bryan Spicer did a fine job directing the movie, but nothing more I can say about. I will say that the action in the movie is really darn good. Any flaws? Yes. I thought the movie has some good practical effects, but the CGI effects are downright terrible; they were probably good at the time, but now they don't anymore. I also would have love to see the original Red, Black, and Yellow Rangers in the movie if they had stay on the show instead of being replace. Also, I don't mind the movie being shot in Australia but could they get at least get the vehicles from America instead of fooling us with some Australia cars as if the wheels are on the left but not the right. There are some other flaws that I can point out, but that is all I got say. Nevertheless, the movie is both good and bad at the same time because all it is that it just wants to be a fun movie, and it really did; its no masterpiece but its a good one. I give Mighty Morphin Power Rangers The Movie an 8 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Uh-Oh! The movie is in trouble. Somebody came along, and burst their bubble! Still, it was alright fun. It's Morphin' Time!","Date":"30 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" When you think of the 1990s; the kid's television series 'Mighty Morphin Power Rangers' come across as one of the biggest pop culture phenomenon of that decade. It was so popular, that in 1995, a Mighty Morphin Power Rangers movie directed by Bryan Spicer was made. Much like the television season that followed the release, the film used concepts from the Japanese Super Sentai Series Ninja Sentai Kakuranger. The film is about, a group of teenagers turn superheroes fighting off evil monsters with robots. This time, they have to stop a terrible villain Ivan Ooze (Paul Freeman) who wreaks vengeance on their mentor Zordon (Nicholas Bell) for imprisoning him years ago. With Zordon dying and their powers lost, the Rangers head to a distant planet to find the mystic warrior Dulcea (Gabrielle Fitzpatrick) and gain new powers to help them stop Ivan Ooze. The film stars the regular television cast of the TV Series, post-season 2, pre-season 3, made out of Amy Jo Johnson as Kimberly Hart (The Pink Ranger), David Yost as Billy Cranston (The Blue Ranger), Johnny Yong Bosch as Adam Park (The Black Ranger), Karan Ashley as Alisa Campbell (The Yellow Ranger), Steve Cardenas as Rocky DeSantos (The Red Ranger), and Jason David Frank as Tommy Oliver (The White Ranger). A lot of things had change since the first season. First off, the original cast had an African actor as the Black Ranger and an Asian actress as the Yellow Ranger. Because of the controversy of their descent, respectively, they were recast with a black actress as the Yellow Ranger, and Asian actor as the Black Ranger. Another problem was that, Jason David Frank's character got way too popular as the season 1 villain, The Green Ranger. He got so popular that the producers face-turn him in Season 2 as the new leader of the Power Rangers as the White Ranger. This lead to the original actor that play the original leader, the Red Ranger, leaving due to having a smaller role. Still, the people of Angel Grove still lack logic here. I like, how nobody knows that these teenagers are the Power Rangers. They wear the same colors, everyday like their power suits, and seem really good at martial arts. The movie had such a dramatic departure in visual style from the TV series, it's almost like seeing a completely different product altogether. I like how the power suits look like armor, than stupid those cheesy spandex jumpsuits. Sadly, they don't wear it, much. Another change was the Zoids AKA the robots, they used. I was deeply disappointed that the original Zoids didn't have a bigger part in this film. I wish, they could had at less, had one battle or something in the beginning. The power is ON! ...Perhaps someone should shut that off. It's running up the electrical bill. Anybody hoping to see them in the big screen had to be disappointed. Sadly, they run out of both Gosei Sentai Dairanger & Kyōryū Sentai Zyuranger footage to use for the show, so they wanted to introduce the Ninja Zoids as soon as possible in the film. Still, season 3 of the power rangers just ignored the events of the movie and just create its own storyline of how the power rangers got their new powers. So, this movie isn't canon to the show, at all. While the movie did get the big budget treatment, the CGI were awful. Even for 1990s standards. I like the new zoids, but the machines were so fake looking with the bad CGI. While the Zoids battles were just bad, the martial arts fight sequences in the film were pretty entertaining. I love each one of them. The fights, while a bit cartoony, and unrealistic with the wire works; did have some really good stunt work, cool flipping and funny one-liners puns. The best fight had to be them against the rock monsters. The fight choreography in the show is much more impressive that in this big budget movie. Granted, the show had some cheese, but nowhere near to the extent they used here. The supporting cast were hit and misses, too. I love how Ivan Ooze look and feel. What a memorable villain. Paul Freeman was great in this film. Still, hate that the original TV show villains were made into not-threaten jokes by this film. I hate the men in the bird like suits henchmen. Looks like something dated like from 1939's Wizard of Oz. While, a very short cameo, Gabrielle Fitzpatrick indeed was very sexy Amazonian type character. One character, I can care less is Fred Kelman (Jamie Croft) who was plainly added for Kid Appeal. Fred was treated as someone who had always been part of the cast, despite never being in the show. He had a very annoying sub-plot of trying to rescue the brain wash adults from Ivan Ooze control. I really felt, every scene with him, could had been cut. It's nice to see Bulk (Paul Schrier) & Skull (Jason Narvy) from the TV show again, play the comedy relief, but they weren't really needed. The movie pacing is awful bad. The movie really did try to catch the attention of X-Sports demographics with lots of pointless sequences of skydiving and inline skates stunts. Honestly, these sequence really slow down the movie. Without spoiling it, the ending is a pretty bad cop out. For those who possess the Great Power, all things are possible. Such BS! The soundtrack was so-so. Shampoo- We're in Trouble was simple just annoying one-repeatable lyrics, but catchy as hell. The main theme was alright for the most part. It did had some epic tones in it. Overall This movie is so laughable now, but back then, it was a good time to be young. So it's hard to hate the kid movie too much. Great watch if you want a nostalgia trip. "},{"Title":"90's filled drunk pleasure","Date":"21 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" How is this absolute cliché 90's movie rated so low clearly anyone who loved the original series should re-watch this movie. sure its cheesy and predictable but its a bloody kids movie of course it is when you grow up. the weird thing is when i re-watched this, when i was 20 years old just to see if as a kid i had good taste and to relive what i loved as a kid and it me least 10 beers of courage to watch it.but after that i watch it and was really cut up about how low this was rated.the sight of seeing that this is rated so low made me write this. sure it fills every 90's cliché in the book but that's what it is. this is the 90's movie, when i become a father that i will tell my kids to watch. i was a fantastic movie for any 90's kid that was a fan of the TV show. when you grow up a little you see the smaller things you respect the villains and remember how they use to haunt you. great movie for what they had to work with and a movie you respect with age if you were born in the 90's. "},{"Title":"Amy Jo Johnson is one Hot Babe!","Date":"29 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" A giant egg containing the creature &#x96; Ivan Ooze (Paul Freeman) has appeared in Angel Grove. Lord Zedd (Mark Ginther/Robert Axelrod) and Rita Repulsa (Julia Cortez/Barbara Goodson) investigate and release the creature, whom Zordon (Nicholas Bell/Robert L. Manahan) had trapped inside the egg 6,000 years agoOnce released, Ooze vows to have his vengeance on Zordon. Ooze double- crossed Zedd and Rita by trapping them in a snow-globe and threaten Goldar (Kerry Casey/Kerrigan Mahan) and Mordant (Jean Paul Bell) to be his minions.He disguises himself as a carnival wizard and gives free jars of purple ooze to children. Fred Kelman (Jamie Croft) accepts a jar and brings it home.Later, his father finds the jar and inspects the ooze. Charges of purple electricity possessed him and place under the control of Ivan Ooze along with all the other parents in Angel Grove.When the Power Rangers are sent to fight Ooze's Ooze Men, the Command Center is left defenseless. Ooze destroys it, leaving Zordon near death and causing the Power Rangers lose their powers as a result.The Rangers' set on a new mission to search for new Ninjetti powers on Planet Phaedos. Tommy returns as the White Ranger as become more powerful than his previous Green.Ooze sends his Tengu Warriors after the Rangers. The Rangers' are assisted by Dulcea (Gabrielle Fitzpatrick), who bestows upon the Rangers new Ninja powers based on the six Ninja animals the white Falcon, the red Ape, the yellow Bear, the blue Wolf, the pink Crane, and the black Frog.Dulcea guides the Rangers to find the Ninjetti Temple to find the Great Power on their own, as she will age rapidly if she takes one step off the plateau. On their way, they must battle a living dinosaur skeleton and at the temple, battle four living statues. When the statues are destroyed, the Great Power is bestowed upon them and they morph into the Power Rangers again.The Rangers return to Earth to find Earth is great danger under attack by Ooze's Ectomorphicon Titans and call upon their new Ninjazords to battle the Titans. They destroy Scorpitron, and then form Megazord to battle Hornitor.During this time, the children of Angel Grove realize that Ooze plans to kill their parents. Fred leads them to the construction site where Ooze directed the adults to fall into a massive hole, and the children form a defensive line to try and stop their parents.When Ooze fuses with Hornitor, the Rangers form the Ninja Falcon Megazord to try and destroy him and releasing the parents of Angel Grove from Ooze's spell.The Rangers returns to the Command Center but Zordon has died. Tommy reminds the Rangers that with the Great Power, anything is possible. With their powers, the Rangers revive Zordon and restore the Command Center. "},{"Title":"its not that bad","Date":"13 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I admit as a 14 year old and watching it its pretty good. Critics don't really understand that power rangers is a kids show and making a movie out of it is just making a kids movie. Its underrated for what people give it. I like it because of the strong action although it was only occasional because it didn't want a lot of violence. The action was good and the story was well paced. The soundtrack score is phenomenal and the acting was good. I understand why people wouldn't like it. For starters is the overall budget. The costumes for the villains looked stupid and the CGI zord fight was unconvincing. The slapstick was ridiculous along with the jokes. I don't really like the suits with its armor because it looked silly. They could've done better but it could've been worse "},{"Title":"One of the Best Childhood Movies Ever... Should of got a higher rating (7.8/8.0)","Date":"9 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" As a child i adored this movie, in particular the TV series as well, my favourite character in the TV series was between zac (the black ranger), and of course tommy (the white ranger), also known as the green ranger to some people. I had first heard about this movie in the year 1999, when i did i was only 7 years old, i thoroughly enjoyed the movie at first and have so ever since,the storyline is perfect along with the perfectly choreographed fight scenes. Overall i felt that this movie was unfairly rated and have so ever since, i even decided to watch this movie as a teenager and still felt that this movie deserved a much better rating than its current one. Movies such as Les Miserables, Star Trek (2009), Harry Potter, Life of Pi, The King's Speech, the list is endless, and also a surprise to see such high ratings for movies that deserve far much less of an overall rating. The thing that has to be taken into consideration is that this movie was made in the year 1995, the technology we have now was not made available to movie studios back then, and even so if they were it required the producer to pay a large sum of money, the point is this, when taking into consideration the year and the tools available, you have to understand that this was a really good, nostalgic movie and deserved a much higher rating. I like the movie, millions of other people also like the movie, the point of this review, is to let people know that you should not always follow the rating but instead try to read people's submitted articles as they, the people writing them are the ones telling the actual truth.My Rating 8.0/10 "},{"Title":"Cult Classics Mighty Morphin Power Rangers The Movie","Date":"23 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Mighty Morphin Power Rangers was one of my favorite shows growing up. I mean, come on, it's a bunch of teenagers in spandex beating the crap out of giant rubber monsters. It's the ultimate cheese fest from the 90s and was at one point one of the most watched kids shows in history. What many people don't know about MMPR and the quadrillion seasons that would follow is that they used stock footage from a Japanese TV series called Super Sentai (in the case of MMPR, Kyoryu Sentai Zyuranger). The only thing the Americans added was the cutscenes with the American actors as well as Zordon and Alpha 5. By Season 2, they created Lord Zedd and while stock footage was used from subsequent Sentai series, they still stuck with the Zyuranger costumes for the Rangers. Then in 1995, Saban Entertainment and Twentieth Century Fox teamed up to bring us Mighty Morphin Power Rangers The Movie, a completely Americanized motion picture based upon the Sentai series. While many consider this film a dud, many have come to admire this film for the cornball that it is and the film has since become a cult following. What are my thoughts on the movie. I love it, I love it, I love it! I know the film stands apart from the TV show's continuity and that the CGI effects aren't that great by today's standards, but there's just something about this movie that screams childhood. 18 years after the film's release, I still have the VHS tape in my possession and once in a while, I pop it in and I'm instantly taken back to the mid 90s. My cousins and I obsessed over this movie and I got jealous of my one cousin because he had the Ninja Megazord toy and I didn't. Still, I'll never forget the first time I saw this picture and watching it to this day, I can honestly say that it's a pretty decent flick, a campy cluster of cottage cheese from the convoluted 90s (let that alliteration sink in for a moment). The actors who play the six main Power Rangers are not the greatest of actors by any means, but they're portraying teenagers with superpowers, what do you expect? The Ranger suits are more of an armor instead of the spandex like on the show and if they one day decide to reboot MMPR like they did with Transformers and Star Trek, I hope they use suits like the ones in this movie. In fact, why didn't they just use these suits for the metallic armor on the TV show instead of those crappy glitter suits? I'm sure they were available in Saban's inventory, why not just use them? Oh well.The actor who steals the show is Paul Freeman as the main villain Ivan Ooze. Revived after six thousand years of rotting in a giant pink egg, Ivan Ooze is a mix between Jack Nicholson's Joker and Freddy Krueger. Also, I think his character design is brilliant. He's got this slick, slimy purple look to him. He is made of slime after all! It's hard to believe that this is the same guy who played Belloq in Raiders of the Lost Arks. Who knew Freeman was such a hilarious guy! Anyway, Ivan Ooze is so powerful that he ransacks the Command Center with his magical flute and temporarily defeats Zordon. As the Rangers set out to find the Great Power which will save Zordon and give them back their ranger abilities, Ivan Ooze imprisons Lord Zedd and Rita Repulsa in a tiny snow globe and enslaves the parents of Angel Grove with his canisters of purple gunk. What an elaborate plan for a goofball of an adversary. I'd like to see this guy go up against Hades from Disney's Hercules. On the planet Phaedos, the Rangers embark on a dangerous quest to get the Great Power. After a sorceress named Dulcea (who looks like one of Jabba the Hutt's slave girls) gives them the powers of a ninja, the rangers travel to the monolith which holds the power. Along the way, they encounter the deranged skeleton of a dinosaur as well as a couple of stone monsters. After defeating them and getting the Great Power, they return to Earth and for some reason, they decide to take out Ivan Ooze and his giant robots before going to the Command Center to revive Zordon. Why would they do that? It's one of the film's most noticeable plot holes, but it doesn't take away from the good goofiness of the movie. The climax in which the Rangers take on Ivan Ooze in their new Megazord is not the greatest of climaxes, but it's a neat final battle to tie up loose ends. It's also one of the few times an enemy is defeated by being knocked in the crotch and sent into an incoming comet. It's a decent conclusion to a decent movie that will intrigue Power Rangers fans for many years to come. Happy 20th anniversary MMPR! "},{"Title":"Pretty good film","Date":"13 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" So this film isn't well received on this site. I don't know why and I don't care. I just know that this movie is a pretty good film for every Power Rangers fan. I don't know why non ranger fans would watch this in the first place, but one actually could. I don't know if this is in the same universe as the show or not and I really don't think that matters to enjoy this film. While most TV shows want to turn into movies, they have the problem of just making a movie into a very long episode. This is not the case (although some might argue with me). This is a very unique film. There may be a least one obvious plot hole but it isn't big enough to not be important and prevent you from liking the movie. I find this to be very enjoyable and hope that everyone who liked the series to watch and own this film. "},{"Title":"To all the idiots that gave this movie the low rating it has today...","Date":"16 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I wish i could give you a hard slap in the face. this was our childhoods. this was out life. this was us. power rangers, and especially these six were some of the most influential people in my life. yeah that sounds silly now. but we were 5 YEARS OLD or so. every damn critique on IMDb is coming from people who said they loved it, but now that they watched it as adults, saw how corny and childish it was. NO FUÇKING SHI&#x86;. I honestly can't believe the stupidity from some people. its meant for kids. and this was glorious. everything about this movie and the other originals deserve so much more regard. it saddens me that this movie is tarnished for such a bad rating. i just watched it again and it filled me up with so many good memories i can't even explain it. stupid people. "},{"Title":"An Nice Night Of Nostaglia","Date":"1 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I remembered seeing this show as a kid and hating it for it's bizarre characters and over-the-top cheesiness. (This coming from someone who liked to watch shows like Captain Planet and the Planeteers.) Anyways,I still remembered seeing this movie and just had to pick it up again. I like to do to gauge how things have changed and see if movies like this still hold up to ones now. The movie was just like the show just longer and zero commercials. However, I did enjoy seeing Bulk and Skull and their witticism. I also thought the movie had great cinematography and the characters were well-done. But, I do have some questions like why does Ivan Ooze make one of the parent zombie dance? To me, this is kind of unnecessary. But, that's Power Rangers. Anyways, a part that I liked a lot was with warrior girl. Even in a cheesy show such as this,She was completely a kick-butt, karate-fighting girl and I love her for it. Girl Power! Now, for another part that unnerved me was with the kid that showed at the beginning of the movie gave this nice,tender, speech to all the kids to convince them to save their parents from Ivan Ooze. Is it me or would you just kind of ignore this speech.Overall, I thought this movie was still awesome with the nice easy- to-dance music and some kick-butt,girl power. I still dislike the Power rangers show, but at least the movie was good and gave me a nice night of old nostalgia. So, it earns a 6 out of 10 from me. "},{"Title":"teenage morphin power rangers.","Date":"29 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" This movie is all about the White Ranger. He's got the looks, the skills, and the 'tude. The fine momma Pink Ranger is ALL over his junk. The Power Rangers are wimps, they couldn't fight their way out of a wet paper bag. Especially the females. The whole movie consists of them just getting' WORKED until the White Ranger pulls it together for the team and lays down the hammer on some sorry fools.At one point, when the Morphin Teenagers are fighting a boss, my boy the White Ranger yells FLYING CORKSCREW KICK! torpedos off a tree at blinding speed, and inexplicably starts spinning in mid-air. The kick destroys everything. So cool.Then this ancient evil bad boy named Ivan Ooze tries to take over the world and just jacks up the Ranger's pad. Their leader Zordon faints or something wimpy like that, and everyone loses their super cool Mighty Morphin powers. Which don't mean a thang to my boy Tommy Oliver (the White Ranger). He still Pummels the bad guys, no sweat, gets the whole team their powers back.Ivan ain't havin' it, so he tries to fight them as a giant robot. You know what happens next. Worst CGI in the history of Earth. Worse than even the CGI in the spawn movie. Worse than Xena Warrior Princess CGI. The Power Ranger TV show looks better when they're just in monster and robot costumes. So bad.I don't even know why Ivan wanted to go toe-to-toe with the Rangers when he has the power to magically trap people in tiny snow globes. Whatev.In the end the White Ranger saves the day, and celebrates by tapping the Pink Ranger's booty (off-screen). "}{"Title":"You're watching so much more than just a movie here!","Date":"26 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" The original Power Rangers Movie.. what can I say? If it's illegal for someone who worked on the film to review it then I guess this review is a bad one, but to everyone else I'll give a different view, especially now that I have kids of my own who just watched it and loved it.To start with. One thing makes this film bearable to watch again and again. Paul Freeman as Ivan Ooze. A great baddie really makes a superhero film and Freeman is up there with the best of them in MMPRTM. But to move beyond the critique of stories, actors and effects we need to consider this film for the landmark it is. It's in the same box as things like Tron (1982). Sort of How dare they and what were they on and even how much money can you throw at something to make it work? MMPRTM is a visual feast. The locations are fantastic and the designs truly unique. It represents the first time anyone, anywhere had attempted to make a film this way. Most of all it stands as a cornerstone in the side of the Australian film industry which created it.Before MMPRTM, this barnyard rabble was a disjointed collection of individuals living off crumbs and making films about things nobody really wanted to know about. After MMPRTM things were very different in Sydney - and this collection of film makers and crew who had passed through hell together went on to forge it's own stamp on the international film screen.MMPRTM was a pivotal cog in the golden age of Sydney film making spanning a period of about 10 years from 1992(beginning with the very successful Babe) to 2002 (basically finishing up with Superman returns.) In between, it bought forth things like the successful Wachowski Matrix films, the somewhat forgetful but pretty Babe sequel, Alex Proyas' ingenious Dark City, the indulgent Mission Impossible 2, the Oscar winning Moulin Rouge and of course the final two Star Wars prequels. All these films bow down to MMPRTM for without the Power Rangers, none of this would have happened.Even the Sydney Olympics opening and closing ceremonies (long recognised as the best ever) in 2000 have much to thank this same creative team of individuals for. People who met for the first time at the Sydney Showgrounds in 1994 working on some crazy film about coloured superheroes.So as you watch the Power Rangers Movie - remember that you're not just watching some old kids' film. You're watching the birth of greatness. The lighting of a bright torch down under that would live to burn on for many years before being extinguished by the troubled winds of financial disaster which now has the Aussie $1 riding at US$1.07, instead of the very respectable $0.64 average it enjoyed during those Golden Years of Sydney film making.And remember to watch carefully and see if you can see who'se holding up the Celebration Tonight sign at the very end, won't you -) Zordmaker "},{"Title":"A dragged out episode of Power Rangers","Date":"10 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" First off, I have to say that I enjoyed the Power Rangers TV show as a kid. I missed this movie when it came out at cinemas and the preview stuck in my mind for years. It looked like a fun, silly movie. Power Rangers has always been heavy with cheese. It's a very cheesy franchise.It starts out with the team skydiving, followed by roller-blading. I haven't seen Power Rangers in a while but I'd forgotten they're adrenaline junkies. I found this funny and enjoyed it.Shortly after, a new villain, much more evil and powerful than the previous evil guy is unearthed by idiot earth-folk - Ivan Ooze. Ooze has the power of slime at his disposal (reminded me of Ghostbusters). Good stuff! (At no point does he appear more threatening than the previous guy, Lord Zed). Ooze effortlessly breaks into Zordon's lair (the Power Ranger's headquarters) and destroys all of the equipment + Zordon. Power Rangers have never really been about plot so nothing strange going on here.This is where it becomes a blur. With this new evil bad guy, comes new evil henchmen - slime-monster men. The power rangers fight them in an underground car-park. Compared to a monster-fight from the TV show the fights are really pathetic, I think because they're so dragged out. A funny bit worth mentioning - its dark in this car-park and Tommy suggests they need light. The Yellow ranger gets right on it by summoning her power-light (it actually had a cool name) and the top of her helmet lights up like a child's torch, which does bugger all to the darkness. I expected a blinding high-beam.Their powers fade soon after. Confused and unable to contact Zordon, they make their way to headquarters seeing Ooze's dirty work. Zordon is dying but they learn from Alpha (Zordon's robot assistant) that on a far away planet/dimension, lies a great power, specifically for them. They go there. They're attacked by Ooze's crow-monsters which overpower them, although they don't look threatening at all compared to some of the other things the Power Rangers have fought (Roman soldier pig and mantis-thing). An Amazonian woman steps in (native to this land) and gets rid of them, learns of the dying Zordon, Ivan Ooze and gives the rangers some new power-animals.The Power Rangers head towards a 'power-monolith' shortly after (the home of the great power, specifically for them) and are attacked by a dino-skeleton, only to run to a temple (the power-monolith?) and get attacked by more things. I turned it off here because I really couldn't sit through anymore. I wanted to.. just so I could see the robot battle at the end.The Power Rangers move around like a pack of dogs. Individuality (besides their colours) or character development are not something you'll see.As a TV show, it's perfect  Peace - bad guy - fight bad guy - bad guy increases in size - kill bad guy - peace again + cheesy life lesson (eg. remember not to punch yourself in the face). Drag this out over an hour and a half with more visual nonsense and it just gets boring.20 minutes is more than a full dose of Power Rangers. Watch an episode of the show D "},{"Title":"Definitely not the bottom of the barrel","Date":"5 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I went through a very bleak period of almost total isolation for about eleven years. Mainly it was my own fault. In any case I have cut off contact with most of the people I met during that time and with little regret. The bright spots during those eleven years and the only ones that influenced me in any long-term fashion were 1. vacations with my extended family, 2. Calvin and Hobbes and 3. Power Rangers. I suppose this last just goes to show the mind-numbing and escapist nature of television and in particular its stifling effect on children's creativity (and that of other things in American culture, but to reveal this would be to betray a part of my childhood that I would love to amputate). All the same, when I lost interest in the show, working on the unrealized potential of the characters in unpublishable stories in scrapbooks helped me to start down the long road to mental recovery. (I have since burned all those stories, as good as I esteem some of them to have been, as a means of soul epuriation.)However, this is not a review of the TV show, but of the movie. Interestingly, I saw this movie with my grandmother on one of those lovely aforementioned vacations, and so it is a memory that nicely synthesizes many of the high points (as I saw them at the time) of my childhood from ages 8 through 18. That is not to say that I would choose to see this again, but it carries positive connotations of a lovely ambiance. The three-day road trip on down to my grandparents' house (my parents absent), my ever-energetic grandmother (still strong and upbeat at age 80 despite deteriorating kidney health!) those cool fast food toys, the shiny metallic uniforms, et c. ad infinitum were just unbeatable to an idiotic 10-year-old.Although the teenagers on the show are supposed to be high school students (who almost never do homework yet seem nevertheless to remain in the good graces of their teachers--and actually, this is not unrealistic for contemporary American high school), the school is absent from the Angel Grove of this film, which looks eerily like Sydney, Australia (because, of course, that is where it was filmed). The snippets of their personal lives--which serve no purpose except to open up a rock and roll! ambiance--look very much like a child's or teenager's dream vacation, and I suppose that was fitting for a movie coming out in summertime. So much the better for children to relate to!The characters, though, are a real disappointment, even for Power Rangers. The little quirks we saw on the show--Kimberly's prima dona valley girl act that melts in the face of a real challenge to reveal a thoroughly beautiful person, Tommy's fierce sense of dedication thwarted by a severe lack of punctuality, Billy's incomprehensible genius--are all gone here, probably because the traces they left in the original script just totally overwhelmed the total blandness of their new teammates Rocky, Adam and Aisha and stole the film away from these latter three. A very tight, personality-driven team of six teenagers is a ripe opportunity for exploitation and doesn't have to dumb down the poor children mesmerized by the flashing colors, but the halfhearted and uneven exploitation seen on the show is nowhere to be found here. The actors do not have a good reputation, but on the show, at least Jason Frank, David Yost and Amy Jo Johnson (along with their original three counterparts) shone brilliantly whenever they got the chance to show some character.Saban Entertainment was of course notoriously cheap given that the TV show pulled ratings of 11.0, it was rather pathetic that they couldn't have plunked some capital into keeping around the talent they had and developing the characters into something meaningful. Mighty Morphin Power Rangers the Movie was really their comeuppance, though I understand the film grossed only 38 million out of a projected 125 million in the United States--and this for the most popular children's franchise in America for the time! Compare with the Ninja Turtles movie from just a few years earlier--and with a similar budget!On that note, the interesting thing is that the movie is not, production-wise, cheap. For 1995, the special effects and the Zord scenes work quite well, and the planet Phaedos is a real eye-feast. The fight scenes are satisfying, as fight scenes go. The updated costumes are awful to look at but definitely more believable as protective armor. Given all this, could they really have been in the impossibility of finding a scriptwriter to inject just a bit more into this? The original script was, as I understand, better but unproducable... the final one looks like it needs about eight rewrites.Anyone presently over the age of 45--one of those who wailed and moaned about having to put up with these color-coded spandex-clad space-ade superheroes--will doubtless not be surprised at the negative aspects outlined in this review. Doubtless they will also be wondering why on Earth I gave this thing such a high rating. Frankly, fellow humans, it is simply this while you can resign yourself to amputate a gangrenous leg, you cannot help but enjoy the memories of having had it and regretting the necessity of having it cut off. I watched Power Rangers. I went to see the movie. I had a great time doing both, and the movie was seen in the context of real, lasting, good memories of very special people. I will not allow my children to see this (moreover, at age 25 I no longer have a TV set) and I have no desire to relive it, but there it was, a little forgotten part of me that I smile at from time to time. "},{"Title":"THE way to remember Power Rangers","Date":"21 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Side by side, the old Power Rangers show and the movie that came in the middle of it are pretty different. While the movie was written like an extended episode of the TV show, it's saved by better production values and good editing.Here's an example as far as production value - the Command Center in the TV show, if you remember, was a black curtain with Christmas lights hung around to fill it up. Zordon was a 2-second video clip that was looped to look like he was talking. In the movie, the Command Center is a huge room of patterned metal walls and blinking computer panels. Zordon, in the movie, is an actual actor in makeup, green-screened so his head is floating in the air.And the editing - the main characters always perform these over-the-top, often wire assisted martial arts, but in the movie these moves are cut just long enough to be ridiculous, and accompanied by humorous sound effects.The main characters are as useless as ever, and really it's the villains like Paul Freeman who steal the show, but if you grew up on Power Rangers and are looking for a trip down memory lane, look to the movie for some kicks. "},{"Title":"Entertaining","Date":"8 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Talk about a movie that has absolutely nothing to do with the TV show it's based off of. It's delivers a whole new story, new characters we know nothing about, and new Power Rangers suits that make them look like pepped up NASCAR drivers. But, I will be quite honest. I love this movie! It is one of the best movies from my childhood.Even though the film delivers a lot of clichéd jokes and gags that will put everyone in the audience to sleep, it is still entertaining to see the Power Rangers kick ass. It is also interesting to see CGI animated zords for the first time, though I think the Ninja Megazord on the show looked better in my opinion.If you have time to kill, watch this movie. It's fun, entertaining, and will interest you. Surely it's not as good as other films like Star Wars, but is still a good film. I don't who these pinheads are who are putting it down. "},{"Title":"classic 90's cheesy nostalgia","Date":"6 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" As a child, I remember seeing this movie and thinking that it was the greatest thing ever. If I ever saw it on TV I just had to watch it, because it was the coolest. Now I'm grown up and realize how cheesy, typical, and silly it was. But I still love it, because it's a fond memory of my childhood. Also, I honestly think it much better than a lot of recent crap.This movie is exactly what kid's movie should be. It has clean action, clean dialogue, and clean humor. The layout and plot seem typical and stupid to many adults, but It's a kid's movie. One should not expect great acting or a great plot from a kid's movie. The truth is serious dramatic acting or a dramatic in-depth plot can confuse or traumatize a child. This movie is perfect for kids to see. It's not dramatic or real, and and the same time it's not a baby show. And for being low budget, the movie looks pretty good.Most modern shows and movies geared towards children are either simplified and redundant to the point of being baby movies, or have too much violence or swearing or sexual references. This is why I love the MMPR The Movie. it's and awesome kid's show. "},{"Title":"Aged, But Still Enjoyed","Date":"20 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I loved this movie when I was a kid but looking back, they made some odd decisions when approaching this film. Shortly after the films release, the t.v. show had begun to feature its third mega-zord. The story arc that encircles this new mega-zord as well as their ninja powers are entirely different from the movie, making it stand on its own. Yet somehow, its much lesser sequel is the exact opposite with series. Then they portrayed the mega-zord in the cheapest c.g. I've ever seen in my life. Why not use a suit, like on the show? It's not like they didn't have a budget. Even so, it is a fond piece of my childhood that I still enjoy watching today. "},{"Title":"Echoing what others have said before me...","Date":"5 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" What can i say about Mighty Morphin Power Rangers The Movie? As a child, i was in love with the show, as were all my friends, and watched this film probably more than any. As has already been pointed out, this is a movie for children, and in that respect, i think it succeeds admirably. I watched it again recently for nostalgia's sake and i have to say it was a pure pleasure - like slipping on an old pair of...however that phrase ends! After all these years i hadn't forgotten a single scene - all those parts that used make me laugh, and the parts that used to scare the living daylights out of me - ah, to be young again... At any rate, this is one of the movies of my childhood, as it is for most of the children of my age i would imagine...ignore the low score if you're thinking of showing this to your children - it's a wonderful kid's film, and a great ride for the imagination. "},{"Title":"A flashback to the past","Date":"27 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" The mighty Morphin Power Rangers was my favorite show as a little boy and when the movie came out i almost crapped my pants with joy. I remembered watching this movie and loving it as a little kid when i picked it up the other day at HMV for 6.00, and now when i look back on those days i wonder, what the hell was rubbed in my eyes and ears? This movie has some really cheesy puns and terrible dialog, the story doesn't make a whole lot of sense, and the CGI is some of the worst i have ever seen. I cannot believe that i never noticed how bad the CGI was in this movie. The movie was allot different from the television show but i never noticed how different it was because i guess when i was little i didn't listen to movies. Ivan Ooze says he can't believe he missed the Brady bunch reunion in his slumber even though he had been asleep for 6000 years and last i heard, the Brady bunch wasn't around 600 years ago so he shouldn't have even heard of the original show. The villains don't look intimidating at all and I'm pretty sure lord Zed's helmet was made out of cheap plastic. Yet, i kept having flashbacks from when i was a kid when i watched this and since i loved it so much as a younger one, i still enjoyed the movie and loved to suddenly remember parts before they happened. Now onto the DVD itself. The design on the case and disc is nice, but the picture isn't very good in the movie and there's not really much extras. There's a terrible trailer and a making of featurette that has nothing to dowith the making of the movie and has one of the stars compare this film to star wars and the wizard of oz. Also i remember someone saying the Zord and massive Ivan fight on the streets looks really real and its the first movie to have that. I laughed out loud because that fight looked terrible and there were earlier monster movies that looked more realistic. I can't really recommend it to anyone that didn't watch the show or movie as a child and wish to see it again. I give it 2 and 1/2 kitty cats out of 5 because although the dialog and effects are terrible, i still somewhat enjoyed it because of how much i loved it as a kid. "},{"Title":"A Classic From My Childhood","Date":"8 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" This movie was one of my favorite movies when I was a kid. I was a huge Power Rangers fan back when I was a kid. I would watch every time I got home from school and on Saturday mornings. When I first heard that there was going to be a Power Rangers movie, I was so happy. When I first saw it, I fell in love it. It didn't disappoint one bit. I thought it had some of the best fights and best zords in the Power Rangers series. I would watch this over and over Years later, I still watch whenever it is on. So nostalgic and fun to watch. I just look back at it realize things I never realized. Like how The Red Hot Chili Peppers and Van Halen were part of the soundtrack, and how far we have gotten in computer graphics technology. I still find it a fun movie, but for a slightly different reason in some areas. This movie has a place in my childhood, so thats why I could never hate or dislike it. One thing still makes me wonder. What ever happened to my copy of it on VHS? "}{"Title":"Go Go Power Rangers","Date":"24 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" It's corny, its stupid, the acting is terrible and ITS GREAT. When I was a kid this was an awesome movie. I couldn't wait to see it and I wasn't disappointed. Based on the original (and best) Power Rangers and at the peak of there fame it couldn't have been better timed. This is a kids movie back when the special effects looked exactly like the toys that you and all your friends had. After watching this movie I came home like a kid who had way too much sugar, jumping around pretending to be a power ranger. Go Go PowerRangers "},{"Title":"Without a doubt, a fun trip down memory lane.","Date":"12 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Power Rangers were my life growing up. I refused to miss an episode, owned all the toys that came out, would act them out, even an awesome PR poster hanging in my room! And it gave me my first celebrity crush as well (Amy Jo Johnson, who still is looking fine at 37). I remember being at the movies with my friend and suddenly the trailer for the Power Rangers movie came up and my eyes widened to the size of dinner plates! I counted the months and the days down til this movie opened and when I saw it I was not disappointed! While a few things ticked me off (many weapons and gadgets created only for the movie and not on the show and the Pig guy, not a fan, oh and more Bulk and Skull please), I felt overwhelmed by watching my favorite TV show right up there on the big screen. I remember even dancing out the theater when Shampoo's Trouble played on the ending credits (most likely embarrassing to my dad).Flash forward. After the disaster that was Alien Rangers and the mehness of Zeo, I gave up on the show, too many cast changes and power changes as well. I did see Turbo when it came to video and was severely disappointed. And I did attempt to watch the newer shows and they just don't have the magic. But man have I wanted to get my hands on this movie again. Finally got around to it today ($5 at WalMart, good deal) and wow did I feel like I was 10 years old again! Things have kinda changed, now that I've noticed how crappy the special effects are, and how cheesy the lines are. But do I care? No. I was just happy to see these guys again, fighting and spitting out their one liners! My emotions were running wild! Laughing at Bulk and Skull and Ivan Ooze, almost crying at poor Zordon, and the major goosebumps at the climax! Now when is a special edition coming out and when is Saban releasing the best days on DVD? "},{"Title":"Good thing it was meant for kids only!","Date":"14 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" The Power Rangers franchise began in the early 1990s, with the original TV series, Mighty Morphin' Power Rangers. Without a doubt, although it may have been highly criticised by those past their childhood, the show turned out to be a huge hit with kids. In addition to that, two years after the series began, young fans finally got to see the superheroes on the big screen, in 1995's Mighty Morphin Power Rangers The Movie, which didn't seem to disappoint most of those fans.The evil and despised Ivan Ooze is finally released from captivity after six thousand years, so the Power Rangers have a new enemy! The superheroes soon find that their power is gone, and when they go to the command centre, they discover that Ivan has destroyed the place, and Zordon is dying! In order to defeat Ivan and rescue Zordon before it's too late, the Rangers must travel to a distant planet, the only place where they can retrieve their powers! Meanwhile, Ivan begins his attack on the city of Angel Grove! Being in the right age group at the time, I remember the heyday of the original Power Rangers series very well. I was a big fan for a while, but never saw this movie. Basically out of curiosity, I finally just watched it, years after losing all interest in the entire Power Rangers franchise. Early in the film, I found that it was so bad that it was sort of funny, with its cheesy lines and action sequences, so it looked like it would be mildly enjoyable, as an unintentional comedy. Unfortunately, it doesn't stay this way for long, it soon changes, and for the rest of the movie (which is most of it), it's both cheesy AND boring, that is, for those who have left their childhood behind. The Power Rangers franchise was made strictly for kids, and this full-length feature is no exception. I might even give this movie a lower rating than 3/10 if it wasn't for the fact that I probably would have LOVED it if I saw it when it was first released, and probably even three years later!Although it appears they're still making new Power Rangers shows of different names, the days of the original are now long over, and those who were kids in the 1990s and were fans are now much older. Some TV shows and movies that one enjoys while in their childhood could easily still be enjoyable for them when they grow up, but clearly, Mighty Morphin Power Rangers The Movie is not one of those. With the ridiculous name of the main villain (Ivan Ooze) and the ooze that comes out of him, as well as the childish lines (such as Go get 'em, booger man!), the poor quality characters, and so many other things (most of which you would probably find in the show as well), I'm sure it's VERY hard for an adult to take this movie seriously. So, for adults, I don't recommend Mighty Morphin Power Rangers The Movie, even if you're looking for a movie that's so bad it's unintentionally funny. However, looking at how many kids this movie has impressed, I guess it deserves SOME credit. "},{"Title":"Perfect if you came from the era of the original series and are feeling nostalgic","Date":"8 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Okay, I'm being extremely generous by rating this at a 5. I think I owe it to the film even now because I couldn't get enough of this stuff when I was a kid (and now I'm going through some nostalgia, because I can with the Internet and very recent technology allowing me to do so). I remember going to see the movie with my friend and his family who lived down the street. I thought this was the mecca of all films. Now, recently I've seen it, and I realized how much I have grown. If you're looking for a film that is groundbreaking and something that will touch your heart...forget about this film. But it seems fitting to make a movie about the Power Rangers, considering how much of a fan base they had and still have. I just have one big burning question&#151;WHY PAUL FREEMAN? How the hell did such an amazing actor who played a perfectly egotistical villain in Raiders (1981) who ended up having his head exploded after opening the Ark of the Covenant end up sitting through hours of having purple cosmetics added to his face and body so he could play the chief villain named Ivan Ooze in a Power Rangers movie. Paul Freeman must have been the big name that they scored for this movie (as if the six teens and Bulk and Skull weren't big enough names), because I can't see how he could possibly have been of sound mind when he decided to do this film&#151;no offense intended. I will give him this, though, he did have a rather good performance...he was over the top...but of course that's how Ivan Ooze is. I wonder why they decided to begin the Power Rangers Turbo series with another film? As if this film wasn't bad enough, they had to go and make a second Power Rangers film, when the series was starting to get tired (despite many changes happening all the time). I'm quite surprised that it's still going on today fifteen years after it first began. But this film has nostalgic sentimental value to almost anyone who went through their childhood in the early '90s, so it's not like Jaws 4 or a movie of the week. Enjoy revisiting your childhood. "},{"Title":"Entertaining At Least","Date":"22 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The first time I watched this movie, I was impressed, of course, I was 8 but it was a Power Rangers Movie, everyone loved the Power Rangers. I came across my old VHS version of this movie a while back and watched it all the way through and I must say, what it lacks in good acting, story and obvious clichés and stereotypes of teens, it makes up for in decent fight scenes and hilarious goofs. If you haven't watched the movie, watch it and keep a lookout for small things that are so insanely stupid but funny. One example is when they're all crying for Zordon and we get a shot of the Black Ranger, he has an expressionless look on his face for a second, glances at the others crying and puts his head down. It's like he doesn't even care and he's just going along with it. I laughed the first time I noticed that. Another one is when Tommy and the others are walking with their shoulders out slowly to look over a cliff and the Red Ranger just walks normally and gets there before anyone else.It's little things that are pretty funny when you think about it. I watched the movie again making fun of everything I could about this movie and that's what made it so entertaining and funny. It's a movie for kids so what else can you say, 2 stars out of 4, it's entertaining at least.  "},{"Title":"IT'S MORPHIN' TIME!!!","Date":"30 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This movie was a take off of the Mighty Morphin' Power Rangers TV show. It came out when I was little, and I was into Power Rangers cause they kicked ass. So, I loved this movie. Even though now I look back and I can see the flaws. Kids who are or were into Power Rangers will adore this movie.The opening was, in my opinion, the best part of the whole movie. I still want to go sky diving!! I also like the part were Ivan's kids were fighting the rangers. Most of the actors did there own tumbling. I was very impressed. Most of the actors are/were gymnasts or martial artists.  "},{"Title":"Emotional Roller Coaster","Date":"27 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This movie is an overwhelming work of sheer quality. It tells the story of a group of teenagers (power rangers) who have to battle against amazing odds to overcome unspeakable evil. This is really an allegory of the emotional roller coaster we all go through as teenagers, and I can only say that young people, after seeing this film, are left empowered and more in touch with and better equipped to handle their own inner struggles. My only real criticism is that the plot is overly complex, and the amazingly intricate interactions and relationships between these characters may be difficult for adults to follow, let alone children! But the amazingly polished dialogue and depth of concept only benefit the films abundant artistic integrity, and the result is a work of cinematic mastery. By the startling climax, I was in tears at the majesty of the events portrayed in this beautifully touching movie. It's like a gentle and fragile flower, that slowly unfolds before your eyes and provides lasting inspiration.10/10  "},{"Title":"loved it and it is still fun to see","Date":"24 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Loved it as a kid and i still watch it now (and heaven knows im in my 20's) and I think it is still fun.  Though i think this was the last good power ranger thing, everything just wasnt that good afterwards.  I just watched this movie earlier and i really still found it amusing, it talks to the child inside of me.  Yeah it has its flaws but you really dont pay attention to those things when watching a movie like this.  Its for kids and one should see it like one.  And i love the battle scenes, really great stuff.The acting isnt really that good, but i guess when you are a kid, that really doesnt matter.  Maybe im just too old to be watching it and ive become more critical about things. It is entertaining, enjoyable and makes you feel good inside.I love this movie, its not perfect, but very fun to watch.  D  "},{"Title":"Not horrible, but not good.","Date":"8 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Yes! I am a former Power Rangers fan! I ADMIT IT!! You'll all have to admit it to yourselves one day. But, anyway, this movie isn't completely awful, especially if you were into the show. Or if you like to do MSTs with your friends. ;)  Especially about how no matter how the rangers move they make little whoosh!! noises. LOL Sigh, I'll never get tired of that. Yeah, the movie itself is a little cheesy, but it was made for kids, don't forget. Though I won't protest this being on the 100 worst movies list on IMDB..Sadly, I once read an MST of an early script somewhere online that was actually a little better than this. "},{"Title":"It's good for what it tries to be","Date":"7 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Regardless of its many flaws, there is some charm in camp.  Nostalgia blurs out the not so good stuff.  It's fun to laugh at how cheesy it is now, compared to how amazing you thought it was when you were little.  Kind of like those pulp sci-fi radio shows--like Buck Rogers.  I'm 16, and I grew up watching Power Rangers. Go yellow ranger! "}{"Title":"For Fan's Only","Date":"17 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I'm not sure why, but I've always liked this show. Cheesy humor and all.The only part I didn't like was Rocky. He should've never joined the original cast. Rocky got better in Zeo, when he dropped back, becoming the Blue Ranger. Of course, now it didn't matter, since Jason was back. As the rumor mill told, Austin St. John wanted too much money, as he was still the leader, not taking back seat to 'Tommy.' Though when having some time to think about it (or as some would say, too long without a job), he came back as the Gold Ranger (though another group says he knew he'd now be in the spotlight, so that's why he returned).Johnny Yong Bosch & Amy Jo Johnson are the only one to have much success outside the series. Johnson with Felicity and Susie Q (and probably another movie or two) and Bosch is the voice of Vash The Stampede in Trigun and also had a few voices in Cardcaptor Sakura, Witch Hunter Robin, and a few other series. Also, Tommy's not been lost as he returns as the Black Ranger and new mentor for Power Ranger Dino Thunder. Of course, 'Rocky' and 'Aisha' went nowhere, because they suck and David Yost was the hardest to work with, as it's been reported, plus he thought every time the show got a new fan, he should get a raise. "},{"Title":"Cool","Date":"15 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I got this movie for my eleventh birthday and I've loved it ever since. I remember the much better days with the original Power Rangers, way before the stupidity that has the name now.  Back when I was in elementary school, my friends and I always played Power Rangers on the play ground, I was always Kimberly.  That was back in the day of the good rangers like Jason, Trini and Zach.  I'll miss those days but this  movie is one of the best ever. "},{"Title":"Where has all the power gone?","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  What can I say about this movie ? I was 12 when I first saw it and I thought it was good at first.Being in the UK, the movie was out here before the change in cast during mmpr series two during the brilliantly titled episode The Power Transfer I was annoyed that Jason (Austin St John), Trini (Thuy Trang, rest in peace) and Zack (Walter Jones) were not in the first movie of the show they had helped make a huge success.And dont get me started on the command centre and the ass-faced megazord.Rocky was a ****** Aisha's acting was pure naff Adam was the only one which was a success  "},{"Title":"power rangers","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  When I was 9 years old, I really loved the series and also this movie. At the time I bought it on VHS. I even saw it 5 times! But now, 8 years later, I think MMPP The Movie sucks. Bad acting and stupid special effects make this one look very boring and predictable. I'm glad I've become more mature. I'd give it 1 out of 5. "},{"Title":"Relax, it's just a PHASE.","Date":"15 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The bad thing about this movie is that it IS really really bad. There are only two good things about itThe first is that your child will only be interested in Power Rangers for a few years, and then will wake up and realise there are better things out there.The second is Paul Freeman as Ivan Ooze. He is the only redeeming feature of this movie. "},{"Title":"ah, sweet nostalgic bliss... (spoilers)","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  after a lull of almost five years, I finally got back to watching this movie today.god, but I had forgotten how Power Rangers could be both bad and good at the same time.When I was about 9/10 years old, Power rangers first hit the shores of England, on a massive wave of hype that has been vritually unparralleled since. it heralded the coming of a virtual tidal wave of imitations, (beetleborgs, Vr troopers etc...)although the series, with it's spandex costumes, and VIBRANT colours had me hooked almost instantly, the movie promised so much more. for a start, they BLATANTLY had a bigger budget than the series, so the costumes and effects, for the time were top-notch.Let's face it, everyone at that time wanted to be one of the rangers. personally, I always wanted to be Tommy. not least becasue he got to snog Kimberly.now, at the dizzying age of 17, I sit down and watch a film that I havent watched since i was twelve years old. Power Rangers the Movie!even as those first, INCREDIBLY corny crawl-lines scrolled across the screen, I couldnt help but snigger. the movies gloss had indeed faded as my cynicism had increased, but I still enjoyed myself watching it. even when i was happily taking the mic out of the lines...(kimberly being carried by a bird-thing 100ft in the air)Tommy hold on Kimberly!Me yeah, cos she just feels like letting go right about now...and loving the fact that, Despite the teenagers wearing the same colours as their Ranger costumes NO-ONE FIGURED OUT WHO THEY WERE, I still found it immensely fun.For me, power rangers will always be connected to a time when I was a lot less world wise, and a lot less cynical about it. this movie is the only link I have left to that, and to the first celebrity I EVER had a crush on, Amy Jo Johnson.for that, I can never bring myself to flame this movie, because when it boils down to it, it's a part of something that I really loved. even if it was inordinately rubbish, with a really bad script.oh, and I can watch it again so i can remind myself of just how fit Amy Jo is. ^_^ "},{"Title":"great classic","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Everyone is always downing this movie and everyone is ashamed of liking it, but not so for me.  The movie had a great story line and special effects. The martial art choreography was the kind that you usually never see in children's films.  Jason David Frank was a 4th degree black belt in the time the film was made.  Even though parents complained of violence, there was no gore in this movie(except for the defeat of Ivan's ooze mutants).  Over all, this is a great movie I can watch over again for many years. "},{"Title":"Could have been SO MUCH BETTER!!!!","Date":"20 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I loved Power Rangers (Only the first 3 seasons, then It went to s***) But this movie was crap. The suits were metallic, unlike the ones on TV, the Rangers used weapons and abilities they never had (but could have used) on TV, and the Command Chamber and Moon palace where nothing like the show. And what was with the Pig?? Somebody tell me!! Save your money. Rent something like Indiana Jones, Star Wars, or Batman. "},{"Title":"out of place","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  this movie wouldn't have been so bad if it wasn't so out of place.  As a power ranger at the time, I remember being so wowed by the look of this movie.  But even then it was still like What is going on here?we had the rangers we'd known for 2 years on TV suddenly have armored suits with metal discs on their chests.  The Command Center was completely redone, alot bigger, brighter and with alot more detail.  Basically, a classic case of a runaway movie budget and producers with no self control.The purpose of the movie was pretty much to introduce the Rangers new Ninja powers for the upcoming third season, and they failed.  Because this movie went so overboard on changing everything and making it all big and grand, they had to redo the introduction of the ninja powers in the first few episodes of season 3. "},{"Title":"Awesome!","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I Loved this Movie. It's great. A comment I read was that no one over 12 would see this movie. 12 being the maximum age. Well guess what?! I'm 14 years old and I've watched it since the beginning. I've seen every episode so far and haven't missed a single one. My favorite is when Zhane came out of his frozen state. He is so cute. That's not the only reason I watch Power Ranger though. I watch it cause it's cool. I don't care if people make fun of me for watching either. I like it and thats all that matters. "}{"Title":"Back when I was a sucker on franchises like this.","Date":"7 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I was obsess with the Power Rangers when it first came on back in the mid 90s. The show already hypnotized me, so I was looking forward in seeing this movie. I remember there were hardly any people in the movie theater when I saw it.It's much different from the TV series I knew from. Starts off with the discovery of an egg pod containing ooze that's been imprisoned on Earth for quite sometime. Lord Zed and his minions come to awaken the the egg pod which has this Ooze dude named Ivan Ooze who's going to create chaos and crush the Power Rangers with his very hands.Only to discover that this foe is much more challenging than he appears to be. And the Power rangers will need upgrades in order to defeat him.I've seen this movie so many times right until I lost interest in the series years later. Been years since i've last seen this film. But since I'm no longer a fan of it, I don't really consider it a cult classic. The die hard fans might enjoy it a lot. This is one of the examples of low budget movies that lure me, way before I knew the difference between a good and bad movie. "},{"Title":"Oh come on!","Date":"1 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I've been sorely disappointed to see this in the top 100 worst films of all time. Having watched this when Power Rangers was at its highest in the UK, and having been of the right age to have interest, I absolutely loved this! I remember watching it plenty of times, and all my friends at the time shared the same opinion that this film completely ruled! Getting to see all the notable and very memorable characters was great. Sorry to sound over-reminiscent but having Lord-Z and Reta working side-by-side was awesome! The scenes are corny and childish, the plot is simple, the characters are drones, the humour is pathetic and the graphics are bland. BUT THEY AREN'T IMPORTANT TO THE TARGET AUDIENCE. This film was breathtaking at the time me and my friends saw it, and it will forever be one of those films that I can remember having a great time watching. I urge people not to down-vote this because it doesn't tickle their mature tastes, and leave it to it's target audience, that unfortunately probably know nothing about how to vote on this website ) But to those who watched it at a young age (like myself), let's not say this film wasn't worth watching at least half a dozen times! "},{"Title":"Mighty Morphin Power Rangers The Movie is my favorite movie!!!","Date":"28 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Mighty Morphin Power Rangers The Movie is the best!!!!! This movie is about the search for the Ninja Power & get help from Dulcea (Gabrielle Fitzpatrick) is search for the new power to help save the earth. Now the Rangers have their ninja power & return to earth to save it from Ivan Ooze (Paul Freeman) from loosing his two evil zords to destroy the city. Also used the ninja power to help save Zordon (Nicholas Bell) too. (This movie also mark the next season of Mighty Morphin Power Rangers know as season 3).Mighty Morphin Power Rangers (season 3) is base from the movie but it don't have Dulcea (who play by Gabrielle Fitzpatrick). The TV series type is a blue ninja name Ninjor (Kim Strauss-voice).I like Power Rangers & I am a fan of them all!!! "},{"Title":"Wow","Date":"15 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  GREATEST Movie Ever!!!!! CHANGED MY LIFE!!!! UNBELIEVABLE!!! When I was 29 years old, this film was released in my native language (German). The quality of acting was exquisite and the vision of the production crew was phenomenal. After this 140 minute masterpiece. I began my quest to become a Power Ranger. I quit my job and began training myself in all forms of martial arts for over 13 hours EACH day. I constructed my own zord out of macaroni, whicker, and vinyl siding. It was AMAZING! With it, I was able to find girls that would go out with me. NO ONE can escape the lure of MEGAZORD! I was also able to paint the entire uniform on my body and defeat the giant rats through a series of roundhouse kicks. So in short, the movie was spectacular, Sherman is NOT good looking and Knibb High Football rules!!!!  "},{"Title":"I really enjoyed this","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I really did enjoy this. Sure, it had its awful times, but yet, funny times as well. Jason David Frank is the man, with White Ranger, but the whole movie is pretty cool.8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"More Kung Fu than Kiddie","Date":"8 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" You're going to automatically condemn this movie for no other reason than its title and concept a kiddie TV show gone mad.That may be fine for some, but this is pretty decent for a martial arts movie. The script and dialogue are understandably lame, but the action sequences are kind of exciting, staged with cleverness by former TV director Bryan Spicer (who directed the underrated For Richer or Poorer with Tim Allen).The heroes have no personality whatsoever, but Paul Freeman (Raiders of the Lost Ark) gets in a few good jibes as the evil Ivan Ooze. The heavy-handed family message might be good for kids, and the soundtrack works well, except for the grating Van Halen track at the end.Not horrible for kids, but since the fad is over, what does it matter? At this point, it's just a guilty pleasure. "},{"Title":"Better than the series","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  It's not the worst movie on the planet.  The main elements that give it its flair is the fact that it has much more to work with- no old clips of the old japanese TV series.  There are many similarities to the normal show, as this fits directly in continuity, but the feel that this is indeed a movie is made known.  For instance, the opening skydiving scene.The characters seem to be given a bit more depth than the series, which is mostly a series of shaken heads and pointed hands in under 30 minutes vs. the monster of the day.  The special effects are not meant to be Star Wars, but they do give a far superior feeling to the series.  Especially the enemies and Zords, who are merely plastic and rubber on TV.  In conclusion, this is not a cheesy superhero film made on a low budget, but a part of a long and complicated story that is Power Rangers.  Too bad I hate them anyway.        "},{"Title":"MMPR  The Movie","Date":"2 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I can remember back to when I was a child and was absolutely obsessed with Power Rangers. Then, I watched this movie. I was amazed. I was in awe. And to be honest, I'm still surprised that I'm enjoying this movie at the age of 14! He he.... But, anyway, this movie is fantastic. I would suggest it to anyone who is a fan of Power Rangers, young and old. As I watch Power Rangers Space Patrol Delta, I'm almost depressed. I think back to the original actors Amy Jo Johnson as Kimberly, Johnny Young Bosch as Adam, and who could forget Jason David Frank?! So I try to go back to watch this movie as much as possible (it's THAT good) just so I can reach back into my childhood. D "},{"Title":"S10 Reviews Mighty Morphin Power Rangers The Movie (1995)","Date":"7 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Ivan Ooze is uncovered after 1,000 year slumber and only those Power Rangers can defeat him. When Ooze destroys their layer and leaves Zordon to die, the Power Rangers must travel to a distant planet to find more powerful Zords to defeat Ooze&#133;.before he enslaves the human race. I'd hate to live in Angel Grove, the school's suck.By all accounts the film is pretty lame, much like the series but for some reason it was enjoyable. It moved pretty well and the corny action and screwball jokes elicited a guffaw or too. Pretty similar to the Masters of the Universe movie and the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles series. They were all OK popcorn moochers. "},{"Title":"A true stinker, but you were expecting L.A. Confidential?","Date":"11 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Yes, this movie truly does suck. But observe my review summary folks. I'm not going to say I liked this movie, but it is a Power Rangers flick after all. It's supposed to be bad! I'm sure that when the writers were cooking this up they intentionally threw in average dialogue and bad fighting. After all, when the crowd you're trying to appeal to is a bunch of 5-year-old boys who run around in clunky Power Rangers costumes and wear PR underwear, you know you don't have to work too hard.I'll admit I never was a Power Rangers fan. I can still remember back in the mid-90's when the show was huge, and a lot of my friends were into it. But even at age 6 I never did view Power Rangers as a ray of hope from the heavens like most boys. I always thought their outfits were stupid and that the villains looked dumb. And at age 13 my opinion hasn't changed one bit (Gee, go figure.). But you see, the reason we ended up with this monstrosity is because we received it as a Christmas gift from one of my dad's students, and she comes from a family that doesn't have a lot of money, so forgive.Now, let's get down to the point. In some construction yard an egg containing the evil Ivan Ooze (Oh god...here we go) has been dug up and opened, releasing the evil piece of snot to terrorize the world, even though he couldn't pull off a robbery at a convenience store. Ooze goes to the Power Rangers' control center and destroys everything, leaving the place in ruins and stripping leader Zordon of his powers. The Power Rangers must go to some planet and learn some powers to save him and destroy Ooze. As if the plot isn't bad enough, the film only gets worse. The first sequence has the Poopy Rangers sky-diving while a pop version of Stevie Wonder plays in the background. The song is catchy, but come on Why is music from a genuine musician like Stevie Wonder in such a lifeless film? Anyway, let's skip everything and go to where our heroes discover Ivan's egg, and then engage in an incredibly fake battle with Ooze's drones. Then comes the parking garage scene, where the Rangers constantly strike their stupid fighting pose and react to drops of water. Then they find the boogers and fight them while simultaneously delivering sucky catch phrases every 3 seconds, a tradition that is revived later on. I couldn't spot any cables or tracks, but you can still tell they're being used anyway. For instance, how do you explain the scene with the blue ranger falling but going into a pillar rather than touching the ground? Nuff said. They eventually squash all of the goobers, and let me state that the scenes of them getting squashed aren't the least bit violent. I don't need to explain the rest, for it only gets dumber somehow. And I'll let you in on a very surprising secret I haven't even watched it all the way through. I would have seen everything, but my parents told me I didn't have to watch it to be nice. Even as a teen you've got to admit that mom and dad are always right, and they were definitely right on this stinker. On the only plus side, Paul Freeman does actually deliver a good performance as Ivan Ooze, and is given the only lines that are sort of funny. He also seemed to be the only one who cared amidst an entire crew whose only intentions were to release a 6-year-old junk flick.I'd say more, but I feel what I have stated is enough. One thing's for sure I will never, ever forgive myself for watching this steaming pile of s***.I'm gonna go watch some Spanish soaps now.Overall rating 1 out of 5. "}{"Title":"GOOD then BAD","Date":"6 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I was five when i first saw this and I thought this was the best thing that happened to the power rangers. The effects were awesome, the acting great and it was just really cool to see Tommy and Adam fighting again to save the world. With such wit that would knock anyone of their feet, nothing was going to stop this movie However, this was when I was five.Little did I realise that what C R A P this actually was.My eight year old brother got it out again - and I thought it would be good to relive the old days, when you would come home from kinder and switch on the 400 ABC kids to watch them morph and kick some PUTTY a s s.I'm now seventeen, and I don't remember how I liked this movie. There were so many flaws in it that my 8 year old brother got bored from this movie.The acting was C R A P. The black guy didn't even say anything, the Rita bad lady's voice was dubbed, the effects were S H I T, even for back then, and the movie was filmed in Australia, with some Australian actors and even with the Sydney Harbour Bridge in perfect sight. What really annoyed me was that an actor got out of an obviously right hand drive car on the left side after driving it up his Australian drive way with gum trees in the back ground. and they TRIED to pretend it was in the USA!!!!Anyway, if your five and your blind enough to miss the constant, irritating flaws then you will LOVE this.However, for 95% of the rest of the population, you will cringe at the most minute of details that are persistently C R A P.When I was five and a serious fan two thumbs up Now I'm seventeen two juicy thumbs down!!!! "},{"Title":"Let The Power Entertain You","Date":"11 October 2002","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I think this is a fun filled Power Rangers Movie, with only one or two tiny mistakes.  When Zedd And Rita find the imprisoned Ivan Ooze.  He takes over control of Zedd's palace and sets a plan into motion to make the parents of Angel Groove to unearth two giant monster robots.  The CGI Zords were too bright.My rating 1-10 (10 BEING BEST)I GIVE POWER RANGERS THE MOVIE6 1/2 STARS****** 1/2 "},{"Title":"The Only Way To Enjoy This Movie","Date":"22 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" ....is with a group of people saying witty things after each character says them on the screen, mockingly...and that's what I and some people did when we saw this movie one night in Toronto! We were the only ones seeing this movie at night (nobody else was there) and so we proceeded to mock the movie, MST3K (Mystery Science Theater 3000) style, We had a ball doing so, and so we were able to enjoy this movie. It's a tragedy that none of us had the Professional Walkman, or we could have recorded the whole session, but as the theater had Dolby Surround, it most likely would have drowned out our voices anyway.As for the movie? It's your typical Power Rangers episode, except brought to the big screen, and with big production values than the TV series (which as everybody knows consists of using the original Japanese effects shown when the characters get into their Zords to kick bad guy butt), but not more than that (except for what seems to be a small tender moment between Kimberly and Tommy!) The movie appeals to KIDS, NOT adults, and should be taken in that spirit when seen on the big screen or at home. Those adults and young teenagers who love the Super Sentai/tokomatsu genre might go for it as well though, too-there's no accounting for taste. As it is, I'm giving this movie just five stars-not really bad, but not super great either; something to enjoy on a Saturday or Sunday afternoon (and also great to run as a kid's matinée some days.) "},{"Title":"Opening fight scene makes this film simply great!","Date":"24 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" The Power Rangers arrive on the big screen...The plot is simple...5 teenagers are the protectors of Earth, by using their Kung-Fu skills on the evil monsters...Here they must unite to fight against the Ivan Ooze, who has been released from his prison, by the evil Rita and Lord Z...Only Ooze decides he wants to take over.....Now only the five Power Rangers stand in his way.Yes, the dialogue isn't the greatest...But you know what? From the perspective of the child that watched this movie years ago...It was was amazing! The monsters were all so scary and more importantly the opening fight scene between the Power Rangers and Ooze's men was simply amazing..Even as a child I felt that the whole 'Power searching' mission was a waste of time..The whole dinosaur bone monster scene was un-called for...The one thing made this show amazing was the re-designed suits...Armoured with great gadgets which we never saw again, in the series... "},{"Title":"At the end of the day, it is actually mindless fun!","Date":"4 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Okay, if you forgive the banal dialogue and the plot contrivances, plus the fact the film tends to become silly and cheesy, it is really mindless fun aimed at kids. Yes the script is weak, and the story is suggestive of an extended TV episode, and does get very silly at times. Despite all this, it does have a sense of fun, and not as bad as the rating makes it out to be. The music is good, and an unrecognisable Paul Freeman as the villainous Ivan Ooze is surprisingly good, with some excellent delivery of the film's best lines. Ooze is not only scary but incredibly funny as well, and Freeman the great actor he is nailed that on the head. The performances on the whole are decent, certainly not Oscar worthy material, and there are some well staged fights, even if the effects are nothing special. I will confess I don't like the TV show that much, but despite the failings that this film has, it is fun to watch. 6/10 Bethany Cox. "},{"Title":"Great movie for what it is.","Date":"15 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I remember seeing this on the cinema when I was about 7 and loved it. I bought the DVD recently out of curiosity and was surprised I loved it still, why? This is a kids adventure film based on a TV show so it's obviously not meant to appeal to over 12's. Kid's films that are spin-offs of TV shows do have an unsurprising reputation for being absolutely rubbish with crap acting because in most cases it's true.This film actually feels like a film rather than a few episodes of it's TV show counterpart stuck together which is most spin-off films feel like (some of them actually are).The story is nothing special, but in some cases you need that if your head hurts from keeping up with episodes of 'Lost' for example, the acting is average at best and the dialogue is corny but there are some amusing lines (not to mention Bulk and Skull's utterly stupid but hilarious antics), the effects are what you'd expect from low-budget kids film at the time when CGI wasn't as advanced as it is today, I must give the costume designers a big hand here as they look rugged and ready for battle unlike the costumes in the TV show which are basically leotards and crash helmets with the Power Ranger motif on them.I would recommend this movie to any kid who watches Power Rangers as it is today (I watched a couple of episodes of one of their more recent incarnations the other day and after 14 years, although the characters are different and they're set in different places, it's still the same old sh*t (this whole Megazord thing has gone stale years ago and it's like the makers don't really give a damn anymore).If any kid enjoys todays incarnation of Power Rangers, then they should see this movie and they'll be worshipping it by comparison, or if you're an adult, it's better than most spin-off kids movies out there today so there might be some pleasant surprises in store if you watch it with an open mind. "},{"Title":"Sometimes, something comes along that can not be explained...","Date":"24 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" The movie was corny, stupid, and funny. But when you get down to it...there is nothing else like it. As a movie, I would have to say that it was bad. It was simple, and had no real conflict outside of a simple good versus evil. But lets face it, it was charming to say the least. There is no real explanation for my love for this movie, other then the fact that is was a charming and decent attempt at original children's science fiction. The movie just had something about it that could not be explained that just appealed to me. "},{"Title":"Those were the good old days...","Date":"29 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I can't believe I'm making comment about this movie after 10 yrs it has been released. Gosh. Power Rangers were one of my favorite TV show when i was a kid. I remembered I was like rushing home after school just to catch this show. And gosh, Tommy is my all time favorite (although I don't deny Jason is cool too ;)) It's so weird that how the memories strike back yesterday. Of course it's 2005 now and there's so many cool super heroes movie. But I think for us kids last time, Power Rangers nailed it. Kids who were born-ed in the 80's or 90's, almost every of them knows and loves the 6 super heroes of Angel Groove. I didn't watch this movie in the cinema, I remembered how I used to collect all their tapes. Now i'm regret of throwing them away. Of course the new power rangers are like improved with new technologies. For me, tale as old as times. I love the original MMPR rather than the new ones we have. I might be 20 yrs old this year. But honestly,those good old days really makes me smile again. Knowing that Tommy aka Jason David Frank is one of the real good martial arts constructor, I'm proud to have him as my first kiddie prince charming when I was a kid. JDF rocks! ;) "},{"Title":"The script of this movie is, like, IMPLANTED in my brain!","Date":"28 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This movie was my favorite movie of all time when I was a little girl (actually, it was 2nd after SPICEWORLD). I watched it again and again and again! I was only four when the movie came out, so the Power Rangers had (and still have) been a BIG part of my life. Now that I look back on it, I realize how bad that movie was, but since I was such a big fan, I still kind of like it. Not in the same way I used to, cuz now I just make fun of it!Oh, and I looked through my family's storage lately and found all my old mechandise! OMG! I wondered why my mom kept some of it UNOPENED! Ebay, here I come!  "},{"Title":"A good movie, for its time.","Date":"24 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I didn't think this was a bad movie. For its time it was pretty good. And they fit the storyline in with the series too!!! Which some films even short films don't do. I lacked in some parts but is a great movie. Sure the graphix are a little cheesy but the story of the movie is great. A great rise in the power rangers series!! One of their highest points. Great movie! I would say the worst of the movie is when they did get their new powers and their outfits didn't change. But the Zords are cool. And it looks better and IS better then the next movie in the series. 'Turbo A Power Rangers Movie'. Now that was a laugh. But this is a great movie. Recommend for anyone well who has or has seen the Mighty Morphin Power Rangers series. Zeo, Turbo, Space, Lost galaxy, Lightspeed, Timetravlin one, and Wild one, and Dino Thunder not required to see! ;)  "}{"Title":"wicked....","Date":"10 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I cant believe that this film got such bad reviews....admittedly, i may had only been 8 when this movie was released, and i am biased because i was a massive fan of the power rangers ( i still speak of the original serises very fondly...even now) but it was a brill movie.Compared to some of the trash that is being released now, i dont see how it could have recieved dismal reviews...The plot may not have been great and the acting left much to be desired, but so many young people thought it was fab (me included...). to me it was the Thunderbirds of the 1990's.Personally, i think that they should revive the old serises, the ones before all the new stuff came in.....i know i would be watching it.... "},{"Title":"Better than most think","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This is a great movie to watch with you child between 5 and 9. Power Rangers was big in it's time. It was fairly well made if lacking a story line.  "},{"Title":"Much Worse Things Have Happened","Date":"8 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" For a die-hard kiddie movie, Power Rangers The Movie is pretty good. It's not annoyingly pacifistic like so many other kiddie movies. The movie's respectable sfx, decent action sequences, and quips from Ivan Ooze should keep adults being forced to watch the movie in an attempt to appease their toddlers from suffering too much. They probably will enjoy some of the scenes. Unfortunately, the fact that the storyline's pretty dumb and pretty much every bit of dialogue that doesn't involve Ivan Ooze is pretty awful keeps this movie from being a good film for the entire family like E. T. or Homeward Bound. So, if your kid wants to see it, don't fret. They'll enjoy themselves, and you will survive. "},{"Title":"If you're a fan of the TV show, this one is for you","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Is this movie good or bad? Well, everyone will have a different opinion. I went to watch this film with my brother. I used to love the show, and my brother always hated it. As you might probably guess, I highly enjoyed the film and my brother, of course, hated it. NOTE Mr. Ebert did quite a good job in mentioning every single flaw of the film, including the negative message of being a faceless conformist. (??????????????????????) Don't make me laugh, Mr. Ebert. That's appliable to may superheroes which also hide their identities. Besides, THIS MOVIE SHOULD NOT BE TAKEN SERIOUSLY. If this movie has a message, you should have also looked at the good ones friendship, love, loyalty, etc. I usually like Roger Ebert's reviews, but sometimes I wonder if he wasn't high when watching films. "},{"Title":"Sad, just sad.","Date":"18 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" This was one sad bunch. Just saw the movie again recently, and I must say i'm very disappointed. The first I saw this, it as cool and awesome but now it just stinks of stiff acting and lame stunts. The story is really thin, you just seem to get thrown into the whole thing within ten minutes or so, without any real explaining back story. The only thing that is really good about this movie is the creative make-up.Overall this film has a really annoying villain, some stereotypical heroes (But then again, it is Power Rangers), a lame storyline and some extremely ridiculous sound effects. Overall this is clearly not a bright spot in the Power Ranger history. "},{"Title":"Ignore the critics, this is a fun movie...","Date":"12 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Seems, really, that the only people who pan this great movie are supposed sentai addicts/freaks who think it's the done thing to do. Well, I love those Japanese sentai shows (and the American versions too) but I also think this big-budget movie version of Mighty Morphin Power Rangers is a fine tribute to the cult TV show.Back in 1995, me and a couple of friends decided to see either Power Rangers or Judge Dredd and the Power Rangers won! We thoroughly enjoyed it! It's a great fun movie, tongue-in-cheek and well written for what it is.The budget really shows as the effects and costumes are far better than in the TV show. In fact, to be honest, I really can't see why people are slagging this movie at all. It's basically the same type of thing as the regular MMPR show but with a bigger budget and a better script! At least it's not like the Godzilla movie where things were changed beyond recognition... Fans should be grateful this movie was even made - it's also far more enjoyable than the Turtles movies (another 90s fad).Power Rangers retains the fun, charm and silliness of the TV show and for that it deserves a lot more respect than what many are giving it. If you like cult superhero movies, you really can't go wrong with the Mighty Morphin Power Rangers movie.  "},{"Title":"Entertaining","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This movie came during that time when Power Rangers was corny and not very serious. The movie, however, is more like what the later shows would be. This had a more dark tone to it and was more entertaining. The plot was kind of weak, but this movie was made for kids. Also, the movie is really out of place with the series continuity, but I believe that was intended. The acting is far from perfect, but okay. Personally, I would say the villains did a better job though. The special effects were excellent! Overall, this movie had a lot of interesting elements and proved to be a fun ride. Way better than the sequel. "},{"Title":"Power Rangers is the worst television show and movie in history.","Date":"9 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Power Rangers is nothing more than the usual childish nonsense that someone decided to bring to the United States.First of all the television show has absolutely nothing positive to offer rather than the usual kiddie nonsense. Stupid characters with cheesy costumes use fighting to solve their problems.Then they decided to make an even worse film that is among the worst films of all time.Six characters, all with cheesy costumes, bad haircuts, earrings, make up, and lack of intelligence use their martial arts to fight stunt doubles to entertain people.Power Rangers, is definitely the worst television show and movie of all time, Keep your children away from this nonsense! "},{"Title":"Go Go Power Rangers!","Date":"10 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" WARNING REVIEW CONTAINS MINOR SPOILERSYeah... just go. What a terminally bad film this is. It starts off with a ropy, would-be Star Wars scrolling narration voiced by an uncredited female. This mystery lady sounds alternately drunk, not comprehending what she's saying, and like she's got a large cactus stuffed up her rectum. It doesn't get any better.The Power Rangers are the six blandest teenagers you'll ever meet, colour-coded so you can tell them apart. Here's an impossible task find a single personality among them. For some curious reason, whenever the Power Rangers do, well... anything at all ... they have to describe it to everyone. Activating power beam! yelps the token black girl as her helmet light comes on. Their one-liners are even worse Have a nice trip! See you next fall! one says as she yanks a villain off his feet. Who wrote the script, Oscar Wilde? The Rangers fly by what looks like a felt tip pen on the film &#150; and that's one of the more expensive effects. The budget seems to be as cheap as the direction is flat &#150; which is a lot. Okay, expense isn't the be all and end all of a movie, but one such as this demands it. There is nothing beyond the mindless zap-pow of the visuals to recommend it, meaning its sole purpose is flawed. Particularly risible is the we've really ran out of cash now CGI of the finale.This is the sort of film where feeble, not even remotely funny jokes are met with hearty laughter. It's like the years 1940-1994 never happened. The jarring exposition and lame would even a hyena raise a chuckle? humour do act as a refreshing change from the otherwise banal dialogue, however. There's not a single iota of originality in the whole thing. We get the death of a mentor scene, the quest, the resolution... all set to generic rock music. We also get the moral of the story, the strength of a person being within them, etc., etc. Paul Freeman tries to inject a little fun to proceedings as Ivan Ooze, though is let down by the witless script. That said, the words Oscar and Nomination were never heard around this movie.Other things that irritate me why is it when someone's dangling hundreds of feet in the air, someone always tells them to hang on? Like the person in question was considering letting go and falling to their death as an option before hearing such an adroit suggestion? In fact, this timely advice is said three times throughout the movie, showing how fundamentally lacking in ideas the dialogue editor was. Awful lines, clichés (You play with fire and you're gonna get burnt), the Rangers moving their arms every time they speak so you know which one's talking... the sort of kids that say only things like Whoo! Awesome! Aw-right! Way cool! Give me five! and Ooze's final defeat by a knee in the crotch seems inappropriate for a family film.Having said all this, the movie is probably great fun for it's target audience of pre-schoolers, and someone my age shouldn't be watching it in the first place. But don't you remember a time when children's films were made with at least some care or love for their craft? The Jungle Book, E.T., Willy Wonka... all children's films that have some appeal for adults, meaning Turbo, the inevitable Power Rangers sequel, would not be desirable to the bored grown-up who had to sit through this one. Power Rangers The Movie is just one long, joyless advert for action figures.Post-Script Seven years on, and maybe this review was a little like shooting fish in a barrel. Having been forced to sit through the vaguely better sequel (4/10) then I can only conclude that I was in a snarky mood when I wrote this and that the world of the Power Rangers is just not meant for me. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable, but a letdown for fans","Date":"21 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" 12/21/2005** WARNING!! THIS REVIEW CONTAINS SPOILERS!! PLEASE DON'T READ IF YOU HAVEN'T SEEN THE MOVIE YET!!**... Still with me?Good.Well, I am not ashamed to admit that I was (and remain) a huge fan of the original Power Rangers. When I learned they were doing a movie, I thought it'd be so cool to see. But when three of the original Rangers left (including my favorite - Jason, the Red Ranger), I admit I was hesitant. Then I saw the movie and remembered enjoying it. But the movie was, and remains, a disappointment.Here's the plot after participating in a skydiving event to save the observatory that afternoon (... wha'?!?), with Ryan's Comet passing by Earth in two days, the Rangers go off rollerblading while a construction site unearths a purple egg buried deep in the ground under a spooky-looking lid (even if it seems, like, only ten feet deep when it's buried). When a worker tries to touch the egg and is electrocuted, the Rangers are summoned to the Command Center by their mentor, Zordon, and the robotic Alpha 5 and are warned that in the egg is Ivan Ooze, a dangerous, evil morphological being.Well, that night, the evil enemies of the Rangers (Lord Zedd, Rita Repulsa, Goldar and a new character Mordant) find Ivan's egg, knock out the guards watching it, open the egg and release Ivan Ooze. To repay Zedd for freeing him, Ivan agrees to take down Zordon and his legacy, including the Rangers. When the Rangers arrive (though I'm not sure why they arrive so many hours later that night to find the egg), they find it open and Ivan free. Ivan sends his Ooze monsters to fight the Rangers, who morph into their colorful costumes to stop them, and Ivan flees to the Command Center. The Rangers are successful defeating Ivan's Ooze henchmen, but lose their powers and have to run to the Command Center, just in time to find it destroyed and Zordon lying in the remains of his time warp chamber, dying.With the last power left in the controls, Alpha sends the Rangers to find the Great Power on planet Phaedos to get their powers back and again power the Command Center to restore Zordon's tube and save his life. Ivan goes to see Rita and Zedd after his rampage and traps Zedd and Rita in a snow globe, taking over as evil leader. He sends Tengu Warrior birds to stop the Rangers, but a female (and oddly scantily clad) warrior Dulcea comes to the Rangers' aid by driving them off and showing them the way to the Great Power. While Dulcea helps them get their new Ninjetti suits of animal spirits, Ivan brainwashes the parents of Angel Grove into helping rebuild his two evil Zords. Now, the Rangers must face threats on the way to the temple in order to go back, stop Ivan and save Zordon. Oh, come on - this is a kid's movie! Of course he lives! That's why it's called a HAPPY ending!Well, for the good parts we have the cool cameo of Dulcea (Gabrielle Fitzpatrick), great sets, impressive metal-plated Power Ranger costumes (from designer Joseph Porro) and three of the original Rangers - my favorite female Ranger ever, Kimberly, the Pink Ranger (Amy Jo Johnson); Billy, the Blue Ranger (David Yost); and Tommy, the White Ranger (Jason David Frank). The music by Graeme Revell also works well, giving a rather magical - and surprisingly beautiful - score to the movie.For the bad, we have the new Rangers - Aisha, the Yellow Ranger, Aisha (Karen Ashley); Adam, the Black Ranger (Johnny Yong Bosch); and Rocky, the Red Ranger (Steven Cardenas). They're all right with their roles, but they can be annoying and are definitely not as interesting (or cool) as the original Yellow, Black and Red Rangers. We also have a weak plot, very fake-looking (and lame) computer generated Zords that make you wish for live-action Zords of guys in rubber suits, little character development, a tragic under-use of seeing the Rangers in their costumes and an awful villain, Ivan Ooze (Paul Freeman).Freeman's over-the-top performance is too ridiculous to take him as a powerful threat seriously, despite having moments of cool powers and moments of being evil. He makes corny jokes, bosses around Goldar and Mordant for most of the movie and has two lame evil Zords, called - I kid you not - the Scorpitron and Hornitor (how did that name get approved?!?). He also gets one lousy and weak fight, where he molds with a Zord and fights the Ninja Falcon Megazord in space. And his defeat is awful - he easily overpowers the Rangers' Ninja Falcon Megazord, but is quickly defeated by a kick to the groin and knocked into - surprise! - Ryan's comet (which is oddly a meteor) and explodes. Ugh.I love the original Power Rangers and always will, but the movie itself disappoints as much as it entertains. Had they had a better script, the original three Rangers included, more character development and more of the Rangers in their costumes, it may have turned out better. But to this day, I will still pop my tape into the VCR and watch it. And every time it ends, I still smile after watching it. "}{"Title":"WORTH WATCHING!!!!!!","Date":"22 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Excellent, so worth watching if your a real Power Ranger Fan,I know I certainly am!!! Enjoy it as I did and you will have no problems with the film!! It is the best Power Rangers film in the world!! It sums up all together how good the Power Rangers actually are!! The film includes great graphics and is full of but kicking action, that I'm sure you will enjoy it if you like the Mighty Morphin Power Rangers. What more can i say, the film is just brilliant as the Power Rangers are. I think it was a great idea putting the Mighty Morphin Power Rangers and a film together!!! Well i hope you really enjoy the film! HAPPY WATCHING!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"It was a fun movie","Date":"22 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" ....wow I can't believe the bad reviews this one is getting! OK, well maybe I can. But it definitely doesn't deserve a spot on the worst list on the IMDB website! It's a fun film, lots of action, cool fighting sequences, and even a gorgeous scantily-clad warrior chick. And that Pink Ranger is a sweet little thing herself! But seriously, ok so the effects aren't as charming as in an old Godzilla film, but I thought the thing was pretty entertaining. Truthfully I thought the next Power Rangers film was much worse! This actually was one of the best sci-fi films of the 90's, and that should tell you how crappy sci-fi has become in the past decade or so. (Or, in the case of the Star Trek films, since 1979.) This film, with all of its many faults, is still a thousand times better and more entertaining than every single dull-as-hell sleep-inducing Star Trek flick. (And please, no rabid e-mails from Trekkies/Trekkers/whatever writing to me in Klingonese telling how wrong I am.) Because even Spock would think the Pink Ranger is a cutie. Well, maybe not. But you know Kirk sure would! "},{"Title":"No, no, make it stop!","Date":"15 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This particular movie brings back horrible memories for me, memories of a time in which my younger brother was infatuated with the show, memories of him wearing a Blue Ranger jumpsuit and mask around the house and yelling out Go, go, Power Rangers! every five minutes. So maybe my review of this movie will be a little biased. I absolutely, positively HATED it!!! Nothing was funny, exciting, or entertaining in the least. It was just an extension of the stupid, stupid TV show. The only high point of the movie was the villain, Ivan Ooze, but you know as well as I do that about half the jokes he told will not be relevant five years from not. Especially that one about the Brady Bunch reunion. That was totally out of left field in a bad way, funny the first time only. Other than him, nothing in the movie made me want to stand up and cheer, or boo and hiss, or laugh, or anything. I was just kind of hoping that Ivan Ooze would destroy the Power Rangers and then kind of self-destruct somehow, but I had no such luck.   "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies I have seen by far.","Date":"19 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" My Take One scene of awe-inspiring ineptitude and stupidity after another. I haven't watched this movie since I was a kid. Back then, I was a real fan of the Rangers, maybe because back then, I was a Dinosaur fan (and Dinosaurs were some kind of symbol for the Rangers). But When I grew up, I began to realize how awful it really is. Well, you know, when you're a kid, you like anything flashed in to your screen. But now, I have watched a variety of movies, and know how to distinguish a bad one from a good one. And Power Rangers The Movie is baaaaad!!! I mean the plot is lame, the acting atrocious, the special-effects are low-budget, the slapsticks are corny and the heroics, come on, are they really heroes? Still, it's kinda good for camp laughs sometimes, but don't even think that this is a popcorn movie, it'll spoil your appetite (for popcorn). If they actually tried to do what needs to be done, and done right, it would have been better, waaaaay better. You may rent it for the kids, maybe even watch it with them. But never watch it alone, it's no mature movie, everything is childish, no stupid.Well, this may be one of the worst movies I have ever seen, and I've seen a lot of movies. Now, do yourself a favor and avoid it. Maybe watch a Looney Tunes head-banger and be amused.Rating 0 out of 5. "},{"Title":"Remember the Show? Well Guess What? THIS IS EVEN WORSE!","Date":"31 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  If you liked the popular children's show that fame showed some light to for a year or two, then you'll probably like this flopperoo.When I say it's bad, it's not just bad. It's ba-a-a-ad!So before you snuggle into bed tonight, remember... The Mighty Morphin' Power Rangers are watching you. Well, maybe not, but it sure does sell for the toy market, doesn't it?1/5 stars -John Ulmer  "},{"Title":"Absolutely Sad.","Date":"1 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Its very sad that kids nowadays would even consider watching the particular movie. Cartoon violence, only this is done not by cartoons (which kids would attempt to imitate less as most children understand that cartoon physics (or lack of them) has nothing to do with real life) but by real actors.Real Actors, dressed in extremely ridiculous suits and quoting a really ridiculous script.... Overall, I do not see children over 12 (which is the minimum age to watch the movie in some countries) being attracted to MMPRTM. It appeals to a much lower in maturity audience. "},{"Title":"The power rangers television show is bad enough, but this movie is far worse!","Date":"17 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Okay, we all know how bad the power rangers television show is, but as bad as the show is, this movie is far, far, worse! At last check this movie rated only a 3 out of a 1-10 scale.I really don't see why this movie isn't rated lower! Power rangers, with all of it's television shows is nothing more than a commercial for second class plastic garbage to sell to unsuspecting children around the world.The television show has already been banned in two countries, New Zealand, and Malaysia, perhaps they see through all of this negative advertising.There are far better forms of entertainment for our children. Avoid showing them power rangers in any way. "},{"Title":"MMPR storyline","Date":"6 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Oh my god, this is one of the 2 worst movies ever! (The other being an (korean, so not even) anime called Armageddon).This glorified extra long episode of the power rangers TV show has embarrassment written all over it. I don't even understand how those 'actors' could do this... knowing it would destroy any further career.One of the many problems with this terrible movie is that the story contradicts the continuing story of the TV show.In the TV show, the kids get their powers on earth from a blue robot called Ninjor (if I recall correctly). Who CAN fight along, as opposed to the woman from the movie. Has this been considered? Or was this waste of film really just to make some money? "},{"Title":"Power Rangers, first the worst television show, now the worst movie to accompany it!","Date":"17 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" First of all, the power rangers television show is the worst television show ever made, so, I guess the people behind it, want the worst movie ever made. Mission accomplished.Power rangers is about a group of intellectually inferior kids who dress up in silly spandex outfits and play around in '70s Japanese plastic toys, they fight each other with Kung Fu.You would think that Americans would have the intelligence to avoid such nonsense, but, I guess not, the youth of America were gullible enough to buy into this nonsense, so what did they do, make a silly movie to accompany their awful television show.This is not a television show or movie, it's really a commercial to sell second and third class plastic garbage to the gullible youth of America, period.Avoid at all costs! "},{"Title":"Not so Mighty...","Date":"30 March 2000","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The TV show is bad enough; a bunch of teenagers dress up in fluorescent primary and secondary colors to beat up a bunch of guys in old Toho monster movie costumes while talking about being good citizens, caring for the environment, whatever's politically correct.The really bad thing is someone thought it should be made into a movie.I don't know does Mighty Morphin Power Rangers The Movie appeal to anyone outside of its targeted demographic (i.e. - pre-teens who are too old for the Ninja Turtles but still like seeing people get beaten up faux-Shaolin style)?  Don't see how, since there is next to nothing worthwhile in this movie.  I heard that in an interview one of the actresses compared this to Star Wars and The Wizard of Oz.  I call BLASPHEME!In fact, the ONLY good part of this debacle is Ivan Ooze himself, as performed by Paul Freeman.  He is the most aware, most expressive, most intelligent and, by far, gets the best lines.  For example, when beset by the MMPRs, he squeals, Ooh, where's my autograph book?!!  Now right there is one entertaining moment more than you'll witness from any of the good guys.  If they had just made Ivan Ooze The Movie, that would have been something worth seeing.  However, teen violence as shown here is about on par with the Friday the 13th flicks.  At least there, the teens got theirs.One star, for Ivan Ooze, but for the rest of MMPRTM - less Power to you. "}{"Title":"Just as bad as the television show, which is by far the WORST t.v. show and toy line in  history!","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I have to admit that power rangers is by far the worst film from the worst television show and toy line in U.S. history. The characters are so ridiculous with their multi colored spandex leotards that you'll get a loud chuckle out of any human being with ANY intelligence! The show was directly ripped off from Japan's Sentai Zyuranger Series which has been on the air for nearly thirty years. However, instead of the show being a somewhat watchable one, as it is in Japan, the American version is the worst kind of torture that any human being could endure. I wouldn't even wish any tortuous episode of Power Rangers or this awful movie to people in jail. The toys/figures are third-rate Gundam robot ripoff toys with ridiculous flipping heads, all of which brought great nightmares to my nephew when he was a fan of the show nearly ten years ago. ANYONE WHO REMOTELY STICKS UP WITH THIS AWFUL T.V. SHOW AND MOVIE ARE DENYING THE OBVIOUS, THAT THE STUPIDITY OF THE POWER RANGERS HAS GOT TO YOU, WATCH SOMETHING BETTER LIKE TOY STORY OR SOMETHING OVER THIS AWFUL GARBAGE AND YOU'LL SEE HOW MUCH BETTER YOU'LL FEEL.--999,999,999,999,999,999,999,999 out of 10 on a scale of 1-10. "},{"Title":"Mighty Morphin Power Rangers, one of the worst films ever made.","Date":"4 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I see a lot of people who are badmouthing the new Transformers sequel, but, I guess if they really want bad film-making they should look no further than the 1995 power rangers movie filled with awful costumes, cheesy special effects, laughable characters, and a storyline so laughable it's hard to keep a straight face.In 1995, right after the power rangers mania swept the country, the people behind the completely idiotic show decided to make a movie out of it.To say that Mighty Morphin Power Rangers The Movie is one of the worst films ever made is an understatement. Critics everywhere completely trashed this film, and it's box office was completely underwhelming as well.Roger Ebert wisely called this one of the worst films he's ever seen. I agree with him.. "},{"Title":"Power Rangers is definitely one of the worst films ever made!,","Date":"25 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Okay, the awful t.v. show is bad enough, well, it's worse than bad, but that's a different story.Power Rangers is easily one of the worst films ever made, of course there are some kids who still enjoy this nonsense, however, any intelligent human being would be insulted at the complete stupidity presented in both the show and this completely useless movie.What is exactly the point of this movie anyway? To sell more of it's plastic garbage to unsuspecting children? What is the story, that a bunch of less than intelligent karate kids dress up in bad costumes and such? No wonder so many people make fun of this show! Truly one of the worst films ever made!!!! Thankfully the public agrees with me. "},{"Title":"Pwew... what reeks?","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  There are many things that suck in this world. Like old popcorn, New Coke, crime, and Kathy Lee Gifford. And now, we add to that list The Mighty Morphin Power Rangers movie. Not only does it suck, but it.... damn, it just sucks. Don't see it, instead rent The Shawshank Redemption "},{"Title":"Ah, ah, HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA!","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Oh dear lord!  I remember when this show came out and I thought, what the hell is this?  I grew up on Looney Toons, Batman, Ninja Turtles, and Trasnformers (among other stuff), and I really feel sad for anyone who grew up with this.  Oh, how bad is this.  This, this is pure MST3K.  I saw the movie on HBO when it first came out about 6 years ago or something.  Well, I was really bored last night and there was nothing on TV.  I didn't feel like raiding my video or DVD collection, so I saw this was on.  Why not?  Let me say, this is the funniest thing I have ever seen.I laughed my ass off.  I couldn't stop myself.  Oh, my, god, how funny this movie is.  Oh, it's bad, trust me.  It's really bad.  But this is so bad it's funny as hell.  I wish that MST3K was still around so they could make fun of this.Okay, first off, the villian is a man made of snot.  Purple snot.  And he fires loogies into the ground that grow into henchmen.  HA HA HA HA!  Oh, oh, okay.  At least Batman fought real people and Spawn fights demons and criminals.  These little teenagers fight snot!  Oh holy God is this hilarious!Let's not forget the POWERLAMP!  I remember this scene where these superheros are in an underground car garadge and they can't see because it's too dark.  So, to fix this, one of them says, POWERLAMP ON! and these lights on the person's helmet turn on.  Oh God!  I feel on the floor at that one.  Oh, let's not forget the lady who is a cheep knock off of the Witch of the West.  She's some Japeneese woman who is dubbed.  Badly too.  Her voice is totally out of sync with her mouth.  Oh, that's funny.Every thing about this movie is HORRIBLE.  There is not enough dark energy in the universe to swallow the shear badness of this movie.  But, it made me laugh like a schoolgirl.  Oh, this is the biggest joke of all time.  You know those TV shows that come on NBC or CBS at 3 o'clock in the morning?  Those lost dinosaur shows and alien shows that came from the armpit of Hollywood?  Those are ALMOST as bad and funny as this.Rating  Negative 3,999,834,782,124,000,287,162,652,187,011.99 times PIE "}]