[{"Title":"A nice, feel-good movie, though you have to suspend credulity","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I enjoyed this film, as I did Father of the Bride (1991), though I had to suspend my credulity a lot. This film was less realistic than the film it was based on, Father's Little Dividend (1951), with Spencer Tracy and Elizabeth Taylor.  For example, it's unlikely that George Banks, a highly successful business owner who obviously must think through his decisions, would be so impetuous as to sell the house he loves and end up having to buy it back at a significant mark-up. (George and Nina decide to sell following a rainstorm that caused their kitchen ceiling to leak, even though the house had two storeys above it.) The new baby *wing* which the Banks then decide to build on to their repurchased home is equally ridiculous, since the house is already huge and only young son Matty is still at home. Between the ill-conceived house sale and repurchase, the posh baby wing and the lavish baby shower, featuring storks flown in from Austria, I don't think George Banks could possibly have spent more money. In the previous film, Father of the Bride (1991), Bryan's parents were portrayed as wealthy, but George is clearly a millionaire himself. I did enjoy this movie -- it's funny, romantic and very warm, with beautiful sets -- but  I would have preferred a little less over-the-top consumerism. "},{"Title":"Quit Standing On My Shutters!!!!!!","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  That is one of my favorite lines, followed by and pack up your things and hit the road!  And don't trample the daisies!  Or he says something like that.Anyway.  I went and saw this in theaters and amazingly enough, I really liked it.  One of the best Steve Martin films next to Bowfinger and Planes, Trains and Automobiles.  I enjoyed the acting, I enjoyed the story and everything else about this movie that made it great.  It wasn't a comedy going from one zinger to the next but something well thought out and well written.If your looking for a lite movie with some fun, I recommend seeing this movie. "},{"Title":"A Well-Done Sequel!","Date":"19 March 2014","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A sequel to immensely likable Father of the Bride, 'Father of the Bride Part II' is A Well-Done Sequel! Its enjoyable as well as emotional!'Father of the Bride Part II' Synopsis George Banks must accept the reality of what his daughter's ascension from daughter to wife, and now, to mother means when placed into perspective against his own stage of life. 'Father of the Bride Part II' is worthy sequel of a wonderful prequel. The characters still appeal, the humor works & the emotional moments are heartfelt as well. Nancy Meyers & Charles Shyer's Screenplay is genuinely well-done. Charles Shyer's Direction, on the other-hand, is good. Cinematography & Editing are fair.Performance-Wise Steve Martin is lovable. He reprises his part of a loving/possessive dad commendably. Diane Keaton is flawless, yet again. Kimberly Williams-Paisley is cute. George Newbern is sincere. Kieran Culkin is adequate. Martin Short entertains.On the whole, 'Father of the Bride Part II' is a satisfying sequel. "},{"Title":"Steve Martin is great in this movie.","Date":"9 May 2010","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" As much as I want to rag this movie, make fun of it, call it all kinds of names, belittle it, mock it and otherwise totally trash it, I can't and that is for one reason Steve Martin. Mr. Martin saves this movie from cinematic oblivion, allows this movie to survive, function and prosper. He is proof that an actor can save a sorry script, can raise the level of a story, can make a movie watchable. Mr. Martin proves once again that he is arguably the finest comedy actor today. He can take the dumbest line and make it sound brilliant; he can take the most insipid scene and raise it to the level of comedy or drama. Kudos to Steve Martin for his sterling performance. As for the other star, Diane Keaton, her performance is wonderful too, but it is Mr. Martin who carries this movie and once again proves that he is the star. "},{"Title":"Average sequel","Date":"1 March 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This average sequel rehashes too many of the old pa can't cope jokes. Some of the new material works better, however comic Steve Martin and his support cast never manage to make the film feel fresh. Even frantic Martin Short is unable to inject the frivolity needed. Others returning include Diane Keaton (who never gets to do enough to show her immense talent here), Kimberley Williams and George Newbern.The show finally caves in on itself when director Charles Shyer and co-writer Nancy Myers try to cram in too many coincidences. Adapted from the original sequel Father's Little Dividend.Saturday, September 5, 1998 - Video "},{"Title":"not bad for a sequel","Date":"27 April 2009","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" as sequels go,this is film isn't too bad.i didn't think ti was quite as good as the first one,but it's not a bad effort.i didn't find it as funny,and some of Steve Martin's histrionics are old and seem forced a bit too me.really,this one doesn't quite have the same sincerity as the first.through much of this movie,i was all too aware i was watching a movie,whereas with firs tone,i was drawn in,and less aware i was watching a movie with people acting.having said that,there are some bright spots.for,one,this movie is just as touching as the first.and Eugene levy has a great cameo.and there is still some fun to be had.even though this may seem too high a rating after much of what i said above,i still think Father of the Bride II is a 7/10 "},{"Title":"Not as good as the first, but good family fun","Date":"5 February 1999","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is as thin as you can get. Its' emotions are easily played. There are no surprises. It is very predictable. And I say...so what? What is wrong with that? This is an American Dream movie. Everything goes perfectly and everyone is as happy as can be. Why should it be a complicated character study? It deals with the birth of babies. There's no complex feelings that need to be dealt with in this situation. A life is being created. A family is being blessed. A baby's birth is a time for love and hope. This movie has both in spades. It's a very positive movie that shows the joy a new baby brings. Every parent-to-be should watch it. A child's birth is an emotional event with no equal. This movie knows it and milks it for all its' worth. My only complaint is it should have been called Parents of the Bride. Way too much time is spent with the relationship between Steve Martin and Diane Keaton. There should have been more attention paid to Kimberly Williams. Not only were the scenes between her and Martin the best scenes in this and the original, but Kimberly Williams is the most beautiful actress to come out of Hollywood in many years. Forget all the blond, silicone filled, bimbos that every teenage boy raves about. Ms. Williams is a natural beauty that is a true role model for all young girls. She, and her character, is beautiful, intelligent, and has a heart of gold. Had her relationship with Martin been more focused, this sequel would have surpassed the original. While it doesn't do that, it is still a perfect film for the entire family to watch. *** out of ****. "},{"Title":"I loved it, but one thing bothered me...","Date":"16 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I enjoyed this movie Diane Keaton is my favourite actress, Steve Martin always makes me laugh and Martin Short is great, but I felt really sorry for Keaton having to pretend to be pregnant. She didn't seem to be enjoying it and when the Banks were at the hospital, she actually looked rather bored, because whenever she spoke from the moment George protested about the doctor's name, she almost made it sound like she was in a maths lesson.Apart from that, it was great! I would recommend it to anyone who enjoys watching Martin, Keaton or Short in a movie or who likes to laugh. 9/10 because of the little problem, but it was great. I loved it. "},{"Title":"Heartwarming & Hilarious","Date":"7 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Steve Martin does it again in this touching and funny sequel to 1991's Father Of The Bride the rest of the cast returns in a new story dealing with the joys of parenthood. I loved Father Of The Bride II not only because it was funny, mostly it was due to the comic antics of a man dealing with two pregnancies at once. He's a great comedian as well as an on screen father, my favorite scene is when both babies arrive at the same time.A year has passed since George Banks (Martin) watched his only daughter Annie (Williams) get married and has accepted her transformation from daughter to wife. She comes home with her husband Brian (Newbern) to announce the wonderful news to her parents, brother Matty (Culkin) and in-laws that she's pregnant. Everyone is thrilled and excited except for George who thinks he's too young to be a grandpa, from then on he tries to act young by dying his hair and exercising.But things are about to get a little crazy when his loving wife Nina (Keaton)discovers she's pregnant too now George must deal with the impending arrival of both his grandchild and his own child. Thrown into the chaos is Franck Eggelhoffer (Short) the wedding coordinator who helps to design a room for the new addition to the Banks family. This movie is not only sweet but it's charming entertainment for fans of all ages. "},{"Title":"Entertaining, but the premise has been worn thin -- it's sweet, but unnecessary.","Date":"21 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The original Father of the Bride with Spencer Tracey is a really good comedy, the remake starring Steve Martin is a good sweet-natured, amiable enough comedy - and I don't really think a sequel was necessary at all. I mean the whole premise is basically the same - before George Banks (Martin) had to grasp the reality of his daughter being married, and now he has to come to grips with the fact that she's having a baby. A nice twist on this is that his wife (played by Diane Keaton) is ALSO pregnant, but nevertheless it's still (basically) the same as the first film in one form or another.Thankfully it doesn't seem like a total cash-in (like so many sequels of this sort do) because it has a certain charm (as did the first film) and is still remarkably entertaining, all considered. But you can tell it was made solely because of the success of the first film - even Martin Short is back with another extended cameo as Franz the wedding manager. Of course you may be wondering why he's involved with a pregnancy, since his business is weddings. Here's a hint more $$$ for the studio.Martin is basically doing the same thing he did in the first film - the weary upper-class guy who feels overwhelmed by the state of things. Diane Keaton is still very sweet and likable as his wife. The rest of the cast (including Macaulay's little brother Kieran Culkin) range from OK to good. Martin Short, however, is yet again a stand-out and is very funny - he wasn't necessary for the plot but he is funny and a good addition to the movie regardless.Overall I'd say this is one of those sequels that didn't need to be made, but could have been a lot worse. It's sweet, it's got some good lite-comedy moments, and in general it's just an enjoyable family movie that isn't trying to be anything other than simple entertainment -- which it is. "}{"Title":"Not as good as the first, but still great fun.","Date":"18 October 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  In the sequel to the brilliant Father Of The Bride, Nina Banks and her daughter Annie are both pregnant and George Banks, being his usual nervous self has to learn to get used to the idea that he's going to be a father again AND a grandfather.The whole cast including, Steve Martin, Diane Keaton, Kimberly Williams and Martin Short are all back here giving good performances.Even though Father Of The Bride Part II is not as good as the first Father Of The Bride, this is still a great movie which is enjoyable and fun all the way through and that's why I'm going to give this good sequel a 10/10. "},{"Title":"Sequel to Father of the Bride adds to the depth of George's character and family ties","Date":"9 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The original Father of the Bride had some laugh till it hurts moments, especially in the beginning, that are lacking in this sequel, though there are a good bit of chuckles. But there are some very moving moments in the sequel that brought me to tears and the character of George matures and deepens throughout. You come away liking and respecting him more as well as his family and its values. For example, the movie portrays married life as good, despite the partners' failings, and babies as a gift to celebrate, even if inconvenient. Memories have value too, and life often hands you a different deck than you planned to play. Though in both movies the Father/Daughter relationship is prime, in the sequel we get a better sense of George and Nina's relationship and moments that tug at your heart one minute and then make you smile the next. There are character flaws for sure in this movie. There are some awkward moments not suited for kids. Not all decisions that each makes may be ones you agree with, but the family members learn to be there for each other in the best way they know how. I enjoyed this movie more the second time than the first, which was many years ago. Maybe my own increased maturity allowed me to appreciate this movie in a deeper way.Diane Keaton is just so perfect in her role as Nina, and Steve Martin does his part well, as usual. All other characters are OK but I was not impressed with Martin Short's character (Franck Eggelhoffe). The strange, unidentifiable accent and personality was just too over-the-top unbelievable. "},{"Title":"A so so sequel","Date":"14 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" 'Father of the bride' was a good film and probably didn't need a sequel. But this is Hollywood, everything needs a sequel.While it is clear that a lot of effort has gone into making this sequel work, the central idea stretches credibility and every idea the writer had seems to have been thrown at the wall in a desperate attempt to get laughs. There are moments that remind you of the heart and humour that the preceding film had, but it's a load of nothing really. I went into this film dubious about how good it could be, and I didn't finish watching it any more convinced that the original needed a sequel. "},{"Title":"like this even less","Date":"30 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" George Banks (Steve Martin) has to deal with becoming a grandpa after his daughter Annie (Kimberly Williams) announces that she's pregnant. He has a midlife crisis and put the house on sale. Mr. Habib (Eugene Levy) offers top dollars and a $15k bonus to move out in 10 days. Then the Banks family is shocked again when Nina (Diane Keaton) is also found to be pregnant. Habib is demolishing the house and George agrees to buy back the house for $100k more. Franck Eggelhoffer (Martin Short) is also back in this one for some reason.The parts that I liked about the first movie are diminished. The family drama is no longer so cute or true. It's silly without the heart. They bring back Franck who I disliked and double down on it with Mr. Habib. The whole house sale is bad. When did Franck become a construction contractor? The only improvement is that they didn't try to confuse the public by naming it 'Father's Little Dividend'. "},{"Title":"Father of the Bride Part II","Date":"23 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The first film was the remake of the original version starring Spencer Tracy and Dame Elizabeth Taylor, and it became very popular, so naturally they felt like a sequel was needed to continue the story. Basically George Banks (Golden Globe nominated Steve Martin) is getting used to the fact that his daughter Annie (Kimberly Williams-Paisley) has become the bride now wife and got married to Bryan MacKenzie (George Newbern), and more surprisingly a mother when she reveals she is pregnant. With this revelation comes out George has a small midlife crisis, and he tries to recapture his youth, including dying his hair, but he does eventually settle somewhat and get used to the idea that he will be a grandfather. But then he is shocked to find out he will be a father again as well when his wife Nina (Diane Keaton) reveals that she is also pregnant, and it may appear that both her and Annie's baby will be born on the same day. With these things happening, and the house having leaks and termites there is the opportunity to change things by selling the house to Mr. Habib (Eugene Levy), but he changes his mind later. When George manages to get the house back, despite a higher price, he gets the help of camp wedding planner/coordinator, now interior designer, Franck Eggelhoffer (Martin Short) to make the baby rooms and get things ready for the arrival of children. There are a couple of false alarms from Annie where she thinks the baby is coming, but eventually it comes to the real thing, and they rush to hospital, and of course Nina goes in to labour as well. In the end George is very happy to be holding both his new baby son and his new baby granddaughter is his arms, before his daughter and her husband move away to their own new home. Also starring Kieran Culkin as Matty Banks, B.D. Wong as Howard Weinstein, Peter Michael Goetz as John MacKenzie, Kate McGregor-Stewart as Joanna MacKenzie and Jane Adams as Dr. Megan Eisenberg. I can see what the critics mean by giving it two out of five stars in certain places, it certainly isn't as funny as the original film, it concentrates more on the sentimental material, but that's not a bad thing for this comedy drama. Okay! "},{"Title":"Father of the Bride Part II","Date":"18 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The 1991 Steve Martin comedy proved out to be popular enough to earn a sequel, much like the original Father of the Bride of 1950. All of the main cast of the first film returns in a story where the eponymous father George Banks (Martin) has gotten over the stressful wedding of his daughter Annie (Kimberly Williams) and her fiancé Bryan (George Newbern). However, when she breaks the big news about her pregnancy to the family, the grandpa-to-be becomes anxious about getting older and starts proving his youthfulness in various ways, such as selling the family's beloved house to a greedy real estate developer Habib (Eugene Levy). Life has more in store for George and his wife Nina (Diane Keaton) though, as it soon turns out that Annie's is not the only pregnancy in the family.Again, the humour is best when it relies on Steve Martin's comical talent and charisma instead of craziness and exaggeration. Unfortunately, adhering to the rule of always making sequels bigger and louder, the writers have given more screen time to the unbelievably annoying wedding planner Franck Eggelhoffer (Martin Short) whose noisy and flamboyant scenes are certainly the weakest parts of the whole movie. The fussy bumbling caused by the impending childbirths at the end is also rather annoying and unimaginative. I think the movie works best during the more subtle scenes, such as Martin making uncomfortable faces while hiding his nervousness or arguing about the baby's surname with the overjoyed family during a dinner.Besides the run-of-the-mill jokes, the movie also shamelessly wallows in impenetrable sentimentalism of the newborns' adorability. Especially the music is so unbelievably schmaltzy that it was really getting on my nerves while watching; can't the filmmakers just trust their material's appeal without burying it under a sweety-tweety sugar mountain? Nevertheless, despite the predictability of the plot and the not-so-hilarious jokes, George Banks is a very likable character and Steve Martin is at home in the role, so those who enjoyed the first movie will probably like this one too &#x96; the basic building blocks of the story have not been changed at all. "},{"Title":"Not bad...but could have been better","Date":"28 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"     The first time I saw Father of the Bride 2 I really liked it.  I still enjoy watching some parts of it but I thought some realistic parts in the movie were not necessary.  First of all, the mother and daughter pregnant together.  This could happen but probably when the mother is not older than 40.  Nina had to be at least 47.  Is it likely that the mother would be pregnant at that age? I don't think so.  Secondly, I could not understand why George and Nina wanted the baby to have two last names.  Children always go by their father's last name and I thought Brian's father made a good observation when he said that George and Nina already had Matt to carry on the Banks name.  So why they thought the baby should have two last names is beyond me.  In conclusion, Father of the Bride 2 is still cute and fun to watch in some parts but I thought the first one was much better "},{"Title":"Deja Vu","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I found this sequel to be both charming and entertaining. What I learned tonight is that this movie is actually a remake of the 1951 movie Father's Little Dividend, which in turn was the sequel to the original Father of the Bride (1950) and with the same great cast Spencer Tracy, Elizabeth Taylor, Joan Bennett, et al.  They both share the same broad comedy and story line (only one pregnancy in the earlier version though), and in their own ways are equally entertaining.  Old or new incarnations, however, be sure to see parts one and two in sequence. "},{"Title":"George Banks' Life is Changing","Date":"6 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Upon the twentieth anniversary of Father of the Bride II, I have always wondered what happened to George and Nina Banks. Did their new daughter grow up and get married already? Did their grandson go to college? Did their oldest daughter get divorced? How about Matty? These are some of the questions fans have asked themselves since this film was released two-decades ago. Steve Martin was masterful as George Banks, the sometimes neurotic father and patriarch. Diane Keaton was still wonderful as Nina. And Annie? Kimberly Williams played her. Kieran Culkin was the adorable Matty.But to have a child at the same age that you become a grandparent! Imagine how life changing that was for George and Nina. Its now more common for this occurrence than it was in 1995. It was outrageous back then, crazy even. Imagine if they were to make a third Father of the Bride. I would love to see the Banks' family story continue. "},{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"21 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Both the first movie and this sequel are fantastic. I loved the first movie, so I thought I would give the second one a shot, and I was pleasantly surprised!! The acting from all the characters is amazing, from Steve Martin to Diane Keaton to Kimberly Williams-Paisley. 16 years after its release this movie is still a gem. When I'm feeling down or just need a go-to comedy for a night in, these two movies are the best. For those who say that a 40-something woman is too old to have a baby--that's just not true. Do your research. I bet more people have been in that situation than you think.Anyway, this is a feel-good movie for some great laughs and a few happy tears! "}{"Title":"Just a nice movie.","Date":"30 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" George Banks finally thinks that he has the freedom that he always wants. His daughter is grown up, his son is almost there and he is planning on moving to the beach. Then his daughter tells him something but he can deal with it but his wife tells him the same thing and he nearly passes out. He doesn't understand how it could happen and so he has to change his whole entire life.I think that this is a funny, cute, nice movie. I watched it when I was in a bad mood and it cheered me up right away. I liked that crazy guy that designed the nursery. He was funny so watch this movie because it's just a feel good type of movie. "},{"Title":"Father 2  Born again.","Date":"28 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Okay,now the sequel Father Of The Bride 2,which was surprisingly better than expected. Like anyone who sees a sequel,you expect almost a carbon copy of the first.It does start similar to the first movie,with George sitting in a chair addressing us,the audience. It also does an unfortunate repeat of the fight between Annie & Bryan,again like the first movie,I saw it coming. The baby shower party is not played big,like the first after wedding party but I laughed when actual storks carrying little bundles showed up. I was kind of iffy on the sub-plot of George selling the house,having to leave in ten days and then blowing a bundle to get it back again. I'm not questioning the probability (we know in reality that'd be impossible),I just found it kind of unnecessary. I did however like his dyed hair and new look,that was hilarious and he should have kept it until the end of the movie.Some may say the idea of a mother & daughter being pregnant at the same time,is impossible. Yet,somehow it works here. It's not just the obvious next step for Annie but for George and his wife too,who thought having babies was way behind them. I love Steve Martin's warped expression when Bryan calls him a Grandfather!I liked that a woman having a baby in her 40's was taken very seriously,since it's a fact that women who have babies later in life have a more difficult time. It makes for a good piece of drama in a film that's otherwise a family comedy. The comedy is helped once again by the presence of Martin Short and I like that he becomes more involved with the family. Especially helping George out the front door on his back. This after giving him sleeping pills for rest.Once the babies are born and Bryan & Annie head to Boston for a new life,the film gets a very touching ending with George and his new baby girl. 8 out of 10 for the expected repeat of ideas,otherwise a very well made sequel. (END) "},{"Title":"As I understand it, there were accusations of anti-Arab stereotyping?","Date":"28 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Father of the Bride II may seem to some people like a lesser Steve Martin movie, with him as the patriarch from the previous movie now having to deal with his daughter's and wife's pregnancies. Unpretentiously silly. But one interesting thing is that apparently, some Arab groups claimed that the movie was making anti-Arab stereotypes, as a Middle Eastern man buys their house with plans to demolish it. I wouldn't have interpreted that as anti-Arab; I mean, it's not like they're portraying him as a terrorist.Oh well, life goes on. The movie's a nice, goofy way to pass time. I really liked the scene where they bring Steve Martin into the hospital (that would've sure been an embarrassment!). Also starring Diane Keaton, Martin Short, Kimberly Williams, B.D. Wong and Eugene Levy. "},{"Title":"Not exactly the most innovative of films, but still great fun!","Date":"6 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is an excellent, funny, warming film. Although a lot of the same kind of thing was done in the first movie, it's still entertaining. Steve Martin's character was good, although at times his behaviour is quite pathetic and Martin Short is again entertaining. (Particularly his pronunciation of the word 'pregnant).' Although it's highly predictable and not the most intellectually stimulating of films it is still well worth watching and the vast majority of people would enjoy this film. "},{"Title":"This Feels Like SNL in the Maternity Ward","Date":"19 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  George Banks is probably the least likely character for Sympathy of the Year Award. He has a well-behaved son, a wife who he's still very much in love with, a wonderfully healthy daughter who knows where she's going, and a decent and hard working son-in-law. What is it that spearhead's his journey into mid-life crisis? The twin-occurrence of pregnancies in his wife and daughter. The question on George's mind isn't What's it going to be like raising an infant at his age (late '40's)? It's Can he make it through these two pregnancies? He's put to the test through the big issue of his daughter's job relocation, his wife's mood swings, false alarms, sleeping pill mishaps, and various antics of the interior decorator who literally drives him up the wall and barely to the hospital when both his wife and daughter go into labor at (practically) the same time.Embarrassing at first but always outrageously funny and a little dramatic at it's conclusion. Very entertaining. And Jane Adams is amazing as the doctor who delivers George's baby. And Martin looked horrible in his brown hair. And I recommend this movie if you're mature enough to handle such a heavy dose of amusement added to this topic. And I should go now... "},{"Title":"A really likable comedy.","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I enjoyed this film. I found that it was easy to relate to Steve Martin's character George Banks as a parent. The relationship between him and his daughter Annie, played by Kimberly Williams, was an honest father daughter relationship. I recommend this one for parents in general and empty nesters in particular. The idea of a mother and daughter being pregnant at the same time is plausible and amusing. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"30 August 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is well worth seeing. Everything goes perfectly. Ain't no such thing as too much Steve Martin, baby. Here Martin carries weak material, but it's a positive movie that shows the joy a new child brings. You will laugh, cry and cheer. I thought this was cute and not bad at all. Some of the dialog is a bit lost on US audiences, but still some hilarious lines. The music is amazing throughout. Also the scenery is incredible. I saw the cast had a lot of great comedians, so I thought there would at least be a few laughs. Instead, I was surprised to see a very touching movie, absolutely great script. I give it 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Mostly harmless guilty pleasure","Date":"9 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" While no where near the quality of Father's Little Dividend, the Spencer Tracy vehicle that was the sequel to the original Father of the Bride, Father of the Bride II is not the worst way to while away a lazy weekend afternoon. The plot follows a fairly predictable series of events with little by way of character development. The actors are talented and that makes all the difference. I can't help but find myself tearing up every darn time I watch this schlock-fest.I am rather amazed however that no reviewer has commented on the unnecessarily negative portrayal of Mr. Habib (a cameo by Eugene Levy) as the arrogant, misogynistic Arab who buys the Banks' beloved home. With both Keaton and Martin well known for their liberal politics, I'm surprised neither objected to this tired depiction of a Southern California real estate trope. "},{"Title":"Funny Sequel","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Geogre Banks is getting used to life without his precious daughter Anne. Now he is thinking about all the free time he will have when his son is out of the house.That`s when Anne announces that she is going to have a baby.Geogre is shocked but he becomes even more shocked when he finds out his wife is going to have baby as well.Now he has to deal Franck helping out with the two pregnant women.Can Geogre ever get a break? This is my second favorite movie.My first is Father of the bride part I.This is a good movie.See it it is a great sequel.It is almost as good as the first one. Steve Martin steals the screen. "},{"Title":"What were you thinking Diane?","Date":"26 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I really tried to watch this movie with an open mind.  Ever since watching Diane Keaton in The First Wives Club, I fell in love with her.  She is a brilliant actress and a somewhat strange individual which makes her very compelling.  The sad part about it is, not even she can save this movie. I really enjoyed the first Father of the Bride but found this one to be almost annoying.  The movie was very predictable and humorless.  Steve Martin was very disappointing....so sad... "}{"Title":"Shocking","Date":"1 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film is proof that sequels should never be made to comedies.  Its plot is mind-bendingly thin, with poor acting all round and is swimming with ridiculous ideas (indeed the main idea that the mother and daughter could be pregnant at the same time is stretching it a bit).My advice - do not watch this film, unless you like being bored out of your mind. "},{"Title":"great movie","Date":"1 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  this movie is hilarious and even better than the first one. steve martin and martin short are soo funny and its a great movie. eugene levy is great as mr. habib. haha a 10, i love it. the scene going to the hospital is hilarious. hey man, whats with that face huh? is that supposed to be me? do u have a problem, loser? we have no problem with anyone just leave us alone! leave u alone, what are u a tree? haha very good ur obviously a comedian, very good just nobody look at them...etc lol "},{"Title":"Better than the first one!","Date":"5 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I love Steve Martin, but I was disappointed by the first movie, so I wasn't expecting as much from this one.  But to my surprise, this one was even better! It's constantly funny, just like one should expect from Steve Martin; it's not preoccupied with corny emotion, like the first movie was. It's Steve Martin in his best performance since My Blue Heaven. Sometimes sequels can be surprisingly good.  This one is better.  It has all the comedic elements that were stagnant in the first movie.  It's everything the first movie should have been, and more! "},{"Title":"Better than the original","Date":"12 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Father of the Bride, Part II is actually a remake of the 1951 sequel, Father's Little Dividend, which is turn is a sequel to Father of the Bride. All of the principle cast members from the original film return with more outrageous situations and more laughs. George Banks (Steve Martin) is just getting over the wedding of his daughter (Kimberly Williams) when he has even more distressing news, she is going to have a baby! This doesn't settle well with him considering he feels old and is not ready to be a grandfather. Not only that, but his wife Nina (Diane Keaton) is also pregnant! Talk about a wacked situation! This not only makes George a grandfather but also a father at the age of 50. This movie and the original Father of the Bride are two of my favorite movies of all time. They are both dramatic, heartwarming and funny. One thing I like is the fact that it continues the storyline very smoothly with references from the first film and Diane Keaton has a lot more to do in this. Martin Short also returns as the wacky ex-wedding coordinator who now coordinates baby showers, lucky for the Banks family! Rent the original and this one for a night of humor and drama, and for anyone who is having a baby, make them watch this!  "},{"Title":"Better than the original","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This one is definitely better than the original, funnier, smoother pace, and in some places, better acting! Plus Martin Short has more screen time. Great! This is a great movie for anyone who like good clean comedy. Awesome! Five out of Five Moose Stars! "},{"Title":"Worthy second installment.","Date":"12 November 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Mild SPOILERS are contained in the following comments. However, I believe everyone knows the story and how it turns out. The fun of the movie is seeing the actors, especially Martin.Steve Martin is back as George Banks, having just lost his daughter and basketball partner (Kimberly Williams as Annie ) to marriage, and now she is back home with her husband and a big announcement. She is pregnant. Of course everyone is happy, and the joy is doubled when Nina Banks (Diane Keaton as Annie's mom) finds out she is pregnant too. Poor George doesn't know if he can handle all this. After all, he is about to be a grandfather, he's not prepared to be a new father also. Martin Short is back as Franck Eggelhoffer, the unintelligible wedding planner. All ends well as both mom and daughter deliver their babies at the same time, in separate hospital rooms, so George has to go back and forth. The movie ends a few months later, and as Annie and her new baby are leaving, she gives dad a miniature basketball, a reminder to George that he can raise another basketball partner. "},{"Title":"I will never get tired of this movie!","Date":"13 September 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  After seeing this movie countless numbers of times I still laugh and cry and just have the most wonderful feeling at the end. The first time I saw this movie I thought it was OK...but didn't like it as much as the first movie. After a few years I saw it again and absolutely fell in love with it. Now it has become one of my favorite movies and whenever I'm in a bad mood I can pop it in and smile all the way to the finish. Steve Martin is just the funniest man and watching his character change from hating the idea of being a grandpa and new father again never ceases to amaze me. The only thing I hated about that movie was that it had to end. I want to see more!!!! Each character did a great job and that has to be my dream house. If you want a feel good movie that leaves you happy and complete please don't miss this.  "},{"Title":"The Best Movie of All Time","Date":"8 March 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" let me tell you.. anyone who does not like the movie is just a little close minded.. i read comments that thought the movie was too unrealistic but thats what makes it so great! i mean look at other movies such as lord of the rings or star wars neither or them contain true reality.. this is why its a movie. Anyway, i loved Steve martin in this movie. he does a magnificent job of playing the character for an over protective dramatic father. he was the best actor. who could have played the part of Nina as well as Diane Keaton. she makes the part of the mom annoyingly overwhelming mother, which is exactly what the point of us as the audience to think of her. martin short is the best of all fra'nk's. the way he seeks George banks's approval is perfect. and lastly Kimberly Williams is the gorgeous daughter we are all expecting her to be.. i watch this movie every night before bed and i can recite every word to this movie. because of father of the bride II i have dreamed to meet Steve martin.. hes my hero!! hopefully you fall in love with it too. and dream to be pregnant with your mother as did Annie banks. "},{"Title":"Pure Enjoyment","Date":"28 June 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Sometimes a little far fetched,(Like the situation about selling the house) but most of the time right on the mark.  Steve Martin is wonderful and Diane Keaton plays her role perfect.  Suporting case enjoyable.  Very good sequel to Father of the Bride. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable and Re-watchable","Date":"18 May 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie! It's the kind of movie you can watch over and over and over (trust me, my sister and I watch it tons of times) and never get sick of it! It's funny, and having Steve Martin as George definitely helps. Kimberly Williams is great (as always) and Diane Keaton is good too. I love this more than the first one (Father of the Bride)! "}{"Title":"Funnier than the first one","Date":"15 February 1999","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I thought the movie was quite funny, especially scenes like Martin Short doing a workout with the pregnant mother and daughter...that was really great!  Martin Short is basically one of the highlights of the movie...his accent is so weird and funny that you have to love him.  Steve Martin was also good, and I liked his reactions to everything.  Overall, the flick was better than the first one, and cute.  But after awhile, Steve Martin gets a bit annoying with his obsessing over the pregnant women. "},{"Title":"Very Warm and Funny.","Date":"27 February 2006","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is a very warm and funny family film. I enjoyed every minute of it because it was very real. Some may disagree but there are a lot of people who may of had this type of situation. I loved that Martin Short was in the Sequel because I love his comedy and he made the movie very funny. The only thing I didn't like was Eugene Levy's character, I found that his part was just put there to extend the movie a bit. I also didn't like how they used him in the second one when he was clearly the one who auditioned to be the wedding singer in the first one. All in all this is a great family film where many will enjoy and watch together. "},{"Title":"not as good as the first","Date":"21 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A little like the first but far from the grand design that the first brought, Father of the Bride Part II is a loose remake of the 1951 movie, Father's Little Dividend. Father's Little Dividend is a sequel of the 1950 classic Father of the Bride. This movie is full of the old cast from the 4 year ago movie that brought us all smiles Father of the Bride, which stared Steve Martin and Diane Keaton.This sequel has all the old cast, Steve Martin, Diane Keaton, Kimberly Williams, Martin Short, George Newbern and Kieran Culkin. Eugene Levy who played a minor role (just featuring in one scene) in the first movie as a wedding singer who was auditioning to be in the wedding, was given more screen time this time, as he plays Mr. Habib.Although fun and the plot smile able at, while watching this remake I didn't feel like I did in the first, were I was wishing that I was the family, the whole chaos of two child birth was more overwhelming to me the viewer not to mention George. Disney's decision to further make a part two was based on the financial return that the first part brought. Although this part two didn't make as much money as the first, but it is a good addition if you desire to see what happened to the Banks family and how Annie carried on.The movie plot starts like the first with George Banks (Steve Martin) giving us a narration about what led to what. After Annie (Kimberly Williams) and Bryan (George Newbern) got married, the next best thing that all couples desire is a nest and the desire to fill the nest with pitter patter of little feet.Well God finally answered their prayers, as Annie was pregnant with she and Bryan's first child and George has been swung into the pool of grandfathers.George, an enemy of change starts to panic and started acting all young to prove to himself and others that he was not old enough to be a grandpa, well he also got his wishes as Nina (Diane Keaton) too got pregnant. So The Mother of the Bride and the Bride are both expecting a bundle of joy each, taking George's over reacting behavior off the roof.Martin Short and his companion were brought back but their inclusion was not as heartwarming as their presence was in the first.Well after you have seen the first, you will be tempted to see the second and you should, but don't expect too much of the smiles the first delivered, but it is a nice watch a good fun time for you and the family.www.lagsreviews.com "},{"Title":"I really found this film quite annoying","Date":"31 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" My basic opinion of this movie is that it is a crappy American feel good comedy. It is simply about a man who is going through another mid-life crisis as his daughter, who was married in the first movie, has a baby in this one. The catch is that his wife is also pregnant and with the irony really dripping, both of them have their babies within minutes of each other. As such the kid's auntie is exactly the same age as him (it won't happen to me, though it is possible).When I watch this movie I think to myself, this guy really doesn't have problems. There are people out there that have much more serious problems than he does. He admits to having a beautiful wife who loves him, owns his own home (or did), has a great job and great kids - and he thinks he has problems. Maybe the whole comedy is in the fact that he is worrying about absolutely nothing, but seriously, when I watch this movie, I simply shake my head and think that the guy is a loser. I really don't think it is all that funny.In fact, the guy has much more serious problems. He seems to be spending an awful lot of money, and is going to find himself in a huge amount of debt, and he doesn't seem to ever be at work. My question is not only where he gets his money, but where he gets the collateral for all of the purchases he is making. He buys back his house for an extra $100,000 on top of what he sold it for, and really, how can he seriously afford it.Okay, it wasn't all that bad. As a movie is was made well, and I did chuckle a few times. But in reality, this guy is a serious loser because he has more than anybody could possibly ask for, and he is worried about growing old. Hell, we all grow old, but he has experience more than what a lot of us have already had. Instead of worrying about growing old, the twit should look back on his life and be thankful for the blessings that God has already given him as opposed to forgetting all of that and winging about his age. "},{"Title":"Not bad, but inferior to the first","Date":"6 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I was surprised at how much I enjoyed the first movie. It was not without sentiment and it was hardly original, but it was still beautifully filmed, well acted, charming and funny. This sequel is not as good as the first I agree, but I still quite enjoyed it. The story is predictable, and there are some so-so parts in the script. Eugene Levy, who I do like by the way, is okay here but his character felt somewhat unnecessary and felt like he was there as an additional character and to give the film a longer length. And I also would have liked to have seen more of Kimberley Williams, she is so beautiful and quite a good actress, but I actually do agree that a little too much time is spent between Steve Martin and Diane Keaton. However, it is beautifully filmed, has a nice soundtrack, decent pacing and good direction. And the acting is fine too, Steve Martin and Diane Keaton are still very likable, and while as I've said I would have liked to have seen more of her Kimberley Williams was lovely. And I loved Martin Short here too, he was one of the main merits of the first film, so to see him in his wonderfully fluffy turn again was a very nice surprise. Overall, not bad at all, could have been better, but I liked it. 6/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Touching even in its weak state.","Date":"15 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Steve Martin, Diane Keaton, Martin Short, and kimberly Williams Paisley return in Father of the Bride Part 2. The film as a sequel was slightly disappointing, but on the whole, likeable. George and Nina Banks are in for the surprise of their lives when they find themselves middleaged and expecting their third child.  The timing is impeccable as Annie Banks-MAckenzie also realizes that she is expecting. Thus Steve MArtin embarks on a nine month journey that will consist of him building a new room for the baby, watching his daughter become a woman and overdosing on sleeping pills.  Honestly, the film made me laugh hysterically and i shed a few tears at the bittersweet ending.3 and 1/2 stars out of five. "},{"Title":"This is my favorite movie","Date":"12 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** *CONTAINS SPOILERS* This is my favorite movie.  I think it is funny, sweet, and truly touches the heart.  In the sequel to the previous, Father of the Bride, George Banks (Steve Martin) is finally getting over the fact that his beloved daughter, Annie (Kimberly Williams)has gotten married.  But then she shocks him with the news that she is pregnant.  Everyone else is thrilled, but George is not.  He believes that he is too young to be a grandfather.  He tries to become young, but doesn't succeed.  Then, both he and his wife, Nina (Diane Keaton) are shocked to find out that Nina is also pregnant.  George now thinks he is too old to be a father.  They have one other child other then Annie, Matty (Kieren Culkin.)  Through the chaotic turns of pregnancy, George learns to except the fact that his daughter has grown up and moved on, even though it is hard.  They also have to deal with Fronk (Martin Short,) the goofy wedding coordinator from the first movie, who is now designing the new baby's room.  They then discover that Annie has been given the opportunity to design a museaum in Boston, far away from their own, San Marino, California.  George now realizes that he will miss his daughter more then ever, but he learns to get along.  In the end, he enjoys being a grandfather to baby George, and a father again, to Megan, named after the doctor who delievered her.  In this funny and heartwarming sequel, everyone puts out fantastic performences once again.  Even though I very much enjoy Father of the Bride, I enjoy this much more. "},{"Title":"Like Cliches?","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" ...That weren't even funny the first time? I've seen a lot of films with Steve Martin in them, and they all made me laugh.  Until this one. Part one is worth a look..it may make you laugh a couple of times (I think I laughed once).  But I recommend avoiding this one all together. "},{"Title":"Just As Unnecessary As Its Predecessor.","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Mediocre sequel to its equally disappointing predecessor has Steve Martin going through a mid-life crisis after he learns that his daughter (Kimberly Williams) is pregnant. Things get more complicated for Martin as he learns that wife Diane Keaton is pregnant as well. Martin selling the house to foreigner Eugene Levy and the annoying appearance of Martin Short do nothing to help out uninspired direction and a corn-filled screenplay. Minimally successful in the end. 2.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"No, the Slapstick family","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm probably overly biased against this movie because I think any film with Martin Short in it immediately falls into the slapstick category.  And this one didn't change that opinion.Although I think Steve Martin and Diane Keaton did a fine job, Short does put much of this movie into slapstick category. "}{"Title":"Makes you happy","Date":"23 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie makes you feel happy, it's very warm and a very good movie...I saw it a couple of years ago for the first time and I loved it. If you don't like sentimental movies, this is not a movie for you, but I can guarantee a good laugh and a happy feeling inside after you've seen it!!! "},{"Title":"Loved it!!","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I thought the sequel to the first Father of the Bride just showed what a great chemistry Steve Martin, Diane Keaton, Martin Short, Kimberly Williams, George Newbern, and Kieran Culkin, along with all the other supporting actors have together. I would actually love to see a Father of the Bride Part III and I usually hate more and more sequels. I really do enjoy this sequel and I think it is better than the first one. I would reccommend any and everyone seeing this movie (but not without seeing the first one).  "},{"Title":"Good, but first one was better","Date":"25 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film is good but you have to suspend disbelief quite a few times. All the performances are fine, with Steve Martin a scream again, and Diane Keaton glowing from start to finish (she has a lot more to do here than in FOTB1). The best scenes are George trying to get buff in the gym, asking which famous men he's younger than, pointing to his wedding ring at the lady in the car next to him, and seeing all the misbehaving children out the window in his car while his wife sees all the happy kids and their parents out her window. And of course, when George holds his child and grandchild outside the delivery room. My favorite line Now going to the movies will be economical one child, two seniors, thanks! "},{"Title":"Father of the Bride II","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Likable, but not as impressive a follow up to the 1991 hit with Martin now dealing with his daughter being pregnant...And, oh yeah...his wife is pregnant again too.  "},{"Title":"My comments are going to be very positive.","Date":"2 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Hi! I think that Father of the Bride Part 2 was a great film and very hilarious. I think that the mother and daughter could have been pregnant at the same time!  It was a great movie and I recommend it to all people who want a warm-your-heart comedy! It's a great film! Thanks! "},{"Title":"And whom may I ask is the father?.....","Date":"27 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" George Banks must accept the reality of what his daughter's ascension from daughter to wife, and now, to mother means when placed into perspective against his own stage of life.As the family unit starts to unravel in his mind, a rapid progression into mid-life crisis is in his future.His journey to regain his youth acts as a trigger for a kind of resurrection of his attitude on life when he and his wife find how their lives are about to change as well.....The first movie was a huge hit, so a sequel was inevitable because at the time, Hollywood had a penchant for greenlighting sequels to sleeper hits. See also, Waynes World, Beethoven, and Sister Act.And thankfully, along with WW2, this is one of the better blatant cash ins.If you enjoyed the first movie, you will enjoy this, because Meyers has gone for the old 'If it ain't broke' way of filming, more of the same.There are references to the first film, The Dogs not liking George, the over emotional Father In Law, and of course Frank, the clown of the movie, used to even better effect than in the first.It's all been done before, but it's still a nice little film for all the family. "},{"Title":"Kind of ridicules, but still a fun film","Date":"14 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The other day I was renting Father of the Bride and I figured to go ahead and grab the sequel. The great thing about it is that the original cast was back so I thought this had a good chance of being as good as the first. So I watched the first Father of the Bride and really loved it, so I watched Part 2 right afterwards, I have to say this movie is a bit unbelievable. Now getting pregnant the same time as your mother, it's cool, I can believe it because my grandmother and great grandmother were both pregnant at the same time, but they didn't give birth at the same time at the same hospital. That just seemed a little too coincidental and out of the blue. But Father of the Bride Part 2 still delivers good laughs even if the plot is predictable and unbelievable.George and the family are doing well and are just enjoying life, he's even grown to like Bryan. When Annie and Bryan come over, they announce big news that they are pregnant, everyone is so excited, except for George who has just accepted his daughter being married, now he's going to be a grandpa? But the plot thickens, Nina is pregnant too with George's baby, like mother, like daughter, and when Bryan has to go out of town for work, George has to take over, but with Franck Eggelhoffer's help, that won't be too hard.Father of the Bride Part 2 is predictable and like I said it does get ridicules at times, but it still is a fun film for you and the family. I have to admit that the ending was very sweet, but I won't give that away, you'll have to see for yourself. Steve Martin, I felt so bad for him how hard he was trying to take care of his wife and daughter at the same time, poor guy. Franck Eggelhoffer really delivers the laughs this round, he and Steve, when George falls asleep and Annie goes into labor, Franck tries to carry George and has a hard time is so funny. Fater of the Bride Part 2 is worth the time and look, it's a cute movie over all.5/10 "},{"Title":"Pretty much just a rehash of the first","Date":"8 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  As this movie started, it reminded me a lot of the first. Various scenes were reenacted, only a little wackier, sort of like it was trying to be a shade more funny than the first; I guess that is the usual stuff for this type of sequels, but I think it failed at that. Apart from that, the movie pretty much succeeds in being a good sequel to the first. The story is also somewhat reminiscent of the first one. All the same actors return as well, and they are pretty much the same, just a shade more wacky. The story is also told by Steve Martins character, George Banks, like in the first. Pretty much everything in the movie is a takeoff of the first; this doesn't make it bad though, if you liked the first, liked the characters, you'll want to see this too, if nothing else, to see the characters again. It is about as funny and as sentimental as the first was, and as enjoyable. Fans of the first one, or of Steve Martin will most likely enjoy at least some part of it, as this is the typical for both the first movie and Steve Martin. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Some of Martin's best work!","Date":"5 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" First, this review is for Father of the Bride 1 AND 2. If run back to back, they run like one beautiful story. This production is great from start to finish. Everything about it is wonderful, including the story, the acting performances and the direction. This is the best example of Martin's versatility as an actor. His comedic style is rather straight with zany insertions to highlight the otherwise serious atmosphere of his performances. He plays a wonderful straight man-turned-comic-turned straight man. This movie is no exception. His performance is comedic, yet startlingly genuine.Martin Short is hilarious and Diane Keaton is just as genuine in her portrayal of Steve Martin's wife as is Martin's. I love this movie. I love its ability to make you commiserate with Martin's character; with how he feels, and what he's going through. This one brings up every emotion in the spectrum, and I love it. It's less about family, and more about life's curves; the every-day things that make us crazy, happy, sad, and ultimately stronger. It's entertaining and at the same time makes you think, consider, ponder the events which have led us to where we are now.Combined, they rate 8.6/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Average comedy sequel","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There's been better, and there's been worse. Father of the Bride Part II falls right in between when it comes to sequels of comedies. The plot was easily predictable and the movie didn't have as many Steve Martin funny moments as the original. There were some good moments that made me laugh though, most being scenes with Martin Short. It did seem like sort of a stretch, though that all of the sudden Frank was an interior designer as well as a wedding/baby shower coordinator. I guess they just needed a way to keep him in the movie longer. I was hoping for a lot more when I rented this. My advice stick to the original.   "}{"Title":"One of the most hilarious, heart-warming, and enchanting comedies I have ever seen","Date":"21 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" FATHER OF THE BRIDE PART II, in my opinion, is one of the most hilarious, heart-warming, and enchanting comedies I have ever seen. If you ask me, Alan Silvestri's score was absolutely romantic. In addition, I thought that the performances were superior, the directing was excellent, the costumes were perfectly designed, and the casting was perfect. Also, I was surprised that Martin Short sported his accent again. Kudos to Charles Shyer and everyone involved for a job well done. Now, in conclusion, if you are a fan Steve Martin, Diane Keaton, or Martin Short, or if you liked FATHER OF THE BRIDE, I highly recommend this movie. You're in for a feel good time, so see this movie today. You're in for a good time, so go to the video store, rent it or buy it, kick back with a friend, and watch it. "},{"Title":"AWESOME!","Date":"27 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is great!  I think it's one of the best movies ever made!  I love both Father of the Bride I and II!  I think that it is cute how they have the mother and daughter pregnant at the same time!  I hope that they come out with a Father of the Bride Part III, that would be awesome! -) "},{"Title":"daughter gets married","Date":"10 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" In the sequel to Father of the Bride we have the daughter getting married and moving away from home, this presents a big dilemma to the father played of course by Steve Martin. Maybe not quite as funny as the first one,, or as good,, but definitely above average,, it's always a pleasure watching Steve Martin work at his craft. The movie is basically about how the family,, especially the parents deal with their young daughter growing up,, getting married, and eventually moving away from the nest.. the cameo from Eugene Levy is just wonderful,, as a real estate agent who is trying to sell the very home where our main character lives.. all in all a very family friendly movie,, that I would recommend. "},{"Title":"Good, so long as you don't try to think too much","Date":"23 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It was a fun movie, but it had no particular substance. I mostly watched it because I'd seen the first one. And because it was free on my cable. Or at least, I wasn't paying only to see it. Now, I have done that before and been pleasantly surprised, but this just wasn't one of those movies.Most of what was in this movie has been done already in the first film, and then it was in a much better way. Which isn't to say I didn't enjoy it, I'm just glad that I got to watch it free. Sure, Steve Martin's always fun to watch, particularly when he's acting dopey for whatever reason, but that didn't make it a great film. Just mediocre. Still, it's fun for a laugh. "},{"Title":"good, but a mistake","Date":"14 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" this movie rocks. but there is one thing weird. okay, so in the beginning Annie says, i have lived here since i was 5! and then later right when they are selling the house and playing basketball Annie and George(her dad) and her dad says i remember the first time we played out here, you were 4. wait...so was she 4 or 5 when they moved in??????????? other than that this movie makes me laugh, cry(because i laugh so much), and..........uh.....what was that other thing people say when they say that? i don't really remember. i just love how Steve martin always is so cheap. I am forced to say more so i will say i love that this movie is always on HBO! And i realized something, Steve martin has had white hair like forever! "}]