[{"Title":"A DEFINITIVE INSTANCE when the Academy, indeed the public, truly missed the mark...and indeed missed out","Date":"6 May 2001","Score":"70 out of 86 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This film reminds you what life's all about.  Emmanual Luzbeki's cinematography demands praise- it's so stunningly beautiful one wonders why he didn't win the oscar.  Indeed, this film is flawlessly scripted, acted, and executed, it is perhaps the definitive example of how the Academy oftentimes nominates based on box-office receipts, and not based on merit.  *&#$() braveheart, THIS movie was the best film of 1995.  And should have been nominated.  No other film makes me tear up or cry as much for its brutal honesty, it's uncliched tenderness, and heartfelt truth about those ultimately human truths- love, kindness, and the magic of believing.  Rarely does a film so positively move one's heart.  Seek this film out.  Go now. "},{"Title":"A wonderful movie","Date":"21 April 2004","Score":"43 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  It's a fantasy film over the fantasy and the imagination, but showing realities of children mistreatment and cruelty that in the real world are truly worse than those exposed (maybe more outside of U.S.A. and certainly exists in the third world, including India).Alfonso Cuarón (`Y tu mamá también'), showed us in this film a masterful domain of the dramatic conduction combined with an excellent photography and a first-rate edition job.For example, a deserving scene is when Sara (Liesel Matthews) wakes up and starts getting up to find the transformation of the rickety attic in a marvelous environment just made with cloths, fruits, food and incense with Hindu reminiscent. It's a fast sequence of five different shots which emphasizes the magic moment for the girl. The astonishing surprise relaxes the magic to a real world that can be good, just with the appearance of the little monkey of the Hindu servant Ram Dass (Errol Sitahal), showing to us that he, in some way, transformed the attic in the meanwhile sleep of the two girls.Another exceptional, but very simple made scene, is when Miss Minchin (Eleanor Bron), in a crude way informs Sara that her father, an English captain of the British army, died in the war some weeks ago, and the British government confiscated all his properties, leaving her in misery. At the same time that the speech occurs, a black balloon slowly displaces floating near, exploding at the very moment in when she says that she's completely alone in the world, symbolizing that her fantasies are dead and must face the crude reality.It's interesting to note that the hero of her fantastic stories, Prince Rama, is her own father in the movie (Liam Cunningham) and the heroin, Princess Sita (Alison Moir), is her mother, who died some years ago.The interpretation of all the actors its extremely well directed and performed but the roll of Miss Minchin (Eleanor Bron) is remarkable.It's not a movie about a false expectance; it's a movie about fantasies and the necessities to have a hope in the future, being able to dream and therefore make plans. (Remember `La Vita è bella' from Roberto Benigni).Sorry for my English grammar, but is very difficult for me to express my thoughts in a different language than my native one.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful material for the heart ...","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"42 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Sara (played by Liesel Matthiews) is a generous, compassionate, and imaginative character. This film reminds me of virtues I adhered to as a child, how almost identical they were with that of Sara, and how those virtues have gradually submerged as I ventured towards adulthood. It reminded me of the innocence I once possessed, the innocence that has been slowly but surely chipped away by Society as I know it.Nevertheless, this film made me realize that all I ever believed was never lost in me, but rather, simply inert and obscured. As my emotions swayed along with the joys and plights the little child Sara endured, I realized I am still as humane and compassionate as I always have been, and that it just doesn't show too much on the exterior anymore, that's all.Each time my eyes went moist, I felt happier with myself.Too bad this film did not do too well in the theatres, as I find the film quite moving and uplifting. I would definitely recommend it to anyone!  "},{"Title":"A wonderful little movie you might have missed","Date":"12 November 2004","Score":"34 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Just before seeing this movie, I wasn't expecting much. There just wasn't anything else on TV, and this was just beginning, so I decided to give it a chance. It wasn't very long in before I began to realize that this wasn't just your ordinary, run-of-the-mill, by-the-numbers production. First of all, the movie, with all of the obvious attention to the sets and costume design and how it was photographed, just look absolutely beautiful. Then, the acting is simply superb by everybody, and not just the principal performers. Alfonso Cuaron (who was later tabbed to direct the 3rd Harry Potter movie, really showed his stuff in this film, which in my opinion was largely overlooked, as I don't remember a whole lot of publicity being done when it was first released, which is a shame, because a lot of effort went into making this such a good movie. Equally appealing to kids and adults alike, which is pretty rare as well. Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"A sweet movie that kindles your heart.","Date":"9 May 2001","Score":"35 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  A Little Princess is a great movie of friendship and hope. It shows that all little girls can be princesses regardless of race, appearance, or being a snob. The year is 1914 and little Sarah is forced to go to a school in New York, New York (after spending all her life in India) when her father must fight for Britain in the First World War. Immediately Sarah has made two foes, the head-mistress and founder Miss Minchin and Livinia the school bully. Miss Minchin doesn't like Sarah because Sarah is imaginative and smart. Livinia doesn't like Sarah because she is a threat to her popularity. When a tragic problem arises Sarah is reduced to a servant girl her friends show her that she doesn't need to give up on life. This movie is wonderfully heart touching with a great ending. I would recommend it to anyone and everyone. "},{"Title":"Stunningly Beautiful","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"33 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This is the most facsinating movie to watch. It is the kind of movie that takes your breath away with its mystery, emotion, color, life, and intensity. The theme of India is so exsquisitly woven into the story with that robust color and mystery. The little girl is cherished by the audience. The emotion of her trials and joys causes goosebumps on my arms. This is 'A Little Princess' masterpiece. "},{"Title":"A sweet confection of a film-one of the overlooked gems of the '90s","Date":"2 December 2005","Score":"22 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This movie is on my short list of great live action family films. If you believe that every girl is a princess, this is the movie for you. Beautifully staged and shot, well-acted, superbly directed. This movie works from start to finish.Some reviewers here on IMDb have slammed the film as overly sentimental. If you don't like movies with a sweet disposition, this isn't your film. Let's put it this way if you think Frank Capra was the bane of American film-making, you're gonna hate this movie. If you judge films on a the darker, the better scale-why are you even watching this? Another caveat I haven't read the book. The movie apparently takes great liberties with the book. If this kind of thing bothers you, stay away.Alfonso Cuaron shows a deft handling of the sense of wonder here. When he was announced as the director of Harry Potter 3, his work on Little Princess made me confident he'd deliver the goods. One reviewer tried to declare that Princess was a calculated attempt by Cuaron to to get a gig on the Potter series. Impossible. Princess was released in 1995, and Sorceror's/Philosopher's Stone was PUBLISHED in 1998.This is a small, quiet, sweet little film the entire family can enjoy, without insulting Mom & Dad's intelligence. It is the next step for all little girls who are starting to outgrow Belle/Ariel/Jasmine and the rest of the animated princesses. This Little Princess is real, and her story is worth watching.Side note-little boys might not find the film engaging. It is kind of chick-flick for the tween set. That doesn't mean it's totally male-unfriendly. Fathers of daughters will be hard-pressed to avoid shedding a tear or two.If you have a tween daughter, save some rental money and just buy it! She's going to watch it over and over. "},{"Title":"A both heartfelt and entertaining story for all ages; it's impossible to not like this movie!","Date":"22 October 2004","Score":"19 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This movie is a must-see for every little girl as well as anyone who still believes in fairy tales. The heartwarming story of Sara Crew and her faith in spite of all odds is enough to melt even the coldest of hearts. This movie tells the story the way it really was in the novel-- unlike the Shirley Temple-sugar-coated ridiculously inaccurate version. The whole family can watch this and enjoy it because there's a little something for everyone. Although there are a few flaws to it (such as ludicrous near-death escapes that only could be believed in fairy tales; besides events that weren't even in the book), the good definitely outweighs the bad and this is an excellent addition to any collection! "},{"Title":"Radiant, emotional, and beautifully designed! MUST see!","Date":"7 June 2000","Score":"23 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This film transcends the Children's Films genre, to become a lovely miniature masterpiece.  This director is fabulous! He is a master of mood and ambiance and a real artist with his compositions!  (Just go see his Great Expectations modern remake for further proof!)   The cast excels with the familiar material, Eleanor Bron is letter perfect as the wicked headmistress of the school, never descending into caricature, but still making her mark as a the villianous Miss Minchin.  Liesel Matthews is a surprising delight as the title character, the other little girls are stereotypical but miraculously wonderful in their individual parts! Rarely does a film completely draw you into it's world and grab hold of your emotions like this one.  The imagery and design elements are remarkable.  The passages from India are mystical and powerful, the use of green throughout the design elements is inspired and helps create this world of wonder seen through a child's eyes.  Even though, we can guess the ending, it still manages to wring you dry of tears before the final lovely silent movie fade-out. A pure delight from beginning to end!  (this must be seen on DVD to fully appreciate the design elements) "},{"Title":"Beautiful and entrancing","Date":"28 June 2000","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I saw this movie with my 5 year old daughter -- and while it was a little too complex for her to follow I completely fell in love with it. Everything about it is beautiful, the sets, the costumes, the acting, even the painful parts are perfect.  The scene toward the end where she's dancing in the window is eyewatering...you just have to see it.Probably this movie is only appropriate for kids 8 and up, (depending on how worldly they are, I suppose), and perhaps that's why it did so abysmally poorly in the theaters.  Still, it's a great film.thad "}{"Title":"Delightfully complex, full of tensions.","Date":"8 November 2000","Score":"18 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  THis is a wonderful children's film full of fascinating adult tensions.  The reactionary assumptions of the source material remain - the upper class are jolly nice and paternalistic; the bourgeoisie (represented by Eleanor Bron) are grasping, slave-owning monsters; India is not a massive subcontinent rife with internal and anti-colonial divisions, but a bright fantasy world of escape from reality - but the film is full of darkness unusual for such a film apartheid, child abuse, poverty, the disruptive, harrowing effects of war, the absence of parents.  In this way, the film's style, veering between fantasy and expressionistic 'realism' is impressive.  The social order may be restored, but the film is full of heartening little revolutions its ultimate message is, look HARDER. "},{"Title":"Handsome story magnificently adapted and splendidly directed","Date":"6 April 2009","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This wonderful movie is based on Francis Burnet kids' classic novel . A sympathetic little girl is sent by her father(Liam Cunninghan in role dual as dad and prince Rama) to New York(the original is London) seminary school ruled by a grumpy headmistress(Eleonora Bron), while he's posted in European WWI. When her daddy is declared wounded and his memory is lost , then the penniless schoolgirl ought to work in the boarding house as a servant to pay her existence.Marvelous rendition has Liesel Mattews as fanciful little girl and Liam Cunninghan as her lovely father and of course the spiteful governess well performed by Eleonora Bron. Besides appear as secondaries Vincent Schiavelli and the future great star Camilla Belle. Although many liberties are taken from original novel contains vivid performances and luxurious scenarios filmed on Burbank studios creating a nice film for children and adults. Spectacular production design by Bob Welch , adding a colorful cinematography by Emmanuel Lubezki, director's usual. Evocative and imaginative musical score with oriental influence on the glamorous dreamt images .The motion picture is brilliant and stunningly directed by Alfonso Cuaron(Children of men,Harry Potter and the prisoner of Azkaban, Great expectations). Another adaptations about this classic story are the following  the vintage version by Walter Lang(1939) with Shirley Temple and Ian Hunter(Liam Cunninghan lookalike role) and Mary Nash(Eagle-eyed Eleonora Bron character) and TV rendition (1987) by Carol Wiseman with Amelia Shankley and Nigel Havers. "},{"Title":"Dreadful","Date":"6 June 2007","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I have loved the book A Little Princess for most of my life, and was very excited that there was a movie. But I was appalled at this adaptation. Not only is the acting wooden, and the plot a convoluted mish mash of various incidents in the book, but the theme is all wrong. The real theme of the story should be that a girl can be a princess only when she behaves like one, as Sara does when she gives 5 of her 6 buns to a beggar child, even when she herself is very hungry. The theme of the movie seems to be that all girls are princesses, which cheapens Sara's actions considerably, and seems more like it should be written on a Hallmark card than applied to this story.There are many other things wrong with this movie- too many to list, but here are just a few of the larger ones This story should be set in Britian in the mid 1800s, not America during the first world war. Miss Minchen is harsh to Sara from the start, making her actions when Sara is left penniless much less startling than they would be if she was syrupy sweet at the beginning, as she is supposed to be. Nowhere is it mentioned that Becky is black. Sara's father does *not* come back, he is dead. It is his closest friend, and collaborator in the diamond mines who finds Sara, and restores her to her proper place. In fact, the diamond mines are not even mentioned at all, though they are the source of Sara's wealth.All through everything that Sara has faced, she always acts like a Princess, giving what she can, and forgiving those who hurt her. She would never have called Lavinia a snotty two faced bully. Such a thing is completely out of character for her, and undermines the entire philosophy that she is to be well behaved no matter what.This is by far the worst adaptation of a book to the screen that I have ever seen (with the notable exceptions of Ella Enchanted, and Anne of Green Gables the Continuing Story)The plot of the book is wonderful, and skillfully written, so I do not understand why the director felt that it needed to be changed to make it interesting. I would suggest that anyone wishing to know this story should watch the 1987 version, which is far superior. Or better still, read the book. It will be more worth your time than the hour and a half wasted on this version on the movie. "},{"Title":"TERRIBLE - NOT at ALL like the Sara in the book","Date":"11 July 2010","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Yes, the film was visually beautiful. Truly. BUT - My issue isn't so much that her father was alive, although I thought they shouldn't have done that. Parents DO die and children are left to deal with it. That is REAL LIFE. However, I like film for escape, so okay - I'll give them a pass on that.My issue is with Sara. The Sara in the book was a MUCH better PERSON than the Sara Crewe in the film. In the film, Sara was spiteful and petty. She retaliated against those who wronged her. The whole POINT of the book was that horrible things happen and life is unfair and just because you are good doesn't mean good things will always happen to you. Unfair crap happens and it's how we RESPOND that matters.In the book, Sara Crewe had dignity and character. She took it on the chin and maintained her personal dignity. I was SO disappointed in the film. I've loved the book for my entire life. To have Sara changed so was a terrific disappointment.Given that the entire point of the book was Sara - who she was and how she handled horrible adversity - I must say I hated this film. I felt they destroyed the character. "},{"Title":"Bitterly disappointing","Date":"18 December 2006","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I was looking forward to this so much, being a big fan of the book. However, when it came out I remember thinking it was one of the biggest wastes of money and time I've ever spent at the cinema.In principle, the acting, the sets and the music were excellent, and are the main reason why I'm rating this a 4. The other nice thread Disney picked up out of the book (so far, they're the only ones) is Sara's storytelling.In this version, Sara is a little too self-sacrificing for my taste. There is no way she would have deliberately lied to Miss Minchin just to stop her punishing the other girls; in the book she makes a point of describing lies as not just wicked, but vulgar. There's also far too much of a Disneyfied ending for me; Sara's father coming back from the dead and having his amnesia/brain fever cured simply by seeing his little girl, and all of them trotting off into the Indian sunset. While the book does have a happy (and critics might say equally improbable) ending, it doesn't leave you thinking, Oh puh- leeze.However, to be perfectly fair, Disney isn't the first one to do this ending; instead, they ripped it off from the Shirley Temple version. Still infuriating to watch (why couldn't they have ripped off the BBC ending, if they had to rip off anyone?) but I suppose it's marginally better than having them just rewrite the book.About the only things true to the book were1. Sara's father being a soldier 2. The lines between Sara and her father (Are you learning me by heart?/No. I know you by heart. You are inside my heart.) 3. Sara's friendship with Becky, and her 'adopting' Lottie (although this last one wasn't developed as much as it could have been) 4. The changing of her room by adding various luxury items. That part was brilliantly done. 5. The basic core - a rich girl being flung into poverty suddenly - is there, but that's about all that is.People might say that this adaptation is more for the younger audience. Possibly. All I can say to that is I have two cousins - aged 7 and 12 respectively - who were big fans of this film until they read the book.If all you want is a 'feel-good' family film, then this delivers. If you're looking for a film that actually tells the story of A Little Princess (in fact, if you've read the book) don't waste time with this one. It's such a shame; with a cast like this, if they'd stuck to at least the basic story it could have been fantastic.Am I harping on about 'read the book' this and 'read the book' that a little too much? Very probably. But if someone attempts to adapt a book - especially such a classic - into a movie, then they should at least have done the same thing. I was led to believe this was an adaptation of the book, not a remake of the Shirley Temple version. "},{"Title":"Not so bad as a movie in itself, but...","Date":"27 June 2010","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" ...as an interpretation of Frances Hodgeson Burnette's original book it could hardly be worse. My apologies to fans of this movie, but I just cannot stand the film. It absolutely ruins everything I love about Sara Crewe and her story.1. All the original and creative ideas that she comes up with on her own in the book, are here spoon-fed to her by her father.2. The enchanting Hans Christian Anderson style fairy tales she tells are turned instead into dark, heavy, epic Hindu myths.3. A major change to the plot/ending changes the whole story, glossing over Sara's (originally) very real loss, and obscuring the point that sometimes bad things DO happen to good people-- and that one can triumph over adverse circumstances without their turning out to have been just mistakes after all.4. Worst of all, the whole definition of what it means to be a princess is altered from an ideal of always behaving towards others from a center of strength, with kindness, courtesy, generosity and respect, even when they are treating you badly, it becomes a vague sort of entitled 'specialness' because ALL girls are princesses, didn't you know? Even when they are behaving like disruptive brats.If you like the movie, that's fine; but my advice would be to do yourself a favor and read the book instead. "},{"Title":"Simply put, this is an amazing movie.","Date":"17 February 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  The storyline is touching and the scenes are all very well acted. The people comparing the book to the movie obviously failed media theory, since they are basically comparing an apple to an orange. I love both the original book and this film, and part of the reason behind that is their differences. I have shown this movie to many children, girls and boys alike. It has a magical quality to it, in that it seems to captivate the attention of even the most restless child. The scene where Sara tells Lottie about her mother in heaven is what really sold me. From that point on it only gets better.  "},{"Title":"Sara Crewe does not make an appearance in this film","Date":"14 August 2010","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I read it to my daughters and now I'm reading it to my granddaughter. Where's Sara? In the book. She's NOT in this film. What a disappointment.The entire POINT of the book is that she thinks of herself as a princess... and it's all about her behavior; nothing else. That's her goal - to behave with dignity, regardless of what happens to her.In the book, she is honest, honorable, brave, and behaves with dignity. Regardless of what happens to her, she does not behave poorly. She does not try to retaliate. In this terrible film, she engages in pranks to get back at those who mistreat her.Horrible. The film is visually beautiful but horrible. Really - read the book to your daughters. Don't visit this awful film on them. "},{"Title":"DREADFUL... Sara is NOTHING like the original in the book","Date":"18 March 2010","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I absolutely despise this film. I wanted to love it - I really wanted to. But man, oh man - they were SO off with Sara. And the father living was pretty cheesy. That's straight out of the Shirley Temple film.I highly recommend THE BOOK. It is amazing. In the book, Sara is honorable and decent and she does the right thing... BECAUSE IT IS RIGHT. She doesn't have a spiteful bone in her body.In the film, she is mean-spirited and spiteful. She does little things to get back at Miss Minchin. In the book, Sara is above such things. She DOES stand up to Miss Minchin. She tells the truth and is not cowed by her. But she does not do the stupid, spiteful things that the Sara in the film does.It's really rather unsettling to me that so many here say they loved the book and they love the movie. I can't help but wonder... did we read the same book? The whole point of the book was personal responsibility, behaving with honor and integrity, ALWAYS telling the truth and facing adversity with calm and integrity.Sara has a happy ending in the book - not the ridiculous survival of her father, but the joining with his partner who has been searching for her. In the book, she is taken in by this new father figure who loves and cares for her and Becky. And Miss Minchin is NOT a chimney sweep - that part of the film really was stupid.To see all this praise for this wretched film is disturbing to me. We are praising a film that glorifies petty, spiteful behavior with a few tips of the hat to kindness? Sara in the book was kind to the bone and full of integrity. I don't even recognize her in the film... she's not in it.Good thing Mrs. Burnett isn't alive to see this horrid thing. It's ghastly and undeserving to bear the title of her book. "},{"Title":"Just Like Real Life!","Date":"7 November 2005","Score":"12 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" In real life when a father dies, all assets are assumed by the state for no apparent reason. That's just how it is.In real life when the police are called to arrest a 10 year old girl for theft, the SWAT team arrives and proceeds to rush the building. That's just how it is.In real life when a child, supposed to be reading aloud a classic book, veers off script and begins to improvise a more interesting plot line, the evil school marm will immediately yank the book out of the girls hand and search it frantically, looking either for her version of the story, or just how the girl is able to recite the book without looking at it. That's just how people act.In real life you can revive a person from their amnesia just by yelling at them. That's just how it is.In real life, women who were former school marms, who take advantage of little cute innocent girls, but don't really do anything illegal, get stripped of their wealth (again for no apparent reason) and become chimney sweeps who's boss is a 9 year old boy. That's just how it is.This film was melodramatic, contrived, trite, hilarious (for all the wrong reasons), poorly acted (the plump assistant in the school gave the most embarrassing performance this side of local puppet theater), and written littered with clichés to support all the plot conveniences required.The art and set direction however, was top notch; hardly a reason to subject yourself to this monstrosity, but beautiful to see, nonetheless.Go watch Matilda and forget this cheesy Hallmark train wreck. "}{"Title":"This movie is one of my favorites of all time.","Date":"15 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This is coming from a guy's perspective. I have seen this movie many times (I have seen most of the top 250 best rated movies on IMDM). This movie is one of my favorites of all time. I think, this movie is one of most under- rated movie there is. I have seen this movie when I was a young boy and this movie inspired me ever since. What inspired me is not the movie itself but the main character's (Sarah) characteristics. She has a wild imagination and is very creative, she dreams big, she is positive and caring, willing to stand her ground and best of all, she had a great personality. I always try to be like Sarah especially having wild imagination and being positive. "},{"Title":"Alfonso Cuaron best film","Date":"14 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This was such a beautiful film. It is one of the best kids movies ever made, and it is also the best movie directed by Alfonso Cuaron, a very good movie director (Despite the fact that sometimes he made bad movies such as Y tu Mama También) This version was a much better adaptation than the 1939 (Which is a very good film, but honestly I think this was a better adaptation of the book) This film had the heart in the right place, and captures perfectly all the emotion and beauty from the book. It has an excellent visual style, the music and the performances were quite good too.I loved this movie. I wish there were more kid's films like this. I highly recommend it to anyone. "},{"Title":"A magical delight for all ages","Date":"21 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Alfonso Cuaron's A Little Princess (1995) is a delight to watch. From the very first moment, when a tiny spec of colour blossoms from the dark screen to form a scene from one of Sara's stories, it is positively captivating. As a film, it is an enduring work, worth more than the sum of its parts. Indeed, all aspects of the film work together seamlessly. The script is excellent and the cast is strong. Liesel Matthews provides a sensitive and emotional performance as Sara Crewe, her wide eyes alternately filled to the brim with passion, or achingly desolate. Vanessa Lee Chester provides a strong performance as Becky, and Eleanor Brom's calm, calculated performance prevents Miss Minchin's character from becoming caricature.Emmanual Luzbeki's cinematography is stunning and artistic. The soundtrack is charming, and the scenes are filmed artistically, with a level of openness and approachability that is much to be commended. A dream sequence in the middle of the film where Sara sees neighbour Ram Daas in the house next door and dances to the drifting snowflakes is a triumph in artistry. The banquet scene, with its sumptuous mise-en-scene, is made resplendent with the joy exuded by the talented young actresses.As an adaptation, it is a powerful piece; though it strays from the novel, it is done so tastefully, in the style of the novel, and the climax is both heartbreaking and incredibly heart-warming.A Little Princess is precisely the type of movie every child should watch- and every adult. It goes to the heart of what it means to be human; to suffer, to live graciously, to love, to take joy in the small things and to take comfort in each other. It is a magical experience, and completely satisfying to watch. After seeing this film, you would have to be heartless to forget it. "},{"Title":"Beautiful!","Date":"25 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I absolutely loved the book, and i know they changed a few things but I don't care. I loved it anyway, because of the music and the cinematography. It is not quite as good as Secret Garden, but an extremely close contender. The scenes with the war were gut-wrenching, and the locations of India were stunning. And the music is gorgeous, very sad at times. Liesel Matthews brilliantly portrayed the girl with a wide imagination. Matching her perfectly, was Eleanor Bron as the evil Miss Minchin never once over the top, and there were some funny and touching moments, like Sara's first meeting with Becky and when she learns of her father's death. The costumes are gorgeous, really they were, the ending was a real tearjerker and Cuaron perfectly captured the essence of the themes of love, friendship and acceptance.10/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"TERRIBLE, TERRIBLE, TERRIBLE... if you love the book (SPOILERS)","Date":"15 August 2009","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I really wanted to love this film. I have read the book to my daughters and we all loved it. The book is marvelous. This film is very far from the book. The book is splendid - this film is an awful adaptation.In the book, Sara is honorable, kind, strong, and NEVER does anything spiteful to get back at anyone. That's the POINT of the book! She behaves as a princes regardless of circumstances. An important part of behaving like a princess is to not return unkindness. It is to behave honorably regardless of how you are being treated.In the book, she endures much and touches the lives of others. Other people change their behaviors after they witnessed her kindness and ability to endure without sinking to spite and vengefulness. Sara does what is right simply BECAUSE it is RIGHT.Outside of the bakery, she comes upon a beggar girl who is more poor and hungry than she is. She has half a dozen hot buns. She is VERY hungry. She gives one bun to this wild looking little girl huddled on the doorstep of the bakery. When she sees how ravenous the girl is and watches her gobble the bun, she gives her another. She continues to do this until she has given 3 or 4 I think - I don't remember how many.The baker is watching through the window. She is so moved by what she has witnessed, she takes the beggar girl in and raises her as her own daughter. Other people are similarly influenced by Sara.And in the book, her father has died. The man next door is her father's partner - he has been looking for her. Her father did not lose his money after all - the man is thrilled to find Sara; he takes her and Becky into his home and raises them as his daughters. And Sara has her full inheritance, of course.Miss Minchin is not a chimney sweep. In fact, she remains in her same post at the school. But she is humiliated as Sara has told her new guardian of the cruel treatment she received. And Sara does speak to Miss Minchin in the end - Miss Minchin is trying to minimize her treatment of Sara and Sara with a calm steadfast demeanor, instructs Miss Minchin that she had been cruel.There is no comeuppance for Miss Minchin. She continues on in her miserable existence. It does not matter - what matters is that Sara has a home with a guardian who loves her - and her dearest friend in the world, Becky, is now for all intents and purposes, her sister.The book is about love and honorable behavior under the worst of circumstances. It is about self control and humility. It is a wonderful book. This film does NOTHING to capture the true story and messages of the book. My wife was so disgusted with it, she wanted to leave the theater in the middle, but we decided to stick it out. We were not rewarded.I cannot for the life of me think of a reason the film makes should alter this excellent book in such a bad direction. Perhaps it was the influence of the ghastly screenplay from the book that Shirley Temple acted in. I don't know - but this film is so far from the book in character and values that I do not recognize it.Don't waste your time - buy the book. It is unforgettable... even for a dad! "},{"Title":"This is what life is all about!","Date":"31 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This film is just amazing. Fantastic. I can't praise it highly enough. Emmanuel Luzbeki kudos why oh why didn't you get an Oscar for your cinematography? The scripting, the acting quality perfect deliverance and execution. Is this an example of how the Academy awards films based on their gross at the box office and not their quality of workmanship. This film is one of my particular favourites, damn sure it was one of the best films of the mid 90's. (Braveheart took the Oscar for this year), I am not going to deny the fact this film makes me well up every time I watch it. Its a tender heartfelt story free from any clichés. There are not so many films that really touch my heart like this one. Go Watch It NOW! "},{"Title":"Heartwarming","Date":"27 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" It's one of the very few movies that I've watched as a kid, then watched again as an adult, and loved it even more. It's a 90's movie, that being enough, the richest decade in the movie industry. Little does one witness such an amazing actress at this young age (Liesel Matthews).. she got me into tears BIG TIME.. real tears.. not just some crap.. It's a minor detail, but I really liked that scene when they showed the human side of Miss Minchin (Eleanor Bron). And there's this beautiful beautiful attention to details <3.. this scene of the black balloon that exploded.. <3.. her relationship and bonding with her only friend is beautiful.. they all what they've got.. in a way that's both sadly beautiful.It's one of those movies where you're touched on real stuff.. not just caught up in the moment with cheap emotional triggers.. it's REAL. "},{"Title":"A gorgeous, overlooked masterpiece","Date":"24 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Alfonso Cuaron's A Little Princess of one of the most gorgeous, sumptuous, painstakingly detailed films I've ever seen. It sets up its characters with a primal love and simple care which really makes you identify with them, and really tugs on the heartstrings when peril befalls them. I don't know if it won an award for production design but it damn well should have. The lavish 1920s New York they have created is a a breathtaking marvel, full of beautiful period accurate costumes, ornately designed building interiors, and smoky, desperate NY streets. Liesel Matthews is electrifying as Sarah Crewe, an Army Captain's daughter who is left at a high end school for girls in the heart of the city, when her father goes to war. There she meets other girls, both friendly and unfriendly, and falls under the prudish eye of the stern, unpleasant headmistress (Eleanor Bron). Sarah, taught the ways of optimism, kindness and understanding by her wonderful father (Liam Cunningham in a stunning performance of subtle anguish and heartfelt devotion), is a force of healing and reconciliation for her new friends, urging each of them in their own way to face their problems, and better themselves. All but the cold headmistress, who is so damaged by whatever unfortunate past that she is unreachable. Bron plays her not as a wicked caricature, but a deeply broken woman who just can't comprehend what it's like to love or be loved anymore. Cuaron takes the material from the book, paired with the excellent screenplay and treats the world and characters not in a kid friendly, sugar coated way, but throws real characters into an undeniably harsh WW1 environment and respects each performer to bring complex, realized characters to the screen. Considering most of the players are no older than twelve, that's a pretty outstanding feat of collaboration. And did I mention the production design? It's simply a jaw dropping wonder of artistic creation, each new set piece buzzing with atmosphere and tangible life. I seriously wish there was a Blu Ray. This is my favourite Cuaron film (maybe tied with Gravity) and one of the most mature, seriously taken child orientated films of the 1990's. "},{"Title":"As beautiful as it can get ..a must see !!!","Date":"9 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This movie is a must see for everyone, whether you are a little girl or an adult. even if you don't believe in fairy tale you should watch this movie. It is as sweet as it can be , well staged and the cinematography is so beautiful that for once you will surely forgot about all the cruelty and chaos of the world and see the beauty in each aspect of life and praise it.this film is about love, kindness , magic and full of heart.This movie is spellbinding and a fascinating movie to watch. It will make you want to cry at many moments.Guys see this movie it is a must watch for everybody. "},{"Title":"Lovely and Magical","Date":"15 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This is just a lovely, lovely, movie, visually sumptuous and with a positive message. Sarah is a lovely character who keeps a good attitude regardless and is both charming and kind. The movie is full of beautiful moments.My primary complaints about the film are probably due to its short running time. While I generally support keeping things short, there are times when things are simply unexplained. For example, the movie really needed to show us what the lawyer said to Miss Minchin, because without that explanation, it came across as a highly improbably turn in the narrative put there entirely to propel the story, as opposed to something that is likely to have happened (the book, from what I've read on wikipedia, makes more sense in this regard). Likewise Minchin's final moments are satisfying but highly unrealistic.But I'm okay with that, because the movie has a magical, mythic quality that makes it thoroughly enjoyable. "}{"Title":"compelling children's classic","Date":"20 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" It's 1914. Sara Crewe (Liesel Matthews) lives a fairy tale life with her loving father (Liam Cunningham) in Simla, India. When war breaks out, he sends her to the NYC boarding school that her late mother attended. Her father's money gets her the best room. She struggles under the cold-hearted headmistress Miss Minchin (Eleanor Bron)'s strict rules. She believes that all girls are princesses but Miss Minchin hates her imagination. Mean girl Lavinia doesn't like her. She makes friends with little Lottie who also lost her mother, black servant girl Becky, and most of the other girls who love her fanciful stories. Later, her father is assumed killed and his estate has been seized by the government. Miss Minchin reduces her to work as a servant girl for the money she owed.Director Alfonso Cuarón brings this classic story to life. The Dickensian tale is a real tear jerker. The Indian fantasy stories are magical. It brings the audience down to the kids' level which elevates the tension and the poignancy. The girls all do a good job acting. It is a children's movie that even adults will love. "},{"Title":"Fantastically emotional, inspiring childhood film.","Date":"3 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I first watched this film when I was 9, maybe 10 years old, and I can remember crying uncontrollably as Sara crossed the wooden board into the neighbor's house, and then at the reunion with her father. Nothing has changed. I've watched it at least 10 more times in my life, and I still cry in it, even now, because it really is a powerful story line, with amazing camera techniques and filming expertise, especially considering that this film was released nearly 20 years ago now. It's not just the emotions evoked from watching this film that make it worth seeing, though. It is a children's film, and as a child I was inspired. It encouraged me to believe in magic and the power of the imagination, and it's because of this film that I now write creative stories, book-length, and filled with fantasy. I want people to acknowledge that this is an incredible film, and whilst critics may argue that it's not entirely accurate on some points, my response to this is it's a children's film. It teaches about the hardships of war and the social segregation of the class system of this time, as well as including racism and slavery. To make all of these subjects applicable in a children's film, it has to have a happy ending, and it has to make the baddie end up in a bad situation, because whilst being educational, it's a film, and it's not supposed to be real.Instead, it's inspiring, amazing, and I can honestly call it my favorite film of all time. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"15 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" It's a good film, but different from the book. It's been a while since I've read the book, or until today seen the movie. It's well acted for the most part. I thought the father didn't do that great of a job. But other than him well acted, we directed, well put together. I do have a question though. How is it possible to regain your memory in two seconds like the father did? That part I don't get. I liked how dark they made the head mistress staying true to the character of her. And I love that they made her a sweeper at the end. Good punishment. The sister was probably my favorite with her love affair with the milkman. Very charming and cute. I really enjoyed the movie and would recommend it to anyone. "},{"Title":"A good movie","Date":"6 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Before I begin I'd like to say I have not read the original A Little Princess and maybe one day in the future I shall read it. However this movie generally moved me. I'm not the type that usually gets emotional over movies but this movie is exceptional. The main role of Sara Crewe is played by Liesel Matthews, a really cute young girl (in this movie anyway), although her acting skills aren't great , she really gets the message across. The music of the movie is also beautifully crafted and co-ordinates with the movie really well. I recommend you watch this movie and please keep an open mind.***WARNING*** This movie may be a bit girly "},{"Title":"A whimsical family film","Date":"1 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Alfonso Cuaron's adaptation of A Little Princess is a film filled with magically realism, whimsy and sickly sweetness. It is a popular film for young girls and women for these reasons.In 1914 Britain has entered into the First World War. Sara Crewe (Liesel Matthews) is a British girl (even though she has an American accent), living in India. She is a kind-hearted girl with a big imagine, intelligence and a keen storyteller. When her father (Liam Cunningham) is called up to serve in the war, Sara is sent to the same boarding school her descended mother went to, the Miss Minchin's Seminary for Girls in New York. Sara quickly becomes a popular girl at the school because of her wit, storytelling and willingness to stand up wrongdoing. But when her father is declared killed in action Sara's wealth is taken away and the crude hearted headmistress (Eleanor Bron) makes Sara into a servant girl. Despite Sara's grief she sets out to keep her dignity and her charitable spirit.A Little Princess was weighted around a strong performance from a talented young actress, Matthews. She gave a heart felt performance and mixed with Cuaron's emotionally manipulating direction you felt her pain and sorrow as she suffers from grief and the enforced poverty but keeps her determination and spirit. There is a theme of the rewards of charity and kindness, that if keep those attitudes and do not the world grind you then your good deals will be acknowledged. It is story about a girl needs to keep her determination, hope, kindness and imaginable that strength of friendship.I personally love Cuaron as a director, especially for his work on Harry Potter and Children of Men. With A Little Princess he was in full manipulation mode and it very much like a Spielberg film in the emotional scenes to more comically toned involving the girls causing mischief, playing jokes to a scene where the bully of school is 'cursed' and sees the outcome of it. Unfortunately because of the The art direction and cinematography are striking and fitting for the themes of the film, that India is a bright, colourful wondrous place, to the more harsh, cold reality of the street of New York in the winter. Peter Doyle's score added to getting the audience sunk into this world, using Indian music, a traditional score, a choir and a song sung by a young girl.A Little Princess is an orphan story similar in the vain of Oliver Twist, Annie and The Matchstick Girl, a young girl forced into the big bad city. Like Annie and The Matchstick Girl Sara is forced into servitude and the emotional scenes on the streets was very much like The Matchstick Girl. Because of the boarding school setting and Sara's background it is clear why Cuaron was a sensible choice to take on Harry Potter.A big criticism is the setting. The film changes the location from London to New York to cater to American auditions (seeing that the film flopped in America that change was pointless) and the time from the Victorian era to 1914. By changing it to 1914 it made the scenario less believable, that Sara becomes slave labour when she should would be education and child labour is still being used when in most Western countries had at this point introduced some sort of compulsory education.A Little Princess truly is a family film, children of all ages will find something to enjoy in this whimsical film.7.5/10 "},{"Title":"A Little Princess (1995)","Date":"4 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I haven't read the book, but I have read outraged IMDb comments from fans of it. Some of the comments seem delusional, but there are some that sound like legitimate gripes. Certainly the ending is far too easy... not for children perhaps, but for me it felt cheap. And the pathology of the wicked headmistress is only hinted at, but never explored and as a result she just comes off like a one-dimensional evil bitch. But there's a lot of delight to be had in the movie. As with PRISONER OF AZKABAN, Cuaron demonstrates a masterful sense of style and ability to craft a tale that's enjoyable for the kids and also engaging for the grown-ups. The set design and color palette is gorgeous, and young Liesel Matthews is endearing in the lead. I also enjoyed the Indian flights of fancy and the general spirit of the thing. Despite some missteps, a charming little picture. "},{"Title":"Not MY Little Princess, but better than Shirley Temple","Date":"23 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I hesitated in seeing this film for a very long time. I wasn't aware of it when it was in theaters, and I adored the book so much, and the BBC-produced miniseries starring Amelia Shankley, that I didn't want to ruin my image of the book by seeing a Hollywoodized adaptation, even into my teens. However, I'll try anything once, and the number of fans that it seems to have made me think that it might not be so bad. And it really isn't. Compared to a lot of live- action family entertainment, which can be obnoxious and formulaic, it's exquisite. The cinematography is lush and warmly lit (perhaps a little too warm, when it comes to depicting Sara's somewhat gloomy life in poverty), and what the studio was able to do with such a small budget is more than some people could do with ten million to spend on a movie- ironic, considering the theme of wealth, or lack thereof. I found myself really warming up to the film's focus on the relationship between Sara and her father as they struggled to carry on in the midst of two very different sets of trials, as well as the emphasis on Sara's childhood in India, such as the Ramayana fantasy sequences, and the sitars reverberating alongside the more classical instruments on the soundtrack. The acting was at least passable throughout, though it sometimes veered into community theater-level skill. Even Liesel Matthews gave an endearing performance as Sara- certainly less stoicism and solemnity than the original, but thankfully with none of the dimple-faced pouting of the 1937 Shirley Temple film, which I couldn't stand for more than the first 30 minutes. At least Matthews's Sara is a real storyteller, and has the presence of one, rather than arbitrarily pretending things for her own amusement. The bad news is that, while a significant improvement on the aforementioned Little Princess adaptation, this movie is nonetheless an Americanized version of a classic British children's novel, and its roots definitely show as a stereotypically Hollywood effort. Namely, since the screenplay resets the story in America- I suppose to make it more relatable to stateside audiences- it also deems it necessary to put spunk into a character who is supposed to be tenacious, but reserved, even having her occasionally talk back and pull pranks. Thankfully, this never goes into Home Alone territory, but is very uncharacteristic of someone who strives to behave like a princess. Finally, there is the much-maligned happy ending pulled straight from the Temple version, which I only had a problem with because it was too over-the-top, where most of the time, the movie had the sense to pull back and have an occasional reflective moment.To make a very, very long story short Not my favorite, has no nostalgia attached to it for me, but I can accept it, and even enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Not really a spoiler","Date":"20 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I just wanted to say, that i enjoyed this film a lot, but at the end i was fuming mad and shouting at the TV. i was livid that all that Sarah went through it would have been fantastic that as her father was hugging her she turned just as the miss minchin was walking away Sarah turns and shouts she has stolen my locket and then the police go inside and find it and on opening it you see the fathers picture, and then the police drag the screaming miss minchin away in front of the rest of the school. then it would be a satisfying end, i would been shouting, yes you rotten cow now you will get what you deserve. So just wanted to vent this as I've just finished watching it. "},{"Title":"All Girls Are Princesses!","Date":"11 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This movie is wonderful! I am 13 almost 14 years old and I still watch this movie regularly! I watched it so much the DVD messed up and I had to buy a new one! I HAVE read the book, and at the time I liked the book, but then I watched this-and I was blown away! This movie is a perfect example of a kids' movie that isn't horrible garbage without being overly intense. I have to admit, this is quit different from the book, but who really CARES? Sara (Liesel Matthews) is a thoughtful, smart, sweet child, not spoiled and stupidly cheerful like Shirley Temple's version. Oh no! She IS a little princess! And her father (Liam Cunningham) is so devoted and loving!But the best acted part of this entire movie has to go to Eleanor Bron (yes, the lady in Help, and Wimbledon!!) as Miss Minchin! She was an amazing evil woman but at the same time, you see that she has never been loved and that's why she's so HEARTLESS! I believe that woman should have won an Oscar for this! And Cuaron's directing is unbelievably great! Seriously, go see this film. If you hate it, email me at anastasia.cessano.writes@aol.com with your complaints. "},{"Title":"The Most Magical Film of My Childhood","Date":"14 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" A Little Princess was released in 1995, when I was five years old, and since seeing it for the first time as a little girl, it continues to touch me time and time again. It is difficult to even express the emotional impact this movie had on me when I was young. It truly allowed me to believe in the impossible. Even as I grew up, I never could outgrow this movie. It is a remarkable story of love, faith, endurance, friendship, and hope, and is truly a necessity to have in any family household. Please, if you have a daughter, buy her this movie and watch it with her. It will bring tears to your eyes and give her both empowerment and belief in the extraordinary. "}{"Title":"An enchanting childhood classic","Date":"20 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" A Little Princess is directed by Alfonso Cuaron, is based on the novel by Francis Hodgson Burnett, has music by Patrick Doyle and stars Liesel Matthews, Liam Cunningham,Vanessa Lee Chester and Eleanor Bron.Sara Crewe(Liesel Matthews)is the daughter of a British army officer Capatain Crewe(Liam Cunningham)they have lived together in India for many years after Sara's mother died.When World War One begins in 1914 Sara is taken to her mothers former boarding school in New York.Her father leaves her there in the care of headmistress Miss Minchin(Eleanor Bron), Miss Minchin seems nice while the Captain's money is paying for Sara's board, but when the tragic news that he has died reaches her she treats Sara as beneath her and keeps her at the school as a servant.Sara befriends the other child servant Becky(Vanessa Lee Chester), they become best friends and keep hope alive for each other.The other girls try and stay friends with Sara and see her when they can.This is a moving and beautiful film with a well written story and a great cast and an ending that will have you in tears.A Little Princess is a film audiences of all ages can watch and enjoy. In addition to superb performances form the whole cast, the film also has gorgeous location footage of India and beautiful period costumes. It's a shame that Liesel hasn't made more films because she is a very good actress. "},{"Title":"Excellent Film","Date":"2 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" The Little Princess is a great film. I saw it on DVD and loved it. Even though I didn't understand all of the movie, I still thought it was a beautiful movie. I saw the movie again later on and understood all of it. I still thought the movie was beautiful but this time I also thought it was very touching. I loved the plot of the movie and the music was very pretty. The acting was also great with realistic characters.My favorite part of the movie is when the girl reunites with her father who returns back to the orphanage at the end of the movie. That part is great. I think everyone should see this movie because it really is a beautiful movie. I give The Little Princess 10/10 stars! "},{"Title":"An insult to any viewer's intelligence!","Date":"8 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Every viewer should consider that an insult to his/her intelligence! Okay, I get that this is a movie aimed at kids, but that's no excuse for this kind of factually impossible drivel! Apparently this was an attempted remake of the 1939 Shirley Temple movie rather than a straight adaptation of the novel. Captain Crewe is about to go off to war (World War I, 1914-1918, instead of the turn of the 20th Century Boer War, this time around) and decides to send Sarah back to the boarding school where her mother was raised. They keep him in the British Army but insist on setting the movie in New York City and that's where they set the boarding school. Then Dad gets reported Missing In Action on the battlefield in France, is knocked out and turns up semi-comatose with amnesia and no identification. So what does the hospital in England do? Let some old guy take him out of the hospital and take him, whom they haven't even identified except as a British officer, all the way out of England to New York City to convalesce. And in the most populous city in the world at the time, he just happens to live next door to the same boarding school where he'd left his daughter! And just as the cops come to arrest Sarah for theft, she does a high wire act from the rooftop of the boarding school to the house next door where her father just happens to have been convalescing as an amnesiac for weeks, and finds her dad. And he snaps out of his amnesia just before the cops haul Sarah away! At least in the Shirley Temple version, it all happened in London and Dad stayed in the hospital, and Sarah escaped from the neighbor's house to the hospital where she'd been lurking around hoping her father would turn up. (And there were a couple of touching scenes, where an aging Queen Victoria intervenes on Sarah's behalf, and then Sarah lets her know that she found him.) If the producers of this joke of a movie wanted to remake the 1939 version, they could have kept the setting in London even if they'd insisted on changing it from the Boer War to World War I. If they insisted on making it New York City, they could have made Dad a US Army (or better yet a US Marine) officer and have him convalesce at the Brooklyn Navy Yard hospital or somesuch. If they insisted on having Sara grow up in the Orient, Dad could have been stationed in the Philippines with the US military instead of India with the Brits.... No, wait! The Philippines is an almost entirely Roman Catholic country, so they couldn't have found a way to fit in all those references to and images of Hindu mysticism.... On the other hand, nothing stopped the producers from making all these other convoluted plot twists that defy reality, so why should that fact have stopped them from doing that kind of convolution? This movie is yet another example of why Hollywood should stop messing with the classics! "},{"Title":"A Precious Gem Of A Film","Date":"9 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I can't stop raving about this movie!!!! There are so many things that touch my heart and make me cry. The fact that young Sara remains so optimistic and kind throughout her ordeal is enough to recommend the film (and the book). Liam Cunnigham is so handsome and gentle as her father, who adores his only and motherless child the way all children want to be loved. And the curse put on the snobby Lavinia is priceless!!! They could not have chosen a better child actress to play Sara. Liesel Matthews embodies her character so well that you forget that she's acting. The fantasy sequences are glorious to look at, and the little girls at the school are adorable in their uniforms. Eleanor Bron is superb as Ms. Minchen. You just love to hate her. This movie should be watched with The Secret Garden (1993). Both are timeless, touching, and beautiful masterpieces. Share it with your children and your inner child. Remember 'Every girl everywhere is a princess.' Need I say more? "},{"Title":"best film ever","Date":"1 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I just love this film...it has brilliant acting, particularly from liesel matthews who plays the little princess sara crewe and the setting and storyline are faultless. there is a presence throughout the film of something special, and at the end, you are left believing in yourself. a fantastic film that has everything you could ask for in a heart-warming classic.  "},{"Title":"a beautiful movie","Date":"21 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This is one of my favorite movies.  Sure, its radically different from the book, also one of my favorites, but if you can get past that, it's a wonderful movie in it's own right.  Also, it has one of the most beautiful soundtracks that I have ever heard, with the mix of classical western music and Indian sounds and instruments.  There are also some amazing transitions between shots, such as when Sara is writing to her father and crying, and the teardrops on the page turn to raindrops as her father reads the letter from his tent near the battlefield in Europe.  The movie is absolutely magical, and can be watched over and over again. A great movie for people of all ages. "},{"Title":"A lovely dream of a film","Date":"20 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Such a beautiful, lush movie, the director, who made this years Y tu mama tambien, Alfonso Cuaron creates not just a credible and interesting real world, but an amazing imaginary land that is a treat to view.  I really enjoyed this movie, and wish more people would give it a shot and watch it, a truly underrated children's film- we have talking kangaroo films, sequel after sequel of athletic golden retriever movies, this picture is something unique and special. I believe Alfonso Cuaron is going to direct the third installment of the Harry Potter movies, and after the bland, ham-handed direction of Christopher Columbus, I am thrilled to hear that someone that I *know* can bring fantasy to life (with what I am sure was a much smaller budget) will be directing.  See this film, if you hate it, e mail me and I will gladly refund your rental fee (you freak of nature ;) thomas_gina@yahoo.com   "},{"Title":"Very sweet movie","Date":"1 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is beautifully done, and I couldn't do anything but echo the rave reviews you'll find here so I won't try. ;-) Let me just say, though, that the photography is lovely.I, too, don't understand the switch from London to New York, but it doesn't really matter at the end of the day. Little Princess never took place in any real city, but in a kind of fantasy world, where being an orphan was just terribly tragic and eloping was just terribly romantic and boarding school headmistresses were just terribly cruel. -) That was one of the strengths of the film, to my mind; the semi-surreal quality and fairy-tale nature of the story telling. Which, of course, works out very well for this kind of thing.My only complaint is the character of Miss Minchin's sister, Amelia. Her scenes were painfully bad comic relief which break the melancholy feeling of the story. Of course, I guess I shouldn't complain about childish humor in a children's movie. ;-)Overall, definately a recommended movie, especially for young girls. "},{"Title":"My rambunctious daughter moved nary a bit.","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I have a 2 1/2 year-old daughter who (as are most 2 1/2 year old) pure energy.  She's most made of rubber and bounces off the walls from morning until bedtime.She loved this movie.More importantly, she didn't move at all while watching it (until the end -- every 2 1/2 year old has their limits, you know).So big deal -- the kid liked the movie.  What's important is that my wife and I both liked the movie; no small feat, since our tastes tend to vary from one another.So there you go -- good, family fun.  Go rent it.   "},{"Title":"Very, very good","Date":"16 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Almost but not quite in the same league as The Secret Garden, another great (and highly recommended) Warner Bros. adaptation of a Frances Hodgson Burnett novel, this film nonetheless is none too shabby.  It truly is a jewel, inspiring plenty of emotions without being manipulative or cutesy.  Instead, it's just enchanting.  Liesel Matthews is very good and very believeable as young Sara, Eleanor Brom a dimensional villian, (just as Maggie Smith's housekeeper was in TSG), and other performers fine, as well.  I dare you not to cry when Sara's up in the attic crying for her papa or when (Spoiler!) he regains his memory and calls out to her.  Sumptuous filming of the scenes in India and the transformed attic, with all that food and those gifts...  Perfect for the whole family, and not just for kids.  Rent it along with The Secret Garden, and you have got a great night of family entertainment.  The kids will be enthralled, no doubt about that, but you'll be entertained, too. "}{"Title":"An enchanting film","Date":"16 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" My first encounter with this story was the novelisation, and I fell in love with it, and it was almost love at first sight when I saw the movie. It is absolutely wonderful, heart-wrenching, and enchanting.It follows the story of Sara Crewe, who is sent to a boarding school with a mean headmistress, who on finding out Sara's father is dead and penniless, sends her to live in the attic.The story in itself is enough to make anyone's heart skip a beat with sympathy for the girls in the attic, and the hardships they face.The actress playing Sara is brilliant, she can make you smile and cry, as if she really was the girl all this happened to. In fact, all the cast were wonderful, and make you want to watch it again and again. "},{"Title":"The Book=Great. The Movie=Even Better. Brilliant!","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Sara Crewe is a young girl who loves to tell creative stories. When her father, whom she is very close with, has to go fight in the war, Sara has to go to New York to attend a board school over there. A school where Saras late mother also attended, when she was a young girl. When Sara meets Miss.Minchin, the schools mean headmistress, they don't get on as Miss.Minchin doesn't like Saras stories or creativity and the fact that Sara believes every girl is a princess. Than when Saras father has reportedly died in action, Miss. Minchin makes Sara a servant in the school.Sara still believes every girl is a princess though and convinces everyone else in the school the same thing, she carries on telling her stories and stays happy and true to herself.A Little Princess is a great fantasy drama with wonderful performances from everyone involved and great dramatic directing. It also has a lovely happy ending at the end of the movie. I give A Little Princess a 10/10. "},{"Title":"Exceptional remake.  Fun for the whole family.","Date":"31 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a very well-filmed, well-acted family film.  Our family ranges in age from 3 to 40 and we all loved this film.  It has become a family favorite.  The story line is tied together much better than the Shirley Temple version. "},{"Title":"A wonderful film","Date":"4 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  A Little Princess is a beautifully made film--one that was truly unappreciated at the box office.  Putting Sara's stories parallel with what is happening in her own life is very imaginative.  Liesel Matthews does a wonderful job portraying Sara as a smart, sensitive girl who, though very wealthy and well-liked, is still humble, compassionate and always thinking of others.  Words don't do the movie justice--just go and rent it!  "},{"Title":"Absorbing family entertainment","Date":"13 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I love this film; it's one of my favorites.  I'm not even a child.  I've read the book and seen three cinematic adaptations of it.  This is the most beautiful one.  Liesel Matthews is charming and believable.  She isn't directed to be cute but to be strong-willed.I also like the variety of the adult characters.  Too often in children's films, there are two kinds of adults  Oblivious parents and Mean Old Authority Figures.  This movie has an attentive father, a wistful pushover, a kindly mystery man, a milkman lover ... even the evil schoolmistress has a human side that she denies.This is really an intelligent movie that doesn't talk down to the audience. I was absorbed into Sara's world.  Every time I watch it I cry, and I feel very good about life.  "},{"Title":"A Little Princess","Date":"26 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" From director Alfonso Cuarón (Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban, Children of Men), I had seen the trailer for this film many times and always been curious to try the film, especially with it being rated the full five out of five stars, so when it was available I watched enthusiastically. Basically eleven year old Sara Crewe (introducing Liesel Matthews) and her wealthy father Capt. Crewe (Liam Cunningham) leave their home in India and move to New York, and he leaves her in an all girls boarding school while he enlists in the British Army. The school is run by the severe Miss Minchin (Eleanor Bron), and soon enough the bored and mundane lives of the girls are made better by Sara who becomes popular with her stories of The Ramayana, much to the dislike of Miss Minchin and the irritation of spoilt bully Lavinia (Taylor Fry). After throwing a lavish birthday party, in which Miss Minchin wanted to extract money from Sara's father, word reaches them that he has apparently died in action, and with his estate seized by the British government the headmistress forces the innocent little girl to become a servant, alongside black servant Becky (The Lost World Jurassic Park's Vanessa Lee Chester). Forced to stop telling stories and have her possessions, including her father's locket, taken from her, Sara only has her spirits lifted with the girls being on her side and helping her however they can, and with her belief that every girl is a princess. Next door to the school is the mansion of rich old Charles Randolph (Arthur Malet) who wants his son to return from the war, and an injured soldier is brought to his home, it is not his son, but Capt. Crewe, suffering temporary blindness and memory loss, but Indian immigrant Ram Dass (Errol Sitahal) insists he be taken care of. One night Miss Minchin catches the other girls with Sara telling stories, and she punishes her and Becky with no food the next night, but they awaken to find a feast and palace setting, they originally imagined it, courtesy of Ram Dass. After Miss Minchin finds this she decides the police should be involved, because of possible stealing, and using a long plank Sara makes her escape across to Randolph's mansion next door. It is there she obviously is shocked and happy to see her father alive, but he does not recognise her, and Miss Minchin cruelly says that she has no family to get her away from him, but Ram Dass helps him remember and rescue her. In the end, Capt. Crewe has his fortune restored and buys himself the boarding school as the new headmaster and to make life for the girls much better, Miss Minchin is forced to be a chimney sweep alongside a young boy she originally mistreated, and Sara and Becky are going back to India together to live happily ever after, and all the girls, including Lavinia, saying their tearful goodbyes. Also starring Rusty Schwimmer as Amelia Minchin, Heather DeLoach as Ermengarde, Vincent Schiavelli as Mr. Barrow, The Ring's Rachael Bella as Betsy, The Lost World Jurassic Park's Camilla Belle as Jane and Kelsey Mulrooney as Lottie. Matthews is wonderful as the imaginative and sweet young girl with her good spirit pushed to the limit, and Bron is fantastically vulgar as the subtly but equally knowingly evil (like Nurse Ratched style) villain headmistress, it is charming story with plenty of delightful and sweet moments, as well as true emotion, and the special effects give us moments in a surreal magical world, and it is a film that will appeal both to the adults and the children watching, a brilliant period fantasy drama. It was nominated the Oscars for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration and Best Cinematography. Very good! "},{"Title":"My favourite sick-day movie.","Date":"11 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This movie is perfect. One thing I noticed with those fun-sponges who hated this movie, is that they are all (I mean it, all of them) comparing it to the book.Forget about the book. I actually thought this movie was better, I who have read the book approximately 50 times, so this is a high compliment. Perhaps Alfonso Cuaron should have written the book, rather than Frances Hodgson Burnett.I can't remember when I first saw this film, but I suspect I was about 2 or 3 years old. As a child, I adored it. As an adult, I appreciate it even more. What you all need to remember is that there is a demographic for this kind of film. I suggest girls about 7 to 12 years old, but adults can also appreciate it, if this is their sort of thing. Also, you have to be prepared to cry.I can understand why someone wouldn't like the movie, but I what I can't understand is why they would give it a bad review. For example, I didn't like 'Black Swan', but I acknowledged it was a good movie. Alright, now my ranting is out of the way.It is beautifully filmed. Cuaron uses colour to show the juxtaposition of Sara's India with dreary and depressing New York perfectly, and the music is wonderful. Anyone who accuses Liesel Matthews of being a bad actress needs to watch the scene in the attic, just after she realises her father has died. She draws a circle around herself with chalk, mirroring the scene at the beginning where Prince Rama draws a circle around his wife to protect her. I never cry so much than when I watch this scene.Although the themes of the movie differ from the book, as I said earlier, I think these themes are better. For one, the theme of the book is that a girl is a Princess when they behave, when they are good and virtuous as Sara is. I find that a bit lectury. It's like the Santa Claus myth, trying to bribe/blackmail children into being good, but the theme of the movie, which is that all girls, even horrible ones, are Princesses is lovely. It is forgiveness before the wrong has been committed.I watch 'A Little Princess' every time I'm sick. You'd be surprised how effective it is. I suppose I cry the sickness out of me. Also, if you find the ending not too corny for your tastes, remember that this is a movie for children. Children want happy endings. "},{"Title":"Beautiful","Date":"27 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This film is outstanding. Liesel Matthews plays a Sara that is probably the most lovable character in film history. I am almost glad she did not do many more films, because she has kept her record perfect, and we will always see her as Sara, rather than Liesel Matthews.There are a great many touching moments in this film. Many moments that will (or should!) make you cry, and the ending is extremely moving. After you have watched this film it may make you reevaluate your life, your behaviour and your character.The one point deduction is for unnecessary humour that wasn't funny, only juvenile. I suppose it was to appeal to the younger audience, but it slightly cheapens the film. "},{"Title":"wonder-ful","Date":"15 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This movie is a part of my life, as dear to me as any memories of my own. A bittersweet story, heart-wrenching in how truthful and brutal it can be along side the wonder and beauty of the film. Definitely a tear-jerker, its dramatic, emotional ending is highly engaging and fulfilling in the sense that justice is finally served. An epic and beautiful presentation, crossed with the parallel story of Prince Rama and Princess Sita that echos the main plot of Sara Crewe and her father, who both know that all girls are princesses. A rich and powerful film that you will never forget, and never want to forget, for all of the best reasons. Pure, gorgeous, stirring, and passionate. I am very sad that Liesel Matthews has not done more, for her performance in this movie was stunning. A movie that supports and encourages the power of stories and make-believe, exciting the audience to wonder, as well as cry. "},{"Title":"Absolutely beautiful and memorizing","Date":"3 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" A few months ago I wanted The Secret Garden on DVD, I found it, but it was a double feature with A Little Princess, I never saw that movie but remember hearing about it when I was a little girl. Not sure why I never saw it, but I was looking for a movie to watch last night and figured I would watch it and I have to say that this was such an adorable and beautiful film about how every girl in the world has a little princess in them. The girl who played Sara was so incredibly amazing, she was such a talent in this film, and so were the other children. I think the reason why this film is so wonderful is that we could all relate to the magic of being a child and using our imagination to make things better. The story here is absolutely charming.Sara is going to an American private school where over privileged girls are getting their education, her father leaves her to fight in the war. Sara quickly becomes the most popular girl in school and tells all of these imaginative stories to the girls that excite and frighten them. But Sara's dreams are quickly shattered when she learns from the mean and strict Minchin teacher that her father is dead, now she has to earn her keep and becomes a servant to the girls. But Sara will not loose hope and reminds the girls that they all have a little princess in them.A Little Princess is an absolutely charming film that I would recommend to anyone. I have a feeling that a lot of American children missed out on it, so please if you see the double DVD of this and The Secret Garden, please pick it up. This was a great film to watch, the acting and sets were so amazing, but it's the story that was so wonderful for the children and adults alike. I'm really glad I had the opportunity to see this movie, it's a great one that I highly recommend for anyone.8/10 "}{"Title":"So beautiful...","Date":"19 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This is the most beautiful movie I think I've ever seen. I remember when I was about 4 or 5 when it came out on video, my Godmother bought it for me for my birthday and I absolutely loved it! But it made me so sad. so when I was about 7, after watching it well over about 100 times, I banned myself from watching it, because it made me so sad and I never wanted to feel such a sadness ever again, so I put it at the back of my cupboard and forgot about it. Then today when I was going through all my old stuff I found the video and decided to watch it, and as you may have guessed, the waterworks came rushing back! This is such an honest but beautiful movie which really touched my heart. My favorite part is when Sara tells of all her stories, I feel like I am one of those little girls, and I am there, totally wrapped in just the sound of her voice. Every time I hear Saras' papa call her a princess, I get a light shiver down my spine, how they can be so close when they are so far apart, and show all that emotion on screen is incredible, and in the end when she's calling out Papa! Papa!, even after watching it hundreds of times and knowing exactly whats going to happen, you still sit on the edge of your seat, hugging your porcelain doll like Saras' Emily, with a glistening tear running down your face wishing, hoping that he will remember. And just when it seems like its all failed, there's a sparkle in his eye, a realization that they are taking away his daughter. As he runs through to her, you almost feel like you are Sara when she gets to hug her papa once again. You can feel the connection and envy that closeness. Just like the comment above says, this movie is just stunningly beautiful "},{"Title":"A visually stunning film, unforgettable","Date":"8 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" After seeing the wretched train wreck that was Disney's 'Narnia', I just had to comment on a children's film that is so superior to most anything made for kids today. 'A Little Princess' is proof that a film made for children doesn't have to be 'by-the-numbers' trash. This story, about the little girl who travels from her home in India to an exclusive boarding school in early 1900's New York, is based on a classic novel by Francis Hodgson Burnett. I have never read that book, so I am not bothered by the changes that director Alfonso Cuaron made for his film. Little Sara Crewe has a vivid imagination, a lot of which is due to the fact that she has spent most of her young life in a magical and mystical land, the India that she often talks about. Things take a dark turn when it is discovered that Sara's father, whom she loves more than anything in the World, has died in battle, during the first World War. Sarah can no longer attend school as a pupil, but Miss Minchin, the icy head mistress, keeps Sarah on as a servant girl. Sarah watches helplessly as her beautiful things are taken from her, and she is sent to live in a cold, miserable attic. One thing that makes this film so special is the cinematography. The color green dominates much of the film. The school where the girls live is absolutely beautiful. Everything is green and gold, furniture and paintings, especially Sara's bedroom. There is so much attention to detail here. Even the school uniforms, green to match the decor, are exquisite. It is surprising that this movie was not mentioned for some kind of award for set design, or cinematography. The scenes of India too, are unforgettable. Cuaron's use of color is quite amazing. Also worth mentioning is the sad and hypnotic musical score. There are details that young children might not pick up on.Such as the many symbols of death. Throughout the film, dead leaves of Autumn swirl around Sarah as she battles the cold New York streets. And when a fellow pupil cries over her dead mother, Sarah tells her about the angels that we become when we die. And a black balloon is made to ominously rise and explode when Sarah is first told of her own fathers death. Actress Liesel Mathews is beautiful as well, and she makes little Sara a very likable character. I am an adult, but still found 'A Little Princess' to be an extremely well made film. It reminded me a bit of Oliver Twist, and in some ways this film is better than Polanski's remake of that classic work. Highly recommended, especially for those who have never read the book. "},{"Title":"Beautiful and enchanting masterpiece","Date":"27 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I remember reading the book as a child, and then watching the movie. I am glad it stayed true to the book because it really didn't need changes. I have not seen this film for a while, but it remains fresh in my mind as a beautiful, enchanting, great movie. The cast were all excellent, particularly the girl who played Sara- she was exactly as I'd imagined her, and should have won an Oscar. It was certainly to those standards. The soundtrack was also part of the reason it is such a great film. The music is beautiful and makes you feel like doing what Sara does dance, wave your hands up and twirl around. I also think it is better than the Shirley Temple version- which although it wasn't that bad, it had some added scenes, such as the ridiculous dream, which took away the charm of the story, and also some important deleted elements of the plot, such as Sara's friends. I was disappointed at that version, but this 1995 version left me feeling satisfied, and it does every time. It's a feeling of having seen something well done, just right, put together in a way which will not fail to move you. I applaud and congratulate everyone who was part of this film- it is one of my favorite films ever and a masterpiece. "},{"Title":"This movie is a solid 10 all the way","Date":"21 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" They don't make movies this good anymore. The reason they don't make 'em is the box office. This is the same analogy as sticking society with garbage food all day long until people are forced to pick between tacos and burgers. It's a monopoly. I cried at the end of 'Little Princess' and I'm a grown man. I haven't met a single person who didn't like this film. Hollywood must make more of these films, but they can't because they don't know how. It's like asking Al Capone to be kinder and gentler. We need to vote with our dollars and support films like 'Little Princess' Get the DVD. Buy tickets to good movies like this. Another great film is 'Good Will Hunting' "},{"Title":"Excellent movie!","Date":"9 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This is one of the best movies I have ever seen!I first saw it when I was 9 and now I'm 15 and still cry every time!Believe me,even one of the football players told me it was the only movie he ever cried for!I have to admit it was a little hard for me to understand when I was a kid,but it is still one that every child should see!It borders on a fairytale,and real life,which is good for kids.Great acting,and a really good plot,with all kinds of characters kids love.No matter what age you are,you must see this movie at least once,if not more!Has many touching scenes,some will make you laugh,and some will make you cry!Have a box of tissues ready too,cause this one gets me every time! "},{"Title":"papa!","Date":"29 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  i love this movie. at the end, i just stare... touched with so much hope and emotion. i love the setting of new york, although a lot of people think it should be the same as the book. it gives you a look into 1914.. a world shaken by an arising war. orphans, beggars, flower girls, magical indian gentlemen, boarding schools. beautiful stories of rama and seta told by a little girl so far away from her papa, who misses him dreadfully. the whole school is turned around at the arrival of a princess Sara. to be honest, i like the movie more than the book. i like this heroic, cheeky, tolerant, blue eyed Sara. it's heartbreaking when sara's life changes from an elegant bedroom, to an old attic. it's heartwarming when they reunite. the music is beautiful. kindle my heart kindles my heart! i think that this movie is much more suited to 9 and up. there are some things they wouldn't understand, or it might upset some. i think there should be some kind of warning for child abuse and war scenes. the way miss treats her is horrible. the script is marvellous. i like to memorise the bit where she says all girls are princesses, even if they're not pretty, or smart or young all of us! this should have won an oscar. everyone that wants believe they're a princess should see this.  "},{"Title":"Nice Remake","Date":"9 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I watched both this and the Shirley Temple version numerous times throughout my childhood, never really comparing the two. Now that I'm older, I've grown quite a distaste for remakes and sequels, and rightfully so!My younger sister rented this and asked me to watch it with her. I didn't remember much of it and was skeptical. I was actually pleasantly surprised. I loved Sara's stories. I think this being a more recent version, there was an opportunity to add effects and bring a more dreamy and mystic storyline to the table.I highly recommend this for children and even teenagers, like me, can enjoy it! "},{"Title":"mesmerizing","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I never got around to the famous Shirley Temple version of A Little Princess, but judging from the 1995 version, there is good chance that it doesn't matter. A Little Princess is a really fascinating film about the misconceptions between adults and children; the rich and poor; fantasy and reality. The film interweaves magic into a realistic story focussed on young girls in an all girl school. This is a children's film well-suited for anyone. Be prepared, it may likely rekindle your spirit! "},{"Title":"Enchanting...wonderful!","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is so enchanting! From the scenes on a lake in India to the beautiful boarding school, to images entirely in Sarah's imagination... The plot follows young Sarah Crewe as her wealthy and loving father leaves her in an exclusive boarding school run by an evil woman... At first, the headmistress doesn't mind when Sarah delights the other children with fantastical tales of Indian lovers... but after Sarah's father supposedly dies in war (that's why he had to leave his daughter in England), Sarah loses all her money and the magnanimous headmistress lets Sarah stay at the school by employing her as a servant. The best parts of this movie are a.) When the girls still are friends with Sarah, proving that money isn't everything... b.) Sarah's kindness to the maid, Becky, even before she loses her money is very touching... she gives Becky a pair of very comfortable shoes to clean in after Becky's old shoes hurt her feet. c.) The ending... such a tear jerker! MINOR SPOILERS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Sarah crying out her father's name... It makes me bawl. I remember seeing this movie at my best friend, Olivia's, 9th birthday party, and loving it... they then played it last summer, and this winter... I watch it every time... I definitely reccommend this movie for any little girl... or anyone with a soul! 10/10! "},{"Title":"Sweet movie","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I thought this movie was very heart breaking.  I cry every time I watch this movies ending.  The director did a fabulous job and the actors and actresses were picked perfectly right.  I recomend this movie for young or old. "}{"Title":"This was such a moving movie!","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  SPOILER!!This was the most amazing movie.  I know I watched it a lot when I was younger, and I remembered it, but I was watching it again recently, and I couldn't believe how moving the ending was. I don't usually cry that much at movies, but the tears were pouring down at the end. I mean, it's about the thing you love most in the world - your own father, for goodness' sakes! - not recongizing you, and then finally running to her... It was a beautiful scene.And the song that runs through the movie. It's absolutely gorgeous, and if you haven't paid attention to what she's saying in the lyrics, you should. I love this movie.  "},{"Title":"A movie to really warm your heart","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This remains one of a very few movies to have moved me to tears.  Child roles are usually poorly played, but the girls in this movie are truly brilliant meaning you are brought into the world of innocence and imagination that only childrens minds can conjour.  Then, you find yourself willing the lead role through her adversity and against her pain.  If I had to describe it in one word; magical. "},{"Title":"Films of this quality are rarely made today.","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This is truly a unique film that needs to be treasured, as not many films of this quality are made. The acting is to be commended, especially Eleanor Bron as Miss Minchin And Liesel Matthews as the little girl Sara. The story line is really touching and heart warming. The end of the film is a part that should not be missed. A wonderful film to watch on a cold winter's night!!I gave it a well deserved 10/10, as the film did not have any faults at all!! "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This is an incredibly lush, visually brilliant film that takes universal themes of friendship, parental love, rejection and redemption and puts them into a wonderful narrative, which includes a narrative-within-a-narrative. This is one of my favorite movies of all time, for both the technical aspects of direction, cinematography, acting and so forth, as well as the wonderful story.  This is NOT a children's movie. It is, instead, one of those rare, multilayered films that works for everyone and offends no one. As a professor of anthropology at a liberal arts college, I use this film to talk about the motif of the culture hero, class identity, and (because I teach at a Christian school) the theology of incarnation.  It is a brilliant film that anyone with children should own and everyone should see. "},{"Title":"A gem","Date":"10 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  A true gem, sadly overlooked and under-appreciated. Well produced and acted, looks terrific, and pulls every heart string. If the ending doesn't bring a tear to your eye, you have no feelings. I never saw the Shirley Temple original, so I can't compare them. If you haven't seen this one, catch it. It may be a little too intense for young, sensitive children (my sensitive 7 year old nearly lost it at the end of the film; even my less-sensitive 10 year old was visibly moved.) "},{"Title":"an instant classic","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie reminded me how much I love Frances Hodgson Burnett's novels for children.  It definitely has a dreamy quality to its brilliant cinematography, which is worth seeing in it of itself.  There are also many memorable moments created by a well casted group of actors, especially the young Liesel Matthews herself.  It is great and rare to see a movie live up to expectations that one might have for a novel.   "},{"Title":"this is great","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Well developed characters and a good story are all put together in this beautiful movie. Even villains like Lavinia and Minchin have a human side. It is corny to hear that every girl is a princess but it does show that everyone has dignity. I also liked how the Indian myths were incorporated into the story. I hope Sarah has a good writing career in her future. The movie does an excellent job in making you care for the characters. If you don't feel happy for Sarah, her father, and the girls in the end, check yourself for a pulse. This is a feel-good film for everyone of all ages to enjoy. "},{"Title":"A beautiful movie! A loving father and a beautiful daughter!","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  There is a scene in this movie that is so very powerful. Sara is standing on the balcony and is facing the gentleman from India and snow is falling. It strikes me as a moment of redemption and deliverance. The acting is top notch and touching. I think the interaction between Sara and her father is entirely appropriate. Come on! Follow the story and go with it!  One can make anything abnormal if they choose to look at it that way! Perhaps the same viewer that finds the relationship inappropriate also views the tornado in The Wizard of Oz as some giant phallic symbol as Dorothy is being tossed and turned in her bedroom! Get real! This movie is great wholesome entertainment! "},{"Title":"Great movie.","Date":"15 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I would have to say this is my favorite movie of all time.  I've watched a lot of movies, violence and swearing and everything, but I still have to say this is the best.  Great actors, Liesel Matthews is a beautiful girl and it is just my all time favorite.More power to the Little Princess. "},{"Title":"Wonderful, enchanting...","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Great!!!!! First of all the colours and the sets are exceptional. Some pictures could be also be pieces of art (kitchen and the fruit). Absolutely perfect  soundtrack! And last but not least scenes full of magic and emotion. This film hit me inside and is surely not only for children but also for adults who haven't lost all of their imagination!  "}{"Title":"aaahhhh","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  i love this movie. it made me cry, laugh, and appreciate indian culture in a way. it's such a good movie. i've seen it about a million times and i never get tired of it. the plot is great and the actors are wonderful. Especially the head mistress at the school. when you see her you just hate her with all your guts, but that's how your supposed to feel i guess, i did anyway. the ending was immensely moving. dang i love this movie "},{"Title":"EXCELLENT, one of the best","Date":"5 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This is an EXCELLENT movie. One of the best out there. I like this movie. The plot was great. The music is even better. I HAVE NOTHING BAD TO SAY ABOUT THIS MOVIE. Everything about this movie is great. I recommend this movie to anyone who likes a good classic, family movie. Tell you the truth it was better than the original version, with Shirley Temple.   "},{"Title":"Story, acting, cinematography, music... all absolutely superb","Date":"26 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Ignore that post by oleander-3.  His opinion is obviously WAY too biased to count at all.  Compared to the Shirley Temple version though this is MUCH MUCH better.  The greatest thing about this movie is how beautiful it is in general.  All the scenery, music, settings and camera work blend together into one incredibly memorable film.  I even bought the soundtrack!  If you want to see a movie that'll make you feel good inside, watch this!  And if you have kids, watch this!  By the way, if you don't cry at the end, you're simply not human. "},{"Title":"One of the best All-Age-Movies there is so far.","Date":"15 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  When it came out i was first a bit sceptical. How can they update the musical(with Shirley Temple) as a todays movie, and i must say that the update is a respectable, high-class and a very entertaining one. Good Job! "},{"Title":"A beautiful, heartwarming story","Date":"15 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Okay, so this movie doesn't follow the book exactly.  Usually I'm not in favor of that idea, but in this case, it's a masterful diversion.  I love all the references to (and music of) India, and Eleanor Bron (yes, she was that lady in Help!) as the malicious Miss Minchin.  I cry every single time I see this movie, in about 4 different places.  Trust me, you'll find them all!  Liesel Matthews is just wonderful as Sara, and Liam Cunningham plays Captain Crewe beautifully.  Neat trivia In case you didn't recognize her, Ermingarde (Heather DeLoach) is the Bee Girl from the Blind Melon music video.  I recommend this movie to anyone who could use a good cry, or who simply loves well-made films. "},{"Title":"Very Entertaining, deserves more profits!","Date":"1 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Well done.  This movie has become one of my favourites.  I enjoyed the plot, the characters, actors, cinematography and music.  This is what filmmaking is about; the full experience.  I was surprised to see it only earned $10 million in the US.  I'm sure it made more on video sales.  Excellent job! "},{"Title":"What a wonderful film!","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  While I have not seen the original Little Princess, I can't imagine that it could be any better. This movie inspired laughter, tears and just made me feel good. Wonderfully acted by both the adults and the children, with heros that you cheer for and villains that you love to hate. The characters were wonderful and the message a great one for children and adults alike. A definite 10! "},{"Title":"Liesel Matthews, one of the greatest friends","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is so beautiful. It made me cry a little when Sara's father couldn't remember who she was. I also enjoyed my friend Liesel Matthews in the movie. I interviewed her in April for the site I created called The Young Celebrity Page.Liesel is the nicest friend and is really down to earth. She isn't stuck up at all. "},{"Title":"A must see for the whole family!","Date":"8 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This is truly one of the best movies I have ever seen, and I recommend everyone to see it at LEAST once! The story itself is not that spectacular; a little girl, Sarah, (played by Liesel Matthews) is left alone in a school for girls in New York while her father is fighting for England during the First World War. Having lived a comfortable life in India, she'll learn that the world is not always a fairytale. However, although she finds herself in all kinds of trouble and loneliness, she brings light and hope to everyone around her. The warmth and understanding about the true values in life that comes from her is an eye-opener for us all, and the acting is just superb. Don't forget tissues - you might need it. 10 out of 10! "},{"Title":"possibly a buddhist parable?","Date":"9 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  i am an informal student of mythology and a student of zen buddhism. one of the many aspects of the film i enjoyed was that it seemed to take a mythological/buddhist approach.  to me, every time that sarah was telling someone that they were a princess, it was also a way of telling them thou art buddha.  the stories themselves, also were of mythological imagery in their presentation, and in one scene a buddha image is seen half-submerged in a pond ( the unconscious?)there is also the swami.  if you pay attention in the scene where sarah finally finds her dad, on the soundtrack you can hear the chant om very subtly, but powerfully.  the sanskrit symbol for om can also be found on the credits, spacing between the cast and crew.  the swami is also a unifying/shamanistic protector in this filmbut besides all of this, it is a beautiful, uplifting film in every respect that should have been a huge hit.  some of my favorite movies are a lot different from this one (blade runner, 2001, etc)  but this one is definitely on my personal top 10.  thanks for listening! "}{"Title":"super","Date":"30 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a great movie. It avoids the degree to which the temple version was cliche & is probably the only work of art that compares with Exupery's The Little Prince. Truthfully this is the greatest movie I have ever seen & reaffirms my faith that life is a worthwhile endeavor. "},{"Title":"An incredible film with great acting","Date":"24 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I was flipping through some channels one night when I came across this film. I was immediately impressed by the look and feel of the film, but what made me continue watching was the acting--not one weak area.  I've never seen a film with so many young actors come across so well.The story is reminiscent of a Hans Christian Anderson fable, and I spent the entire second half of the movie looking for some sort of closure and resolution.One of my best indicators for how much I think of a film is whether or not I decide to actually buy a copy.  Even then, I'll usually make the added investment to purchase a DVD of those films I truly enjoyed.  This is a definitely worth a DVD. "},{"Title":"A story of courage and hope.","Date":"8 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This story teaches you a lot about life, no matter what your age.  This movie is especially good for anyone who thinks that they have problems and that they are hopeless.  Sara Crewe has some terrible things happen to her, but she keeps her hopes up, and in the end, everything works out.  This also teaches that you don't have to be pretty or rich to be someone special.  "},{"Title":"Magical and Beautiful, a captivating film, rekindling the heart and juvenating the soul.","Date":"14 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I remember the first time I watched this movie, i must of been about 13.  After finishing it, i really wished i were a little girl again. I almost  thought i was, and then i looked in the mirror and realized i was wrong.  The story is one for the young at heart and makes you look for the finer  sides of life, wether you will see a rich mansion or a poverty stricken  family. It is sad, happy, but most of all, a magical tale of a girl who  changes peoples lives and makes every girl believe that she truly is a  princess.  "},{"Title":"Tells a story that never gets old.","Date":"2 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Normally I would not seek out a movie like A Little Princess but sweet Natalie, who has grown from Little Princess to college Sophomore over the past 6 years, loaned me her copy of the DVD. She said it is one of her favorites and now I know why. It tells a story that never gets old, of friends and family supporting each other.Set in 1914, near the beginning of what became WW I, Liesel Matthews is young Sara Crewe, living with her British father in India. They are well off and she is happy there. But the conflicts heat up and her father, Liam Cunningham as Capt. Crewe, must join the British forces in battle. For Sara's safety arrangements are made for her to move to a boarding house for girls in the East Coast of the USA. There she gets the best room in the tall mansion of a boarding school.While all the girls are of similar ages, Sara seems to be the most mature of them, and her education in India put her ahead of the others. While they were just learning French, for example, Sara was already fluent. This brought her the admiration of many but others became jealous, particularly the head of the boarding school, Eleanor Bron as Miss Minchin.Sara misses her dad but they write often. However one dark day in young Sara's life a messenger comes with the news, her father apparently died in combat. To make things even worse the British government confiscated the Captain's business and assets, and little Sara went from rich to poor in an instant. Miss Minchin is not quite evil, but she is not a very generous person. So, to avoid putting Sara out on the street she was given a cold, leaky room in the attic, and made to work hard doing housekeeping chores every day.Sara isn't happy about the developments but takes it in stride, and becomes fast friends with the other child housekeeper, Vanessa Lee Chester as Becky, who had an equally spartan room next to Sara's. But Sara's gift for telling stories cheered both of them up, and even had the other girls sneaking up to her room after bed time, to hear Sara's stories.One of Sara's favorite stories is about a Prince and a Princess, and Sara tells all of the girls that each one of them is a Princess too, thus the title of the movie.I enjoyed this movie, the story kept my interest all the way through. It is about having a positive attitude, and about the importance of family, friends, and loyalty. Liesel Matthews was an inspired choice for the role of Sara, she is such a good, natural actress and made the story seem real. (I understand she, of the Hyatt Hotel family, is worth perhaps $500 Million now so we may not see her acting much more.)SPOILERS FOLLOW After Sara was put into domestic slavery in the boarding school, a mysterious wounded soldier was brought to the residence next door, because he was thought to be the son of that man. But he wasn't. It turned out to be Sara's dad, Capt. Crewe, who had bravely saved others but then wounded and had lost his memory. The mean Miss Minchin was being mean and was about to have Sara arrested for something she didn't do, when the Captain remembered who he was, and went to embrace his daughter. In the process Minchin lost her job, and at the end we see her joining a chimney sweep for her new career! Now, Natalie, if you are reading this, thanks for the recommendation, but I am not surprised that it is a good movie since you like it so much. Now, get back to studying for your last week of class and your finals!! "},{"Title":"Ahme, Mr. Dawes, and one of Mexico's three","Date":"12 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Many years after I saw Alfonso Cuaron's movie adaptation of Frances Hodgson Burnett's novel A Little Princess, it surprised me to learn that the cast includes Liesel Matthews (Harrison Ford's daughter in Air Force One), Eleanor Bron (Ahme in Help!) and Arthur Malet (Mr. Dawes in Mary Poppins). It's certainly a good story, as a little girl struggles to maintain her dignity and imagination after getting enslaved in a girls' school in WWI-era New York. Of course, I reckon that the movie wouldn't appeal to very many people above the age of 14. The look into Indian culture was certainly a good one (the Ramayana is India's equivalent of The Odyssey).PS what I mean by Mexico's three is that Alfonso Cuaron (who also directed Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban and Children of Men), Guillermo Del Toro (Cronos and Pan's Labyrinth) and Alejandro Gonzalez Inarritu (21 Grams and Babel) are known as Mexico's three really famous directors of the 21st century. "},{"Title":"Beautiful!","Date":"26 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" A Little Princess is really a completely beautiful, amazing, astounding movie that draws you in from start to finish. It's so inspiring to see a super rich, young girl, who goes all the way down towards being poor and penniless, still being able to maintain her dignity and sweetness aside from that evil Miss Minchin. Now, everyone knows that all of that magic you read about in fairy tales, stories and books are not real, such as a ten-headed demon, arrows containing yellow poison, and a doll that moves around when you leave the room. However, it is still perfectly alright to indulge and imagine such things if it really makes you comfortable, and it probably is the only way to maintain your sanity when in a hopeless situation; it may be the only way to survive in this cruel, nasty world. Also, because all of those magic things are not real, that is still absolutely no reason and excuse for people to be evil and nasty such as Miss Minchin and those others; no matter what Miss Minchin says and how evil people can be so, it is still alright to have a creative mind and a beautiful imagination and to indulge in heavenly fantasies. We need more people like Sara Crewe in this world to totally lighten it up! This world may surely be completely nasty and cruel, but there can also be a more beautiful and loving world, and we really don't need magic and make-believe to prove that nor need it in order to make people happy. That's a great moral that anyone should have learned from watching this movie. This was some terrific acting with a wonderful cast! A job well done! "},{"Title":"Every little girl must watch this movie and read the book","Date":"18 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I made my mom buy this when I was little because it came with a little locket. I lost the locket but never forgot the movie All girls should watch this and read the book-it is amazing! It is about a girl named Sara who lived in India with her father and was of an upper class. her mother had died and she really did not remember her but stayed close to her father, When World War Two came, Captin Crowe, her father, was called to fight. He took her to London to a boarding school for other higher class girls were her mother had attended headed by the mean Mrs. Minchin and her sister,Amelia, the nicer one who did all the heavy work and was bossed around. Captin Crowe made arrangements so she could have a large room with a sitting area and a fire place and bought her a special doll named Emily who will keep her company in place of her dad. He told her that dolls have special powers and can hear, walk and talk, just that they can't show us humans. He also gave her a locket with his and her mother's pictures in it.WARNING Spoiler!! do not continue reading if you don't want the ending and go out and get the movie to watch it yourself!!!!Sara hated the tight structure of the boarding school and nobody liked her, especially Lavinia. During story time, she makes a very boring story interesting by changing it and using her great imagination. she tells stories from India to all the other girls and is the only one who can control the youngest student, Lottie. Lottie's mom died and she had temper tantrums because of it and Sara would calm her down. During her Birthday celebration, she is told that her father died and she was made a servant (to pay off her debts of the elaborate room and her fancy clothes)and had to live in the attic with a young black servant girl named Becky. Becky was also a former student and her parents died so she understood Sara. On her way to the attic, Mrs. Mitchum takes her locket and tells her all of her duties. she now has to clean and Lavinia takes her grand room.(she casts a spell that will make her lose her hair to get back at her!) She befriends Becky and finds a love connection between the milk man and Amelia.--Amilia ends up escaping the boarding school and running away with the milk man in a very funny escape-through-a-window-scene--The school's neighbors were an old crippled man, his helper, Ram Dass and his monkey. They happen to come across Sara's father at a hospital and bring him home to help him while he gets his memory back and help find the man's son. -They don't know its her father-The girls visit Sara secretly and got her locket back for Mrs. M's office in an elaborate way. She is presented the locket by the girls and Mrs. M catches them and punishes Sara by having her and Becky locked up stairs. Before she leaves, she asks Sara how could she think of herself as a princess and she responds I am a princess. All girls are. Even if they live in tiny old attics. Even if they dress in rags, even if they aren't pretty, or smart, or young. They're still princesses. All of us. Didn't your father ever tell you that? Didn't he? Mrs. M. locks the doors and starts to cry when she is out of their sight. That night, Ram Dass redoes their room while they sleep and presents them with robes, shoes and hot food with an Indian decor. They eat and have a fun time until Mrs. M. comes in and suspects them of stealing all of the furniture and food. She calls the police and Sara does a crazy thing by taking a wooden plank and hopping from the attic to the old man's house. She hides downstairs while the police search the house. She unknowingly finds her amnesiac father. The scene goes like this the amnesiac Capt Crewe comes across Sara crying in a corner of a darkened room-Capt. Crewe What is it? Why are you crying? Please tell me. I won't hurt you. Won't you tell me your name? Sara Crewe Sara. Capt. Crewe 'Sara'... that's such a pretty name. Sara Crewe Papa...? Capt. Crewe What did you say? -she runs to him, and he tries to hold her away- Capt. Crewe I'm sorry... Sara Crewe Papa,it's me! It's Sara! Capt. Crewe Do you know me? Sara Crewe Papa,don't you remember me? Papa, please! You've got to know me! It's Sara, remember? Remember India and Maya? Remember the Ramayana... and Emily? And the locket with Mama's picture? Capt. Crewe No... Sara Crewe Papa, please! Charles Randolph -Mr Randolph arrives with Miss Minchin and the police- Do you know this man? Sara Crewe Papa, tell them! Miss Minchin This child has no father. Take her away! Sara Crewe -a police man tears Sara away and carries her, kicking and screaming, from the room- No! No! Papa! Capt. Crewe I'm so sorryshe reminds him of the good times and when she is about to be put in the police car, along with Becky, he remembers and runs out to get her. They hug and cry and Becky also hugs them and cries.The last scene shows them saying good-bye to the girls to go back to India and Becky is now Sara's sister. Sara gives Lottie her doll Emily and Sara hugs Lavinia, ending their feud.it is a cute, heart warming story with little gags but also with parts that show a lot of emotion.My favorite movie/book! "},{"Title":"If you want to cry your eyes out...","Date":"27 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I get very emotionally involved when I watch a movie, but I rarely get to the point where I shed a tear. This movie makes me weep like a baby... several times. I questioned my very manhood at the conclusion of the film when I spent 10 minutes drying the tears from my eyes. It's a great movie, but you might not want to put yourself through the trauma. You have been warned. And if you don't cry during the big scene at the end of the movie, youa)don't have a pulse.b)are sitting next to someone who might think less of you so you try really hard to hold back.c)should get back to eating nails and killing lions with your bare hands. "},{"Title":"Mystical and magical it will touch adults as well as children","Date":"27 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" SPOILERS THROUGHOUTThe Little Princess was a favorite book of mine growing up. I had heard of the Shirley Temple Movie version but never have seen it. And really don't need to because this version is lovely.There are a few changes from the book but I will say that I enjoyed them. Not that the book didn't have a (somewhat) happy ending but the movie's was perfect. While it was not very realistic it is geared toward children and I loved the character of the dad so much. I loved his reunion with Sara.The movie's look, visually does not seem so recent, it seems like a movie to have been made earlier then the mid nineties. And the acting is incredible. The actress who played Sara should be a household name.The movie itself is visually a dream. The shots of India were enchanting and among the most beautifully photographed shots I've ever seen in a movie. The mystical power so present in the book is still felt, Sara is as wonderful and as much a princess as ever. (and Miss Minchin is still as mean as ever)! This movie is up there, for me, with children's' tales like Parent Trap and Lion,Witch and Wardrobe. In other words, it's a winner all around and I am so glad the movie was able to retain the same magic as the book.There were some things I didn't like that prevented a perfect 10 rating. First it may not be suitable for ALL ages, it gets really upsetting in some places and the end, where Sara almost falls as well as when she is first reunited with her father and he doesn't remember her, are, in my view, just to intense for children to young or who may have trouble with the intensity. If this is for all ages I didn't think that needed to be there. Second, is Miss Minchin. As in the book, she is portrayed as very one dimensional and I'd have liked to know what made her such an evil person. There is a hint of it when she cries as she is leaving the attic but her character is never expanded on. I also wish she'd been told off at the end, I wanted someone to just tell her what a horrible person she was.Thos are the minuses. The pluses, many already mentioned, are the beauty of the movie both visually and emotionally. This movie can be enjoyed by adults. I'm one and I loved it. It transports one back to childhood and reminds it's audience of the power in hope, fantasy and having the power of imagination and belief. It is a beautiful movie and I'd give it an 8.5 of 10. "}{"Title":"This young lady shows everyone how they should treat others.","Date":"29 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I prefix my comments by stating that typically I enjoy the real tough guy movies -- movies with action and martial arts.  I am a former boxer and martial artist that really likes the action movies like Bloodsport and Gladiator.  One summer evening, I found myself babysitting my 11 year old niece, whom I adore.  We were trying to find a movie at the local video store and the one movie that she wanted to see more than any other and had never gotten to was A Little Princess.  I finally gave in to her whims and rented it expecting to be bored out of my mind.  Surprisingly, I found myself drawn into the movie and into the young lady's indomitable spirit. Throughout the trials and tribulations of her own life, she continued to worry about others and about making THEIR lives better and forgetting about HER own needs.  This selfless action is very admirable.  This should be everybody's philosophy on life.  If there were more people in this world like this young lady, the world would be a MUCH better place. "},{"Title":"SO MANY things wrong with this!","Date":"25 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  ---I understand that having Captain Crewe serve in the Great War was probably considered more cinematic than diamond mines and brain fever. But I despise any story where SPOILER someone dead turns up again. That's a terrible thing for children to see, especially if they've already lost a loved one; they don't need that false hope.Furthermore, this change eliminates more dramatic tension than it creates. When someone goes off to war, you *know* there's a good chance they may die. I prefer the book's turning point first, the too-good-to-be-true diamond mines; then Barrow's arrival to report that Crewe died delirious...and didn't leave a penny. And because we lose this, we also lose the parallel, and heartbreaking, storyline about Carrisford searching for Sara everywhere except where she actually is.And Sara's hysterics when she meets her father again are inexcusable. Burnett's Sara would never have taken on so.SPOILER---Sara, not her father, was the one who came up with the theory about dolls having secret lives. She's the one with the active imagination, after all! It would have played much more effectively to have her explain this to him, and have him further torn apart by the realization that he's really going to miss this charming little girl.---I'm not criticizing Liesel Matthews' acting, since she was okay for the role *as written* (just that it was written wrong!), but she LOOKED wrong for the character! Burnett constantly referenced Sara's BLACK hair, pale skin, and big eyes. Because she made so much of this, I would say that casting someone with those attributes is crucial.---In the book, Ermengarde was fat, and slow, but also pretty. In those days, being plump was no impediment to beauty, and, then as now, beauty and intelligence were often seen as mutually exclusive.---Did the French teacher have to be such a caricature? He looks like Asterix, for heaven's sake! Also, Matthews doesn't sound as if she's been speaking French all her life; surprising, considering her background.---Becky does not have to be black in order to illustrate that she's below the other girls. In the book, she talked cockney that was enough of a difference. Dividing lines between the classes were sharp enough without bringing race into it. Also, a scullery maid would not have been serving at table, or doing anything visible.---And we shouldn't see the garret before Sara goes to live there. That's the turning point, and the difference between the two settings should be as jarring to the audience as it is to her.---And Sara giving Becky new shoes?! How's she gonna explain that?!---Also, I don't like the identical uniforms. Pre-crisis Sara always had the best of everything, including clothes that were much more grand even than those of the other rich little girls.---I wish they hadn't eliminated the character of Jessie, Lavinia's sycophant. In the book, it's through their conversations that we get to know what's in Lavinia's beady little mind. Dipping hair in inkwells is good visual shorthand, but Burnett's Lavinia was too ladylike for such antics.---Likewise, Sara would never have taken a cheap shot like calling Lavinia a snotty two-faced bully. She NEVER rose to her bait; that was a key facet of the princess persona. She was motherly towards Lottie, and kind to everyone. The film Sara is just too snippy, almost asking to be knocked off her pedestal.---Miss Minchin wasn't nasty to Sara until she lost her fortune. As long as Sara was a show pupil, she could do no wrong. In fact, on Sara's fateful birthday, Minchin called her dear Sara, and reprimanded Lavinia for snorting at this. But when Minchin ceased to have anything to gain by being nice to her, she ceased to do so.---In general, the school was not a house of repression; not for the regular pupils, anyway. They all had wealthy, well-connected parents, and Minchin would have heard about it if they'd been unhappy.---Many of the post-crisis scenes were undercut. Sara had to put her pride in her pocket when the little boy offered her money; that should have been played up. She used to give handouts to the poor; now she herself was being patronized. And sharing the pastry with the other little girl was, in the book, a huge sacrifice. Being a princess, she couldn't turn her back on another's suffering. And both these things happened after she'd been beat down for a while, not right off the bat. ---I'm sorry, but I just don't buy the dancing-in-the-snow scene.---And FORGET the soot-down-the-chimney prank. Sara would have been beaten for that, not just made to wash dishes. As a servant, she was subjected to downright abuse. She didn't get regular meals, for instance. When Minchin told her she would get no meals the *next* day, that was after she'd had no dinner or supper *that* day. She also had to take a lot of guff from the cook, another character I'm sorry they left out.---They just took all the bite out of it. Scenes like retrieving the locket (which did not exist in the book!) and Amelia's romance with the milkman are okay for what they are, but poor substitutes for the much more powerful scenes mentioned above. And, in the book, the other girls did not rally around Sara as they did in the film. Except for Ermengarde and Lottie, and, in her nasty way, Lavinia, they mostly forgot about her.---And the last act is ridiculously overwrought. In the book, Minchin softened up again when Sara started getting donations, because she assumed this mysterious benefactor could make trouble if they knew how she'd been treating Sara. Putting Sara in peril is a trite cop-out.---And I don't believe she could have pulled herself up onto that ledge anyway.---And Minchin being reduced to servitude is just stupid. "},{"Title":"an absolute piece of .....(you supply the negative words )  of a movie","Date":"23 May 2011","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" an absolute waste of time and money....... if one is going to see a film .... do the smart thing and get the Shirley Temple movie.My girlfriend had NEVER seen OLD movies before meeting me. She'd seen the Mummy and I introduced her to the old Boris Karloff 1932 movie.She saw the Jackie Chan piece of crap Around the World in 80 Days, so I showed her the 1956 movie.She saw the Harrison Ford Sabrina and then the Bogart, Hepburn, Holden movie.The pathetic Eddie Murphy The Nutty Professor was watched by her some time in the past, so I found the 1963 Jerry Lewis movie for her.Need I say that the old one was the one appreciated more in each case? (I could have listed more, like Belushi vs Bogart (Sahara) or War of the Worlds 2005 vs 1953...and several others like The Seven Samurai vs The Magnificent 7) The next thing to find is a Rat Pack Ocean's 11 for her ) Most remakes of a story line do NOT live up to the older one..... and this A Little Princess is probably the second worst remake I have ever seen. Jackie Chan's Around the World in 80 Days is the only remake I can think of that tops this one in terms of patheticness "},{"Title":"if you're a fan of the novel, please don't see this","Date":"26 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Instead, see the 1986 version starring Amelia Shankley.  I realize it's hard to scout out, but it's definitely worth it.  It follows the story exactly, the characters look and act the way they're supposed to, and it gives you the real feeling of what Sara had to go through.  I was thoroughly disappointed with the '95 version, and found it completely unmemorable. Why did they change so many things?  What was the point of moving the location to New York, and why change the ending so drastically?  I was upset to find many of my favourite parts changed completely, or just cut out.  Viewers say that the girl playing Sara in this version is not cutesy, but in comparison to the novel and to Amelia Shankley, she is.  PLEASE, just skip this version over if you love the novel, and see the '86 version.  However, if you've never read the novel, you might enjoy this version, as compared to most other children's movies made to-day, this is above average.  I guess I'm just a bit biased, as I read the novel so many times, and loved it. "},{"Title":"This was a FANTASTIC movie!","Date":"28 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I love this movie. It is an emotional roller-coaster. Happy then sad, happy then sad, then happy. This is my favorite movie of all time. Every Christmas I watch this movie many times until all my friends have gotten tired of the emotional roller-coaster. Haha! I wish that I could own this movie, then I'd be SOOOOO happy! I know you might think I'm a fanatic about this movie, and frankly...you're right. I love it so much...especially since it came out the day my sister was born. And every year we go see it on her birthday. She loves the movie as well. I can't wait till her birthday! Well I'm going to go rent this movie again and watch it over and over again! I'm going to bring my friends over to go on the emotional roller-coaster with me! "},{"Title":"For The little princess in your life!","Date":"20 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This movie maybe for little girls, or even the big girls, it's very heart-warming for all. For a little girl who's been to India, and learn how to be a princess, the imagination is the most powerful weapon a little girl can have. It sure came in handy when she went to that boarding school in New York, and had to working under touledge by that nasty head mistress Miss Minchin(Eleanor Bron). What a terrible woman! The other girls liked Sara, and they found a way to be like her, a Princess! With the power of imagination, and the calmness of the heart, Sara knew how to keep everyone happy. But Miss Minchin will do everything in her power to keep her as a servant. She and Becky(Vannesa Lee Chester) keep in touch at all times, whether it was cold and dark, Sara's stories kept her safe and warm. When her father came back from the war with no memory whatsoever, the servant got him to remember his daughter. While the boarding school got a new headmaster, Miss Minchin was fired and was made a chimney sweep assistant. Goes to show what cold-heartedness and greed will make you into. A common nobody. Always remember the rule No matter what; age race, nationality, wealth-status women are all princesses. A great heart-warming movie for little princess, and family! 5 stars "},{"Title":"The academy didn't just miss a good movie....","Date":"1 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" An earlier commenter noted how the Academy missed a good movie.They didn't just miss a good movie....they missed an outstanding one.While hard for younger children to grasp and stay focused, this movie is perfect for Tween girls.It is poignant and sends the message to always be good hearted, no matter how badly the deck seems stacked.Over and over you see how the little girl is treated so poorly but yet maintains a certain energy and grace.There's a bit of magical, mysticism from India that permeates the movie and provides some foreshadowing about the ending.This is beautifully shot movie that is somewhat dark but not disconcertingly so. "},{"Title":"Get me a bucket!","Date":"23 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Maybe I'm just cynical, but what a piece of soppy, american junk! And it's not even an American story. It could be a lesson in bad acting, as every single actor over emphasised EVERYTHING. And the way events in the story were portrayed...well, I was watching it with a 9 year old girl I was babysitting and even she said Yeah, right. That wouldn't happen. I just think that the movie should've stayed true to the book more, and in the book she goes to London. And her father dies. I don't think any of the Little Princess movies have kept that part in. But anyway, my view - stay away! "},{"Title":"Did they ever READ the book?","Date":"27 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  A third Little Princess is something I looked forward to. Unfortunately, it turned into a whole different plot line altogether. New York? I think the better title would be Heiress in NYC because it would be a good movie for just about anything else, but for ALP, it doesn't work. "},{"Title":"Girl Power","Date":"8 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" A Little Princess based on the book by Frances Burnett is a beautiful family film that delivers on a couple of levels. First, it's a classic riches to rags to riches fairytale. This part is well imagined and fairly true to the book. The new texture that this film adaption brings to this traditional story, however, is its overt theme of female empowerment buried within Sara's message of all girls are princesses. Director Alfonso Cuarón and writers Richard LaGravenese and Elizabeth Chandler, infuse what could be a predictable story with an overlay of female bonding that pushes Frances Burnett's message further than it could have gone in her day. Where Burnett wrote of grace, this film notches it up to self worth.This Little Princess for our time is as plucky as Buffy the Vampire Slayer without losing Shirley Temple's innocence. Burnett had the right idea but was restrained to the values of her day. Act like a princess and you will be one. Cuarón must have had a strong mother or sister because his heroine shows her princessness with strength, honor and courage. And indeed all little girls are born possessing just that. "}{"Title":"A Perfect Film For Mothers & Fathers","Date":"12 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This is an absolutely perfect film for mothers and fathers single, divorced or married to share with their younger teenaged or pre-teen daughters.See the other reviews for further comments.I would put this in the category of the brilliant Secret Garden.4 Niro~Stars of 4 "},{"Title":"Departs from the original novel, but well-directed & cast","Date":"15 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  PLEASE NOTE  In the original 1880 short story Sarah Crewe, or What Happened at Miss Minchin's and the 1905 novel A Little Princess, , THE STORY IS SET ENTIRELY IN INDIA AND LONDON, ENGLAND IN THE 1880S, EVERYONE IS BRITISH EXCEPT RAM DASS & BECKY IS WHITE AND COCKNEY, AND MOST IMPORTANTLY, CAPTAIN CREWE DIES OF A LETHAL JUNGLE FEVER AND HIS DEAR FRIEND EVENTUALLY FINDS SARAH AFTER A LONG SEARCH AND ADOPTS HER.That duly noted, this movie version is well-directed by the director of the beautiful Like Water for Chocolate, and it is beautifully filmed.  Very good performances by Liesel Matthews, Liam Cunningham and the actress playing Becky the scullery maid.  Evocative soundtrack too, by Patrick Doyle.  Worth buying both the video and especially the soundtrack on cd.P.S.  The Shirley Temple 1935 version gets the story wrong too...  "},{"Title":"Awful!! Read the book.","Date":"12 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Ok, maybe the show per se wasn't too bad, but when compared to the book...very severely lacking. The book A Little Princess by Frances Hodgson Burnett is a book that changes the life of children who read it. When compared with the stuff that kids read today, like Sweet Valley High, the difference is shocking. The movie is okay, but don't expect too much. "},{"Title":"Watchable","Date":"7 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  It's no SECRET GARDEN or BLACK BEAUTY, and it has been reset in America. But still, a watchable remake of a classic, which was way overdue for remaking. The director also remade GREAT EXPECTATIONS a few years later, also changing the locale to America, but unfortunately to little impact as there are several competent versions of that classic including a 1999 TV movie. He is now working on the third HARRY POTTER movie. "},{"Title":"Much better than the original!","Date":"13 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  A Little PrincessMuch better version than the original Shirley Temple film has a more believable young lady portraying the title roll. No singing, no dancing, no cheery optimism--this is the tale the way it should have been told Hard, cold, gruesome, and unrelentlessly pessimistic and, get this, quite optimistic, too.The little princess of the title is put in a crass orphanage after her father is believed to have been killed in the war. The devilish headmistress, knowing she will no longer receive payment for the girl's keep, locks her in the attic where she faces the grim reality that she may never see her father again.Not great but certainly better than that miserable brat's original version.**** / ***** "},{"Title":"Cute...but potentially misleading","Date":"17 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" For a family movie, this is great not too scary, there's humor, and of course, the heartwarming ending. For those of you who adore the book, or are trying to write a book report by viewing the movie...well, for the former, you might like it, and for the latter...go find another film version if you really can't read the book.BUT...unlike the book, in which Sarah's father is in fact killed, and not just missing...Captain Crewe is, in fact, not killed, just injured and suffering from amnesia and living right next door. Now, the right-next-door idea of course, comes from the book, in which the friend of Captain Crewe was indeed living next to the young girl he was searching for. But reviving Captain Crewe for no good reason just doesn't sit well. The heartwarming ending could still have been had by staying faithful to the book.In fact, the ending could be misleading to young children who've recently endured the death of a parent. They pop in the movie, watch Sarah start out happy with her father, watch her learn of her father's death, be thrust into poverty, and then learn that her papa is, in fact, alive....and wonder if maybe their parent is alive as well. Not a great message to send to little kids, in my opinion. "},{"Title":"corrrrrrrrrny","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  SPOILER ALERT oh god was this movie corny! they changed the story for one i mean set in new york - please. becky being this angelic little black girl who looked like she just got out finishing school doesn't help either. some scenes are cute but most of it was like finger up the throat stuff. the bit where the father doesn't die is just way too hollywood for my liking too, since in the novel he dies from a rare indian virus. and the scene where sara is like stroking her dad's face was really gross - i thought they were gonna start frenching or something - that close of a relationship between father and daughter is unhealthy. don't get me wrong this film is great for little kids - but for me, i wouldn't sit down to watch it again without having a bucket nearby. too different from novel - 1986 version ten zillion times better than this cornball. "},{"Title":"Too Many Plugs For Occult Ruined This","Date":"19 July 2006","Score":"12 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" If you saw Shirley Temple's version of this story, which was okay - nothing great - this movie, in comparison, is disgusting.In this remake, the occult takes center stage witches spells, Hindu magic, etc. In other words, it has Liberal written all over it, which is one reason Roger Ebert loved it. The head mistress and one of the little girls, both playing villains, overdoes it. The ending is stupid, too.The best part of the film is its looks it's beautifully films with lots of nice golden and brown hues. The sound is excellent, too. Liesel Matthews does a fine job in the lead role as the modern-day Shirley Temple. Eleanor Bron is effective as the mean woman.This would have been a fine re-make if it hadn't gone overboard on the occult baloney. "}]