[{"Title":"Another bumpy, colourful ride on Almodovar's rollercoaster","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"25 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The title of Almodovar's later film, All About My Mother, was a nod of respect in the direction of the 1950 Hollywood film,  All About Eve, which contains Bette Davis's famous line  - Fasten  your seat belts, it's going to be a bumpy night. This quote could well appear at the start of most of the Spanish director's films, certainly Flower. Here, the rider on his emotional rollercoaster is Leocadia (Leo) Macias (Marisa Paredes), whose marriage and life are in crisis. She is not as young as she was, and her handsome husband Paco (Imanol Arias) has lost interest and is about to leave her. The secret of the title is that Leo writes romantic novels under an assumed name, but hers is not the only secret revealed in the movie.Spoiled and self-centred Leo is not the most likeable of women; her sister Rosa (the wonderful Rossy de Palma) who looks after their aged mother probably deserves more of our sympathy. But the nicest people don't necessarily provide the most interesting stories; and Almodovar isn't trying to enlist our pity, but our understanding. If, according to the oft-quoted screenplay dictum, character is defined by action, then what he shows us is a courageous character who overcomes her self-pity, and takes up life and love again. Leo comes to terms with her loss, in much the same way as the mother in film's opening scene  finally accepts that her son is dead. But that episode turns out to be a repeatable training session for doctors, so perhaps Almodovar is warning Leo that loss of love can take place more than once, or possibly he is suggesting to the audience that they regard Leo's story as a training session for life. This unashamed melodrama is conveyed via magical acting, great camerawork, and above all intense colours. There are a few specifically Spanish touches, including a sequence where Leo and her mother return to their idyllic, picturesque family village, and a flamenco dance (to Miles Davis music). As usual, there are also reminders of the downsides of modern urban life, though some of the references to drugs and unemployment are a little forced and superfluous. All in all, this is a great pictorial story teller telling perhaps not his greatest tale, but certainly one worth listening to and seeing.   "},{"Title":"Abandoned in Madrid","Date":"23 May 2005","Score":"20 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Flor is one of Pedro's understated best. The incomparable Marisa Paredes gives this film its ultimate power. Her extraordinary face details every nuance of the loss of her marriage--abandonment, as Sr. Almodovar labels it. The rich flamenco scenes reframe the passion and pain Marisa's character moves through during the film. And as nearly always, Sr. A. pays homage here to other works that have informed his vision--a barrage of brilliant and troubled women writers (Djuna Barnes, Dorothy Parker, Carson McCullers, et al.), and Casablanca and Rich and Famous, for instance. I thank God for Pedro. Without him, life would be as the lyrics of the Bola de Nieve song in this film--no me dejes vivir. "},{"Title":"Colour is emotion.","Date":"20 December 1999","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The film famed for pivoting Almodovar's move away from formless farce to the rich delights of melodrama, which would produce his two masterpieces, LIVE FLESH and ALL ABOUT MY MOTHER.  SECRET isn't quite up to those films (the mix of comedy and drama isn't quite digested) but is a wonderful start, with its amazing heroine, whose delusions and needs are revealed but never resolved; its typically eccentric supporting cast; its ruminations on the artist and her art - there are writers, editors, dancers, filmmakers all in the film - and secrets, both private and public; its silly men; its use of interiors and decor; Almodovar's still cherishable, unparalleled use of colour, allied with a new found sense of composition (the later films would reveal his increasing mastery of the camera); some extraordinary shots, especially the paper shower during the students' demonstration. "},{"Title":"Wake up, this is no dream. A beautifully crafted drama","Date":"4 October 2004","Score":"19 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Having seen most of Almodovar films, I have to say I prefer his more hilarious, comical, absurd ones. High heels, Talk to her are two other examples of Almodovar doing almost straightforward drama - though not the usual drama fare.That said, this touched me a lot. Without excluding some typically unusual -hillariously funny- Almodovar dialogues and usual suspects, this film is about pasiion, lust, bitterness, disappointment, joy. It is, after all, about life. Acting of the lead actress is top notch, it's human as far as it goes. No silly plot tricks, no deus ex machina, this is not another sorry a$$ American drama with easy solutions or a bright happy end.Almodovar is one of the greatest artists of film! "},{"Title":"Another Aspect of  Almodóvar's Talent, Deeply Impressive on its Own","Date":"3 September 2006","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Some viewers have placed this exciting film 'La Flor de mi secreto' into the 'not up to standard' Pedro Almodóvar films, a classification this viewer finds difficult to understand. Filmed in the luxuriously colorful palette (especially the repeated use of the color red in every scene) that has become his trademark, set with a musical score that includes Spanish song and guitar and flamenco, and introducing a wildly disparate group of over-the-top women played by a bevy of fine actresses - it all seems echt Almodóvar to me. No, there is not the outrageous side of gender bending that suffuses many of his more popular films, but there is a fine story that resonates throughout this remarkable movie that makes it very much worth the attention of lovers of Spanish cinema.The film opens during the credits on a woman being informed that her 16-year old son is brain dead as a result of a motorcycle accident and two young doctors (including the irrepressible young Jordi Molla) are trying to convince her to allow the respirator to be disconnected and the boy's organs harvested for donor transplant. Sad, tense though this opening is we discover soon enough that the trio are actors making a demo film for medical personnel to learn to deal with such possible family encounters! Point what appears to be a tragedy becomes a 'farcical depiction' guided by a seminar leader Betty (Carmen Elías). Flash into a different scene and we me Leo (the immensely talented Almodóvar favorite Marisa Paredes), depressed to the extreme over the failure of her marriage to her beloved Paco (Imanol Arias), a NATO 'soldier' who took assignments as far from Leo as possible. Now Leo continues to write her trashy novels she has never had published while clinging to the Paco (she wears his clothes, currently his boots) she cannot recover. Noting that the boots are too tight she leaves her typewriter to flee into the streets to find someone to remove the painful boots and after frustrating encounters with less than helpful people, she turns to her best friend Betty (yes, at a seminar!) who successfully removes the shoes. It seems Paco had an affair with Betty, a fact that further flails at Leo's pain. Betty assuages her by introducing her to a literary editor Ángel (Juan Echanove) who asks Leo to come on staff as a critic - most particularly to review the 'example manuscript' Leo has presented him in applying for the job. The reaction is predictable and Leo is at odds with how to continue her life.Along the way of the story Leo gets advice from her hilarious mother and sister (Chus Lampreave and Rossy De Palma in typical Almodóvar creations!) and from her maid Blanca (Manuela Vargas) and Blanca's son Antonio (Joaquín Cortés) who perform Spanish ballet as a side line (and incredibly well, too - with some wonderful flamencoesque moments of artistic relief). Coincidences happen that allow Leo to ultimately catch a new perspective on her life without Paco - in a most unexpected way.So what is not to love about this Almodóvar opus? For this viewer, absolutely nothing. It is a delight from beginning to end and deserves reconsideration in placement in the gifted director's echelon of works. Highly Recommended. "},{"Title":"Certainly not his best movie.","Date":"1 February 2005","Score":"15 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In a very short period of time I've seen several of Pedro Almodóvar's movies and I've become a fan of his work. I love his style of mixing drama with (sometimes absurd) humor and music. I like the fact that he always knows to make you feel as if you know the characters personally after seeing the movie... Having said this, I have to admit that I was a bit disappointed by La flor de mi secreto.The characters aren't as well developed as I'm used to see in his movies and it's sometimes very hard to care for his main character Leo Macías (Marisa Paredes). As Amanda Gris (her pseudonym), she is a writer of very successful sentimental novels who deal about love, sex and happy endings. But her personal life is a complete mess. She doesn't want to write this kind of novels anymore and she gets an assignment from a magazine to write a review on the work of... Amanda Gris. Her relationship with her man isn't any good. He works for the Nato, is more abroad than at home and when he's at home he wants to leave as soon as possible. She drinks too much, her mother is a cause of many concerns... She wants to change her whole life, but it isn't as easy as she hoped it would be.Even though the story isn't bad or boring, it doesn't really succeed to be as captivating as I would like it to be. The positive thing about this movie is that you already can see Almodovár's talent for the use of humor and music, great camera work, interesting story telling... sipping through. Things that became more obvious in his later work. This movie may not be the best example of his work, but it is worth a watch. I give it a 6/10. "},{"Title":"Reconstructing Leocadia","Date":"25 November 2006","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The drama that had been explored in the erstwhile comedic TACONES LEJANOS takes center stage in Pedro Almodovar's LA FLOR DE MI SECRETO (THE FLOWER OF MY SECRET as it's known in English, even when flower is at the same time a literal misnomer and a symbolic term). Of course, it's not without some incursions into mis-direction. At first, it seems that it's going to be a drama about a mother (Kiti Manver) who is informed that her sixteen-year old son has become brain-dead following a motorcycle accident. It takes time for the mother to realize that her son will no longer be with her. The doctors (one of them Jordi Molla) go on and tell her they need his organs to use in transplants. The mother worries that the organs will go to the wrong bodies... and then it pans to reveal this is just a demo film that intends to show how doctors should react to a situation should it present itself. The organizer of this event is Betty (Carmen Elias), who is Leo Macias' (Marisa Paredes) best friend.And here is when we get introduced to Leo (and the story), proper dressed like a bag lady, she has wandered out into the streets wearing her husband Paco's (Imanol Arias) boots. The reason? Well, he's left her, she has realized her marriage is a failure, and to top it all, she has taken to wearing his boots while typing about it. The catch is, they're too tight. Which leads her to the seminar Betty is in the middle of (the scene at the start of the film) and their banter about Leo's husband. This will reveal some shared issues one of the women ignores, but that's not where Almodovar wants to go. Leo reveals herself to be a romance novelist who goes by the pseudonym Amanda Gris -- a Spanish version of Nora Roberts -- who's written a completely bleak novel that her publishing agency will not take. After all, the public wants Amanda Gris and demands romance, nothing else.Which has Leo take a job in a magazine run by Betty's gay friend Angel (Juan Echanove). Angel loves Amanda Gris; she presents a critic which stabs at Gris' work, a thing Angel admires. Angel himself states he will act as a counter-critic, a foil of sorts, to Leo's attack on Gris. Both form an unlikely friendship that approaches Leo's pain at a tentative level until Paco's arrival (and some crucial denouements) bring Angel and Leo a lot more closer than they thought they would be.LA FLOR DE MI SECRETO moves at a meandering pace -- almost free-floating, barely dependent on plot and heavy on the use of dialogue. For some, this is an irritating departure of Almodovar's more compact stories -- it's as if he wasn't sure where he was going and decided to take Leo's plight and add on as he went deeper into his story. However, this change of pace and style is important to see Leo as a fractured woman. The mother at the start of the movie whose son is brain-dead is only but a parallel of Leo's own attitude towards her dead marriage -- one she pathetically tries to salvage. Until now, she has seen her life reflected in another man who has alienated himself from her, using his military position as an excuse. When her attempt backfires, she tries to go the way out... but life has more in store for Leo. Here is where Almodovar's story really starts to bloom like the flower of his title. Almodovar clearly identifies with Leo in her dual role as woman scorned who has to find her way back, and critic who questions the nature of these pulp stories Amanda Gris writes. I would go on and even say that his love for these women is so strong, it wouldn't even be too wild to suggest Angel is his physical stand-in and in a lesser way, the supporting character of Antonio (Joaquin Cortes). Antonio's storyline moves at a parallel level with Leo's and describes the immense love he feels for his mother Blanca (Manuela Vargas), Leo's maid who moonlights as a flamenco dancer. He commits an act of theft which grants them the economic freedom to continue their dance act, and their flamenco sequence is a thing of ferocious beauty. In this, LA FLOR DE MI SECRETO is the first story that incorporates a selfless act of love that goes beyond physical desire, and it shows a director who is okay with not showing comic zaniness in lieu of thoughtful drama that only occasionally has moments of explosive passion. "},{"Title":"Repeated lines","Date":"3 December 2005","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Yes, the line at the beginning is also on another movie All about my mother, where Manuela (who is the transplant coordinator at a Hospital) received the same news, with almost the same words. Although, excellent movie and all actors stunning. Chus Lampreave as funny as always, and Rosy De Palma nailed the middle aged lady character. I totally recommend this movie. One of the most dramatic movies from P. Almodovar. Marisa Paredes is a great actress, and had some main roles on Almodovar movies (All about my mother,High Heels/tacones lejanos) and this one. Juan Echanove gets the Teddy Bear tenderness, I just love him. Joaquin Cortes had a brief role, and had a little dance. I think he is very innovative and very powerful Bailaor. I tried to find High Heels but it seems very hard to find in the States. I'll keep trying. "},{"Title":"Uneven drama","Date":"26 April 2003","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Pedro Almodovar is easily one of the most interesting filmmakers in the world today and most of his films are in a strange way tongue in cheek, despite the premise of the story! But in this film its a more serious Almodovar story and while never boring, I'm not sure it succeeds on the level it wants. Story is about a woman who is a very famous writer but writes under a pseudonym. She hates her own work and is hired by a magazine to do a story on herself (They don't know she is the same person). Marisa Paredes is Leo and as she enters middle age she seems to be going through a mid-life crisis. She drinks to much and her marriage is falling apart. Her husband Paco (Imanol Aris) is in the military and always gone. Its evident he does not miss her but Leo looks forward to when he comes home. Definitely a more somber and straight laced story by one of the most irreverent directors in ages. Paredes is always captivating and she seems at ease playing women with deep rooted problems. Film follows her as Leo must learn all over again how to enjoy life and most important, to like herself! Slow moving film as some genuine moments from Paredes but its not one of Almodovars better efforts. "},{"Title":"Melodrama Almodovar-style","Date":"18 February 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Only Pedro Almodovar can do a melodrama that crosses genres like this film. In one sense, this is a film that you would expect to see on Lifetime.Marisa Paredes (All About My Mother, Life is Beautiful) is nothing less than outstanding a a writer that is going through a crisis with a husband (Imanol Arias) that does not love her anymore. There is, of course, a crisis with her mother (Chus Lampreave - Volver) at the same time. Then, she finds out that it is her best friend that is having an affair with her husband, and there are profession problems at the same time. Sounds just like a Lifetime movie, doesn't it? But, Almodovar manages to give us a great story with his twists. Laughs are generous as comedic situations occur throughout. It's like wanting to laugh at something at a funeral. It happens, and we just have to deal with it.Juan Echanove (who supposedly gave a great performance in Alatriste, the film that I have been waiting for release theatrically, or on DVD) is superb as Ángel, the newspaper editor who fulfills a dream to write romance novels. and who is in love with Leo (Parades).It is just another great film from Almodovar that defies a description that would ever do it justice. Only experiencing his films can ever be pleasure. "}{"Title":"Almodovar's thread","Date":"12 June 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Papate2, this is a common thing for Almodovar, to use some situations in films he made, to produce a new film from this starting point. It's like developing a thread that links all the stories he imagines. For example, his last film Volver (To come Back) uses the scene of a mother who hides his dead husband inside a fridge...and this story is told by Leo in La Flor De mi Secreto. As well, there is a scene in La Mala Educacion, where you can see the poster of a film called Ghost Grandmother. This is, as well, the poster of Volver, where Carmen Maura plays a dead grandmother who comes back to help her daughters. "},{"Title":"An Almodóvar Misstep","Date":"8 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Pedro Almodóvar can't deal with the middle-ground. He likes to speak only in the high or the low, drenching his films in vibrant, Sirkian style that has to decide whether it's dressing an emotionally tumultuous drama or a light-speeded comedy. His career, beginning in the 1980s, has been long but equipped with as many misses as hits. Almodóvar's best make for startling unison between style and substance, deliberately artificial atmosphere turning more flaming as the goings get rough; his worst still look great, but they sometimes ramble, never going anywhere and never giving the style a place to grab onto. The red trench coats, red lipstick, and red pumps of Almodóvar's distinctly feminine characters are buried in catty conversations, Joan Collins schlock tears, leaving more of an image than an impression. The Flower of My Secret is a quintessential example of an Almodóvar miss, absorbing in its aesthetic but distant in its ability to capture the imagination. Heavyweights like Women on the Verge of a Nervous Breakdown and Broken Embraces rip our throats out with their passion towards screwball zeal/Technicolor noir cynicism. But lightweights, The Flower of My Secret being a prime example, don't allow us to think about anything besides how scrumptious everything looks. There is nothing wrong with an obsession toward visual materialization, but one can only stare at a painting before they want to move on to something that knocks them off their jaded feet.Marisa Paredes portrays Leo Marcías, a bestselling romance novelist who writes under the pseudonym Amanda Gris. Leo, though, doesn't take pride in her work like Danielle Steel or Nora Roberts. She hates it, desperate to be taken seriously but unable to publish anything meaningful thanks to a paralyzing authorial contract. It's becoming impossible to write such fantastical material, considering her husband (Imanol Arias) has no interest in solving marital problems and her closest friends seem ready to betray her at any waking moment. Finding no other way to fix the cracks that rough up her life, she decides to take a job at local newspaper El Pais as a literature critic. Well aware that she will have to eventually attack her own book, Leo finds unsettling excitement in the idea of publicly diminishing her work after years of painful gloating.The Flower of My Secret's story sounds ready for screwball comedy treatment, but in execution, its plot feels rather haphazard and messy, taking more time to ignite itself through speedy small talk than conversation that actually moves the plot forward. Consider the film opens with a false lead we think we're about to watch the tragic story of a middle- aged woman losing her son in a motorcycle accident, but it turns out to be a organ donation center training video in production. Scenes like this are amusing, yet they don't go anywhere. As a whole, The Flower of My Secret has no problem when it comes to being compulsively watchable. Cohesiveness, identity, authenticity &#x97; those are the issues that make the film so unmistakably flawed. The characters spend a whole lot of time gabbing and tearing up, but we never find ourselves entwined in their conversations, moved by their sudden outbursts of emotion.Almodóvar, though, is incapable of making a movie that isn't stunning in its artistic vision. Photographically and directionally, The Flower of My Secret is visionary and eye- poppingly deliberate in its color; missing is interest that makes its look have meaning. But Parades gives a wonderful performance and Almodóvar sustains maturity &#x97; there are diamonds to be found in the candy colored rough. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly normal for an Almodóvar flick.","Date":"4 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Flower of My Secret is an unusual film by the controversial Spanish director Pedro Almodóvar. So often, the man seems to go out of his way to shock and offend the viewer. Yet, oddly, this is an amazingly 'normal' film and it lacks the shock value of films such as Women on the Verge of a Nervous Breakdown, The Skin I live In or All About My Father. This is NOT a complaint--and it does make the film more palatable for the average viewer. However, it's also a film that only mildly piqued my interest and might disappoint his die- hard fans.Leo (Marisa Paredes) is a middle-aged woman with a secret--what exactly that is you'll need to find out for yourself. She also has a marriage that is on the rocks. Her husband is a UN peace-keeper and seems to use this as an excuse not to return home. They are very distant--and some of this might be due to Leo's very volatile personality and drinking. Where exactly all this goes, I'd rather you just watch the film as I don't want to divulge exactly what happens.While the film is well-crafted and acted, it's also woefully incomplete. The ending, I can almost guarantee, will leave you a bit unsatisfied as it seems a bit vague. But the film is an interesting character study and it's worth seeing just for that. Plus, I could see a group of friends or a couple watching this one and then talking about the many issues it raises. "},{"Title":"Quaint, mostly interesting at times character piece that you never really feel fully blooms.","Date":"20 January 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The opening of 1995's The Flower of My Secret is a false start, a deliberate build up to a pretty shocking reveal which is then rendered entirely fake. Whilst acting as another example of Spanish director Pedro Almodóvar's knack of being able to incorporate, at least to a very basic degree on this occasion, texts within texts; such a sequence goes rather a long way in capturing how he does most of what it is he looks at in his films. That is to say, the sequence is thrust onto us in an unspectacular manner by way of two different compositions evoking a somewhat televisual sense, before a gradual reveal of one item; followed by another; followed by the fleshing out of who these people really are in a manner that feels cinematic. It's this establishment of an idea, subject matter or basis for a bog-standard and quite dramatic scene being revisited and toyed with to deliver something anew; much in the way Almodóvar revisits ordinary, but rather troubled, inhabitants of his native Spain and provides new tales mixed with both new and familiar flaws these people possess.The Flower of my Secret is more of a wavy tale than I'd have liked it to be, too often getting bogged down with scenes and sequences that detract from what is primarily a film about a woman battling with her identity in the form of an alter-ego as she undergoes changes in her life. In a film all about the relationship a woman has with her employers, herself and her husband, the scenes that carry the least dramatic weight are the one's in which the same woman must balance her role as a daughter and sister. But these incidences only occur sparsely and much like the lead heroine of the title whom totters around the general area in an unbalanced and somewhat confused manner, there is that consistent feeling the film itself will similarly do the same as it shoots about from one interaction to another. But The Flower of My Secret pulls together, if only just, but a more concentrated and more narrow view on these people and their problems would've sufficed even more.The film covers Leo Macías (Paredes), a middle aged female writer whom works within fiction under an alias of Amanda Gris, someone many would like to find out the true identity of through her success. As an individual going through a troubled time, furthered by issues of a marital nature, the want to filter the true feelings, emotions and experiences through into her writing becomes more prominent &#x96; something the publishers don't want, because the winning formula of writing these upbeat and romantic novels has already brought untold success to both Leo and the company. Leo is established in her very first scene to be a person who has difficulty removing the boots that she wears, while half her journey in the piece is the real inability to additionally rid herself of this alter-ego she has burdened herself with by way of writing cheery, uplifting tales and generally giving everyone what it is they crave. Aware the boots come with a problem that renders them difficult to get off, but doing so anyway because of her husband Paco (Arias) who is based in Belgium with the United Nations, this idea of going through a grinder for the sake of others seems to catch up with Leo early on; something that will carry on into her role as a writer as the film progresses.Almodóvar's film is full of quirks, establishing things such as the boundary between reality and fiction that exists by way of the first scene before branching out and presenting happy-go-lucky novel fiction that the author wants to give an edge - but the film isn't a rounded experience. Another quirk, which arrives in the form of a subplot of sorts, is the nature of Leo's brief interaction with her husband Paco; a man charged with serving, protecting, nurturing and caring for those in far off places following an assigning to then war-torn Bosnia, but he does not much possess the said characteristics when thinking of his own wife and marriage, while Leo is stuck in nurturing a side of her in Amanda that she wants to rid herself of. In what is a seemingly self-aware jab at his own work, given how limited the presence of sexually active characters and the study of items of a sexual nature are in general, The Flower of my Secret is decidedly 'un-raunchy'. Indeed, when Leo and Paco initially meet in the doorway of the apartment; their embrace is somewhat censored by a conveniently placed reflective object of sorts while later on, the suggestion of anything steamy between the two is greeted with proverbial bombshells. Later on, a bathroom mirror will act as the means for the camera to whip pan toward as they reflect on where they are with each other and he reveals that certain plans have changed.Almodóvar is a clever film-maker, able to build relationships between characters and play out some pretty dramatic set-pieces in the process. Unfortunately, The Flower of my Secret is only marginally interesting; with flashes of intrigue and border-line brilliance combining with above examples of intricate film-making. Here, I think to cram in a flailing marriage; with a career path in the balance; with another man falling in love with Leo; with her partially blind mother desperately wanting to return to the rural place she knows best, known only as 'the village', is biting off more than the film can comprehensively chew. Almodóvar is too good-a film-maker to make material of this nature unwatchable, but the flitting around he does as his lead tumbles in and out from one location to another gets a tad tiresome more often than not; as lots of different threads are all drawn together to form the basis for an arc of a woman whose life threatens to capitulate. "},{"Title":"Middle of the Road Almodovar","Date":"1 March 2016","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Leo Macias writes sentimental novels with great success but hidden under a pseudonym, Amanda Gris. She is unhappy with her professional life and with her husband, a soldier working in Brussels and Bosnia that is never at home. She will try anything to change her life.I thought from the description that this was going to be about a man writing as a woman so he could write romance novels. I thought that was quite clever, considering the number of women who had used male pseudonyms to get published over the years... but it turns out that Leo is a woman, so this crushed by hopes.What turns out to be the most interesting thing is how this film foreshadows other, better Almodovar films. In The Flower of my Secret, the plot of Leo's new, gritty novel is stolen and used as the basis of a film screenplay The Freezer. In a coup of life imitating art, a decade later it formed the basis of Almodóvar's own film Volver. Another sub-plot scene from The Flower of my Secret, the student doctors being taught how to persuade a grieving mother to allow her son's organs to be used in transplant, was used as the starting point of Almodóvar's All About My Mother. "},{"Title":"Very good little film","Date":"26 April 2014","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Very good and interesting film. Those who like stories dealing with paradox and stuff will love it. The acting by the leading actress, Marisa Paredes, is fantastic. The art direction is very good, love the contrast of the colors and how they affect our perception about the characters. It has good production values. Again, it may not touch in new grounds on filmmaking, but is an extremely enjoyable film regardless. Keep in mind that is the first Almodovar film I've watched, so yeah. I heard somewhere it disappoints the true Almodovar fans. Well, I cant say nothing about it other than I don't give a damn for now. "},{"Title":"An interesting, important step in Almodovar's evolution","Date":"25 July 2010","Score":"9 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Sweet, and very well acted. This is much less wild and outrageous than earlier Almodovar, but compensates by having more real emotion. Still, this has two of his usual key elements -- dramatic use of intense color, and a melodramatic, almost soapy, story. It's clear he loves melodrama at the same time he gently pokes fun at it. But in 'Flower of My Secret' the soap has more underpinnings in humanity, with subtler behavior and humor. Technically he gets even better with this film. It's beautiful, shot in a more subdued style than his earlier work. Not a great movie, but a good, entertaining, human one that paves the way to his later fully 'real' and moving masterpieces like 'Talk to Her'. Lovely performances.There seem to be two distinct groups among Almodovar fans. Those who prefer his earlier, wilder, more genre busting work, and those who prefer his more recent, subtler films. I'm in the second group, but can completely understand those who feel differently. And where you fall on that scale is likely to have a big impact on your reaction to this film. "},{"Title":"Pedro's Layered Neuroses","Date":"8 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I'd travel half a day to see one of his films properly projected. Even though some of his fantasies are hard to connect to, he would never fail to deliver on the cinematic front. Most viewers think the story here too melodramatic and simple. It does not seem so to me. It has multiple, contradictory nestings. It has metacharacters that temporarily settle on one character or another. It has deeply accessible feminine emotions (at least by film standards), and they are allowed to go down narrative blind alleys like life has it. It has inner film, here in the form of romance novels (and war).We never really know when we are swimming in life or an image of life created in one of the fictions of the characters.But the value is never in the story, it is in how the emotional space is conveyed visually. It is hard to carry a fresh impression of an Almodovar film over the years; those impressions saturate the soul as intended. So I cannot say with authority that this is at least as amazing as his best (Talk). It sure seems so; there are several shots that made me watch this three times in a row.Some are a bit too literal for my taste, like the scene that accompanies her madness (med students protesting about sex in the street), or her breakup (bouncing marbles). But I expect these from Pedro. Here is an example of the better kind, an amazing shot at about 55 minutes in. Our authoress leads a double, double life. In her first full dip, she encounters her second publisher (and later ghost) who himself has a pseudonym. The shot is through a staggered glass wall. She is out of sight but there are four reflections of her, two of which are superimposed on him and his reflection. (He invites her to a screaming contest.) It is astonishing. You should know that I see four distinct layers of her being in the narrative here; it is a standard for the women in his later films.Another shot she has been rescued by her ghostwriter and wakes up in a strange place we don't initially know. It is his bed we later discover. Our establishing shot is through a window over the bed to a several story high billboard of her latest book on a famous store's front. This is a book that she does not yet know exists. Only later do we see that the location is through a window, over a bed in his apartment with him nearby watching her in precisely the way we saw the billboard. But the remarkable thing is not that progression as well done a reveal as it is, but how it starts, with a confusing black and white blur. Only later do we discover what it was the zebra curtains framing the window. His vision and words do this throughout his films, moving from frame to background to immersion in a reality that merges the foreground and background situations.The next major scene is a performance. We see her maid, unexpectedly as an accomplished dancer, in a seductive dance with her hunky son! It is deep and full of captured motion, though I think it would take a real Spaniard to get the full impression.We soon learn that he stole her last manuscript, one she did not like, and a film is being made of it. We know also, as loyal Pedro viewers, that the film is one of the layers of his work, a few layers of which we have just seen.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching. "},{"Title":"A mature masterpiece; one of Almodóvar's most impressive works","Date":"21 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Here we have another woman on the verge of a nervous breakdown; a key theme in Almodóvar's work, and one that is treated in this film with empathy and sensitivity, as opposed to the director's usual fondness for colourful farce. Nonetheless, the film can now be seen as a real turning point in the filmmaker's career; following on from the over-the-top stylisations and outré black-humour of the controversial Kika (1993), and pointing instead towards to the more commercial and acclaimed likes of All About My Mother (1999), Talk to Her (2002) and Volver (2006). For me, it's one of the director's greatest achievements thus far; a clever narrative attached to a complicated character filled with desires and anxieties that is all captured in such a way as to prove once and for all that Almodóvar is the rightful heir to the cinematic throne of Rainer Werner Fassbinder.There are a number of subtle Fassbinder touches littered throughout The Flower of My Secret (1995) that seem particularly attuned to a similar sense of spiralling melodrama; such as the constant reliance on self-aware film references to underline key elements of the plot, and the clever use of fragmented reflections stressing the dithering uncertainty of the character and the different components of her life as it crumbles into pieces all around. However, despite such similarities, Almodóvar's cinema is ultimately his own; and The Flower of My Secret is indicative of his more mature work in its use of colour, humour, energy and flair. Unlike Fassbinder, there is a real sense of warmth to the drama here, and a real sense of vigour and immediacy that will be recognisable to viewers already accustomed to the director's keen style and approach. In keeping with this, we have the sense of kitsch and knowingly melodramatic soap-opera clichés used and eventually subverted in order to bring the most out of both the character and her seemingly hopeless situation; as she struggles with the breakdown of her marriage to a young soldier, dysfunction between her mother and sister, an unfulfilled career as a writer of vapid romance novels, and a sense of stagnation as she strives to pull the separate elements of her life back together.It's all typical of Almodóvar's approach to storytelling; filled with numerous layers of self-reference and keen elements of meta-fiction; as the themes of the story and the thoughts and feelings of the characters are underpinned and eventually abstracted by secondary elements that comment on the story at hand - while ultimately remaining disconnected. Once again, we have an Almodóvar film about a writer - in which the project she is working on becomes interlinked with the story of the film - as well a separate framing-devise about the publication of a screenplay that is essential to the plot itself. It also begins, like the earlier masterpiece Law of Desire (1987), with a scene of abstraction; in which a scene that we believe to be part of the film itself turns out to be a separate element linked to the character's job, creating a further element of self reference that is really incredibly clever.Think about this opening sequence in itself; what are we seeing? The woman is concerned about the fate of her son, who she loves very dearly. The doctors tell her that worrying is useless; that her son - although still showing signs of life - is essentially dead. He is no longer responding to treatment and his brain is shutting down. This brief vignette - which later turns out to be a training video - encapsulates the central idea of The Flower of My Secret; with the predicament of the mother and her teenage son mirroring that of the central character and her relationship with her young husband. The relationship is dead, though the woman refuses to let go. She begs and pleads and prays for some kind of return to how things used to be, but it is ultimately hopeless. The sadness of the central character consumes her to the point in which her life becomes the antithesis of the generally accepted conventions of her trashy romance novels. There's also a continual reliance on the idea of performance - be it the dance, which suggests elements of the subsequent Talk to Her, or the acting that opens the film - and how this relates to the subtle shading of the characters, their attitudes and relationships, the characters as cineasts and the importance of the pseudonym.So the film works on a number of levels, with the various shades of reference and interpretation adding to the overall effect of the story, which is closely linked throughout to the feelings of the character. It is also worth noting the truly exceptional performances from the cast, and in particular the lead performance of Marisa Paredes; one of the most affecting, heartbreaking and subtly complex portrayals of any Almodóvar work to date. It is, without question, a great ensemble piece - as is often the case with the director - but the feelings of this character, her hopelessness and the general turmoil of middle-age, loneliness and creative dissatisfaction all resonate on a completely profound level. Some viewers have found fault with the film, and that's clearly a difference of taste; however, for me, this is one of Almodóvar's best and brightest; a film filled with pathos, humour, character and emotion, all jostling for our attention within a clever script, and the always inventive direction of Almodóvar himself. "},{"Title":"Chick flick for midlife","Date":"23 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Flower of My Secret follows a middle-aged married woman and somewhat neurotic novelist, Leo (Paredes), on the verge of divorce from the handwriting on the wall to the separation to the final realization and adjustments required to get her life back on track. There's little plot to be found in this linear dramady which sees Leo bumping into the people in her life for brief tete-a-tetes and bouncing off her emotional walls as she tries to cope with the inevitable. Not Almodovar's best work, this busy, mildly humorous, dialogue-intensive contempo Spanish flick received mild approval from critical corners and the public alike. Short on story but very well composed, The Flower of My Secret will play best with women, especially Spanish speakers or foreign film buffs. (B) "}{"Title":"Almodovar's best film","Date":"1 September 1999","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film deviates somewhat from the Almodovar style; it's a bit less manic, and the characters are developed in greater depth.  Leo is a successful romance novelist whose failed marriage has turned her against romance novels. She's further burdened by a grasping family. The film is basically the chronicle of her nervous breakdown, and her tentative steps toward believing in love again. "},{"Title":"The Flower of My Secret","Date":"2 September 1999","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A woman's life crumbles emotionally and professionally as she reaches her middle ages in this drama from the acclaimed director of Tie Me Up, Tie Me Down!. It centers around Leo Macias (Marisa Paredes) who as a writer, whose secret is that for years she has written under a pseudonym, has become more interested in truth in her writing, while her editors want sex, love and happy endings. Her personal life is crumbling as well with her marriage falling apart, mostly because of her instability in handling any close personal relationships. The movie doesn't really go anywhere nor do we care about Leo, who is arrogant, selfish and childish in all of her real life dealings. You want to reach into the screen and smack this woman in the face. Paredes is impressive as Leo, but she is given little to grow and fully develop as a character. There is a stand out performance from Chus Lampreave as Leo's snappy and energetic mother.  "},{"Title":"In a hospital doctors announces to a woman her son is dead...","Date":"8 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  In a hospital doctors announces to a woman her son is dead... She goes through a phase of denial and refuses to donate his organs for transplant. After awhile, the spectator understand all that was a training simulation. In how many of Almodovar films was this sequence repeated?Name at least two. "},{"Title":"Woman scorned ... Yaddy Yaddy Yada","Date":"13 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Almodovar's same-old same-old scorned middle-age woman obsessing about and overcoming lost love; Almodovar relishing every moment of misery and anguish, as if it were tragedy. But it's not; it's soap-opera.His usual visual creativity seems at bay here. Only a couple of memorable shots 1) Heroine standing face-to-face with her editor, multiple reflections in glass of her superimposed on him, he thus becoming her, just as he has assumed her literary pseudonym, and, by implication, her femininity. This new lover is soft and cuddly, unlike her distant, hard, skinny military husband. (Almodovar, need it be said, is a well-known homosexual.) 2) Village women sitting in the sun and singing, tatting embroidery, their wooden implements clacking. This is the only reprieve in the entire film from the torrent of hothouse dialogue, the only moment when the film (and we) are allowed to breath. "}]