[{"Title":"Touching and powerful drama","Date":"4 January 2004","Score":"22 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Brandon Theis (Gregory Harrison) and Nick Stark (Eric Roberts) have been lovers for years.  Then Nick is diagnosed with HIV.  Brandon promises to not leave him---but eventually does.  He can't handle The HIV.  A year later Nick is told he will die very soon of lesions in the brain.  Rather than slowly become a vegetable and wither away, Nick decides to commit suicide.  He invites all of his friends to a 2 day party--at the end, he'll take the pills and die.  Brandon finds out and attends the party.  But does Nick want him there and will Nick be able to forgive him before he goes?Strong, powerful movie.  I saw it in a theatre in 1996 and cried my eyes out.  I saw it 2 years later with a friend and we BOTH cried our eyes out!  Saw it again tonight--cried again.  This drama is harrowing at times and brings about questions about love, death with dignity, suicide, HIV...etc etc.  But it never gets too maudlin and is always fascinating. Roberts is just superb as Nick.  Strong, handsome, refusing to wither away.  He also approaches his HIV condition with strength and humor--as he should.  Lee Grant is (sadly) wasted as his mother.  Harrison is so-so as his boyfriend.  Usually he's sort of stone-faced but there were a few moments that the looks on his face made me break down.  There's one scene of him and Roberts just looking at each other across the room--you can see the love, fear and hatred in their faces--it's just great.  And Harrison really delivers during the last 30 minutes of the movie.  There's a huge cast in this movie--Margaret Cho (hilarious); Marlee Matlin (wasted); Olivia Newton-John (just great); Bronson Pinchot (overdoing the bitchiness a bit); Bruce Davison; Roddy McDowall.  There's the problem--there are too MANY characters!  I'm still not sure who McDowell was and Sally Kellerman shows up looking great but--who is she? We're never told.  Also, the party scenes are scattershot--the camera seems to linger around catching certain characters and snatches of their conversations.  I also have a hard time believing that anyone has this many friends and they all keep quiet about him committing suicide.  Still--problems aside this works.  I think this film hit too close for director/writer Randal Kleiser.  Supposedly he went through the same things with his lover.  When this movie was released he couldn't promote it.  It came (and went) very quickly.  That's really a shame.  It's a strong, powerful movie that should be seen by everybody.  And Roberts gives out one of his best performances.  The scene when him and Harrison kiss is heart-breaking.Well worth catching--an excellent drama.  Just bring plenty of tissues--you'll need them! "},{"Title":"It still reduces me to tears. . .","Date":"15 June 2003","Score":"16 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" . . .and even heaving sobs.When I saw this in 1996 at the theater, I started crying about 15 minutes in and never stopped.  I haven't been able to watch it since then.  I decided to buy the DVD and see if I coudl get through it without so much crying. ..well, almost.For me, the emotions start pouring over me when I empathize with all of Nick's loving friends, including his former lover Brandon, who are somewhat supportive of his decision, yet really not ready to let him go quite yet.As someone else mentioned, the wink that Nick gives Brandon, signalling his forgiveness of Brandon for his selfishness and lack of understanding, just does me in.  From that moment on, and up until the end, the tears keep running down my face.By the way, what a great cast for such a moving film!  Eric Roberts and Gregory Harrison are exceptional, and they get great support from Lee Grant, Bronson Pinchot, Margaret Cho, Erich Segal, the late Roddy McDowell, and the rest.I think I'll watch this DVD whenever I'm feelig cynical and weary of the events taking place in this world of bigotry, hatred and war.  At least then I can have a good cry about something that really matters  love and affection from one's nearest and dearest. "},{"Title":"So sad...","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Please keep your Kleenex close!I think the part where my eyes started getting watery was when Brandon(Gregory Harrison) and Nick (Eric Roberts) kissed. I was yelling and screaming, Greg!Why?????NOOO!! Yes I am a big fan of the man and I found it very surprising that he took the part as Brandon. After being lovers for 8 years Brandon and Nick are the complete opposite of each other yet they have so much to teach and learn from each other. When Nick gets tested positive Brandon gets scared and after trying his hardest to cope with Nick's illness he backs away from him in fear...maybe even a slight hatred that he is going to die. So they break up, Brandon finds someone else, who is very young and Nick just pretends he doesn't care. 1 year later Nick finds out he has only a few days to live after he discovers he has a brain tumour. He holds a party gathering friends and family. When Brandon turns up out of the blue everyone hates the idea of him being there, even Nick, but Brandon too needs to say goodbye. The actual part that was the saddest is when Brandon discovers that Nick wants his ashes scattered around they place where they first met, as Nick has now planned to kill himself and basically everyone wants to stop him, but know they can't. This was a terrific movie, there wasn't a dull moment, a lot of flashbacks were shown of the relationship Brandon and Nick shared and I think everyone can relate to that it is never easy to lose someone you love especially to death, but it also shows a side of reality that we all have to go sometime and we might as well make the most of life. Eric was terrific as Nick and the way he was trying to avoid Brandon. Gregory was great as Brandon, the emotions of seeing his loved one die slowly and yet still being strong about it for his sake even sitting by his bedside when he dies I think we all want that, to at least have a person by our side so we don't die alone. "},{"Title":"An emotional roller coaster even for the toughest man!","Date":"14 December 2004","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie has to be one of the saddest films ever made. It's right up there along side Steel Magnolias. I myself cried 30 minutes into the movie. Eric Roberts gives an all out performance as a gay male who decides to end his own life after he realizes he is losing his battle against AIDS. His character decides to have one last big party surrounding himself with family and friends. His ex-lover returns for this one last party to try and make amends. With the constant playing of Dolly Parton's I Will Always Love You you watch as this man says his last goodbye's and readies himself for his departure. Even though surrounded by friends and family it gives you a strong sense that in the end we still all die alone. Truly a masterpiece and a must see! Just make sure to keep the tissues close by. "},{"Title":"I just saw this for the first time!","Date":"29 April 2006","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I can't believe this movie was made 10 years ago and I never even heard of it before the other day. I was out of town on business, and the hotel I stayed in had Showtime. I fell asleep with the TV on one night, and woke up around 130 a.m. This movie was just coming on and it grabbed me immediately. I stayed up and watched the whole thing! I thought it was very well acted and was surprised at the cast of characters. It certainly was a tearjerker, but there were lots of laughs thrown in. I've not seen a lot of movies featuring homosexual relationships, much less ones that were more than a source of a lot of jokes. This one was very touching and I found myself rooting for the characters to work things out.I would totally recommend this movie for anyone looking to see something a little out of the ordinary. "},{"Title":"Blown away by the sentiment...","Date":"8 March 1999","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I watched this movie alone one morning on video, expecting it to be a cool ensemble cast movie.  It ended up pulling me in so completely that I ignored the phone and never once touched the pause button. It is another of those Hollywood films that may be technically or structurally lacking in the minds of critics...but in my heart and mind it was powerful and effective. By casting known names in many of the subliminal roles...we had a built-in sympathy for them in this situation. The comedy, although sometimes very macabre was believable. I also found the situation believable based on the type of character played by Eric Roberts...the farewell party seemed to fit his personality. I recommend this film to people willing to open their hearts and  who don't mind a good cry...  "},{"Title":"I should have bought stock in Kleenex","Date":"1 June 2003","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Not only am I stoked that this is coming out on DVD in 2 days, but whenever I need a good cry, I put this movie on. Dealing with everything from relationships to parents to unfortunately, death, this movie is the best written, directed and casted movies i have seen in a very long time. "},{"Title":"The saddest movie ever","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I'm not a weeper. This is the only movie out of hundreds that I've ever cried watching. It is a simple movie, with many powerful actors giving their most poignant performances. What gets to me most is putting myself in Eric Roberts' place. The image of saying goodbye to everyone I've ever loved before I euthanise myself... ungh... if ever I need to bring tears to my eyes, that would do it. "},{"Title":"Love story with tragic twist","Date":"21 April 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" IT'S MY PARTY Aspect ratio 1.851Sound format DTSIn the last few days before an AIDS-related brain tumor renders him insensible, a young LA designer (Eric Roberts) decides to end his own life, and throws a final joyous bash for family and loved ones. However, the occasion is strained by the arrival of Roberts' former lover (Gregory Harrison), seeking reconciliation at the eleventh hour...Randal Kleiser's powerful film - inspired by actual events - feels more like a reunion of showbiz friends than a structured narrative, though the results are often deeply moving. Kleiser's defiant screenplay gives short shrift to the suicide debate (Roddy McDowall's character acts as the Voice of Conscience), and he employs mordant humor to keep mawkishness at bay (at one point, Roberts and best friend Bronson Pinchot launch into a rousing rendition of It's my party / And I'll DIE if I want to!). As you might expect, however, the final twenty minutes are relentlessly, heartbreakingly sad. Amongst the notable supporting players, look fast for Nina Foch, Sally Kellerman, Greg Louganis, Steve Antin and a virtually unrecognizable Dennis Christopher and Christopher Atkins. "},{"Title":"A movie for everybody","Date":"10 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This was a very good tearjerker movie. Everybody in this movie gives an oscar calibre performance. I think that Eric Roberts, Gregory Harrison, and Lee Grant derserved an oscar nomination for this movie. Eric Roberts gives a performance of a lifetime. This is his best movie in his career. I cry everytime I watch this movie. This was better than beaches. This is the movie that deserve alot of oscar nominations. "}{"Title":"Excellent and touching","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Excellent and touching drama about a man who has AIDS and finds out he has not that much longer to live, decided to throw a farewell party for himself and invites his family and friends. And also his ex. The results are dramatic, heartbreaking and even a little humour is in here too. The whole cast does an excellent job but a few stand out... Eric Roberts as Nick who is dying of AIDS, Lee Grant as his mother, Maragret Cho as a best friend, Olivia Newton John as a best friend, and Gregory Harrison as Nick's ex. This is an excellent film that I have watched more then once. It will make you laugh and cry. Oh man, will it make you cry!! The score is excellent also as is the direction. Recommended. "},{"Title":"Great Movie, One of the saddest ones ever!","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It's My Party is truly one of the best movies I've ever seen.  The two main actors were amazingly believable as gay men and the supporting cast was good too.  It will make you understand how important life is and how important friends and family are.  If you like sit-down movies, this one is for you. I cried for about 3/4 of it.   "},{"Title":"Very difficult to watch.  Excellent.","Date":"13 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Please keep in mind that this is based on actual events...if you rent this, do yourself a favor and re-watch some scenes with the commentary turned ON. This is not Hollywood at its best or its worst, as some have said. Hollywood did not invent this story. Some of the drama was added for effect (some of the conflict, for example), but the events were based on the life (end of life) of Harry Stein. It is difficult to watch because of all of the conflicting emotions; the agonizing effort of the characters trying to be uplifting and funny in the face of devastation. It's was difficult for me because I know people in similar situations, so much of it was very realistic to me. "},{"Title":"My all time favorite movie.","Date":"13 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There are few movies that can make me literally sob, not just cry. This movie touched my soul. It is a well written story ingeniously casted. Actors including comedian Margaret Cho, former singing sensation Olivia Newton-John, Eric Roberts, Bronson Pinchot, Marlee Matlin, and others may not be Top Dogs in Hollywood, but, deliver compelling, heart felt performances that seem to come naturally to them. It's as if the parts they played were written for them. Perfect casting, good direction, and spectacular performances make It's My Party a must see film that you will never forget. Rent it, buy it, or borrow it. Just make sure you have some tissues handy. "},{"Title":"Um, taken as what it is, and not what I think it should be . . .","Date":"14 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Come on, folks, let's cut a guy some slack.  The fact that Randal Kleiser could get this film made at all is a major accomplishment.  That he could get the cast he did, and get them all to accept scale is another point in his favor.For the record, It's My Party is a film-filtered version of actual events in Randal Kleiser's life (Kleiser corresponds to Brandon, Gregory Harrison's character), in much the same way that Kleiser's earlier film, Summer Lovers, is a film-filtered (and re-gendered, to be sure) version of an earlier period in Kleiser's life.  The film reduces several years of the central gay relationship to about two.  Various art works attributed to Nick in the film are actually works created by Kleiser's late lover.  And yes, the party that the film centers on actually took place, though certainly (one hopes) not as melodramatically.I have to say, I agree that quite a few characters could have been left on the cutting-room floor without marring the film, but at the same time, many of those superfluous characters were played by actors who were working virtually for free because they wanted to be involved in the project.The black comedy in a couple of the scenes was a device that was used to lighten things (however inappropriately, though, is a matter of personal taste) before the heavier side of the film kicked in, more or less a structural device, evidenced by the fact that it didn't return later.The notion that this film is not an accurate representation of the sequence of events involved in PML is certainly valid, but how often does film or theater get terminal disease completely right?  As I mentioned earlier, this was an eight year relationship timeline shortened to about 26 months, and all presented in less than 2 hours.  There are going to be things missing. Kleiser hit the high points -- the fact that Nick's vision is starting to go, something very much feared in a visual artist.Taken as a whole, I loved the film.  Of course, when I first saw it, I was sitting in a theater full of gay men, lesbians, and their closest friends on a rainy afternoon .  You try watching this film under circumstances like that and still come out unaffected. "},{"Title":"Wonderful film","Date":"8 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Great movie that doesn't focus on AIDS and being gay. The performances all around are wonderful, Eric Roberts was especially great because he had a sense of humor about dying. Great movie to watch to reflect on your own life. I cried! "},{"Title":"Excellent movie","Date":"27 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Excellent movie about a man who discovers he's dying of AIDS and wants to throw a farewell party to his friends and family.  Good acting by the whole cast. Good direction and a good score as well. I did not think I would cry but by the end I did cry. Recommended highly "},{"Title":"PRETENTIOUS!!!!","Date":"2 May 2000","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  OKAY!  So it deals with AIDS which is honorable enough...but this film reminds me of Drunks, as it really exists as a means for all these surprise big names to make cameos in the name of charitable awareness or whatever---self serving, if you ask me!  NOBODY has THIS many FAAABULOUS friends and please, gay writers, get over the Palm Beach Society Matron-Mom thing  Roseanne's have gay sons, too...even if most gay men seem to WISH they were born to C Z Guest.  Eric Roberts doesn't look sick enough for his condition, the relationship between the lovers is  ill-defined, and just because the theme is honorable, or just TIMELY, doesn't mean the film is FAABULOUS!! "},{"Title":"Death with dignity is the issue here, not AIDS or homosexuality.","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This overlong film is not really about AIDS or homosexuality, but about a man who wants death with dignity because he will die in a few days from a brain disease that will first turn him into a vegetable. Although I didn't blame him for his decision to commit suicide, I found it bizarre that he would invite all his friends to a farewell party to say goodbye before he takes his fatal dose of sleeping pills.  That should involve only a few close family members, but there were so many characters in this film I had a hard time sorting them out and wondered why some were invited to the party in the first place.The film focuses on the troubled relationship between the man in question, Eric Roberts, who gives an excellent low-keyed performance as the man in question, and his ex-lover, Gregory Harrison, who kicked him out once Roberts tested HIV positive. There are some moving moments between them as they try to make up. I was also moved by Roberts and his estranged and guilty father, George Segal, trying to resolve their feelings. Acting honors should also go to Devon Gummersall, playing Roberts' upset gay nephew.  I very much enjoyed seeing some of the old pros Lee Grant, Roddy McDowall, Olivia Newton-John, Sally Kellerman and Nina Foch, even though many should have been edited out of the film.  "},{"Title":"Sticks in the memory like a bad smell","Date":"29 April 2005","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Appropriately enough, I watched this in Berlin. I say appropriately because schmaltz is a German word in origin - but, lets face it, nobody does it quite like our American cousins.The film sticks in my memory like a bad smell. Sickly and sentimental in the extreme. It turns a genuine health crisis into a third-rate melodrama. Yet another tale of gay doom and gloom. Unrelieved misery and corn on the cob sentimentality. A product of its time. Thank goodness they don't make 'em like this any more.Unlike other reviews, I don't recommend Kleenex if you choose to watch it, I suggest a sick bag. "}{"Title":"A surprising moving drama that might surprise you.","Date":"10 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" 1996's It's My Party is a smart, funny, and emotionally charged film that combines hot button issues with flawed, but richly drawn characters and had me riveted to the screen as well as fighting tears.This is the story of Nick (Eric Roberts), an architectural designer who is in a committed relationship with a film director named Brandon (Gregory Harrison), a relationship that ends shortly after Nick learns he has AIDS. A year later, Nick learns he has contracted an AIDS-related disease that will soon be turning him into a vegetable and not wanting to live that way, decides to commit suicide by swallowing a bottle of pills and having a huge party the night before to say goodbye to his friends and family.This film sucked me in right from the beginning by establishing that this was first and foremost a love story...the relationship between Nick and Brandon rings true from the beginning and we are so happy when Brandon drops everything to be at the party when he learns about it, despite the initial tension his arrival causes, tension you can cut with a knife.Director and writer Randal Kleiser, who also directed Grease and The Blue Lagoon almost effortlessly ties together the tension of this situation with the bitchy gay sensibilities that would always be prevalent with these kind of characters, evidenced in the constant movie quotes offered by several characters, not to mention the handful guests at the party who are inevitably going to make what's going on all about them. Yes, there are laughs to be found here, but some of them are very nervous ones. The scenes surrounding Brandon's initial arrival at the party and the scenes near the ends where Nick poses for final pictures with his family and friends perfectly display this fusion of humor and tension.Eric Roberts delivers a rich and layered performance as Nick and Harrison gives the performance of his career as Brandon, but what's more important here is the relationship that the two actors create on screen...it's completely believable and has us rooting for them from the beginning. It's why we want to cheer when it is revealed that Brandon broke up with the guy he left Nick for and came to the party because he wants him back.Kleiser has assembled a superb ensemble cast behind the leads that delivers the goods, especially Bronson Pinchot as a fast talking agent, Margaret Cho as Nick's favorite hag, Marlee Maitlin as Nick's sister, Paul Regina as Nick's new lover, and especially Lee Grant, in an Oscar- worthy performance as Nick's mother, who walks the delicate line between blaming herself for what's happening to Nick and making it all about her.Yes, it does play like a photographed stage play, but a really good one and though not for all tastes, a very special experience for those who are game, and yes, I did shed a few tears along the way. "},{"Title":"So Teary!","Date":"31 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Christ how will I explain this in words, it was just so heartbreaking to think that Nick organised a two day party just to say goodbye to his friends and family because of the fact he was dying of AIDS. It would really make you feel so sad and think that he was so brave once you get into this movie. I felt so mad to think that Brandon left Nick to die slowly, just because of a small argument. I mean of course if my partner had Aids, I certainly would not cope but I would support them as best I can. However Brandon ran off and not talking about this with Nick at all. No wonder, Nick's family was so peed off. I swear, I felt like shouting to Brandon!Anyway on the positive side, the good parts of this film were*Margaret Cho and Olivia Newton-John I was so excited to see these legends on this movie!Both looked stunning so they did!*Monty- guys, you better watch out for this guy cause he is hilarious! I think Bronson Pinchot was great at acting Monty, he really came out with stuff that would just make you laugh! I have to say, Randal Kleiser, you are a genius for writing this film! "},{"Title":"The Long (and I mean really long) Goodbye","Date":"10 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Nick has AIDS and decides to end his life rather than suffer through the indignity of a long and tortured natural death.The viewer is then left to suffer through a long and tortured unnatural death of a thousand cuts inflicted by a cast of actors, most of whom play one dimensional characters phoning in their individual Hallmark moments.It's too bad that Hollywood seems to think that the AIDS/HIV epidemic is a money-making gift to them. This comes across more like a Noel Coward drawing room comedy or a really bad soap opera rather than anything to be taken seriously on any level. If anything it could be considered an insulting mockery of those who did face the trauma of finding themselves positive. "},{"Title":"tear jerker","Date":"12 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" wow after watching this trust me their will not be a dry eye in the place. a man finds out he has tested positive for AIDS, and he only has so long to live,, he tells his partner,, who doesn't really take it that well, as time passes we see what slowly starts to happen to our main character,, played by Eric Roberts. His lover leaves him in a quarrel, and now we pick up the story a year later, when he learns from the doctor that he only has a few days to live. after that sombering news he decides to have a farewell party for his family and friends, he invites everyone that has touched his life,, and a few people show up uninvited also, which thickens the plot,, including his former lover who tries to make peace with Nick. there are many Hollywood stars in this Bronson Pinchot, Bruce Davison, Olivia Newton John , Roddy Macdowell,, and many many other, too numerous too mention,, this is an engrossing movie and you better have a box of Kleenex handy.. you will need it. "},{"Title":"Despite sorrowful theme and genuine poignancy, surprisingly not a downer...","Date":"27 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Writer-director Randal Kleiser does fine, fluid work here with this moving hybrid of The Boys in the Band and 'Night, Mother. When an upwardly-mobile gay man in Southern California gets a dreaded HIV-positive diagnosis, it helps to end the relationship he had with his lover; one year later, the two men find themselves reunited after the infected one discovers he has lesions on his brain and decides to throw a farewell party for himself before committing suicide. Movies centering on big, noisy parties rarely work, but Kleiser's accuracy in capturing this (not all gay) eclectic group of family and friends shows off a great deal of heart, sentiment, and a small bit of the requisite bitchy humor. A wonderfully odd gathering of celebrities and character-actors pop up in cameo roles, however the leads (Eric Roberts and Gregory Harrison) are the most surprising; with the help of astute editing, they are able to create a rapport that seems heartfelt and real, and Roberts in particular does some of his best work ever. Kleiser wanted this to be a celebration of life, not the mourning of a death, and he pulls it off with aplomb. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Great Movie!","Date":"21 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Great movie,that shows so much about being human and the trials along with it. Very powerful, I cried when it was over. IT shows that even if we are mad or upset we can overcome and that love is forever. It also shows that we all have a weakness towards something and we have to overcome it or risk losing those closest to us. Going thru this movie and seeing how people are affected by an immanent event and how they come to terms with it, shows that we can be compassionate and move past things, especially with the main couple in the this movie. It has taught me many things and I woke up often the night after I watched it thinking about it and my own relationships. A must see! "},{"Title":"Timely the 25th Anniversary of the discovery of AIDS. (spoilers)","Date":"9 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I borrowed 'It's My Party' from the library this weekend; a coincidentally timely moment to see this film as this weekend marked milestones in the discovery of AIDs, with MSN's homepage having stories this week on both the 25 years of AIDs in America as well as the struggles in Africa with the disease.This is a particularly sad film (although which one isn't?) about Nick Stark (Eric Roberts), a young West Coast architect who was diagnosed with HIV some time ago and learns from his doctor that he has reached a particularly debilitating stage of the disease known as PML. Not wanting to live life in any sort of semi-conscious state, he decides to commit suicide in a rather dignified way before the stages of disease advance any further. The Party, in the title of this film, refers to the sort of substitution of a funeral for a party, one in which Nick, his friends, and family will gather around to enjoy the last few good times they might have together. He wants no sorrow and no tears and certainly no funeral or wake. This is how he wants to say goodbye.Nick will be among many of his friends to have died from the disease, although this film relegates the disease solely to that of homosexual men, which I would caution in Hollywood because of the misconceptions that is a disease that only affects gay men. But nonetheless, this is the story of a gay man who has seen many of his friends die to the disease. The particularly sad thing is that you share among the assorted celebration (although not all of it is a particularly joyous occasion obviously because people are aware of Nick's plan to end his life) and in the end, the viewer may be fooled by their Hollywood conditioned expectations that somehow Nick will live in the end and everything will be okay.This is one film with a particularly familiar and good cast which join together in sort of an awareness project that reminds me of the Laramie Project made some time later. This, at least according to the trivia, is based on actual events that occurred in the early 90s. "},{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"15 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Although, a tear-jerker.....I loved it! True life! The actors/actresses were all fantastic! I love Eric Roberts, anyway. Many terrific people in this movie, including Lee Grant, Devon Gummersall, Paul Regina (love him), George Segal and many more. Could really relate to this movie as to what has happened in my own life. If I had to choose, my choice would be the same as Eric Roberts in this film. I could put myself in so many shoes on this film ~ Gregory Harrison's thoughts, Lee Grant's feelings, Margaret Chou being a friend to Eric, etc. You have to see it! I'm adding it to my DVD collection ~ yes worth watching over and over! "},{"Title":"Honest-Inspiring-Heartfelt","Date":"19 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It is pretty obvious this film was completed with a slim budget.....and that works..since the best films are the one's that tell a poignant story that stays with you always. this film does just that!! It came on at 1am last night and I stayed up to finish watching it... Knowing I had to get up very early for work, but I would not nor could not stop watching this movie. Eric Roberts is so incredible in this movie and really I think it is his best performance ever. The only character I didn't like was Pinchot...just too bitchy, but then again I know men just like him and don't like them either ;). I cried so hard during this film. It breaks your heart, especially if you have friends who have aids and one's who have passed from it, like I have. I think What the character Nick does in this film is a hard choice to make..but one he made for himself and those he loved. Harrison's character pisses me off but he is meant to I think and I also think he did a great job as well. It is a great movie and one I will most likely buy for my collection. The story is hard to watch and sad but also funny at times. I can't believe I had never heard of it before. I am so glad I stayed up to watch it though...I highly recommend this film for EVERYONE. It is a story of family and friends and of honesty and of a disease that knows no bounds or orientations. Robert's is amazing in this film and it made me a new fan of his for sure!! It definitely shows the truth about how we as human beings react to the news of impending death and how we all as individuals or family members or friends handle this very hard part of life. By the end of the film I felt I too had lost something......and that is the best part of the movie..it really does make you feel and everyone can relate to at least one of the characters ...this film is for everyone...with the possible exception of young children. The entire cast is awesome and probably the best performance by Olivia Newton John ever as well. Do yourself a favor...see this movie ...you will not regret it....education is the best way to avoid prejudice and hate..this movie does that as well..it educates, even if on a small level what this horrible virus ends up doing to people. This is a true story and the characters were reflecting their real life counter parts, and this film could not show it any better than it did, what it is really like for someone saying farewell...or see you later. I wish I would have known the real person Nick, since it is obvious he was such an influence to everyone around him, in such a positive way. Eric Roberts shows that Nick was such a good and forgiving person...who had laughter in his heart even until the end..who cared so much for his friends and his family that he gave them a party as well as gifts ..the party I don't believe was for him, but he did it for the one's he cared about. What a truly amazing person Nick must have been..to those of you who did know him..you are truly blessed. To the director of this film Randal Kleiser, who I understand made this film as a sort of sound board for the pain he feels...THANK YOU!!!!! "},{"Title":"A Great Representation of A Real Life Experience","Date":"21 December 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I am a gay male, age 42, who in my years of being openly gay, since 18, have lost scores of friends to AIDS. This is probably to me one of the best representations of a person holding on to their dignity until the end. And when it comes down to it, that's all one has in the end, their dignity. Watching someone you love more than life itself slip away from you and grow old before your eyes is something I would not wish on my worst enemy. Eric Robert's character has obviously celebrated his life to the fullest and now he is celebrating the ending of it in a manner which to me is sincere, humorous, and given to appreciate those around him who have made his life special. This is one of his best performances I've seen and I am someone who enjoys his movies. Maybe because this is a departure from his usual roles is what makes it good. He's very gracious in this role. "}{"Title":"Please God, Let Me Die So Dramatically!","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Theoretically one should hate this film...it literally makes dying of AIDS look like chic fun. My experiences with friends and loved ones over the past 20 years have been somewhat less glamorous, to say the least. Given the reality that many of us have had to go through, you might find yourself getting angry at times. That said, if you are a romantic at heart, you will ultimately be caught up in the sentiment of this piece. Yes, you might even get a lump in your throat...however, the same one you got the last time you watched Dark Victory. A wonderful cast, in a misguided, yet ultimately moving film.  "},{"Title":"Watch this film","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It's My Party is a good film with many colorful characters. The greatest asset of the film is its characters. Most of the actors, especially Olivia Newton John, Margaret Cho, Lee Grant, Gregory Harrison, and Marlee Matlin all turn in great performances as friends and family of the AIDS afflicted Nick (Eric Roberts). Time and setting falls away in the faces of these people. Their relationships with one another (especially Nick) become the focal point of the film. There are many funny moments throughout the two day party, which work well to temper the otherwise very sad business of coming to terms with Nick's impending death. The viewer watches as Nick wraps up the loose ends of his life. Have Kleenex ready. Watch this film.  "},{"Title":"Randal Kleiser's It's My Party","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Eric Roberts proves once and for all that he is a better actor thanhis better known sister in this emotionally draining story.Roberts and Gregory Harrison are lovers who break up soon afterRoberts finds out he has AIDS. Their eventual separation is shownin tiny scenes in between credits in the opening minutes of thefilm. Roberts moves into another house, taking most of theirmutual friends with him, and over a year later Roberts throws agiant two day party. He invites everyone he knows, from hisestranged father to his agent (he is an artist and house designer)to Harrison, who has not had contact with him in all this time.Roberts has taken a turn for the worst, forgetting things, tunnelvision, and poor coordination. So why throw a party? Roberts plansto end his life at the end of the evening.Director Kleiser, who also wrote this, takes a massive ensemblecast and keeps them reined in enough to be effective, but givesthem enough freedom to be entertaining. His approach his veryun-Robert Altman, where characters step on each other trying toget his attention. Here, the film is anchored around Roberts andHarrison, and the rest of the cast are friends and family having ahard time saying goodbye.This would make an incredible stage play, easily, but the film itselfnever gets claustrophobic or boring in its very few sets. GregoryHarrison has also never been better as the film director who issemi-invited by Roberts, and pretty much told to leave by everyonewho cares about Roberts. Eric Roberts plays Nick so well, you getthe feeling you know someone who acts just like him. Nick is nosaint, and Roberts' and Bronson Pinchot's jokes about hisupcoming suicide are in bad taste, and the rest of the cast is ill atease knowing the soon to be departed is finally stepping away.As with any good film, knowing the outcome of the story does notruin the journey getting there. Many actors have cameos, somehave few or no lines, relationships and friendships sometimes arenot clear, but I thought this filmed party was a lot like real parties inthat respect. The overwhelming sadness of the final scenesshould have you in tears, and probably because, as one characternoted, Nick is able to wrap everything up with everyone he knowsbefore he goes. This is not a statement about death with or withoutdignity, just an honest statement, and one we should follow in ourdaily lives. What would happen if the sun came up tomorrow andyou or I were not here? Who are the people out there who wouldnever know the impact they had on your life, and vice versa? Thisis a powerful film with a powerful message, especially in thesefew months following the horrific attacks. It will be a long timebefore I can shake this film, and maybe I never will, but I never will lforget it. I definitely recommend this.This is rated (R) for profanity, brief female nudity, some sexualreferences, some drug abuse, and some adult situations. I think itwould be totally appropriate for thirteen years and older, I haveseen worse on MTV's Undressed.   "},{"Title":"Thought provoking, heartbreaking","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It was great to see Eric Roberts in a role worthy of his often overlooked talents. While this film is flawed, it makes one think hard about serious subjects, and I found it extremely touching.  I was certainly moved to tears, if not sobs, throughout most of it.Eric Roberts is heartbreaking as a man who has it all - looks, talent, wit - only to come down with AIDS, have his lifetime love break up with him, and face imminent death.  While Gregory Harrison was capable, I felt this could have been a really fine film with an actor who was the equal of Roberts. George Segal was surprisingly touching, as were Margaret Cho and Marlee Matlin. As a straight woman, it's all too easy not to think about AIDS too often.  I found myself thinking about these issues, looking up articles, and really considering some of the questions this movie poses, not only about AIDS, but about focusing on what counts in your life while you are alive.Be warned - this is a full box of kleenex film, but one that will leave you moved and thinking.  I only wish that Eric Roberts would be cast in more quality roles like this one - he is one of the finest actors working today, and probably the most underrated. "},{"Title":"What a flick","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie has such an incredible cast, great acting, and a plot that will keep you glued to your seat.  When faced with real life drama like this, you can't help but ask yourself, how would I react if I had a detrimental disease such as this?  If you don't walk away from this movie asking yourself these same words, then the effect did not hit you at all.  Esp, if you know someone who this also affects.  "},{"Title":"This film speaks to the heart","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The first time I saw this film I was drawn in as though I were a member of the party ... and was glad to be there. It is happy, sad, and poignant. It pushes ALL the emotional buttons.The casting is occasionally surprising, always perfect. The characters are diverse and memorable. The most outstanding thing about the film is that the characters are more like real people and less like film stereotypes, which makes the film that much more viewable and enjoyable.The story is well-told and interwoven with flashbacks that pull it all together. I can't say enough good things about this film ... enjoy it! "},{"Title":"Great cast, strange plot","Date":"23 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I am Eric Roberts' big fan and to my mind this movie shows once more that he's a very good dramatic actor and what he really needs is a good story and a good director because as an actor he can do everything. Actually, I like the whole cast, especially Bronson Pinchot as Monty and Margaret Cho as Charlene.The music adds much to the atmosphere, too.It might be different approach to life and different believes, but the plot itself seems rather strange to me. Yes, I understand pretty well, that It's My Party has little to do with AIDS problem or gay love. As most of the posters mentioned here it's about our right to pass away with dignity and in chosen time rather than to turn into vegetable, about how important the friends and family is, etc. Yes, I agree with all this. Though, certainly, I wouldn't like to come across this vegetable dilemma myself.But I understand young Andrew (Devon Gummersall) who finds all this farewell party a sort of unfair. Could anyone of you imagine yourself as a guest at a party like this? What would you do? What would you feel? I think that only a very limited circle should have been invited to share Nick's last day. Actually, there IS a very limited circle Nick's mother (Amanda), his best friends (Charlene and Monty), Nick's relations (Daphne, Andrew and Lina), Nick's doctor (Tony), Nick's lost-and-found father, finally. But what other people are doing there is a mystery to me. Most of them are just wandering at the background, without approaching Nick, eating, drinking, enjoying the party while poor Nick's female relatives had to spend their time in the kitchen, cooking new snacks for all that crowd. No wonder that finally Amalia got furious and asked Tony to get all these unknown to her people out before the dark because she wanted to spend his son's last minutes with him. She should have done this earlier, actually.To people who really cared about Nick these two days must be a torture, and I think he should have thought about this. I don't think he could feel relaxed himself because every single instant he remembered of what he was going to perform. His vision which was getting worse every hour, the fact he had to explain each new guest the reason why he was summoned to the place, the food he had to reject - all these reminders must be very painful for him, too. But in any case he did what he wanted but the people who stayed after, how many months they would spend guzzling sedative to survive this experience?And I've never cried, sorry. Yes, it was touching to see them step by step getting closer to each other. I liked Brandon's clumsy attempts to find his way to Nick's heart, I liked the admiration you can read in Charlene eyes, when she looked at Nick. Monty is just great, in every aspect! Andrew is very touching. I wasn't upset at the end of the movie, I can say I felt a sort of satisfied. He did what he wanted, no suffers, the closest and dearest friend by his side... what else?Speaking about different approach to life... I think this situation would never happen in Russia, and here are three possible endings of a farewell party in Russian style 1) Guests just didn't allow Nick to take his pills having persuaded him that he would be great and all these doctors are just waste of time and money. 2) Guests followed Nick's example just because of compassion. 3) Most probable both Nick and his guests felt so involved into the party process that they kept celebrating this non stop for a week, until nobody could tell what they are celebrating, in fact.Please, be sure, I have no intention to offend anybody's feelings.I do like the movie, I do like the acting, the music, I think it's one of Eric Roberts' best movies. But the plot is somewhat weird, in my humble opinion. "},{"Title":"Allow yourself to get sucked in...","Date":"20 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Yes, many of my friends hate this movie, because it IS melodramatic and sappy. But the first time I watched it, I got sucked in and cried my eyes out like I had never cried before. I thought it was beautiful.The performances were realistic and heartbreaking (nearly all of them made me cry at one time or another) and if you feel the need for a good cry, this is definitely your best bet. "},{"Title":"Sooooooo sad","Date":"16 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is such a great movie, but it is soooooooooo sad... I was sobbing the entire 2 hours (well.. almost). But this is one of the reasons why it it so good- it is so very touching. You really feel with the protagonist Nick and want him to keep on living with all your heart. By the way, this movie also has it's real funny parts and some amusing black, british humor. I just love it. "},{"Title":"a truly touching film about love","Date":"21 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  i was disappointed in reading the comment board for it's my party. sure, it may not be an accurate portrayal of pml, there is a huge cast, and death is not a joyous occasion. however, this film was meant to move beyond the ultimate societal stereotyping of gay male relationships. i watched this film several times with several different people because i think it allows people to accept eric and brandon's relationship as a love relationship without the homosexual shroud of lust or sin. if i was suffering from an illness, this is the way to go- surrounded by the people who have touched your life in some way. whether they are particularly significant in the plot is highly irrelevant. i give it the maximum for ratings and recommend it to everyone. "}{"Title":"Funny yet heartbreaking","Date":"27 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It's My Party is a very touching movie that benefits a lot from Eric Roberts great lead performance.  It's nice seeing him play a normal guy for a change instead of the thugs and villains he usually plays. The movie deals with euthanasia in a realistic and believable way.  But it's also about keeping a sense of humour when things look their blackest, and it's also about how important friends and family are in our lives. The cast is great and filled with many familiar faces.  If you want to cry your eyes out, It's My Party is just the movie for you. "},{"Title":"Please don't make me watch it again.","Date":"15 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Who this film is supposed to benefit, entertain, or do anything else for is beyond me. It has a remarkable cast but the story is completely depressing. I can't say much about the acting cause all anyone did in this movie was try to look happy to be there. I'm not to sure if that what the director told them to do or cause it was just what they did. Essentially it's about a guy who finds out he's going to be dead to the world by Monday. His boyfriend left him so he invites everyone else he knows to come over and keep him entertained before dying.I can't say I saw this recently (thankfully) but I can't say I remember a single funny moment in it. I can't recommend this to anyone either, it's just to bleak. This cast is wasted on a story I would wish on no one. I understand AIDS is a terrible and scary thing, that is no reason to depress people with this.This is not the most depressing thing I have ever seen but it comes close. It tugs at the heart, but leaves you completely down.  "},{"Title":"Eric Roberts best Film!","Date":"9 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Ok the premise in this movie is just plain simply LOVE! Yes it's about two gay guys falling in love but it's the story that brings such heart and family together. Eric Roberts charater has AIDS an is dying quick. He reasently broke up with his lover played by Gregary Harrison. The two had such a great relationship but turned bad when Gregary Harrison got scared of the situation and Eric's condition. Eric Roberts has a last minute party and invites all of his family and friends. It a touching story of friends and family getting together and helping someone they love very dearly. See this movie!!! Out of 4 stars I give it 4... "},{"Title":"A good movie about going out with dignity.","Date":"20 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie was a major tearjerker. It wasn't about homosexuality, or AIDS, but about anyone who is dying and must make a decision on whether to fade away and become a person they are not or let go of everything and settle their business. Eric Roberts is unlike I have ever seen him before; he is touching. I really do think this film is excellant and you anyone should try watching it sometime. It is rather long and you do begin to feel as thou you are a part of his family and eventually you'll cry.  "},{"Title":"A misleading portrayal, with melodramatic delivery","Date":"2 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  As someone who is in remission from PML, I found this film off the mark. Granted, the message is about death and dignity, but it miseducates the viewers in the process.  Not everyone dies of PML (I've had it since late 1996), and the people who do certainly aren't capable of having parties if they're within 2 weeks of losing it.  This film was a huge obstacle for me when I told people of my illness.  Some had seen it, and immediately applied the knowledge they'd gained as the context for the disease.  This simply was not accurate information, for the most part.Aside from the portrayals of fact, I found the acting to be forced, the dialogue melodramatic (at times just plain silly), and the flow of the story to be caught up with too many details and superficial characters who didn't really belong.  The only notable performance was Bronson Pinchot, who stole every scene he was in, to the point where he sometimes carried the film on his own.This film was annoying, overly long, poorly cast and badly acted.  No character seemed real, and I couldn't identify with any of them except Pinchot's.  The whole affair seemed more reminiscent of the cheesy soap opera Ryan's Hope than a party of friends.  If you want a tear-jerking ensemble movie, watch Longtime Companion or Relax It's Just Sex instead. "},{"Title":"A nice surprise","Date":"2 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie was shown on our cable on the International AIDS day. I expected a sob story. I don't usually cry in films, but this made me weep like I haven't wept in about 10 years. Maybe it was the day or the subject,whatever, but it made me feel. Something my desensitized generation doesn't know much about. I was quite surprised that an obvious tear jerker actually did its job.I give it 4 good sobs! "},{"Title":"It's My Sanctimonious Party and I'll Die If I Want To","Date":"11 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Admittedly it has been several years since I saw It's My Party, but the thought of renting the video to refresh my memory causes me to shudder, so relying on faded impressions as my guide, I'll add my voice to the small chorus of commentors who warn you away from this movie.It's My Party is about a gay man with an AIDS-related condition who knows he only has a few days before his brain goes. He therefore throws himself a farewell/suicide party.The large number of attendees include family members, an ex-lover (Gregory Harrison), and friends both gay and straight. Sharp-tongued fag hag Charlene (Margaret Cho) is among the latter, but if you expect humor from Ms. Cho or anyone else, you're in for a disappointment.In fact, given the comic caliber of the cast (which includes Lee Grant, George Segal, and Bronson Pinchot), the resulting glum-fest seems intentionally perverse. Humor is desperately needed, but this film is too P.C. to recognize anyone's solemn self-involvement. There's something terribly earnest and icky about the whole enterprise. If it had been about any other disease, it probably wouldn't have felt half as condescending. However well intentioned these film makers were, the result is a movie that makes you want to take a hot shower when it's over. "},{"Title":"... and I'll Drop Dead of Boredom if I Want To ...","Date":"31 July 2008","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Absolute dreck, even by movie-of-the-week, we're trying to humanize AIDS standards. Interesting only (and only briefly) from a sort of historical perspective on Hollywood's (mercifully brief) goody-two-shoes approach to AIDS, it helps explain Gregg Araki and the rest of the rebound, which was, more than anything, a demand for an end to stories about rich, squeaky-clean white boys who die beautifully while spouting deep philosophy about the Meaning of it All. So incredibly painful to watch.... Most of the scenes played hardest and most desperately for emotion and tears simply make one laugh at how inept and Hallmark they are. Eric Roberts, never a great actor, is utterly unbelievable here, but only slightly less so than the cross-eyed Gregory Harrison as his lover. Marlee Matlin does the standard turn she did in the 1990s in every politically correct film ever made; George Segal is pathetic; and Lee Grant plays her tragic role with all the subtlety of a meat ax. The soundtrack is soupy and sappy, and you need only compare what Randal Kleiser got out of Bruce Davidson in this film with what Norman Ren got out of him in _Longtime Companion_ (1990) to understand that Kleiser is a rank amateur. I can only imagine that some diabetes-inducing sentiment along the lines of let's make a film for 'the boys' is what got this cadre of red-ribbon wearing stars to participate in a travesty of such monumental proportions; at this point, the only kindness would be to burn all the copies and pretend it never happened. "},{"Title":"Sentimental Crap","Date":"27 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film takes itself MUCH too seriously, and to say that it gets carried away by its own self-righteousness would be an understatement. It treats its subject matter lugubriously instead of approaching it in a more dignified way. The result is an agonizingly sappy, pretentious movie that tries to manipulate your emotions but only ends up being annoying instead. "},{"Title":"Did someone say party?","Date":"1 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Dear friend You are cordially invited to party with me right before I lock myself in my bedroom and kill myself.  Farewell gift optional.Ewwww! Heebie jeebies!! Do *NOT* R.S.V.P.!!!This ill-conceived opus is T-T-T  ...tacky, terrible and tasteless.  And while I'm sure Dr. Kevorkian's VHS copy of this film is nearly worn out... when *I* cross paths with this unholy mess at the video store, I clutch rosary beads and crucifixes and Flo Jo my way right past it.  And I'm not even religious.It's most unfortunate that someone, or anyone, involved here didn't come up with the idea of entirely re-writing this film into a black comedy.   Or a musical.  I'm serious.  The Margaret Cho tap dance has already been choreographed in my head...Dreadfully depressing and devoid any redeeming quality or modicum of light-hearted humor, Its My Party is one big celebrity infested, on-screen funeral (sans the quick running time.)  If funerals are your idea of a spankin' fun, knee-slappin, hee-hollerin' good time, then I salute you. Throw on a fierce black party dress, light a few vigil lights, pop this stinker in and enjoy! "}{"Title":"What a Dismal Way to Go.","Date":"6 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Masqueraring as a comedy when it clearly is not, Randall Kleiser's IT'S MY PARTY is a study in self-absorption and schmaltz that probably started with good intentions but became a mass of sweeping fragility swathed in pathos and cheap emotions. The premise is that a man, dying of AIDS, has decided to throw an all-out party where he will announce that he will commit suicide. An engaging extrovert, he displays the frenetic optimism precisely found in manic-depressives or people who tend to carry a load with stoic abandon until they no longer can carry it by themselves. Of course, this movie never bothers to truly dive in deep into Nick Stark's (Eric Roberts) psyche -- all we know is what we know and we're given some access into his past via flashbacks, but even then, they only serve as a point of reference, never as a true picture. And then, predictably, his ultimate decision, which is so ridiculous that I wondered if Nick wasn't really a woman pretending to be a man. Talk about a tragic heroine! At least Lee Remick has more to do as his mother, and oddly enough, the movie totally forgets about her and chooses instead to concentrate solely on the mechanics of the party, Nick's botched relationship with Brandon (Gregory Harrison) who left him when he learned of Nick's illness and has come to (maybe?) make amends, and scenes that spell Cute and Tender all the way. I didn't buy it then, I still don't buy it now, and I certainly can't recommend a movie where a gay man decides that the best way to go is with a bang, even at the expense of family members and close friends. That's the ultimate act of selfishness, even if this is only a story. There will be some sentimentalists out there who will weep their eyes out at the sole mention of this pile of dreck, but not me. "},{"Title":"standard Hollywood AIDS fare","Date":"19 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is far too familiar. Someone with AIDS, their family and friends coming to terms with it.  If you've seen Boys on the Side, Love! Valour! Compassion!, Philadelphia, or In the Gloaming you have no reason to see this because it brings nothing new and is positively lame in its execution. Philadelphia at least did not try to bring in macabre comedy to a truly horrific subject matter. Why does Hollywood feel that to discuss AIDS one has to make light of it?You have two truly bland actors playing the leads, Eric Roberts the dying man (who looks healthy as a horse, but plans to commit suicide before he starts to lose his functions), and Gregory Harrison the ex-lover, who now regrets not standing by his man when he came down with AIDS. During the house party, the ex-lover looks at him soulfully, trying to get a moment alone with him to make amends, while the rest of the miscast family and friends wander around trying to make small talk. The mother is played by Lee Grant, recognizable only through her voice (even though she's doing a fake accent), because post-plastic surgery she no longer has her original face; Olivia Newton-John is his perky sister, whom you expect to get up and start singing and dancing; Roddy McDowall, the stodgy older guest who is earnestly against the planned suicide while the rest of the gang stands around supportively and woodenly thinking it's just fine; and a number of other characters that would seem just fine in a Fellini film. The only believable actors are Bronson Pinchot, who truly looks gay and whose humour doesn't appear forced, and Marlee Matlin, who manages to make her role touching rather than a parody.There is a problem in casting straight actors in a gay story; it is very hard to suspend disbelief when they don't even try to take on the little nuances of a character that would make you believe in him. Why was it possible to believe the straight Tom Hanks was gay in Philadelphia? Because he can act, and the movie was not an AIDS exploitation film, but a movie rightly filmed as a tragedy.It's My Party feels like a high school production; the dialogue is silly, the situations are tragic but are made to be whimsical, and there is zero believability. At no time can you get drawn into a story about a man choosing to kill himself rather than get sicker and die in pain when it is treated in this lighthearted and shallow way. And especially when he looks so fit and healthy.The actors are doing their best with the roles, but the roles have no substance and mostly the story has no point. The aimless party guests take away from any possible plot development with the reunion of the ex-lovers.This was a tedious viewing experience which seemed thrown together by people trying to do a serious, topical story but ruining it by also trying to make it entertaining. A standard tearjerker-wannabe which doesn't work. "},{"Title":"Annoying to the extreme","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Rarely have I seen such a morbid, hypocritical, annoying and boring piece of film...! There's no dignity in putting your own life to an end...no matter what you have to go through...A total waste of several good actors, too... "},{"Title":"Hollywood at its worst","Date":"9 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I watched this movie on TV after having read some pretty good reviews, but I was soon disgusted, even on the verge of getting angry.Really hate to say so, but I think this movie is a most pretentious mistake considering the serious issue it's dealing with. It is filled with a tremendous amount of bad clichs, it appears false, and it's overly schmaltzy a really hokey movie. Frankly, I can't understand how anyone living a real life could be deeply moved by this truly bad imitation of life.Even if this originally was a low-budget production with the best of intentions - it turns out to be Hollywood at its worst. "}]