[{"Title":"Six Degrees Of Kevin Bacon--(Maybe even 7 or 8)","Date":"6 June 2004","Score":"60 out of 70 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  As Wayne would have it---DENIED!!how this film escaped the attention of Oscar and Globe voters is one of the great Hollywood mysteries of our time...if Bacon ain't Oscar meat here, i don't know what is...an absolutely brilliant performance in the kind of role the voters usually jump all over at ballot time...ya really gotta wonder...conspiracy theories aside, this is one helluva flick...besides our pal Kevin, there's outstanding work from Christian Slater, Gary Oldman, and everybody's favorite drill sergeant, Lee Ermey...Moe Greene's kid, Marc Rocco, gets a great period feeling economically...solid work by the wardrobe and make-up units...this film deserved a much better fate at the box office and at awards season in '96...if you haven't seen this one yet, you're missing a real gem... "},{"Title":"Terrific!","Date":"21 April 2006","Score":"43 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is clearly Kevin Bacon's best performance. It's a shame he was not nominated for an academy award for his role. A truly emotional movie that ranks among the top Alcatraz movies made! Gary Oldman also puts in a very solid performance. Christian Slater plays a youthful, inexperienced attorney to perfection.In showing another side of Alcatraz the movie breaks away from typical escaped based Alcatraz films. While Escape from Alcatraz may still be the top movie in this topic area, Murder in the First provides a new twist that involves a different type of drama. Kevin Bacon was surely jilted for not being nominated here! "},{"Title":"One Of The Best Performances Of The Decade","Date":"28 February 2006","Score":"35 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" How Kevin Bacon didn't get an Oscar, let alone a nomination is beyond me. What is wrong the the Academy? it was a better performance than Tom Hanks in Forrest Gump, I was moved to tears by the man, it's a heartbreaking performance. He should have been nominated for 'The Woodsman' as well. Great actor. But i have to say it's not an easy watch, and the violence is relentless, it reminds me of the time i once witnessed a boy get bullied at school, it just never ended and i remember feeling awful for the poor chap, the fact that it's a true story just makes me shudder. Gary Oldman gives one of the most hateful performances i've ever seen while Slater shows depth as the lawyer trying to get him out of prison as early as possible. "},{"Title":"Not what it appears to be","Date":"2 December 2000","Score":"46 out of 72 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  My comments are directed to the claim that this film is based on a true story.  The true facts of Henri Young's case are significantly different from the story told in the movie.  For instance, Young was not just a petty thief when he came to Alcatraz -- he was already doing time for bank robbery and murder.  Nor was he kept in an underground dungeon for three years as punishment for an escape attempt -- his punishment was served in an isolation cell on the prison's first floor with the normal facilities that all prisoners' cells had.  His case did not lead directly to the closing of Alcatraz; it continued as a Federal prison for over twenty years after his trial.  Of course, there were some abuses at Alcatraz (as at virtually all prisons).  Young's trial had some impact on correcting those abuses, but not to the extent suggested by the film.If you're interested in another view of the Henri Young case, visit the Bureau of Prisons web site (I can't give the URL because that would violate the comments posting guidelines) and search for Murder in the First.In any film based on a true event, some license must be granted to the screenwriter.  There's no way they can know exactly what was said in every conversation, so representative dialogue has to be written.  Some minor characters will probably be composites.  These things are understandable. But when the film blatantly distorts the main characters and the main events of the story,  I can't help but think that the point the film is making is probably built on shaky ground.  Murder in the First may be entertaining in some people's opinion, but no one should come away from this film thinking they have seen history portrayed accurately.  "},{"Title":"A Terrific, Inspiring and Entertaining Movie.","Date":"16 March 2006","Score":"18 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I had not heard of his movie before. I caught it in mid-broadcast on cable, while channel surfing, eleven years after its release, and after the first few moments, decided to watch it to the end. It is now one of my favorites, right up there with To Kill a Mockingbird. This film succeeds both as star turns and as an ensemble piece. But more importantly it succeeds in portraying American society in the 1930s as a whole, and involving the audience emotionally in both the the greater social issues as well as the smaller, more tender, personal issues. Despite its sensitivity, it is far from a chick flick. Despite it's theme of violence, it is far from a macho action flick. It is a courtroom thriller based on real events, and it is worth watching more than once.The script writing and direction are calculated to be moving, and they succeed. Every actor in the film, every detail of the art direction, every camera angle plays on your heart and sense of moral indignation. To do so successfully, as I think this movie does, is the definition and purpose of art.Kevin Bacon shows the most range in his film that I have ever seen from him. His physical performance was very demanding, his character work even finer. His chemistry with each actor in every scene is both bold and subtle, raw and complex. He reminds me of DeNiro's performance in the Cape Fear remake.Christian Slater's character provides the viewer's point of view in the film, and he plays with great emotion and passion, and yet with a touch of reserve and detachment. I am strongly reminded of Kevin Costner's performance in The Untouchables. Needless to say, Gary Oldman is a master at his craft, and always amazing to watch. Every character Oldman plays is memorable, and the antithesis of type-casting. His portrayal of the warden in this film is a brilliant balance of a socially acceptable monster.This movie has received a lot of criticism for portraying historical facts inaccurately, and for taking sides in a political debate. I would remind the open-minded viewer that To Kill A Mockingbird also took great liberties with the facts of the historic court case on which it was based (there were six accused rapists, not one; the person on whom Atticus Finch was based was in reality the judge and not the defense attorney, etc.) and emphatically took sides in the even more hotly contested political debate over racial discrimination in America. Both films were based on real life, but neither claimed to be a documentary. Whether you resent historical tampering and political statements for dramatic impact is something only you can decide for yourself. Personally, I support both To Kill A Mockingbird and Murder in the First as films whose merits outweigh their flaws.In short, this movie is worthy of your time, and will reward you, whether you want entertainment thrills, a good popcorn movie, a morally inspiring story or the appreciation of a well-crafted piece of work. It falls a little short of The Shawshank Redemption, but not far. Despite what this or any other review says, start this movie without any preconceived notions, and just go along for the ride. I think you will be surprised, happy and satisfied. "},{"Title":"A story of friendship and the tender mercies we all take for granted.","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This appears to be a prison movie about the injustices inflicted upon a hapless inmate named Henri Young. In reflection it is actually about friendship and the every day things we take for granted. At the heart of this movie, Kevin Bacon's character, Young, asks Christian Slater's character, Stamphill, if they were on the outside, would they be friends? He answers without much thought, yes, of course. Then Bacon says, I could've been like you. He sees in this young attorney, his own life & what it might have been if not for $5. He asks Slater, did you ever steal $5? Of course he had, from his brother, who told him never to do it again. Henri Young's punishment was to go to a federal penitentiary where upon trying to escape, he was sentenced or left to die, for 3 long years in solitary confinement. Young's character has never been with a woman and he's 28 years old. In a very moving scene (wisely done without music, although the music in this movie is beautiful) Stamphill brings a woman into the cell in an attempt to give him a few moments as a man. Unfortuantely, he cannot even bring himself to enjoy this - the look on his face will absolutely make you break down and cry. The performances by everyone are terrific. Contrary to previous reviewers, there is nothing wrong with Slater's performance. Thankfully, it is understated as it should be. Also, it should be rather obvious, that with a role this meaty & important, Bacon's outstanding performance is likely to make any other actor in the same scene, seem less of an accomplishment. This is definately Kevin Bacon's most important role and should have garnered an Oscar nomination. This is a not to be missed movie- and wouldn't you know it, it's based on a true story. In the end, it's about a triumph of the human spirit. I was lucky enough to see this at the theater when it first came out- you're lucky because it's available on video- go rent it tonight if you're interested in a good story. "},{"Title":"What about the music?","Date":"2 March 2006","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This film was excellent. Yes it's true that it wasn't as factually accurate as it could have been, but judged purely as a drama, it was film making at its best - superb acting, directing and cinematography. However, I would especially like to commend Christopher Young's amazing music score. It was haunting, beautiful and emotive, and contributed so much to the feel of the movie. Two scenes where the music was used to great effect the tracking shot after Henri attacked the other prisoner, and the setting up of the court room then dissolving into an aerial shot of Alcatraz. Thank you to all concerned for making this great and moving picture - it makes me want to go and make movies! "},{"Title":"Not Exactly the True Story","Date":"26 November 2006","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This was a very entertaining film about the horrible treatment of a certain prisoner at Alcatraz named Henri Young who robbed a store for five dollars ($5.00) and was sent to prison. Henri Young was played by Kevin Bacon who did a fantastic job of acting and captured your attention through out the film. There were many scenes filmed on the Island of Alcatraz and some old time footage of the first time Warden of Alcatraz, James R. Johnston. Christian Slater, (James Stamphill) was the lawyer assigned for Henri Young's defense, who had a hard job trying to rehabilitate his client so he could stand trial and even speak a few words. Young was in such bad shape mentally from being put into the solitary confinement for three (3) years, he was like an animal instead of a human being. This Hollywood version is not all completely true about Henri Young, he really had a long history of crime and mental problems. However, this film is very entertaining and Kevin Bacon put his heart and soul into this role. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"Architectural","Date":"17 February 2006","Score":"20 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie didn't do well, in fact drove a talented filmmaker away from directing.Its because it has powerful characters and powerful actors that viewers snap to one of the six viewing modes they have and read it as a character-driven drama. Others were upset that the story deviates from real events rather drastically.My own view is that this is one of the very few films we have that features a building as a character. This is a traditional trial form, where conflicting and synthesized realities are understood to exist by ordinary viewers. Usually this form is used to support battling stories, or versions of reality. Powerful characters can exist (Mockingbird, Few Good Men), but they are there only as representatives of conflicting realities.What makes this so interesting is that it is the building itself that is on trial. This is exploited by Rocco to an extraordinary extent. Fincher tried to take this notion to the next level in Panic Room, but got fired. Too bad, because it is a cinematic thrill of sorts to see someone try to present a space as a character.Sure, it is unusual and many viewers thought the man was going crazy with his odd camera angels, his swoops, his unusual blocking. But I ask you to watch this and see how the prison is introduced to us, and the supposed core, its antebellum dungeons. Then see the contrasting open space of the courtroom where it is to be tried. Slater's opening statement is an amazing exploration of space with one multi-encircling movement.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching. "},{"Title":"Impactful!","Date":"21 October 2008","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Having caught up again with this film on t.v., I can only support all other commentators who have observed how utterly ridiculous is the American Academy Award system for not having even nominated the utterly brilliant performance by Kevin Bacon in this film for the best actor award, let alone in not giving him the damned thing! I am always impressed by whatever Kevin Bacon does, and am constantly surprised that he is one of those stars who always seems to creep under the public's radar of appreciation and awareness. As to the comments about the film not exactly being the true story of Henri Young, there again it always come down to the precise meaning and interpretation of a film's initial caveat of inspired by a true story. Certainly, the film will have me searching the internet for more of the true facts of this harrowing story. And whether exactly the film was totally true or not, as any visitor to Alcatraz (as I have been myself) can tell you, just imagine yourself in any part of that prison in its heyday and say whether any filmic representation needs to be totally 100% accurate to convey the horrendous nature of what it must have been like there. Returning to the antics of the members of the U.S. Academy Award, their failures over this Kevin Bacon performance remind me of the time they robbed Cate Blanchett for her out of this world outstanding performance in Elizabeth in favour of that whimpering blonde piece of fluffy air Gwyneth Paltrow for the paltry Shakespeare in Love. "}{"Title":"A Great Movie About Life in the Joint","Date":"31 December 2006","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I found this movie appalling and that is what made it so great. The prison was a dump, this mans life had been taken by the system and he is scarred, sad and destroyed. No matter what your views of the legal system, this film made you hate prison and the destruction of the soul of those who are caught within it. It shows a man deprived of every form of decency and respect; a truly sad and pathetic character who you hate and love at the same time. Death is a gift to this sad man played by Kevin Bacon. In all The cast is terrific, the scenes are intense and the movie is a total winner. I agree with others who have stated how can this have not been an Oscar contender. Kevin Bacon and Christian Slater are perfectly matched in this film. You believe Kevin's Character Henri Young when he says to Christian Slaters Character James Stamphill Your my best friend Jimmy. It is tragic ,yes; it is depressing, yes; It is gross, yes; It is a great film without a doubt. I give it 9.5 out of 10 but don't see the half star. Go see this film if you want to see great acting. PS.. Gary Oldmans character is also very very good. A must see if only once! "},{"Title":"WOW!!!  Kevin Bacon at his BEST!!!","Date":"10 October 2012","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Just happened upon this movie the other night & decided to tape it as I couldn't watch on TNT's schedule. How I missed this movie 17 years ago I'll never know. This is by far one of the best movies I've ever seen! Not only was Kevin Bacon FANTASTIC, Christian Slater GREAT!!! I've never been a big Gary Oldman fan he was also EXCELLENT. I was riveted to my chair throughout the entire movie; wish I'd seen it years ago when it first came out.I grew up in the Bay Area and the scenery indoors and out were spot on! They truly did a great job on this movie. "},{"Title":"How This Movie Didn't Win an Oscar is Unfathomable","Date":"23 October 2011","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Kevin Bacon was incredible. See he won for his performance. But so should Christian Slater have. So should the cinematographer. Unique, inventive and incredibly creative camera perspectives. Wonderful historic background interspersed, too. Superlative effort all around. every facet of it. Scenes I glanced away from, but that's just my distaste for depiction of violence. Thought it was tenderly beautiful that Kyra Sedgewick was cast in that cameo, since Bacon is her real life husband. Slater cannot act poorly. He's incapable of it.Everything about it, to say nothing of the theme itself. The lighting, the cryptic cutting every time the point was made without fail, the lingering closeups when humanity was the point. "},{"Title":"I knew this movie was too good to be true. Still, it was a good movie.","Date":"14 November 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Murder in the First is a really good movie, but it presents a film a very fictitious story based on a real life event. This movie takes great liberties to tell an entertaining story here about man's inhumanity against his fellow man, so it's seem unfair to criticize the film for not being 100% true to real events here. Still, I couldn't get pass the fact, that they made Henri Young (Kevin Bacon) into a victim of the prison system. This film seem to follow the same clichés almost all prison films in the 1990's had. Put stereotypically innocent prisoners and stereotypically abusive, brutal, and sadistic guards together, and then expect the audience to see that it is in fact the system and society that are truly to blame. I have to say, this was kinda bothersome. Thank Goodness for 1999's Green Mile for a good two sided film. I do like prison reform message movies, but the whole victimize of Henri Young makes the real life murderer Henri Young look like a good innocent guy. In the film directed by Marc Rocco, Henri Young went to Alcatraz Prison, because as a 17-year-old orphan, Henri stole $5 from a grocery store to feed himself and his little sister. In Alcatraz, he tries to escape, but the plan fail due to the betrayal of Rufus McCain (David Michael Sterling). After being punished to a holding cell solitary confinement for three years which looks more like a dungeon and being mistreated by associate warden Milton Glenn (Gary Oldman). Gary Oldman is just brilliant in this role. Oldman has a tendency to go over the top, but here he is more restrained and his work is better because of it, he has a calm chilling delivery. Because of Milton, and the dungeon, Henri lose his sanity, and kills McCain in the cafeteria on his first day back in general population. Now, Henri is put on trial for first degree murder in what prosecutors and the public-defender's office believe is an open-and-shut case. Public defender James Stamphill (Christian Slater), doesn't think so, and attempts to put Alcatraz on trial by alleging that its harsh conditions caused his client to commit murder. I have to say, this is Christian Slater's best role yet. He was very believer as a lawyer, and he should do more films like this. Still, I can do without the subplots involving Slater's relationship with his older brother. Kevin Bacon gives one great performance as Henri. He lost twenty pounds for the role, and pretty nail, his version of Henri Young. You can really see the negative effects of abuse that Henri took, with Kevin's body language. The way, he avoid eye connection, cowards himself in a corner, and speak in a near mute silence voice is powerful. The real life Henri wasn't like this at all. The real Henri Young was not convicted of stealing $5 to save his sister from destitution. He had been a hardened bank robber who had taken a hostage on at least one occasion and had committed a murder in 1933. Young was also no stranger to the penal system. Before being incarcerated at Alcatraz in 1936, he had already served time in two state prisons in Montana and Washington. Young wasn't kept in any dungeons for years in Alcatraz, as they were closed almost a decade earlier when the film take place. He was only segregation for a few months, before coming back into general population. So It's hard to root for a fictional Henri Young when in real life, he was pretty vile and there isn't much prove that he was victimize. I'm not saying, he wasn't, but it's hard to believe that Young didn't meant to kill McCain. Even if being mistreated by the system, I think he really did want to murder McCain. After all, he was a brutal kidnapper who enjoyed terrorizing his victims. The movie even said he die in prison, when he didn't. In 1972 after Young was released from Washington State Penitentiary, he jumped parole. According to authorities his whereabouts remain unknown as of this writing. Many of the film ideas were taken directly from newspaper articles of the highly politicized contentious trial, so it's hard to know if it's true or not. One thing, true about the film is while filming courtroom scenes, the location was hit by the 1994 6.7 Northridge, California, earthquake. So it's would be interesting to see that delete footage if ever shown. The tagline tells us this is the story of the trial that closed down Alcatraz. Henry's case wasn't one of the reasons that Alcatraz closed if people were wondering. The true reason why Alcatraz closed because it was too expensive to operate, pure and simple. I would recommend this movie to courtroom drama fans. The visual effects, score, and acting is just amazing. It's an entertaining well-made film, like 1962's Birdman of Alcatraz, but it's just Hollywood prison romanticization fantasy. Nothing more. Very little truth in these types of films. Still, worth checking out. "},{"Title":"Very nicely done","Date":"13 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I like this movie. It really is a very good and entertaining film in which Kevin Bacon gives a stellar performance as a tortured prisoner in Alcatraz. Christian Slater's performance is also absolutely one of his best.One problem I have with this movie is that I was disappointed in how much it was manipulated from the true story it was based on. If I had not been so moved by movie, though, I would not have cared enough to look for facts about the actual ordeal. Henri Young is portrayed in the film very differently than the person he apparently actually was. I do not doubt the overall message, though. That message is that torture and cruelty will and do change people for the very worst. It shows you that a person can commit a crime, be convicted, and then become worse-off than they were to begin with. It reminds people that the goal of prisons in America are to rehabilitate, but that is almost never what actually happens. It shows that abuses of power are as sinister as the actions of convicted felons.I would still recommend this movie, by all means. Its story is warped from the facts and Henri Young is romanticized quite a lot, but that does not really change the overall message it is trying to convey. "},{"Title":" Alcatraz Prison, Life within the Belly of The beast ","Date":"19 March 2010","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" In 1933, Alcatraz island or 'Bird Island' as it was originally called became a Federal Prison. During it's thirty year history, 15 attempted escapes were made by twenty five inmates, of which only one was ever successful by three men. Known as perhaps the most brutal facility of its kind, it has housed perhaps the most infamous of criminals. One such inmate was Henri Young. In this film, called Murder in The First Degree , Henry is played superbly by Kevin Bacon. (Giving an Academy award performance) Convicted of robbing a small grocery store of five dollars, it turned serious when a prosecutor argued, the place was also used as a Post Office, making it a Federal Crime. Thus, instead of receiving a minimum sentence, Young was given the maximum of 25 years. The movie encapsulates the ensuing years as a black nightmarish collection of excruciating physical torture, extreme mental retaliation. barbaric conditions and medieval retribution. Gary Oldman, plays Milton Glenn, the cold, dispassionate, insensitive and vindictive warden. After years of dark, isolation and physical torture, Henri is allowed out of the hellish Dungon. Due to his sadistic treatment by the guards, resulting in his unstable mental condition, he attacks another inmate and kills him. Facing the death Penalty, he is given an inexperienced attorney named James Stamphill (Christian Slater) who argues his case before Judge Clawson (R. Lee Ermey). Seen by the new prosecutor as an open and shut case, the trial takes a bizarre turn when Stampthill argues, Alcatraz Prison, it's Warden, his guards and it's barbarous, malicious treatment of prisoners be included in the charge of Murder. The movie is an vivid portrayal of Alcatraz prison and it's treatment of inmates. Further, the fine performances by the cast depicts a cold brutal reality of man's inhumanity to man. Spending years in a dark, dank isolated cell, Henry Young and many other abandoned prisoners gave their pathetic lives, to eventually have the Rock closed down. This film becomes a great tribute to their forgotten experiences. Terrific Film. **** "},{"Title":"One of my all time favourites films","Date":"10 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I saw this film not long after its DVD release, in the days that we all used to travel down to our local DVD store and rent our movies over-night. On this day I had little idea of what I was renting, just another Alcatraz movie I thought. What a wonderful surprise to find this gem of a story based on actual events. Beautifully performed by it's cast and directed with an emotional heart that lived with me long after the movies first viewing. If I had a wishlist of prison films to see before I die this would be right up there, in the same class as The Green Mile, The Shawshank Redemption and The Bird-man of Alcatraz. Wonderful film so rich in acting talent that I think they should have all won Oscars, please watch it and enjoy it and it will say with you for years. "},{"Title":"This SUPERB Movie deserves WAY more recognition!","Date":"18 January 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" It has always been baffling to me why this excellent film is hardly recognized! As others have so correctly remarked, the acting by Kevin Bacon and Christian Slater was top notch! And, the story is played out to perfection, along with being so, so inspiring. Almost all of the scenes in the court room also enhance those qualities. And, of course, Gary Oldman is Gary Oldman, that is, an excellent actor no matter what role he plays.A number of our friends have actually never heard of this movie. But, when one of them subsequently watched it, she remarked how good a movie it is.This film, along with Awakenings, both need to be given so much more notoriety. I can watch either of them numerous times, and never be bored. "},{"Title":"Filled With Powerful Performances!","Date":"5 August 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Murder in the First, is a very powerful courtroom/prison drama that features exemplary acting from all three leads. It's a shame a January release hindered this film's award chances. Plus, I'm shocked not many people heard of this great film. Even though this film is not historically accurate, it's still an engaging film with three of the finest performances you will see.Marc Rocco's film is loosely based on Henri Young and his time at Alcatraz. After Young is transferred to the prison with his only crime stealing five dollars to feed his sister, he is inhumanely treated by the associate warden thus leading to a murder. But a young defense lawyer comes to his aid to lessen his charge against him and to prove to the world what a terrible place Alcatraz is.The acting is magnificent to say the least. Kevin Bacon delivers one of his best performances of his career and he shows a wide acting range playing Henri who lacks trust after spending three years in complete darkness. Christian Slater does mighty fine as the lawyer and Gary Oldman, as usual, delivers another impressive performance.Overall, this film is very interesting and it's an emotionally powerful movie. Some of the scenes really moved me especially the one when we find out some hard, cold facts involving the head warden in the courtroom scene. Like most others, I was disappointed when I learned many facts were muddled but still made audience believe the events in the film were true. That being said, I really liked this movie and I find it to be criminally underrated. I rate this film 9/10. "},{"Title":"A great movie, and a great performance by Kevin Bacon.","Date":"11 June 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is a great movie that, for some reason, no one has seen. I recently bought it because I am a big fan of Kevin Bacon, and I was completely amazed by his performance. The fact that he wasn't even nominated for an academy award shows you what a joke they are. All the actors are great, especially Bacon and Gary Oldman. The story is pretty good, and the movie is never boring, but the highlight of the film is Bacon's haunting portrayal of a man forced into solitary for three years. He manages to be both creepy and touching, which is amazing. There is some violence in the movie, so if you are not a fan of that, you might not want to watch. Other than that, however, I give a strong recommendation to fans of prison and courtroom movies, as this film contains some compelling elements of both. Overall - 8/10 "}{"Title":"A powerful and harrowing watch","Date":"9 October 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Directed by Marc Rocco, Murder In The First (based very loosely on a true story), tells the tale of Alcatraz inmate Henri Young (Bacon) and his treatment at the hands of the Associate Warden and Alcatraz authorities, which subsequently lead to the catastrophic events that set the film in motion.The period is set in the late 1930's. Petty thief Henri Young, played by Kevin Bacon, was sent to Alcatraz previously from another prison to make up the numbers as the infamous Rock was lacking incorrigibles at the time and the numbers needed justification. He and a small party of other prisoners attempt a daring escape which inevitably fails. One of the escapees, Rufus McCain cuts a deal with the Associate Warden Glenn (Gary Oldman) and is rewarded by being sent back to the general prison population. Henri Young is not so lucky and is sent to the dungeons of Alcatraz, commonly referred to as 'The Hole', where he spends a total of 3 years and 2 months in complete solitude, with no light, clothing, toilet or other basic provisions. We then witness Young's gradual descent into insanity as he is cut off from human contact and suffers merciless torture and beatings at the hands of the Warden and the guards there.Young emerges a mere shell of his former self, and almost immediately kills another inmate in the prison canteen. The rest of the movie is focused on the subsequent court case whereby Henri is defended by a young and inexperienced, albeit enthusiastic lawyer James Stamphill, played by Christian Slater. Stamphill attempts to put Alcatraz and it's wardens on trial and expose the conditions there.The movie is a solid one and is gripping enough to keep you watching. Christian Slater's narration leads us through the movie and events. Kevin Bacon is excellent and very convincing as the prisoner making us believe every word and scene. He plays Henri Young as a pathetic, ruined man who is totally at the mercy of Alcatraz.Gary Oldman is great in a supporting role here, playing a sadistic warden almost in a monstrous bureaucratic way. He is given free reign to do what he does in the film and of course Oldman is at his best when playing borderline psychos with underlying anger issues just waiting to boil up. I only wish his character could have been given a little more screen time.Christian Slater is good as the lawyer and is suited for this part. I am often undecided in my opinion of Christian Slater when I watch him, but I feel that in this movie he does what is needed and plays Stamphill as a decent guy who is fundamentally a humanist.Some scenes are brutal and hard to watch, especially the torture scenes in the dungeons where Bacons's character suffers. Some viewers may actually consider this a movie that requires only the one watch, as it kind of leaves a dark impression on the mind. But this is how it was intended to be made. It's not pretending to be anything else. This is undoubtedly a very moving and powerful film that won't disappoint. If you like strong and solid performances then look no further. "},{"Title":"Brilliant Movie  Truly Uplifting","Date":"12 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is one of my favorite movies;; and I have a not about this on my Electrifying performances by both Kevin Bacon and Slater.Very few movies come across that are that gripping.Moves you up to your seat. And then there is always this tension and drama, anxiety about what's next to come.The fact that this is based on a true life story makes it a more powerful saga. A saga that smells courage, conviction and commitment. How many movies like this exist. This movies falls under the ranks of Shaw Shank redemption.. Pappion, The Holocaust, Its a wonderful life.. et all..really a bone of a movie. I have watched it so many times that each and every scene is tattooed on my brain. I can even close my eyes and see the trail unfold.If you haven't watched it - you are not just missing an American Classic but also you are missing examples and stories to tell your kids - what happened once upon a west.. Cheers Olga Lednichenko "},{"Title":"The definition of rehabilitate To restore to a state of physical, mental, and moral health through treatment and training.","Date":"12 July 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Murder in the First is directed by Marc Rocco and written by Dan Gordon. It stars Kevin Bacon, Christian Slater, Gary Oldman, Embeth Davidtz, William H. Macy and R. Lee Ermey. Music is scored by Christopher Young and cinematography by Fred Murphy.Slater stars as James Stamphill, an idealistic young attorney who is tasked with defending Alcatraz prisoner Henri Young (Bacon) who clearly murdered a fellow inmate. But what transpires is that Henri had just spent over three years in solitary confinement for attempting to escape the prison. It's evident, also, that Henri has been the subject of systematic violence perpetrated by sadistic Warden Milton Glenn (Oldman). Stamphill risks his career, and Henri's life, to put Alcatraz and the people in charge on trial.Inspired by a true story, viewers should note that this is mostly a fictitious film. The truths are readily available on line so I will not waste space divulging the facts here. Suffice to say that Murder in the First is to be judged solely as a work of fiction. But what a film we get, a heart yanking, emotionally upsetting picture showcasing the evil that men do, filling out the narrative with alienation, cruelty, corruption and revenge driven murder. The dehumanising effects of prison abuse has never been so touchingly portrayed as it is here by Bacon, it's a haunting and vivid portrayal of a man pushed to the limits of sanity, a guy living in the dark recess of hell, struggling with every breath to come out into the light. An astonishing performance that once again in Bacon's career was ignored by his Academy peers.Whilst high on emotional wallop, and some scenes really are tough to watch, the film falls shy of brilliance on account of standard fare for the courtroom sequences. Nothing bad but there's a dramatic thrust missing, and it's not Slater's fault, who is good at being sincere and humanist, the script doesn't provide enough thunder in the trial, in fact often it's too low key for its own good. We get a great snippet of what we are missing as Oldman (another great turn as a angry bastard) loses his cool, but more stomping, shouting and legal soul picking was needed.Tech credits are very good. Rocco has a good sense of claustrophobic atmosphere, the scenes in the bowels of the prison perfectly portray Young's disorientation, the dank, dark and wet surroundings in keeping with the prisoner's state of mind. The director also favours an impressive roving camera technique that serves the story well. He also slots in a couple of noirish reflection scenes, one sees Glenn lose his cool while shaving and smash the mirror, the result is a distorted reflection, a showing of a fractured psyche. The other sees a prison visit between Stamphill and Young separated by a piece of glass, their respective reflections at first coming off as grotesque, but then slowly blending into one, a sign that maybe lawyer and prisoner will eventually sing from the same song sheet? It's a film that has found its way on to some neo-noir lists, visually and thematically as regards Bacon's character, that is fair enough.Elsewhere. Murphy's photography is a key component to the tonal flow of the story, while Young's score is a real treat, criminally forgotten it relies on strings and choir for emotive means and succeeds exceptionally well. In support Macy and Davidtz do well with thinly written parts, but Ermey is a joy as the blunderbuss judge presiding over the trial. Nice to see Brad Dourif in the mix as well, even if we ultimately hanker for more of this great character actor. In a year that saw high end emotional drama released with Dead Man Walking and Leaving Las Vegas, Murder in the First sadly had some of its thunder stolen. Which coupled with the fact many refused to accept it fictionalising the Henri Young/Alcatraz story, saw it slip away until the World went internet crazy and it got rediscovered. It deserves to be found still some more, so seek it out film fans. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Dishonest waste of talent.","Date":"3 October 2004","Score":"14 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This should have been a great movie. If only all those involved in it weren't so smug and self righteous that they presented this piece of fiction as based on a true story. It's not based on anything except the imagination and perceptions of those who acted in it, produced, directed and wrote it. If they had just been honest, and represented it as the total piece of fiction that it is, it would have made watching this movie a much different experience. But when you dig a little (very little) and find out that this based on facts is a total crock, with NOTHING remotely resembling the truth about the cold killer career criminal (who might still be alive today) it portrays on the screen. I ended up hating this movie for this very reason. When you find out the truth, you'll feel manipulated and punked for buying into this trite piece of Hollyweird liberal fiction. All prisoners are just misunderstood nice guys who stole $5 to feed their underprivileged poor siblings. I don't think ANYONE was ever sent to Alcatraz for such trivial matters, it was the Supermax of its day, and you were only sent there because of your actions at other prisons. You only left the Rock if you showed that you could behave, then you were sent to another prison, nobody was ever put directly from Alcatraz to the street. To be fair, they are not the first ones to do this with an Alcatraz background, Burt Lancasters movie, The Birdman of Alcatraz did pretty much the same thing. Glorifying and embellishing the life of a murdering antisocial pimp. To sum it up, this movie is total fiction, the facts and figures are total fiction, the story is total fiction, and is purposefully represented as a true story to propagate the opinions of those that made it. Very dishonest and irresponsible to pass this off as factual in any way.  "},{"Title":"'I got nothing'. I got nobody. I don't need a lawyer, I need a friend.'","Date":"26 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" It is often interesting how when old movies show up On Demand years after their first release there is a waterfall of response from viewers - almost like the film has been resurrected and given a second life. Such is the case for this 1995 film MURDER IN THE FIRST - there seems to be a more honest evaluation of the film as a film than when it was first released and the public took exception to the 'veracity' of the allegedly true story.According to the reported facts, 'Henri Theodore Young (born 1918) was a prisoner at Alcatraz who attempted to escape with four other inmates, Arthur Barker, Dale Stamphill, William Martin, and Rufus McCain. Young became a bank robber and was known for aggressively taking hostages. In 1933, he committed murder. After spending time in prisons in Washington state and Montana, he was sent to the federal prison on Alcatraz Island. On the night of January 13, 1939, Young, with prisoners Rufus McCain, Arthur Barker, Dale Stamphill, and William Martin, attempted to escape. Martin, Young, and McCain surrendered, while Barker and Stamphill refused to surrender and were subsequently shot. Barker eventually died from his injuries. Allegedly, Young and McCain were sentenced to long terms each in solitary confinement, but they were back in the prison's general population within months. A year later, Young killed Rufus McCain by plunging a spoon into his neck; he never revealed his motive.' Those are the 'facts' upon which this film was based, but in the film the sequence is different. The film plot followsHenri Young (Kevin Bacon) stole five dollars from a post office and ended up going to prison - to the most famous, or infamous, prison of them all Alcatraz. He tried to escape, failed, and spent three years and two months in solitary confinement - in a dungeon, with no light, no heat and no toilet. Milton Glenn (Gary Oldman), the assistant warden, who was given free reign by his duty-shirking superior, was responsible for Young's treatment. Glenn even took a straight razor and hobbled Young for life. After three years and two months, Young was taken out of solitary confinement and put with the rest of the prisoners. Almost immediately, Young took a spoon and stabbed a fellow prisoner in the neck, killing him. Now, Young is on trial for murder, and if he's convicted he'll go to the gas chamber. An eager and idealistic young attorney, James Stamphill (Christian Slater), is given this impossible case, and argues before a shocked courtroom that Young had a co-conspirator. The true murderer, he says, was Alcatraz.Mark Rocco directed from the screenplay written by Dan Gordon and the film was photographed by Fred Murphy, the tense musical scoring is by Christopher Young. The story is tight and made credible by the extraordinarily fine performances of Kevin Bacon, Christian Slater, Gary Oldman and a supporting cast that includes Embeth Davidtz, Kyra Sedgwick, Mia Kirshner, William H. Macy, R. Lee Ermey, Stephen Tobolowsky, and Brad Dourif. This is more a character study than reportage of an historical incident and as such the movie succeeds on every level. Grady Harp "},{"Title":"A Desperate Fight For Justice","Date":"13 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Henri Young (Kevin Bacon) is incarcerated in the prison of Alcatraz for stealing $5; when an attempt to escape is foiled, he is left to take the blame and he is kept in solitary confinement for several years. Driven Mad by the isolation, within hours of his release he takes the life of the man responsible for his suffering.His Lawyer (Christian Slater) is given Henri's case as a way to cut his teeth as a new lawyer, after all Henri is guilty and he can't possible make this case any worse than it is.Based on true events, Murder in the First is a truly compelling story of the torture of one man, a man that had to go to Alcatraz to become a killer.Kevin Bacon is simply outstanding as the eccentric Henri Young, and he and Christian Slater bring this movie to life, with intrigue, suspense, passion and guts. I fail to see why this film is not rated with kinder regard than it is, but personally i thought it was a marvellous film, that i wanted to see again years later.9/10 "},{"Title":"Bacon's Performance Oscar Worthy","Date":"1 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I was very disappointed that Kevin Bacon's Performance was not nominated. His in depth, thought provoking, believable portrayal of Henry was comparable to other performances won by actors. I can watch this film over and over again - & I have. I believe when Kevin Bacon is honored with some type of Lifetime Achievement Award & he will be - Murder In the First will receive roaring applause and recognition by all. I respect him as an actor who crosses the path of losing oneself to feel his characters. An interpretation that will draw me to watch a Bacon performance - whether the script is wrong, the directing is off key or any other reason a film can be deemed bad. "},{"Title":"Great Performances!!","Date":"25 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Though A Largely Fictitious Film, about petty criminal Henri Young, 'Murder in the First', yet comes across as a convincing cinematic experience. Though depressing and hard to stomach, the honesty it's been made and it's hallmark performances, manage to hold your interest.'Murder in the First' is a about a petty criminal named Henri Young, played by Kevin Bacon, who is put on trial for murder in the first degree. But, a righteous recent law school graduate, played by Christian Slater, takes up the challenge to take up Young's case, and later blames the prison's executives, for the brutal murder committed by Young.'Murder in the First', like mentioned before, is a largely fictitious take on Henri Young's life. But, cinematically, Henri Young comes across as a frightened victim, who was physically & mentally abused by the Prison's executives. You, in fact, support him here and you sympathize with him all through, and you literally begin to hate the prison's executives. The depiction of Young being in a solitary confinement, and knowing his suffering, shakes you and leaves you numb.'Murder in the First' is an honest film. Dan Gordon's Writing is hard-hitting & on your-face. The Writer hasn't shy-ed away by not showing what your suppose to watch as a viewer. Marc Rocco's Direction is up-to the mark. He handles the dark, as well as the court-room sequences, with accurate understanding. But, I would like to point out, that, the film is longer than it should have been. It needed to be trimmed, at least, by 15-20 minutes.Performance-Wise All the actors are Great. Kevin Bacon is nearly exemplary as the frightened victim, Henri Young. His body language, his expressions , as well as his dialogue delivery, are pitch-perfect. Bacon once again proves his range as an actor! Christian Slater scores big time as the righteous lawyer. Gary Oldman is Fantastic! He's so good as the menace, I actually began to hate him. Oldman, genuinely, delivers one of his finest performances here. William H. Macy is perfect, like always. Others lend the required support.On the whole, 'Murder in the First' is not the faint-hearted, as it's too intense & depressing at times. But, it's definitely worth a watch for those, who like watching films, that are written & executed without inhibitions. From this writer, Thumbs Up! "},{"Title":"Saw this film in a class at college.","Date":"17 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I would usually not watch a film of this type of my own accord, but it was shown to me in a criminal justice course. It was rather interesting as it features Christian Slater as a young attorney assigned a case to defend a prisoner at the infamous Alcatraz prison. The case is one he is not supposed to win, he is just representing the guy and the guy is supposed to be put to death. Instead, the young idealistic attorney sees that the young man who committed murder while imprisoned for a rather minor crime committed the crime not because he was initially some sort of monster, but because the tactics used by the warden were cruel and turned him into one. Very interesting and it even has some funny scenes as well in it. Kevin Bacon does a really good job with his role and Slater is good as well. It does run a bit long, but that is usually the case with most films like this one. I liked how Slater's character was able to make his case and I also enjoyed Bacon's character when he was put on the stand as that seemed to make the point nicely. I did not care for the end, but there is not much one can do about that as it was based on a true story. Overall, though I usually do not watch films such as this I did enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Weapon, ain't no Killer.","Date":"11 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" ALCATRAZ, the maximum security prison till 1960s holding America's most incorrigible inmates. There are many feature films and books based on this prison (Birdman of Alcatraz, The Rock, Escape from Alcatraz etc.). 'Murder In The First' is based on the same, too.Unlike 'The Rock' & 'Escape from Alcatraz', this flick deals with human emotions and the dangerous dungeons. Based on the real story, this film deals with the story of Henri Young (kevin bacon), a petty criminal caught escaping a prison and is sent to 'the rock'. Though the permitted official punishment is only for 19 days, he is sent to the dangerous dungeons for whole three years where he becomes mentally confused and scared. Immediately after coming out, the only thing he does is stabbing a guy in his throat with a dining spoon resulting in his death. There comes the Lawyer James Stamphill (Christian Slater), a fresh graduate, to defend Henri. The rest of the story deals with how James takes the case forward resulting in permanent closure of the dungeons of Alcatraz.The way the relationship built between Henri and James is perfect. The performance in the final court room scene where James convinces Henri to change his appeal from guilty to innocent is excellent. Henri, If you wanna die. I'll back you up. But I promise you, I'll fight these bastards to not let this happen again to anyone. Brilliant performances by Slater, Bacon and Gary Oldman(as Prison Wardon).This one stands among very few flicks which make you think and cry.A must see! 8 out of 10. "}{"Title":"In this courtroom I'm the only one who decides what is and what's not OK! OK!","Date":"21 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" **SPOILERS** Highly fictitious account of the life and times of Alcatraz inmate and career criminal #Az244 Henri Young, Kevin Bacon, and his fight to put an end to the torturous dungeon, solitary confinement, where he spent most of his time while incarcerated on the Rock.We're given the impression that Young's only crime that in the end landed him on the Rock was a petty $5.00 robbery of a grocery store. This was in order to get food for him and his nine year-old sister Rosella, Amenda Borden,during the hight of the Great Depression. In fact Young was involved in a number of robberies and burglaries that ended with a robbery, and murder of the proprietor, of a bakery in Oregon and then followed by a failed bank robbery in Washington State. Sent to Alcatraz in 1935 to serve his time on January 13, 1939 Young together with a number of fellow inmates made an unsuccessful escape attempt from the Rock where the leader of the group Arthur Doc Barker, Michael Melvin was gunned down and killed by the prison guards. Sent to the hole for punishment Young developed a festering hatred toward his fellow inmate who was involved with him in the failed escaped attempt Rufus McCain, David Michael Sterling. Young held McCain responsible, in his unfounded suspicion of him, for tipping off the guards in Young and his fellow inmates escape plan.Out off the hole and in with the local prison population Young, after an unsuccessful attempt earlier, attacked McCain in the prison tailor shop and stabbed him with a sank, home-made prison knife, killing him Not in the mess-hall with a spoon like depicted in the movie.The most egregious misrepresentation in the film Murder in the First of Youngs stay in Alcatraz is that he was assigned a young lawyer, who just passed the state bar, to defend him in his trial for McCain's murder James Stamphill, Christian Slater. In fact the real James Stamphill was actually a fellow Alcatraz inmate who was involved, but didn't participate, in the January 13, 1939 escape attempt with Young! The attorney who actually successfully defended Young at his murder trial was San Francisco lawyer Sol Abrams.The film had Henri Young being tortured by the prison guards and assistant Warden Milton Glenn, Gary Oldman, day and night until he finally snaps. It's then, according to the movie, Young is let out of the hole where, in what seem like within minutes, he attacked and murdered McCain with a spoon in front of well over two hundred witnesses in the prison lunchroom.An open and shut case at first Young's court-appointed attorney James Stamphill turns the trial upside down. Stamphill puts the entire prison staff from warden Humson,Stefan Glerasch, on down on trial for inhuman treatment of prisoners instead of defending his client Henri Young for murdering one of them! With young going from sane to insane during his trial Stamphill and his lady assistant attorney Mary McCasslin, Embeth Davitz, get Young off on an insanity conviction, involuntary manslaughter, where he's to serve just under 3 years behind bars.***SPOILER ALERT*** Were given the information that Young deathly afraid of being sent back to the Rock in fact wanted to change his plea, which his lawyer Stamphill prevented him from doing, from not guilty due to his diminish mental capacity to guilty of first degree murder. Young was more then willing to risk his life, in the San Quentin gas chamber, in order not to be put back in the hole. The movie ends with the sad statement that Young was found dead three months later, were not given the cause of his death, with the word Victory scrawled in his cell. A final act of defiance on Youngs part to those in the prison system who so brutally abused and tried to break him.The fact is that Young never died or killed himself and was finally released from prison in 1972 some 30 years after his presumed death, in the movie, with 27 years added on to his light three year sentence, for involuntary manslaughter, due to his bad and unruly behavior behind bars. Young a free man after some 40 years behind bars then immediately broke his parole and was never seen or heard from again! For all we know Henri Young is still around with us, he would by now if alive be 97 years old on June 11 2008, since his death, natural or otherwise, was never reported or confirmed! "},{"Title":"Kevin Bacon stripped down performance","Date":"21 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The guards at Alcatraz kill one prisoner and recapture others including Henri Young (Kevin Bacon) during an escape attempt. Young would spend three years and two months in solitary confinement. He had stolen $5 from a grocery store to take care of his sister. The fact that a U.S. Post Office is also in the store made it a Federal offense. After being released from solitary, he kills a fellow prisoner. Young James Stamphill (Christian Slater) becomes his defense lawyer who makes Alcatraz and Warden Milton Glenn (Gary Oldman) as the ultimate cause of the murder.This is one of those based on true story but one shouldn't look too closely. The story is filled with big stereotypes. Kevin Bacon is stripped down in an amazing performance. I like certain touches of this historical setting. Slater is fine and Oldman is great evil. I can't shake off the feeling that this has a fake fable feel. "},{"Title":"Brilliant judicial drama","Date":"10 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Brilliant judicial drama. Very engaging - you empathize with Henri Young and wince at the hardships he faced. Also makes you realise how despicable people, especially people in authority, can be.Christian Slater is solid in the lead role. Standout performance, however, goes to Kevin Bacon. He makes the movie. How he did not get an Oscar nomination, I do not know. Gary Oldman is excellent as the bad guy, but that's a given. Good supporting cast which includes William H Macy, Embeth Davidz and Stephen Tobolowsky, plus Kyra Segewick and Mia Kirshner in minor roles.Only dull note is the performance of R Lee Ermey as the judge. He was not convincing at all. He really should stick to gunnery sergeant roles... "},{"Title":"Reviewer Msroz stated it perfectly; too many artificial and distracting elements in an otherwise excellent film...  Blu-ray Very Good  A9  V9","Date":"10 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" When I read Msroz's review I thought, 'Yep, that's it all right...' While watching this I was really trying to figure out what was wrong with it. The technical aspects and cinematography were excellent and the performances themselves were quite good, especially Kevin Bacon's.BUT... the reviewer hit right on it and I agree. To me, there were just TOO many artificially inserted elements and distractions that I feel were put in in order to give it 'Authenticity'. However, all the grating voice-overs of newsmen and announcers, and a number of other little things, just seemed irritating and I feel greatly detracted from what COULD have otherwise been an excellent film. I think what it came down to were the stylistic choices of the director. I looked up his other films and other than 'WHERE THE DAY TAKES YOU' prior to this film (I have not see it) it doesn't seem like he has really done that much of any import, and has done nothing since, which is kind of odd. Although he did pass away at a rather young age in 2009.I think he DID bring out some nice things that were important and helpful to the story. And, like I mentioned, the performances overall were very good. My lowly and wretched impression is that the director, while having some really good ideas, tried TOO dang hard to add SO many little touches that, if done well, COULD have been called 'Stylish', but ultimately to me anyway just struck me as artificial and somewhat jarring to the overall flow of the movie. I don't mind a highly stylized film if it is done well or even if just the style alone is what makes a movie interesting enough to watch. But, that isn't the case here...It is a shame too, because like the comment that you often hear, 'You KNOW that there's a good movie in there somewhere', in this case I feel that is true. If it just hadn't been for the 'Death of 1000 cuts', so to speak (or perhaps, directorial choices) the movie could have been pretty good. There really ARE some great moments in the film, but unfortunately many of these are lost amongst all the 'stylistic choices' that kind of water everything down, unfortunately...I don't know, many here DO indeed seem to like this film, and it DOES have a kind of 'Classic' feel to it which I liked. Perhaps I am just being a little too particular or critical of the way the director handled a lot of the film. Maybe, others may just be able to sit back and enjoy it.I think it would depend on how sensitive or demanding you are with your films and whether you would NOTICE these things I mentioned or whether they would even end up bothering you. But, to me anyway, they did kind of stand out and ultimately diminish the impact of the film.So, I hope that gives you at least some insight, or at least MY impression of the film and helps you decide whether it is the kind of movie that you would like... "},{"Title":"Exhibits The Fears of Alcatraz Quite Perfectly","Date":"15 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Murder in the First commences to the year 1935 as a down-on-his- luck young man named Henri Young (Kevin Bacon) desperately steals $5 from a post office. His criminal act harshly leads him to be sentenced to five years in prison. The worst part is, Mr. Young is only 18 years old. This opening scene begins the superficial story of Henri Young and his time in Alcatraz. Prison life has not been the life for Young as he and other inmates make a great effort to escape only to be caught red-handed. Young gets sent to the hole where he remains there for three years. Left under supervision by the guards and one very mean warden named Milton Glenn (Gary Oldman) who hated Young the first time he set eyes on him, he is physically tortured and incapacitated while remaining in the hole. There are days or even weeks when no human contact comes his ways while he's in the hole. Three years later, Henri is released from the hole, but a complete shell of his former self. So much so that as an act of revenge, Young kills the brown-nose inmate who tattled on him when he was making his escape. Now Young finds himself in a much deeper offence as he is now convicted of first degree murder. His appointed attorney James Stamphill (Christian Slater) pays Young a visit to Alcatraz. At first glance, he appears to look like a malnourished, decrepit elderly individual when really, he's only just a couple years older than Stamphill. The harsh and physical punishment he's endured during his incarceration has him now unable to walk upright, his legs and back are crippled and his speech is very slurred and his mind is almost lost. Almost as though he has dementia, he now has the mental capacity of a child. The only thing he can remember were happy times were baseball and Babe Ruth. Stamphill, who's a rookie lawyer finds himself in a precarious situation as finds it very difficult to communicate with someone like Henri.Stamphill finding the only way to open up to Henri is by talking to him about baseball. Through many visits, Henri progressively opens up to Stamphill which lead to Stamphill going over his head. Leaving him with no real hope, Stamphill persuades Henri to plead innocent and to overrule the trial and instead place the penal system and Alcatraz on trial. Stamphill then blames Alcatraz for turning Henri into the insane person he has become.In one of the only humorous scenes, Stamphill beings in a hooker posed as one of his assistants. This was a ploy to offer something to Henri due to never being able to enjoy the moment because of his long prison sentence. But this effort and the baseball discussions between Henri and Stamphill, the bonding between both men continued until Henri's death. In an excellent trial scene, Stramphill successfully proves to the judicial system that Henri was left in the unmerciful hands of Warden Milton Glenn and completely lays blame to the penal system which eventually leads to the potential closing of Alcatraz. Henri must return to Alcatraz until the paperwork leading to his release has been done. In a memorable scene we see Henri getting on a boat begging Stamphill not to send him back. He is now emancipated, but can't understand why he must wait for this paperwork to be completed in order to get of Alcatraz. Henri was never discharged from Alcatraz and remained there until his death. Even though the story is loosely based on real characters, the performances were absolutely phenomenal, especially from the three principals being Christian Slater, Kevin Bacon and Gary Oldman. For the past three decades, the ladies have often had the hearts melting for the attractive Kevin Bacon. But in this movie, they can see just how riveting he is in a heart-breaking but highly respected performance he delivers here. His manners and his characteristics were truly realistic. Slater was the perfect casting choice to play the part of the green, inexperienced lawyer thrown into a case he never thought he'd never thought possible. His fight against the penal system was handled with care and never felt forced or rushed. Gary Oldman has been quite versatile with his roles in the past comes through as a tough, unmerciful warden.Even though the story is inspired by real events and characters, but in reality it is still a work of fiction. However, the situations look and feel real. The execution of the story and the characters really draws you in and you really root the whole time through to Henri and hope that he is able to be released before it is too late. On a positive note, it was just wonderful that the evil, cruel atmosphere that was Alcatraz was brought down in defeat. "},{"Title":"A solid film from the mid 90s","Date":"15 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Rocco's drama tells the true story of an Alcatraz inmate(Bacon) who is severely mistreated inside the institute and its warden (Oldman) and his public defendant lawyer (Slater) who goes public with his case. The film is solidly directed with a good script from Dan Gordon and great performances from Bacon, Oldman and Slater. All three do well in their roles as well as Macy, Davidtz and Dourif in supporting roles. The film is not boring, and indeed thought-provoking, another good film from the mid 90s. I thought the fact that Bacon was getting tortured in jail was interesting considering i remember him most in Barry Levinson's Sleepers in which he is a guard at a juvenile hall institute and he is the one being abusive. Anyhow Bacon does well in this role and although this film isn't Oscar material or anything, its a good drama. IMDb rating 7.0 my rating 8/10 "},{"Title":"Based on a true story","Date":"26 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Based on a true story. How many time have we seen this on may movies when we know from the beginning that the screen story is really almost based on the true story.Loosely based. In 2001 A Beautiful Mind boasted that it was based on a true story but the screenplay deliberately left out the character's homosexuality, and worse than that turned his hispanic wife into a wasp. And Jennifer Connelley won a Academy Award for her role, no less. Before that year Denzel Washington gave a powerful performance in The Hurricane which was based on the account of the boxer Hurricane Carter and the critics lambasted the movies saying it did not stand by the complete facts and therefore was counterfeit. So you see based on a true story can have it's drawbacks. And reading some of these posts it's clear that some viewers really thought that Murder in the First was counterfeit because it did't stick to the facts completely. Well, it's a movie, and a darn good one. I saw it on the big screen and was completely taken with Kevin Bacon's performance, although Gary Oldman's name drew me to see the movie. I didn't know who Christian Slater was. Anyway, I remembered that powerful film and finally decided to get the DVD. I'm still bowled over by Kevin Bacon's performance and wondered, like others, why the academy passed his performance by. Lord knows that Brad Pitt could have been bumped for his lame performance in Twelve Monkeys. And James Cromwell was not even the star of Babe and really didn't do anything special in that movie in 1995. Anyway, in spite of the knit picking Murder in the Firse is a truly wonderful movie experience, and well worth viewing. I can only hope that some poster's won't take based on a true story so literally. Sometimes movies have to have licence. "},{"Title":"Gritty, powerful and a very important movie","Date":"14 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The fact Kevin Bacon wasn't even nominated for his performance as Henri young tells you how ridiculous Hollywood really is. Kevin Bacon stars as prisoner Henri Young, who is left in solitary confinement for 3 years and beaten till he is black and blue by the staff at Alcatraz mainly Milton Glenn (Gary Oldman at his villainous best). When Henri is brought to trial for murder, a young lawyer named James Stamphill(a surprisingly excellent performance from Christian Slater) takes on the trial attempting to prove that Alcatraz's system is to blame. The cast are excellent in the movie Bacon should have been nominated for his role, its quite possibly his best performance in his career. Slater(who I have found annoying in one or two of his movies) is effective in his role, you really feel his dedication and willingness to help Henri. And Gary Oldman is just Gary Oldman,he's psychotic and evil, how Oldman has never won an Oscar or even been nominated is beyond me. Anyway this is a film I would throughly recommend very powerful and very moving. "},{"Title":"Kevin Bacon - Superb","Date":"13 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I was blown away by Kevin Bacon's performance. The question is, what awards did he get for this role? If he did not get an Oscar nomination, then the people who do the nominations should be replaced with people with brains. If he was nominated, and I will check this out further, then kudos to those who know a fantastic acting job when they see it and ARE NOT suaded by bullies who have their own favorites, albeit, unworthy.Kevin, if you are reading this, you ROCK! Your absolute best performance ever. I did, however enjoy your guest appearance on Will and Grace and your dance. Marvelous. Your performance in A Few Good Men was also wonderful... actually, everything I've seen you in... excellent acting.Phyl "},{"Title":"Ever hear of poetic license?","Date":"6 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie is called Murder in the First, not the Life of Henry Young. If you want the facts about Henry Young don't look to Hollywood for answers. It's like saying the movie Birdman of Alcatraz contained inaccuracies. Movies like this are not about facts, but about life, and in that sense Murder in the First scores more like 8 out of 10. Also I would not trust any comments from the point of view of the establishment from that time period. The Illuminati were just as rotten to the core then as they are now, but the illusion of authority was better preserved when the ruling elite had something in common with us regular folks. To my taste the movie was slow and in need of more aggressive editing have, it even contained a bizarre and useless sex scene that provided zero value add. However it is still a powerful movie and Alcatraz was a horrible prison without a doubt. It's ironic that Americans today turn a blind eye to official rendition and federally sponsored torture with a murderous executive branch run amok, where the inmates have truly seized the asylum. One thing to take away from this movie at least in 1941 someone like Stamphill could have convinced the public at large that powers-that-be were seriously on the wrong track. Like it or not, we need a Stamphill today, whether he's a real lawyer or just a figment of some Hollywood writer's imagination. "}{"Title":"awesome movie","Date":"13 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is an awesome and powerful movie with a fantastic cast of performers. Kevin Bacon was amazing as was Christian Slater and Gary Oldman. This is a movie that will take you in and touch you mentally and emotionally, one of the best movies ever made. A classic. The part where Gary Oldman in cutting Kevin Bacon's ankle's is heart-wrenching, however Gary Oldman plays the part sadistically good, you feel you want to rescue Kevin, from the cruel and vile treatment he endures. The beauty of the movie is that it shows you the truth as to how harsh life was back in the 1930's and what people did to survive, if caught the punishment was very harsh. The end of the movie disturbed me as i wanted Kevin to be moved to another prison, however it endeavour's to show strength and triumph. "},{"Title":"a great movie","Date":"28 September 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I, personally, thought this movie was great! Christian Slater captured the role as Henry Young's (Bacon) lawyer perfectly. Kevin Bacon definitely did his part, playing a criminal gone crazy in Alcatraz. I am not one to like movies of this sort, but this movie is definitely worth seeing! It's an interesting experience to see Christian Slater go from his previous roles ranging as a sociopath to a skateboarder to now a calm, intelligent lawyer. This movie is definitely a must-see! "},{"Title":"Don't answer the door for a old man named Henry","Date":"8 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Great piece of fiction played as if factual. Tonight I was looking at the Birdman of Alcatraz. Robert Stoud was not a model meek prisoner and he was in jail because he was pimping and a customer did not pay up. Once he got into jail he was so uncontrollable he spent most of his time in solitary confinement or in the prison hospital. Killed a few people in prison too. This movie reminds me of the Birdman of Alcatraz but even worse. Robert Stroud did write books and he did contribute to society in someway. And the BOA had some hints of Strouds lunacy. BUT this guy Henry Young who Murder in the First is suppose to be about was a a known bank robber who took hostages and beat them up in more then one robbery. He wasn't some poor guy who stumbled into a grocery store which just happened to be a post office and took some money. This man was a hard core criminal. He also killed a person 3 years before he went to Alcatraz. He killed another person in jail not because of the solitary confinement which ended over a year before the murder. The real story of his life would of been more interesting. They did not even get the warden thing right. You can't be a warden in 3 different prisons at the same time. And by all accounts the warden in the movie was a pretty stand up guy as wardens go. Plus if my math is right the Warden played by Karl Malden in the BOA is suppose to be the same warden in this movie. Oh Boy. Not only that, in this movie we are to think poor Henry committed suicide. And he wrote the word Victory. Not true..he might be alive right now. He was sent to Springfield where Robert Stroud was also a medical center prison then Walla Walla for another murder he committed and then was released and jumped parole in 1972, never to be found. Maybe he is hanging out with that CB Cooper guy who jumped out that airplane in Washington state after committing a bank robbery lol. Now the acting was very good. Kevin Bacon is in that class of actors which include Jeff Bridges and Dennis Quaid, the vastly underrated actors club. Gary oldman well they just might of made-up the warden part so he could play it because he was great. Christian Slater still somehow sounds like Jack Nicholson, I am not sure if that is a good thing or not. Bacons wife Kyra Sedgwick was in the movie I think just because she is his wife. I like her though but not in this flick. For some reason I felt this movie when it first came out was suppose to be a special project for Kevin Bacon. I feel he could of taken a person who is truly a victim of the penal system, there sure is enough of them and spread some light on their plight. Other then picking a psychopath to show as a victim. "},{"Title":"Christian Slater defends Kevin Bacon by trying Alcatraz","Date":"18 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Murder in the First struck me as not a bad movie, but not one that I'd care to watch again. The performances are very good and there are no severe problems with the movie.What I felt in watching it is that it was too long and dragged out. At times I thought it was overdone and exaggerated. Courtroom movies have a tendency to bog down or present unrealistic views of how a trial goes. The movie became a heavy-handed indictment of Alcatraz and the penal system, which they entirely deserve, but the method was still too crude to be really effective.The movie story is realistic in a number of important details. But the man on trial was embellished and altered in many ways that detracted. The fictional characterizations felt concocted and unreal, Hollywoodized.So, overall, it was a bit of a slog through it.I watched this a second time, and I'm off the same opinion. This time I'd point out that Kevin Bacon's performance is terrific. The movie has way too much phony stuff in it that detracts, not adds, to its theme. The story and screenplay are at fault. The direction also should have been toned down. If this is the only way to indict the penal system, through using a man who was a murderer and robber before being sent to Alcatraz and to falsifying much else, then movie-making is in bad trouble. But it's not the only way. See In Cold Blood. "},{"Title":"Stylish And Enjoyable Courtroom/Prison Thriller With Top-Notch Cast","Date":"24 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" James Stamphill is a novice lawyer given the case of Henri Young, a two-time loser con in Alcatraz who has murdered another prisoner. Stamphill argues the case that Young's criminality was brought on by the injustice of his original conviction and his inhumane treatment in the notorious prison. Can he convince the jury ?This is a high-quality period courtroom drama with a lot going for it. It's a handsome production, an interesting story, has a first-rate cast and the Alcatraz setting is always a winner. Slater is good in the lead, carrying the big baggage of the movie along with youthful energy, particularly in his scenes with Bacon (in a flashy part full of squinting, limping and general monkeying around). Better yet as the cruel assistant warden is Oldman at the height of his teeth-gnashing psycho period (see Romeo Is Bleeding, Léon, many others) and Ermey in the plum role of the dogmatic judge. Rocco corrals his actors with skill and times all of the big weepie emotional moments well, aided by a richly melancholic score from Christopher Young. I do have a couple of problems with the movie though. The first is the use of the tired old inspired by a true story tag-line. Yes, there was a real Henri Young, but he wasn't the selfless tortured martyr he's portrayed as here. I'd rather see a fictional story with no pretences or an objective documentary than some diluted halfway house. The second is the rather naive depiction of the criminal classes as saintly victims of institutionalised savagery. A good prison film needs to show the good and bad in both sides, as in Don Siegel's superior Escape From Alcatraz. All in all though this is quality entertainment, with some great performances, touching scenes and glossy visuals. Trivia - Kyra Sedgwick, who plays the hooker Stamphill smuggles in to see Henri, is Bacon's real life wife. "},{"Title":"Historically inaccurate but entertaining","Date":"8 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I won't dwell on the factual inaccuracies of Murder in the First, other posters have already discussed them. I will note, though, that there are many more differences than there are similarities between the real Henry Young and the fictional version presented in this film. That said, the movie is reasonably good popular entertainment, with outstanding performances from a large ensemble cast. The eeevil Associate Warden Glenn, played in a scenery eating tour de force by Gary Oldman is a hoot. Do you want to talk about a guy you love to hate? Kevin Bacon's performance as our put upon hero was also entertaining, if a little actorish. Murder in the First is a lot of fun but there is nothing in it to take seriously, at least nothing I could find. "},{"Title":"Great Performances, But Probably More Fiction Than True","Date":"22 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The story recounted in Murder in the First, is quite shocking Henri (Bacon), a young convict who has been arrested for a petty crime, is being transferred to Alcatraz for reasons having to do with logistics and nothing more. Facing a tough life there, he decides to escape with a couple of other inmates; unfortunately, the escape goes wrong and they get caught. Assistant warden Glenn (Oldman), a mean and sadistic person, decides to punish Henri by putting him to solitary indefinitely. Not only is his punishment extremely cruel and unethical, but it also violates a rule which states that the maximum period for solitary is 19 days. Henri stays there for three years, becoming nearly an animal, and finally he is released after some senior penitentiary officer finds out about his punishment. Unfortunately, his incarceration has totally transformed him, and as soon as he is in his normal cell again, he murders his escape companion (who had betrayed him) with a spoon. He is now on trial for murder, and the only person who seems to care about his fate is a young and inexperienced lawyer, Stamphill (Slater), who heroically tries to impose justice under completely adverse circumstances.The story is moving, and the way it is presented is even more so. We watch Henri being treated as a dog, with Glenn projecting his insecurity and sadism by torturing the poor man. It is also touching to watch Stamphill, a lawyer who nobody takes seriously (not even Henri himself), fighting to establish gradually his presence and finally managing to be taken seriously. Bacon gives a great performance as low-life Henri, while Oldman is also superb as satanic Glenn. Slater is good also in his role, but I believe he is overshadowed by the former two.The direction is also good, producing a continuing feeling of agony and despair to the viewer, and hence providing us with the appropriate mood of the story.However, there is one slight objection which kept me from giving the film a 9, or a 10 (although I still gave it a high 8) After doing some research, I found out that probably the film has grossly distorted the true facts. More specifically, it seems that Henri was not convicted for stealing $5 (a ridiculous offense), but for armed robbery and perhaps even murder; in other words, it seems that in general he was not a victim, but a cruel villain, albeit one treated more harshly than appropriate. If this is the case (and most data I gathered point to this direction), then I find inappropriate to change the spirit of the story so drastically. It is one thing to make some minor, artistic alteration to a story so that it is more sellable and watchable; and it is another to take a story and turn it upside down, so that the good guys become bad, and vice versa... "},{"Title":"Excellent Film","Date":"20 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I saw this movie some years ago and just watched it again on HBO. After seeing it again I wanted to look and see if Kevin Bacon was ever nominated or won an academy award for his portrayal in this film. To my astonishment, he wasn't. The film portrays corruption on all levels of our penal system. I am definitely not against our penal system, but this film shows how power can corrupt. This is a powerful and heart wrenching movie. This movie like so few others allows you to get to know the characters and to genuinely care about them and what happens to them.This film was excellent and Kevin Bacon's acting was at it's finest. What a shame he wasn't nominated as Best Actor. I have seen Kevin Bacon in other independent films and he is definitely a first class actor.I am looking forward to seeing him in The Woodsman. "},{"Title":"Powerful Prison Drama;","Date":"18 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is a remarkable piece of Hollywood film-making, one of the best big studio efforts of the 90's and it was so poorly marketed that few have seen &#150; or heard of &#150; this picture.The too often (and sometimes easily) dismissed Kevin Bacon is here Henri Young, a role as powerfully haunting as any actor could dream of. With an uncannily natural affinity for Henri, Bacon finds his way into the marrow of this tortured, downtrodden prisoner. In what could have too easily turned into a over-the-top Look, Ma, I'm acting! role, Bacon strikes a balance that is unique and rare. Unafraid of any aspect of Henri it becomes a performance nothing less than astonishing in its honesty.The first 20 minutes presents us with the naked, filthy animal the system wishes to portray him as Henri. Yet, even here, with little more than a mad scene comprised of grunts, screams and incoherent mumblings about baseball, multiplication tables and The Lord's Prayer, Bacon makes Henri shine beneath the hair and grime introducing us to a pitiable sorrowful man not only wronged by the system, but utterly destroyed then forgotten by it. This is one of those rare performances where the work outshines the actor &#150; I'd forgotten entirely I was even watching an actor. It's a hard heart that will not be moved by Henri and Bacon should look back at this performance with nothing but pride. (The fact he was not nominated for an Oscar is astonishing as his performance.)Christian Slater gives one of his best performances as well and Gary Oldman is, (predictably) wonderfully evil as is William H. Macy. The court room scenes fairly crackle, but ultimately the heart and soul of this movie is found in Kevin Bacon's Henri. Everything else about this production shines &#150; with 30 year old director, Marc Rocco at the helm, giving a strong vision to the entire proceeding. San Francisco looks marvelous and Christopher Young's soundtrack (eerily foreshadowing Kamen's score for Band of Brothers) adds the final overwhelming touch.Not to be missed. "},{"Title":"An unbelievable great story and well made! A must see!!!","Date":"4 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Kevin Bacons best performance ever ... he should have gotten an Oscar! Not to mention the best damn prison movie ever made! It's intense and the director Marc Rocco is a genius! What an amazing story portraying what humanity is capable of! The opening scene will blow you away and the ending will latch on to your heartstrings and never let go!!! Society must not forget the message this movie so beautifully delivers! It will touch every emotion you have. The acting, the direction and story are one in a million! The court scenes are masterfully done and Christian Slater was beyond believable and great. Gary Oldman was fantastic! WORTH EVERY PENNY! I highly recommend this film to everyone. Great job to Marc Rocco and his crew of Christian Slater, Kevin Bacon, Gary Oldman, Embeth Davidtz, William H. Macy, Stephen Tobolowsky, Brad Dourif, R. Lee Ermey!!! WOW!!! "}{"Title":"Gary Oldman and Kevin Bacon- brilliant!!!","Date":"20 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I love this film. So powerful and dramatic!!!Although Im curious to know why Christian Slater was put in the film. He was okay, I guess but he has done better!!I saw Kevin Bacon in a whole new light after this film. You end up warming up to this character and liking him a lot. A guy turned insane by savaged by Milton Glenn (Oldman) and being placed in a hole for years, whilst the maximum penalty should have been 19 days!!! Bacon showed off the character as a little boy in a man's body and he pulled it off gracefully!!As for Gary Oldman, can this guy do no wrong in his acting!! He was so creepy in the film! Beating up a prisoner and still keeping the law-abiding front. These kind of roles are what Oldman was made for.I give this film a 8/10  "},{"Title":"Great Story, Great Acting","Date":"9 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I've watched this one a couple or times.  Always impressed with the acting of the two principle players, Kevin Bacon and Christian Slater. Bacon played the part of the incarcerated bad guy with Slater acting the part of an attorney trying to find justice.  The story is about a loaf of bread that bought a teen a life term in a federal prison.  Justice? Not in that day and time.  The brutality of the prison system is revealed, but the system is set against any compassion and understanding.  As the story unfolds there is no question that the Bacon character is not guilty of what he was accused, but to hell with that says the justice department, we're going to make an example of him and be brutal to him in the process.  The American legal system is for sell to the highest bidder and if you are in a federal court, expect the federal judge to side with the federal attorney regardless of the evidence.  A movie definitely worth watching.  "},{"Title":"Kevin Bacon's finest performance...ever","Date":"5 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film moved me from the start to the finish.  It really is Kevin Bacons finest performance.  He put so much emotion into the character that it was very hard not to empathise with him.  The fact that his character is based on a real guy is even more amazing...I think.There really isn't much to say on this film except if you haven't already seen it, watch it.  You'll be moved to tears, no matter how tough you think you are!!! "},{"Title":"Quite probably Kevin Bacon's best film","Date":"26 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Complete with showing us a cinema with Frank Capra's film `Meet John Doe' (1941) so that there be no doubt as to the time-setting, `Murder in the First' is inspired by true events, which is not necessarily the same as `based on true events'. Thus certain discrepancies have to be allowed for under the poetic licence law. If I must compare with other films using Alcatraz as a scenario, I think it fair to say that this film comes out pretty well. Mostly because of the lead actors. If Christian Slater is good, Kevin Bacon is even better.Being rather adverse to labelling anyone as my favourite this, that or the other, I tend to appreciate an actor's job film by film. In this one Kevin Bacon has carried out what for me is his best interpretation to date. Neither in his acceptable part as Captain Jack Ross in the very good film `A Few Good Men' nor in `Sleepers', three years before and one year later than `Murder in the First' respectively, did he show me much in the way of being able to pull off such a demanding rôle as that carried out in this film. At times I found myself comparing with the magnificent parts played by Edward Norton in `Primal Fear' (one of the extremely rare opportunities of seeing Richard Gere actually having to work to interpret his rôle) and Sean Penn in `Dead Man Walking'.But, apart from these mentioned films, Kevin Bacon merely passes me by unobtrusively and inconspicuously. And so as to continue being fair, I will add that in this film he surpasses himself and makes this a film to see again.Christopher Young's original music was not most of the time it seemed to be heavily inspired by fragments of Verdi and Puccini, with a few fleeting flutters around Vaughan-Williams Fantasia on a Theme by Thomas Tallis. Well orchestrated though, and did not interfere with the proceedings, though it only barely scraped by without being plagiary.  "},{"Title":"A 'must see' for the acting performances of Bacon & Oldman","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Kevin Bacon produces a most mature acting performance, using extraordinary facial expressions - although much of this is owed to the makeup artist - to produce sympathy for his character. Gary Oldman, as usual, produces a stunning performance as the Prison Governor. Watch out for the wonderful use of camera shots in the court cell; the camera moves THROUGH walls, ceilings and (how did they do it???) through the bars of the cell - all in one slow shot.Excellent film all round. "},{"Title":"Kevin Bacon's proformance is what MAKES THIS MOVIE!!!","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Although, the performance of the other actors in Murder In the First were okay, anyone who's seen this movie will have to agree that Kevin Bacon's performance is what really makes this movie! Bacon portrays the character of 'Henri Young' so well that it becomes difficult to watch the film more than a couple of times, I found; and I love to watch 'good' films over and over. You are just so drawn to the feelings of and what this young man went through, most of which, weren't really his fault or responsibility.  After watching this film just a couple of times I so deeply felt 'Henri's pain', I haven't been able to watch it again.  It's a 'good' actor that can make you feel this way about the character they're protraying. I am not going to contend that I am much of an afficianado of Kevin Bacon's films; I've only seen a merely handful, but this by far is his best, as far as I'm concern.    One of the other review comments suggests that Bacon is what makes this movie and 'holds it together' and I have to admit 'totally agreement' with that;  he does! Without his portrayal of 'Henri Young', I don't think this film would of even made it to the video market! "},{"Title":"Bacon is outstanding!","Date":"14 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is Kevin Bacon's finest performance. A very underrated actor. The movie's failings, I believe, belong to Christian Slater. He is simply terrible. His character would have been better served with a more understated reading, but Slater blows over the top with overacting, too much talking, and inappropriate responses to other characters and situations. He ended up simply being a distraction. I'm not sure if he was trying to one-up Bacon, or not. If so, it was up to the Director to take control.The movie's climax in the courtroom was completely bungled. There was supposed to be this gotcha moment when Slater is questioning the warden, and the whole scene disintegrated. I was left wondering what that was all about. The admission that he forced from the warden didn't really amount to all that much. I couldn't see that the line of questioning, or the answers would have made much of a difference in a real proceeding of this nature. The supposed big climax didn't amount to much, and seemed tacked on to provide the movie with a big ending. The movie is beautifully filmed, and looks authentic. Kevin Bacon's performance is just astonishing. He did a great job in this film. Gary Oldman was nearly equally good with his brutal, corrupt assistant warden. A visually stunning film, with an exceptional lead actor, but a film that could have been so much better. "},{"Title":"An excellent sleeper","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A petty criminal named Henry Young (Kevin Bacon) is sent to Alcatraz for stealing $5 from a general store/post office. After a failed escape attempt, his accomplice ratted him out, and he spends 3 years in solitary confinement, where he is tortured, beaten, even thrown down a flight of stairs. When he is released, his first instinct is to kill his accomplice.So Henry goes on trial for murder in the first degree, represented by a green attorney named James Stamphill (Christian Slater). With an unsupportive boss and amid uncooperative witnesses, he attempts to defend Henry while giving him a reason to live. What he must do is nothing short of taking on Alcatraz itself.A tense dramatic suspense thriller with extraordinary performances, Murder in the First deserved more attention than it received.R - for language and tense moments. Based on an actual case. "},{"Title":"Overlooked","Date":"8 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Kevin Bacon and Slater were overlooked in this seedy look into the darkness of men's souls.  This was probably due to the fact that it was compared to one of the all time greats in Shawshank.  Bacon however did an excellent job with the character and hooked me without being too over the top.  "},{"Title":"American Justice and Prison System in first half of 20th century","Date":"2 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  One of the best movies I have seen in a long time. Bacon is at his riveting best. The dialogue between Bacon and Slater is astounding and the story is brilliant. A must see movie which certainly gets a 10/10 "}{"Title":"one of my all time fav's","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I agree with previous comments about Slater playing not as developed character as the main character. But you know what? I find it quite correctly balanced nevertheless. I am giving this movie a 10 because it showed human torture as masterfully as a movie can. I am giving it 10 for focusing my attention on the main character and making this focus explosively intense. 10 for captivating till the last second, moving you like an express train without any OR or BUT. 10 for Bacon - one of the best actors alive today, period. This movie shocks and leaves a stamp on your emotions carried on after it's over. I am giving it a definite 10 because I cannot give 0 to some worthless movies made in the same town, the same year.If you like movies that explore human being in the extreme conditions, if you like to see people being pushed much further average limits, if you like seeing what is there close at the edge, which we all know about but never mention - see this movie, and see it at least twice.  "},{"Title":"Who's on First?","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  While based on a true story, one gets the feeling we are watching a very biased view of the case that generated prison reform.  Do not get me wrong, I agree with the intentions of the screenwriter, but the constant scenes of torture and depravity finally desensitize the viewer.  The director moves his camera with stomach churning finesse, as if he did not have enough confidence in the powerful script.This story definitely should have been told, but not this way.  What I felt afterword was sympathy for the subjects, but distance toward the filmmakers. The stunt casting of Sedgwick as a hooker was just conceited.The film has many violent scenes, unnaked sexual content (totally unnecessary), male nudity in torture scenes, and about thirty profanities. I give this a 7. "},{"Title":"Kevin Bacon is awesome, bad guy is a nazi characature","Date":"18 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The story line is great - and the conclusion is nice and realistic - not tragic nor happy.  The prison warden is a little too nazi-like, and the cruelty is a little overdone (hanging him up by his hands and slicing his achilles tendon -ewww, too harsh to watch).  However, Bacon's portrayal of a mentally abused prisoner is awesome - worth watching once. "},{"Title":"Moving story about a corrupt system","Date":"6 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  In this compelling drama Kevin Bacon portrays a petty thief who goes mad after spending 3 years in solitary confinement.  The scenes in which he is beaten and tortured are painfully real and Bacon's performance is riveting. Without a doubt the best work of his career. "},{"Title":"A really good movie!","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Like The Shawshank Redemption Murder in the First takes place in a prison in the past. Whereas The Shawshank Redemption started in the fifties Murder in the First starts in the very late thirties. Where The Shawshank Redemption only cared about the prison, Murder in the First is about the trial. Murder in the First is really well acted. Both Christian Slater and Gary Oldman does a very good job, but Kevin Bacon is superb. The story is based on real actions and is well written. Murder in the First really catches the viewer. Murder in the First is a very good movie and like few movies it is one everyone can enjoy. I voted 9/10. "},{"Title":"Left me enraged and touched","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is based on the true event that lead to the closing of the doors of Alcatraz forever.  Kevin Bacon plays a petty thief who is sent to the Rock because the Rock needs its cells occupied to maintain its reputation for being the best prison in the world.  Bacon and others attempt an escape and Bacon is thrown into solitary confinement,  beaten,  starved and hideously abused by the warden,  one of the most evil characters I have encountered in a movie.  Gary Oldman played the part so well that I was enraged.  In one angering scene,  he slashes Bacon's achilles tendons so that he can no longer walk.  Oh!!!  I was so upset!!!  I wanted to strangle that warden.  Bacon is put into solitary repeatedly,  and Oldman abuses him repeatedly.  The abuse in this movie is so brutal (need I stress that???) that some viewers may have a difficult time dealing with it.  When Bacon is released from solitary for the umpteenth time,  he joins the living at chow time and in a sudden,  insane rage,  plunges a spoon into the throat of a fellow inmate,  one who had foiled an escape attempt by ratting on him.  Christian Slater plays a fresh out of lawschool attorney who takes the case,  learns from Bacon of the abuse,  and decides to defend him in court.  This movie is a good courtroom drama and Bacon's performance was so wonderful that I can't believe he wasn't at least Oscar nominated.  I give it ***1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"3 years of solitary confinement for $5.  Justice in the light of those who are not interested in it.","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Murder in the First is a movie of undefined genre in my view.  The successful combination of a tilting drama and a somewhat-protest movie -- a cry for protection -- attaches the idea and acting of the film to the relationships and dialogs, which are meaningful, brilliantly acted and convincing to the basis.The timing of the process in the film is appropriate from the aspect of historical expectations -- crimes against humanity -- at the aperture of World War II.  Penitentiary institutions -- or how severely can we punish felons -- is a question of honor in this film.  A criminal -- once caught -- is no longer a human.  But after he attempts to escape from Alcatraz -- his rights ARE BEING REVOKED.  Of his last rights -- to remain a human, to wear clothes, to breath air, to walk -- he is deprived.  Degrading as a human in a prison -- to become a col-blooded murderer, after being sent to Alcatraz on behalf of stealing $5 for food.  3 years in solitary confinement -- indeed, how would one remain human in such conditions is to be asked.  And justice does not prevail in this film, only partial satisfaction may the spectator enjoy.The polarization the entire -- corrupted -- system against Justice is the focus of the film.  The drama, dialogues, friendship -- which was never experienced by an inmate -- on one side.  The sadism, inhumanity, rage, injustice of an entire system and its representatives -- on the other.A brilliant structure of a fight for justice in an unjust system is demonstrated in this excellent film.  Providing every spectator with something to think of, some parallels to make, some lessons to learn.  A modern ISSUE until today -- and the MOVIE is the proof that it is so.  In fact a challenge of democracy -- and those who can overtake the power in one.Democracy can be most easily abused.  This is true until our days.  The only hope we can bear is that the right people have the power.  This film shows that it is almost never so. "},{"Title":"Kevin Bacon is riveting","Date":"4 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Kevin Bacon is riveting in his role as a prisoner made to suffer the mental anguish of solitary confinement.  His portrayal is not only outstanding, it is emotionally draining.  I rate this as a must see movie and an example of an excellent actor's ability to truly develop a character. I give this an 8/10. "},{"Title":"An overall good movie","Date":"26 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Murder in the First is a very  entertaining, but somewhat  self-moralizing, movie with excellent  cinematography that was shot on location  at Alcatraz Island.  Kevin Bacon turns in  an immensely special performance as a  wrongfully accused convict who is drove  insane  by the Assoc. Warden and his brutality.  I  have visited Alcatraz many times, so it  is very special to see it on screen.   However, I am unsure as to the accuracy of  the movie, as many of park rangers say the  movie may have extended the truth a bit.  A rating 8 out of 10 was given. "},{"Title":"Praise and commendation for a marvelous film","Date":"12 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Murder in The First is a powerhouse film about The life of Henri Young and the downfall of Alcatraz.  It contains some of the best performances I've seen from Kevin Bacon and Christian Slater.Gary Oldman is, as always, superb in his role as the Assoc. Warden.  Nice cameo as well by Kyra Sedgwick, Kevin Bacon's real life wife.  Among other notable performances, William H. Macy as the Prosecuting attorney is particularly effective.I would recommend this film to anyone interested in making sure future miscarriages of justice such as this one are averted.  This was a great film.  Five Stars.   "}{"Title":"It's excellent. It moved me, the unmovable.","Date":"2 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Murder in the First is my favorite drama.  It was the first and only movie I have ever cried at.  I just felt so sorry for Kevin Bacon's character, and I absolutely hated anyone in the Alcatrez system.  It blew my mind when I started to cry.  It blew my mind even more when I couldn't quit crying.  I never thought that I would cry at any movie, but I balled at Murder in the First. "},{"Title":"Top notch performances, scary story...a triumph!","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The first few minutes of this film are harrowing and deeply disturbing. Young children should not be allowed in the room. The court room scenes are entertaining if a bit unbelievable but all the performances, Bacon, Slater and Oldman are spectacular and worth watching. This film and IN THE NAME OF THE FATHER are in my opinion the two best prison films to date regarding inhumanity directed toward those society often deems beyond redemption.  Follow this story to its conclusion...its a triumph ....but often difficult to endure at times!  "},{"Title":"A hell of a good movie","Date":"21 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Guys, if you haven't seen this movie, you don't know what you're missing. This film, is one of my favorites, the three main characters are amazing. Gary Oldman is one of the new-great villains. And Kevin Bacon is in his best acting of all.  "},{"Title":"a gem worth watching over and over again","Date":"6 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Although this movie received dismal box office returns, it's a gem that's once discovered, would leave you breathless (as Jeanne Wolf described) Despite negative reviews that this is a lightweight prison movie, I beg to differ in my opinion. The cinematography is wonderful and the movie had a great cast who had given exceptional performances, most noted is Kevin Bacon's tortured Henri Young. Christian Slater also displays his most matured performance to date. Anyone who watches this will feel themselves being swept away by the high running emotions in this excellent movie!  "},{"Title":"Lights, camera, and story...","Date":"18 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Dealing with a serious, historical drama, Murder in the First is a film worth seeing.  The cinemeatography is wonderful, using a variety of abstract camera angles and views from other people, and sometimes other objects, in the scene (an amazing example in particular is a shot set at a 90 degree angle from inside the solitary cell, conveying the chaotic sense of displacement after being locked in darkness for over three years). And if lighting is something to see, this film recreates the genre set in the 40's in its Slater scenes, and envelopes the audience into the dark, torturing dungeons of the Bacon scenes. Creating a double narrative between Slater's and Bacon's character helps place the audience in the seats of the jury. A wonderful film in its own, but an even more dramatic work when appreciated. "},{"Title":"Worth Watching","Date":"6 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Kevin Bacon is the main reason to watch this frightening movie about the mental condition of a prisoner in Alcatraz. Bacon puts on a performance that gives a chill to every movie watcher as an abused convict. One of his best performances in my opinion.  On the other hand, Christian Slater as a good willed attorney is faded and undeveloped. Still Bacon is as good as it gets, and it saves this movie. I find it hard to believe that most actor could do as good a job as he did. Bacon is the reason I give this 8/10. "},{"Title":"Not a true story","Date":"11 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The only factual part of this movie is Henry's name, and that is not completely accurate. In the movie Henry's name is spelled Henri. In reality, his name is spelled Henry. When I rent a movie that is supposed to be based on a true story, I expect it to be reasonably close to the actual events. A simple internet search reveals the actual Henry Young was a murderer and bank robber before he ever saw the inside of Alcatraz. The facts state he may still be alive today. The actual solitary confinement cell he was in looks nothing like the cell showed in the movie. This movie is fiction, not remotely based on any the actual story of Henry Young. It's obvious. This movie was made for the purpose of swaying public opinion regarding the treatment of prisoners. I'm not trying to say prisoner abuse does not exist. I'm sure it does. But when a movie completely fabricates the True Story of an individual, as is the case in this movie, I go the other way. If the movie had been made as a fiction, which it is, I would have felt the exact opposite. As a stand-alone fiction it is a good story, but this True Story is nothing but a crock. Hollywood, please leave your politics at home. Most of us are very capable of deciding our political viewpoints on our own. Anyone who bases their views on political activists, standing on their very public soapbox, needs to get an education. That's the last Mark Rocco directed or Dan Gordon written movie I'll ever watch. "},{"Title":"Awful -- Not a Spoiler, the script  is the 'Spoiler.'","Date":"24 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I well knew the ambitious lawyer, as assigned by the screenwriter, and his story is not the story of the closing of Alcatraz, as entertained in Mr. Gordon's piece of palaver. James Martin MacInnis, Golden Gloves boxer and perhaps the finest legal mind of the twentieth century, closed Alcatraz NOT based upon the testimony or treatment of a 'scumbag' prisoner BUT because (and this is the greater story) Alcatraz was exacting cruel and inhuman punishment from its prisoners....What COULD the administration of Alcatraz, of ALL Federal prisons under this Warden (who was thrown out) been doing? Hmmmmmm!As a matter of FACT, I had a screenplay that was being considered for filming when this abomination hit the screens in 1995. Perhaps if Mr. Gordon performed this work called writing and research, he might have had a good screenplay, but this thing should be burned. As Gregor MacInnis, the son of the ambitious lawyer put it best This garbage makes me cry. This was the WORST screenplay, with the most cavalier spreading of FACTS I have ever had the rare opportunity to sit through; I continue to be awed by its very ignorance.If Mr. Gordon had exercised that prerogative of a writer, called research, he might have ended up with a real story. "},{"Title":"Brilliant!","Date":"5 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Although I've never heard of this movie until tonight, I was in awe at the stellar performances by both Christian Slater & mostly, Kevin Bacon. Although this movie ends on somewhat of a down-note, you can't help but be moved by this film. The story is inspired by a true story, but fabricated or not.. You really feel like Kevin Bacon's character was very real.. Not only in Alcatraz but in prisons throughout the world. This film has some disturbing scenes, so if you are easily upset, don't watch this. I couldn't help but feel personally involved with this film and I'm sure there are a lot of people who also have. Great story polished off by great performances by Bacon & Slater. 10/10 "},{"Title":"A FANTASTIC PERFORMANCE BY MR. BACON","Date":"4 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Though I do admit I am already a huge fan of Mr. Kevin Bacon, I must say that this is probably his greatest performance to date. His portrayal of the pain felt by Mr. Young is more than just convincing. He takes the viewer on a journey with Henri Young. His performance is so intense that the viewer cannot help but share Young's torture and subsequent insanity in a way that is hard to compare with other actors. Indeed, Mr. Bacon demonstrates his incredible acting ability and understanding of his art. Clearly, no other actor could lend such realism to the part as he does. Such a role as that of Mr. Young is one that is not easy for even the best actors. Yet Kevin Bacon makes it look easy. While I cannot say he will never out do the job he does in this film, I can say it will be difficult to out do this performance. I hope to see more work in the future from Mr. Bacon, and I shall surely never forget this performance. Good job Mr. Bacon and thank you!  "}{"Title":"Superb","Date":"13 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I am quite surprised that this movie isn't in the top 250 when it ranks (for me) up with The Shawshank Redemption in movie faves, Shawshank being my absolute favourite.Albeit I have a certain affinity to prison and law dramas...   but Kevin Bacon and Gary Oldman make this movie.  Christian Slater plays a somewhat bold on the inside rookie lawyer fairly well, and unfortunately some of his dialogue, as well as the judge's (name escapes me) serves to possibly weaken the movie.Bacon's performance is absolutely awe-inspiring.  His talent as a true artist is shown in this movie; Young is without question a difficult character to portray and he does it brilliantly.  Oldman's performance also illustrates his versatility.  His portrayal of a sadistic warden is flawless.Overall the movie is quite emotional, which is its purpose.  Not much more.  The story is told with few plot holes (I have yet to see a movie free of them) and it flows fairly nicely.Not quite the epic of Shawshank, but a beautiful movie nonetheless.  A solid 3.5 Stars, if not 4. "},{"Title":"True story?","Date":"18 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie without knowledge of the true story behind it.  At first I thought this was a great film with great performances by all.  However I came across some errors pointed out by a security guard who worked there when all this was going on.  The main character was not falsely accused of robbery, according to the security guard he committed armed robbery and murdered the store clerk.  After learning this I don't know what to believe since I haven't had the time to do real research on this topic looking at both sides of the story in detail.  After all the credits say inspired by a true story, meaning don't take it all for the truth.  "},{"Title":"Chilling. Griping drama. Alcatraz comes tumbling down.","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Two actors at their very best. A fact-based story that led to the demise of the much feared Alcatraz Prison. Kevin Bacon's touching performance is the focus of this drama about a youth , whose cruel imprisonment in the 1930s comes to the attention of a steadfast young attorney(Christian Slater). This movie leaves the viewer drained of emotions, but with spirited awareness. You find yourself trying to help the pathetic, battered prisoner. Also in the cast are Gary Oldman, William H. Macy and Kyra Sedgwick. You may scar a man behind cold bars, but you won't totally destroy his dreams. "},{"Title":"did we all see the same movie?","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I have been an IMDb user since sometime in 1995 or 1996 and was honestly amazed when I happened to look up the entry for one of my all-time favorites and must-see ebb and flow cinematography.  I have not read all of the user comments about Murder in the First- and I will- but would like to contribute the following-Kevin Bacon awesome performance.  Enough said.-William H. Macy great to see him do something that doesn't seem like it's out of David Mamet piece.-Gary Oldman Wonderfully scary performance of an individual caught in the dichotomy of an authority figure caught in a state of sedition against himself. The smashing of the mirror when he cut himself shaving was a very strong statement (in the way that it was done).-Christian Slater Any first year practicers of law out there?  I know I am not, but if I had a go at it, I would leverage the theatrical to make my point.  I believe Slater's acting was spot-on for his character.However- the one thing that amazed me about this film- and the reason I own it and watch it again and again- is the cinematography. Now- I have never been on a set, nor even operated a camera- but it appears to me that the majority of shots are done using a steadicam.  Remember the shot when Slater & Bacon are meeting in the jail cell for the first time?  The camera starts with a long shot and then- it doesn't zoom- but moves inward, eventually passing through the cell bars and into the laps, conversations and minds of the characters. However- sometimes the camera work is done so elegantly, normal viewers don't even notice it and instead are drawn in to the story or repulsed by the events taking place. This approach- if I have my history correct- was taken at a time when the shaky-cam approach of NYPD Blue and music videos had been in vogue for some time. Though I don't watch nearly enough TV to verify that and come up with some samples, I would wager that a survey would show some evidence of a trend.Just my $.02-yaskota "},{"Title":"Solidly entertaining &#150; Bacon is best (mild spoilers)","Date":"14 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Alcatraz inmate Henri Young is put into solitary for 3 years for trying to escape his cell.  When he is finally released into general prison population he snaps and kills another prisoner.  Young lawyer James Stamphill takes his case and finds a history of cruelty and suffering.  He turns the case on it's head by accusing Alcatraz of turning Henri into a weapon by repeated mistreatment and brutality.This is in essence a true story &#150; although many liberties have been taken, without loosing the point of the film.  The point of the story is that prison should not be a cruel place &#150; and perhaps should be focused on rehabilitation rather than punishment.  However the story isn't just a message &#150; but is a really quite good court room thriller as well.  The story doesn't go anywhere shocking but it is solid enough to be entertaining.However what really makes this is the cast.  Bacon is excellent in a difficult role where he is both dangerous, but very scared as well.  Slater is not as good because his character is straight off the shelf and not very interesting  The rest of the cast is made up of good faces and add to the film &#150; Ermey, Macy, Tobolowsky, Douriff and a menacing Oldman.This may not be earth shattering, but it is very interesting and is good enough to be entertaining throughout &#150; even the rather downbeat ending is taken as a victory of shorts in this retelling. "},{"Title":"Bacon in the first.","Date":"24 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Kevin Bacon is very convincing,because of his sparing of gestures and words.His performance recalls  Nicolas Cage's Birdy.His state of prostration is so true that the spectator deeply feels for him.The topic is not newthe chastised innocent (innocent because they got a raw deal,and it's society which caused their behavior)   was already in Mervyn LeRoy's classic I'm a fugitive from a chain gang(1932) with Paul Muni and of course Birdman of Alcatraz with an exceptional Lancaster.Bacon stands comparison with the two great actors,that means a lot.I would be more reserved for the production and directing.The music is intrusive and syrupy;Almost each time Bacon delivers a moving line,be sure to hear a gigantic string section.Jazz music,a la Robert Wise would have fit the bill quite well(remember I want to live!(1958)),or else,no music at all.Rocco's style is grandiloquent and bombasticat the beginning,Bacon resembles the Christ,then he uses too much of slow motion,distorted soundtrack,mainly in the first part.But the biggest flaw is Slater, a hollow actor who tries to steal the show with his young-lawyer-who-cannot-loose,and hams all along the trial. The least we can say is that he does not renew this kind of part. Thanks to Bacon,and almost Bacon alone,this movie should be seen. "},{"Title":"Another evidence about the injustice in Alcatraz Prison.","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The convict Henry Young (Kevin Bacon) was severely beaten and put in isolation for long after his failure to evade the prison, but when back to his cell he killed another convict with a spoon.  Hopefully a young lawyer (Christian Slater) defending the cause of Young made publicly all abuses in Alcatraz and how this site was more a factory of killers instead of a place for reforming guilty people. The film clearly showed how the convicts were mistreated by the guards and even the tortures practised by Associate Warden Milton Glenn (Gary Oldman). The film is good in its content, Bacon played the role of Henry Young masterfully, but the work of the camera in this film makes it difficult to watch.   "},{"Title":"Kevin Bacon's best role?","Date":"31 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Murder in the first is a cruel, touching and tragic film that is based on a true story. Unfortunately, in the field of prison/court house movies it brings nothing new to subject. Luckily that doesn't necessarily make it a bad film. Christian Slater, as well as Gary Oldman plays the usual, routine parts you expect from them.Slater is a qualified young man and Oldman (unsurprisingly) an evil b*****d story obviously needs. Kevin Bacon is what makes this a special movie. His role as a violated prisoner is simply magnificent, one of the best (if not the best) performance of his career and a reason enough to watch this flick. "},{"Title":"Pure Fiction Tugs at Heart Strings and Wallets","Date":"4 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I was impressed with the incredible acting performance by Kevin Bacon in this fictional film. His haunting portrayal of a tormented character named Henri Young was outstanding. I give him credit for solid character development and an engaging emotional bond that he establishes with the audience through this character. More incredible, though, is that so many people will come away from watching this film thinking - as I did - that a horrible atrocity was committed against poor, innocent Henri Young. While doing research on Alcatraz Island and its famous inmates, I discovered to my embarrassment that Murder In The First actually more accurately refers to what the writers and producers did to the actual story of the real inmate Henri Young. I assumed that the film was a credible source of truth and that the producers took it upon themselves to reveal a corrupt prison system. Having taught and spent time with prison inmates, including death row inmates in San Quentin, I can tell you that the last people you ought to give credence to are the animals that prowl behind those walls. Take the time and do some research about Mr. Young. You'll gain a real education about how the Hollywood film industry has duped the public with this pathetically twisted tale...and who the real cons are. "},{"Title":"Too much Hollywood hype","Date":"22 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" It is too bad that Hollywood has to immortalize an infamous individual who was not accurately depicted in the movie Murder in the first. Henry (not actually spelled Henri) Young was not innocent as the movie would have you perceive and the rock (Alcatraz) was not unlike any other federal or state institution of the time. Kevin Bacon is a fine actor, it is just too bad that the truth could not be told about the trial and incarceration of Henry Young. Henry Young was never committed to Alcatraz for a petty crime of theft, it was a federal crime of kidnapping when he and a couple of cohorts stole a taxi and kidnapped the owner. That is one of the many reasons why Henry was sent to Alcatraz. The movie also does not truly depict the reason Henry began his life as a petty thief. He was working at the time and his younger sister and he were not destitute as the movie would have you believe. The producers should have done their homework before writing the script, truth is actually stranger than fiction and they may have come up with a more believable story. Since Henry is my uncle, (he has never been located since he walked away from parole in 1970) my family knowledge permits me to comment on the editorial license that the producers took in fabricating their story. "}{"Title":"Badly handled in the publicity department","Date":"5 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" We're all used to the fact that the studios save the films they haveOscar hopes for until late in the year. I remember seeing this at the very beginning of 1995 and when I saw Kevin Bacon's brilliant performance, I couldn't believe that this film was not given better publicity and an end of the year release. 49 other people have already commented on how good Kevin Bacon was and there's nothing I can add there. I'm gratified he got the awards and nominations he did get.But Kevin if you're reading this, YOU WUZ ROBBED as far as the Academy Awards are concerned. "},{"Title":"Not what I expected at all. Disappointing","Date":"2 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I had been meaning to watch this film for quite some time, partly down to the reccomendation of others, and partly because I knew of the story and it really interested me. I had SUCH high hopes for this movie. I love courtroom dramas, Alcatraz has always fascinated me, and it also stars the ever incredible talent that is Oldman, and another top notch performer, Kevin Bacon! So what went wrong?!!!What I was subjected to was a boring, drawn out, pretentious, cliched movie carried along by one excellent performance (Oldman) and one not bad performance (Bacon). I was so disappointed. I guess it could be because I built my hopes up, but to be honest I don't think so. I thought Christian Slater was as abismal as ever, I didn't find him convincing at all from start to finish, I wasn't rooting for him, I wanted him to fail. One of my favourite parts in the film was him getting a beating!Sure, the film had its highlights Gary Oldman at his wicked best almost a rival to Shawshank Redemptions Warden Norton, Brad Dourif performance as Slater's brother was great, and there's a great cameo by Bacons wife Kyra Sedgwick and I admit it was at times quite touching, shocking and emotive. BUT! And this is a big BUT. The low points outweighed the high by a long way.This movie is soooooo self satisfied and manipulative. I hate it when a movie is pushing to side with one person, when a movie is trying to TELL you how to feel. Movies should leave the viewer to decide for themselves. This doesn't, it is incredibly manipulative. Oh and another thing that annoyed me was Rocco's camera work. I think he has definately used up his moving camera shots allowance for the next few decades! Jeez, I was getting dizzy!So all in all DISAPPOINTING! I would give this movie a distinctly average 5/10 "},{"Title":"Rocco couldn't bring home the Bacon.","Date":"23 November 2004","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" A prime case of a brilliant performance (Bacon) usurped by incoherently kinetic direction. Rocco's incessantly moving camera, with almost no motivation in it's moves, does nothing to support one of the finest performances of 1995. This should have been a great film. Bacon, (akin to Jeff Bridges and Steve Buscemi, two other journeymen actors who never get their appropriate praises), is so good here that even Rocco can't completely obscure it.Take for example Bacon's tour de force scene in a prison cage, describing his years of torment. Rocco, so pleased with his dolly-mounted camera, spins endlessly around the cage, totally disregarding Bacon's bravura shoulda-been Oscar moment.Bacon keeps plugging away and one day he'll have his statue. Such a shame Rocco robbed him of one for this fault-ridden film. "},{"Title":"Good Story But Too Tough To Watch Again","Date":"1 November 2006","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I can take about anything in films, even blood-and-guts (you can see that on television in the CSI shows) but torture is another thing. This movie was tough to watch because of the terrible treatment given to a prisoner, played well in here by Kevin Bacon.It's an interesting story, and well performed and told, but so unpleasant to see in a number of spots that I wouldn't watch it again. Some of it was really disgusting. I am also getting tired of Liberal filmmakers making the prison warden a brutally sadistic person. That has become such a film cliché. Libs just hate any authority figure. They also hate the facts, according to jorge's review here, which I believe. "},{"Title":"Based on facts ??????","Date":"21 August 2004","Score":"10 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  If you want to see a historical movie about Alcatraz, don't watch this one. THE FACTS There was a Henry Young and there was a Rufus McCain. Henry (Henri is an alias) Young was a bank robber and murderer (he confessed to the 1935 murder of a baker in 1943). Henry Young spent a very short time in isolation (about the same as other troublemakers). There were 3 (not 2) others in the breakout attempt. Arthur Doc Barker was the only escapee killed. Dale Stamphill and Rufus Franklin were the other two escapees. Rufus Franklin stabbed Henry Young in the back in 1945, Young recovered and was transfered to Springfield MI federal prison in 1948. In 1954 Henry Young was sent to Washington State Prison to serve time for the murder of the baker. Henry Young was released (on Parole) from Washington State Prison in 1972 (he did not die on Alcatraz)This movie is good as a story but Michael I wouldn't know the truth if it kicked me Moore could have come closer to the truth on this one.  "},{"Title":"Masterfully contrived prevarications","Date":"2 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Just about every factual detail of this film is a complete lie, right down to the spelling of Henry Young's name (Henri was an alias of this habitual bank robber and murderer). The whole film is just a high-handed defamation of the U.S. penal system, which did not warrant any such besmirching. I'm surprised that R. Lee Ermey was a part of this film. He probably regrets it by now. The real Henri Young jumped parole in 1972, was last seen in Washington State, and may still be alive and at large today with at least two known homicides to his credit. He was not a non-violent offender at the time he came to Alcatraz, he was serving a sentence for murder and bank robbery! He did not spend 3 years or even three months in solitary after the escape attempt, and murdered McCain over a year after rejoining the general prison population. His solitary time was done in a normal holding cell in the main cell block, with normal lighting, exercise, medical attention, and food supplies throughout the entire period. DO NOT GET YOUR HISTORY FROM Hollywood! They spin sentimentalist lies at every possible opportunity. Check out the facts on Birdman of Alcatraz and Awakenings for two more infamous pack of lies. "},{"Title":"Excellent drama rendered unwatchable","Date":"25 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This film would rate a solid 7 or 8 if not for the direction. The camera is in constant motion, and I don't mean simple pans or tracking shots. I mean every scene is like standing on the bridge of a ship tossed on 30 foot waves.The director seems determined to add his spin to the somewhat static prison brutality - courtroom drama film. And boy do I mean spin !! The viewer will literally get dizzy trying to follow the actors as the camera swoops and 360s around a scene. I had to close my eyes and listen to the final courtroom scenes as my head was swimming.At least Ed Wood had the skill and common sense to set the camera on solid ground while directing his actors to kick over the cardboard tombstones. "},{"Title":"Let down by story structure","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The tagline tells us this is the story of the trial that closed down Alcatraz, and the first twenty minutes of Dan Gordon's screenplay tell us precisely why Henri Young (Kevin Bacon) was illegally kept in solitary confinement for over three years, and during that time was regularly brutalized by the prison warden (Gary Oldman).  Consequently, the story of how his lawyer, James Stamphill (Christian Slater), discovers and proves these events is drained of most of its excitement &#150; we know exactly where it's heading, and what the final outcome will be when it gets there.  It might have been more engaging if the audience, like Stamphill, was simply presented with an apparently deranged petty-thief-turned-murderer, and had to gradually uncover the institutionalized brutality which unhinged him (a structure more like 'A Few Good Men' where the dramatic revelation about what really happened is only made at the climax).  As it stands, this film is nicely put together but a little dull.  The characters are interesting, though, and the emerging friendship between Henri and his lawyer almost makes up for the predictability of the plot.  Slater and Oldman do well, as usual (though the script doesn't give either of them much scope), and Bacon delivers the most physically committed performance of his career - but it's still no Oscar winner. "},{"Title":"There can be only one","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Nobody plays a bad guy like Gary Oldman.  And I mean nobody.  De Niro can do it brilliantly although not often enough, but he can't match Oldman.This, however, was one of his less inspiring performances as the prison warden of Alcatraz, responsible for the beatings of prisoner Kevin Bacon.  He just didn't come across as believable.Christian Slater wasn't bad as the lawyer, but I am starting to feel that all Hollywood court case films are the same nowadays after I saw the nauseating performance by Matthew McConaughey in A Time To Kill.  Look at the cameras, try to look pretty and you'll get away with it.Dragged on, predictable finish, but harmless enough to get out on video on a Saturday night. "},{"Title":"A Dark Thriller","Date":"28 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"   Kevin Bacon(wild things) puts up an Oscar worthy performance as an abused occupant of The Alcatraz Prison. Christian Slater(true romance) also does well but is shadowed by Bacon and co star Gary Oldman(the scarlet letter). The story is chilling and dark and Bacon portrays his character to perfection. Brad Dourif(urban legend, child's play) also stars as another shady character trying to put a stop to the Slater/Bacon appeal. If there was one thing that the writers could have done to improve the story to appeal to a larger audience was, they could have made the story faster and smoother, to get rid of the inconsistency's. 'Murder In' is however, a great film with worthy performances by the whole cast. Rating=4/5 "}{"Title":"Bacon at his best","Date":"20 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Murder in the first is not the type of film you would take your new date out to see at the cinema, it is a dark and often Chilling movie.  that is not to say i didn't like it . I thought it was thoroughly entertaining , with Oldman playing his usual bad guy role and Kevin Bacon outacting Christian Slater. All in all a good movie that is not to be missed.  "},{"Title":"Alcatraz=Abu Ghraib","Date":"29 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Obviously, we can't tell how much of any historical movie is accurate. But what Murder in the First portrays will freeze the blood of any sane person, whether or not it's accurate. Henri Young (Kevin Bacon) is sent to Alcatraz for theft and put in solitary confinement. When he comes out, he has turned into a murderous lunatic. So, novice lawyer James Stamphill (Christian Slater) uses the incident to expose how cruel Alcatraz is. Naturally, warden Milton Glen (Gary Oldman) tries to deny everything, but he can't hide the facts.Another reviewer noted that this particular trial wasn't the one that actually brought down Alcatraz, despite the tag-line. But either way, Murder in the First shows the cruelty inherent in the prison system overall, right up to Abu Ghraib. All that you have to do is take a tour of Alcatraz - or any defunct prison - to see what it's like. "},{"Title":"Graphic brutality...","Date":"9 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I realize that the brutality is necessary to the story but it was much to much for me. I am sorry that I watched it. It made me sad and disturbed.If I want to be sad and disturbed I can just reach for today's newspaper and do not have to watch a video for two hours.  "},{"Title":"Another Hollywood Leftist, bleeding heart manifesto based on false history","Date":"2 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" If you like prison films, as I do, you would be attracted to the filming of this one in Alcatraz.That's the sole virtue of this film.The rest is an assemblage of Central Casting clichés about the Big House, the System, the supposedly semi-innocent ragamuffins wrongly branded criminals who inhabited Alcatraz.They depict Young as the victim of an economically unjust America who had to feed his sister by stealing a few bucks from a post office - grocery store. So he didn't really belong in Federal prison but for the technicality. But the briefest of web research reveals the was a killer and a bank robber. And a constant prison troublemaker, hence his assignment to Alcatraz.The film reeks of the theme We are really brutalizing decent people with our horrible prison system. They would flower as good human beings if we just sent a psychiatric social worker, or similarly minded public defender, as here, into each cell to uncover their horrible traumas from the wrongs heaped upon them.So we are treated to the Quasimodo-like catatonic subject being lured out of his foaming at the mouth animal state by a humanist Miracle Worker type, armed with a few baseball scores. Time to liberate all the criminally mentally ill with such simplistic therapy, you would think.If you weren't better informed.Check out the real biographies and theories behind the Hollywood lie machine and you will be better informed why it is going into the financial diaper pail now that it has to contend with a literate internet-informed fan base. "},{"Title":"Birdcam of Alcatraz","Date":"25 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Depression-era orphan Kevin Bacon (as Henri Young) is sent to the notoriously brutal island prison Alcatraz, after stealing five dollars to feed his little sister. Caught trying to escape, Mr. Bacon is severely beaten, then sent to the bowels of the penitentiary, where he is left in an isolated cell for three years. Bacon is let out for 30 minutes of exercise every Christmas. His only companion in The Hole is a spider. Released to the general prison population in 1941, Bacon is a psychologically damaged basket case. Hearing the name of the inmate who sent him to The Hole leads Bacon to kill the informant with a spoon. Then, Bacon is back on trial, for murder. Bacon's attorney is an idealistic 24-year-old Christian Slater (as James Jim Stamphill). At first, Mr. Slater finds it hard to communicate with his client, as Bacon is near catatonic. But, his desire for human companionship leads Bacon to reveal his rather innocent life story. Lawyer Slater learns of the abuse Bacon suffered at Alcatraz, and accuses the institution of murder.Inspired by a true story, Murder in the First features a crucifying performance by Bacon, with good balance from Slater, and fine support from prosecuting attorney William H. Macy (as William McNeil) and abusive warden Gary Oldman (as Milton Glenn). Bacon's real-life wife Kyra Sedgwick is a ho-hum hooker, but Stefan Gierasch's head warden is terrific. Marc Rocco directs Fred Murphy's cameras in an aimless, dizzying fashion - seeming to search for a point-of-view that is already painfully obvious.****** Murder in the First (1/20/95) Marc Rocco ~ Kevin Bacon, Christian Slater, William H. Macy, Gary Oldman "},{"Title":"Typical leftist Hollywood agenda","Date":"20 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The movie is absolutely fictional, and its creators should have said so. There was a prisoner in Alkatraz with the name of Henry Young, but he was servicing time for bank robbery. He was never tortured, and he did not commit suicide. He was released on parole and then disappeared. The movie is a typical leftist Hollywood propaganda that pursues a political agenda and has nothing to do with the truth. From the artistic point of view, the movie is full of stamps, trivial moves and disrespect to the viewers who are invited to believe in situations that could never happen in court or jail. The performance of Kevin Bacon is primitive. He basically mimics the great role of Charles Laughton in the The Hunchback of Notre Dame. It's a sad reality of today's America, when a movie like Murder in the first gets high scores from public. Did people stop thinking? "},{"Title":"Riveting I'd rather be","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I would take nothing away from Kevin Bacon for his performance or Gary Oldman but lets be honest these are bread and butter roles for these two. The reason this film deserves no more than a 5/10 is for the obvious reason that Christian Slater has delusions of adequacy in his chosen profession, acting. The director has St Vitus dance or manouvers his camera on the end of a piece of string but he deserved better than Slaters pitiful portrayal. The denouement,like in I am Sam where Michelle Pfeiffer's character feels she got more out of this relationship than Sam i.e she appreciates the value of her love for her own child and Sam's struggle, is ludicrously similar to Christian Slaters realisation that before meeting the character of Henry he never caught the tram on time,now, symbolic of Henry's struggle he chases that tram and Hallelujah! He can now catch the tram!! Slater's expression of the collosal achievement of the triumph of the human spirit over adversity,which he has been privy to, is to deliver a dictionary quote for victory--Definitely not Shawshank "},{"Title":"More Hollywood Lies","Date":"18 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This Film is Inspired by a True Story reads the opening card. I watched this film an was actually deeply affected by it, believing it was based in fact. Moved profoundly, I was left to ponder; man's inhumanity to man, the corruption of our penal system, the injustice of it all, how could this happen in America? etc. etc. I came here to post a glowing recommendation.Imagine my shock when I read the review here, titled; Based On Facts ??????, and then did a little research to confirm that this story is indeed, total fiction!!! True Story, my ass!Oh my God, manipulated by these Hollywood bastards again? Oliver Stone, Michael Moore, and now this. These elitists liars are just selling us Leftist propaganda, people. You really have to be full of hate to make up a story that makes your country look bad, and then peddle it as the truth to convince the masses that America is truly evil at the core. Why do they do it? How sad. "},{"Title":"This film is a steaming turd","Date":"5 February 2004","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Not only is this film manipulative, over the top and poorly acted (with the exceptions of Bacon and Oldman), but it is based on pure fiction.  The film claims to be based on the true story of Henry (or Henri) Young, but actually bears little to no resemblance with the real story.  The real Henri Young didn't steal $10 to feed his starving orphaned sister; the real Henri Young was a murderer even before he was sent to Alcatraz.  And the real Henri Young was never placed in solitary for three years either.  In fact, the only thing that is authentic about this awful movie is that it is as manipulative and conniving at the real Henri Young, and that is saying something.If you want to know the real story of Henri Young, check out the Alcatraz Historical Society website.  It has the disciplinary files of every prisoner ever incarcerated there.As someone who loves history every bit as much as good cinema, I am absolutely offended by this disingenuous shipwreck of a film.  "},{"Title":"Mistreatment in the first degree","Date":"19 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie comes closer to define mistreatment than even the best encyclopedia.The script or storyline is mondiane and unimaginative and if you feel you have seen it all before, so you have. 'Innocent' fighting the system - getting a bad rap - finally wins... or loses? You be the judge.The philosophical or social aspects of the relation between the severity of the crime and the punishment, the effect of environment or character, should have been treated with much more respect and more in depth. The movie is more focused on the young lawyers first case, bringing the stray thought that the intended audience is in fact lawyers ripe for some commercials.Of the few highlights are the costumes and settings and most of all the powerful judge who makes the most of the only wholesome role in the picture.To make up for the thin script (too numerous flaws to mention), the cameramen are doing their best to beef up the movie and doing quite well.(A minor glitch seen in blitzing flashes as the condemned is taken out, as no photography was allowed in the room, hence the shot of the sketching reporters).All in all the movie is mistreating the subject while not enough to put the crew behind bars, which would have served as good research. "}]