[{"Title":"previsible, but light and fun","Date":"30 May 2004","Score":"12 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Here's a film which is definitely outside the box for American audiences. French films are usually an acquired taste and this one is no exception. This is a delightful light comedy about a married couple whose life change upon the arrival of a butch lesbian to their lives. You don't have to be a genius to guess what's coming. Nevertheless, the movie is funny, it's done with great taste and sensibility, and even though the characters are not 100% belivable, they are not stereotypical. Victoria Abril is delicious, playing the wife whose disenchantment of the married life leads her to explore a lesbian affair. What I liked in particular about this comedy, is that sexual orientation never becomes the main issue in the movie, and it's really secondary to the human relationships that develop in this bizarre triangle. The script could have been a little less linear, but the characters are well developed and well played. Overall, French twist is a fun light comedy which probably wouldn't raise an eyebrow in Europe but will need a very open minded audience in the US. Unfortunately we're not ready yet.  "},{"Title":"A witty and observant comedy.","Date":"7 January 2001","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Loli, played by Victoria Abril, has given up a promising career as a dancer to  become the wife of a womanising estate agent; and though she knows of one woman he has had an affair with and has forgiven him, she knows nothing about any of the others - not even her own baby-sitter! No. Her main complaint against him is not his promiscuity but that he takes her for granted and shows her little affection. So, when a butch lesbian, played by Josiane Balasko, appears on the scene, stopping at the house to ask for water for her van's radiator, she is a ripe fruit waiting to be picked. And this kind, mature, worldly-wise lesbian is an expert in the art of seduction.On an evening out together, the husband, played  by Alain Chabat, already annoyed at the lesbian's intrusion into his home with his wife's encouragement, is driven into a blind fury when he discovers the lesbian's hand half way up his wife's thigh and sees them dancing together in a way that is very intimate. From this follow many scenes of shouting and screaming, jealousy and rage. You feel for the husband's usurpation and his humiliation at being rejected for a lesbian - though you rejoice at his come-uppance - and you feel for the wife who deserves the affection she has been so long denied, and you feel for the lesbian with a loving heart who wants only to make the wife happy - though others may condemn her for destroying a relatively happy marriage. The husband hates her so much and is so desperate to get rid of her that he is willing to do anything to get her to leave.But despite all the passion and jealousy this is a light comedy and not a heavy drama, and you have the feeling all along that everything will work out well in the end. And it does. The moral of the story, affirmed at the end, is that the only things that matter are love, tenderness and affection and if we get those the source's sexual gender is immaterial; we are all bisexual.This is a bright, witty and observant comedy, well-acted, particularly by Victoria Abril,  "},{"Title":"Good films about lesbians are rare...","Date":"7 February 2005","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I read the user comment for this film, my point of view is quite different 1. I am surprised to see that Gazon Maudit was rated R and 18 in most countries. I saw this movie at 2030 PM, on Sunday evening, on the main TV french channel, and I don't remember any scandal for this (and we have our share of intolerant bigots in France too...). OK, this picture is about sex, lesbians, homosexuality and triolism, we can see a few times Victoria Abril half or totally naked and Josiane Balasko smokes a lot of pot, but it is basically a comedy with no real provocation. I find much more vulgarity in, mmmh, let's say, the American Pie pictures - even if they don't show nudity - than in Gazon Maudit.2. This movie is funny. No big laughs, but a good story and brilliant acting. We know that the situations are implausible (a nice married woman falls in love at first glance with a butch-lesbian-truck-driver, who will have a baby with her husband) but the characters are funny enough to forget minor errors in the script and you will enjoy the way of cross that the unfaithful husband (Alain Chabat) will have to go through.3. I gave a rating of 6 because it's not a masterpiece. But if you find the plot outline attracting, if you ever wonder What would I do if my wife leaves me for another woman ?, or if you want to see an uncommon film about relationships, you will not be disappointed ! "},{"Title":"Funny but not just...","Date":"20 March 2005","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The premise of this film may appear ridiculous. How could a straight woman suddenly hesitate on her sexuality when a very butch woman turns up one fine day and fall in love with her? But the premise is but an excuse for an interesting comedy, based on a classic menage a trois, but with a twist. Characters are interesting. Victoria Abril as the neglected housewife is very good. Alain Chabat as the Casanova, sleeping with anybody (at least with any woman) is superb. The scene in which his daughter visits him in his office is funny then poignant. The last scene of the film (cut from the American and British version) is unexpected. The regretted Ticky Holgado is perfect in his role as Alain Chabat colleague. As far as Josiane Balasko, who wrote the film as well as starred in it, she may not be the most convincing Butch lesbian you will find, but she wrote a good film, funny, bitter sweet, which won't leave you indifferent. "},{"Title":"Quintessentially French","Date":"8 September 1999","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I know many people have a mental block about foreign-language films, but this is an excellent taster for the nervous. No portentous symbolism or moody gazes into the middle-distance - just a witty, sexy comedy of errors, where the audience's sympathies bounce back and forth between the three principal characters. Instantly accessible to monolinguists - and yet its panache and pace could only be French (yeah, I know Abril is Spanish).Incidentally, I know we're not really supposed to respond to other comments from IMDb users, but it's interesting to note that the movie-loving community displays just as much intolerance and uptightness about sexuality as any other disparate group of people. "},{"Title":"Predictable but fun with a puzzle ending","Date":"15 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of those films where you can see each plot twist coming before the last is finished. The writers probably sat around saying ...and wouldn't it be funny if ... and then just added another episode in this episodic picture. But it is fun, light, and doesn't try to press an ideology about human relationships on the viewer. What a relief! And the ending leaves a nice gap which the viewer can fill for himself. Perfect, to my mind. Fun fluff. "},{"Title":"A great and refreshing comedy in many aspects","Date":"2 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film is typical of films made outside of mainstream Hollywood studios; it takes some old themes and treats them with an attention-grabbing freshness. Playing Loli, a young housewife living in the south of France, Victoria Abril is as delightful as a spring breeze in Provence. Her husband is an incorrigible infidel; we've seen many of those in films. However, when the masculine Marijo, played poignantly by Josiane Balasko, enters their lives, the story takes many unexpected and entertaining turns which render a fairly common theme completely unpredictable. Everyone to whom I recommend this film ends up watching it numerous times and recommending it to others. The soundtrack is now one of my most-played CD's.  "},{"Title":"Very crazy movie","Date":"9 July 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie starts of with a seemingly normal 'man cheats on woman-woman gets back at man' story. But as I kept watching it, this movie kept getting crazier and crazier. I am not sure if it is supposed to be a comedy, a tragedy, or just a drama. But I decided if I take it as a dark-ish comedy it will be better received. All and all Miss Abril did very well, as well as Mr. Chabat. The only loss in skill was from Miss Balasko, who was not very believable. But it was crazy and funny in a weird way. It was nice that it was only just over an hour and a half, cause the madness probably could not have gone on too much more. It is a decent way to spend an hour and a half, but once is enough.  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Light, Inoffensive","Date":"31 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"   wisp of a romantic comedy.  Abril's character charms both a lesbian and her inattentive husband who soon regrets his lack of regard for his live-wire wife.  Her sexuality is fluid---not really gay or straight but reponsive to genuine love and affection.If this film were about exclusively hetero characters it would probably not engender most of the outrage and invectives hurled at it.  At its essence, it's a light, well-acted film with decent writing and, frothy sexual politics typical of romantic comedies.  It's no more offensive than, say, 10 or When Harry Met Sally.  The fact that the same-sex element seems to send some viewers into paroxyms of homophobic outrage says more about the viewer than anything terribly offensive or subversive about this movie. That it looks at the characters with some open-mindedness and wit makes it worthy of a look. "},{"Title":"6 out of 10","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Knowing, charming, funny and well-cast French comedy about a betrayed woman (deliciously sexy and amusing Victoria Abril) falling for another female, which drives her husband mad. Starts out great, but looses steam halfway through and ends rather disappointingly. Still, the characters are well-drawn and the direction is on-target. A great showcase for Abril's talents. "}{"Title":"Better than Expected","Date":"6 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" French Twist is a film that is full of surprises from the very beginning to the very end. A comedy made in France in 1995 gives us a plot that asks any man what he would do if his wife fell in love with a lesbian. The premise is hilarious and so is this movie. As a comedy it works very well. The characters, and their plights, are funny because the actors in this film give surprisingly good performances. Victoria Abril, who plays Loli the housewife, does a great job in giving such life to her character while bringing enough emotion to make such a ridiculous affair believable. The rest of the cast does a great job as well, especially Alain Chabat, who plays the husband. He's a scum, but at some point in the movie, Alain is able to turn his character around and make the audience feel his plight.Kudos should also be given to both the director and writer. Only a talented writer could forge a script that flies by quite smoothly regardless of its ridiculous premise and only a talented director could translate such a script onto the screen with few hiccups. On that note, I must say that I appreciate the pace of this movie the most. It lingers in the areas it should just long enough for the characters to develop before moving to the next plot twist. And boy, are there a bunch of those! Really, the pacing is what makes this movie such a joy to watch.Overall, French Twist is a very solid movie, and a really good comedy. If you have any interest in movies that stretch past sexual orientation or are just looking for some quality laughs, I highly recommend this. "},{"Title":"Indecisive","Date":"6 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" You'll never know when you will be in love with a person in the same sex. Thats what I thought about this movie. Marijo is obviously the kind of a lesbian that everyone knows about. Very stereotypical. But through her struggle to have her girl, and her desire to have a baby, it makes the audience want to relate to her. Which is a good thing. I am Japanese and don't really know about French people, but for me it was ridiculous to live with someone who you've just met. The issue was not really about the fact that Marijo was a lesbian, but the fact that Loli couldn't decide who she should be with. Well, its a comedy so it maybe works. Fun movie to watch with a lot of hilarious scenes, but I don't know if I have learned something from it. "},{"Title":"Great Fun!","Date":"26 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie might give a chance to reconstruct your ideas of gender roles and sexualities in a very French and really twisted way. Marijo, played by Josiane Balasko, appears as a woman with non-standard behavior, and without any question about sexuality of herself. In the way she acts, dress, and talk, you feel she has more attractive factors as a male than Laurant, played by Alain Chabat, does, with a common gender stereotype females are attracted by reliable males caring only about them. The movie also succeeded showing a contrast between characters by showing Laurant, a straight-male, acts 'sissy' becoming emaciated while Marijo, a lesbian, always acts 'manly' whatever happens. This makes you laugh out so loud with a great fun at scenes that Laurant treats Marijo's lesbian friends (includes her ex.) nicely as guests. However, with a look from different side, it looks like the questioning general-gender stereotype in the society is not clearly put enough. All the events in relationships in characters are caused by fast, simple, unstable, and 'easy-going' attitudes about physical and mental relationships of Loli, played by Victoria Abril; therefore there is no end to the trouble no matter the sexuality of her partners. "},{"Title":"Yeah Fantastic movie review","Date":"23 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" French Twist is a light comedy movie, which raise the issue of homosexuality to spectators. The story is about that Loli was not fully satisfied with her husband, Laurent. He is work at a local estate agency, and falling out of love enthusiasm to her. Then Loli met Marijo who is a lesbian happen to visit to her house, and have a relationship. Laurent try to get back Loli, but he goes irrational way. The story is good because the characters build a relationship with each other, which is nobody, wants to expect and see. This plot is not a typical holly wood model, so audience cannot foresee the story and the do not get bored. This movie includes a lot of sexual expressions. It's prohibited for teenagers to watch the naked or sexual expression in Japan and U.S., but this movie does not hide such kind of scenes. I'm not sure if this is the general in Europe, but they seem not to hesitate. Loli is described as an emotional woman. I guess she was frustrated by Laurent's attitude for women to woman because he had thought that women generally are obey men because man feed women, and should only house work and take care of children. A decade ago this thought is also taken it for granted in Japan. Her act reflect the women's frustration in this era, and she recharged by the way indirectly. "},{"Title":"Intensive lesbian film","Date":"23 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" French Twist is a 1995 French comedy film. I like the film because I personally love comedy movie. Also, it overthrow the past concept of gender relations movie. This film contrarily emphasize more about what characters' personalities have shifted during solving problems. The sexuality parts inside the movie are showed without covering. For example, there is one scene that parents kiss passionately in front of their children. European is more open with the sexuality than American or Asian because even six-year-old-child can watch it with accompanying parents or adult guardian . Therefore, I think the fans of the genre would be satisfied since it clearly shows the relationship of heterosexual and homosexual. The structure of the film is amazing since it is really difficult to predict the plots and the ending; thus, it would attracts audience to concentrate on it. Camera angle creates the mood of the scene. In a scene when Majiro first visit Loli's house, the camera focus on Majiro's chubby body first, and move to her face last. The director wants viewers to emphasis more on her body image in order to clearly show her differences from other standard women. This film support this kind of gender condition like lesbian. I think the movie tries to tell its audience that if people love each other, it is okay to be whether heterosexual or homosexual. Since I am a Asian, I was really shock and surprised after watched this movie. It displays the relationship of lesbian boldly which is really unusual in Asian country not to mention releasing in 1995. I've never have a chance to watch this kind of gender relation's movie because most of them are restricted. Therefore, I like this film since not only scenes and shots are good but also the concepts are amazing. I think the movie might be appealing for homosexual more. "},{"Title":"Exciting Lesbian Film","Date":"23 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" French Twist is a French comedy film in 1995. I enjoy watching the film, and I think some of the scenes in the films are innovative compare to similar films. The film deserved some of the award such as best actor and best director since the main characters acting is vivid and entertaining. The idea of the story is interesting and deep. I think the director have a unique way to show emotions between Marijo and Loli. There is one scene when Marijo and Loli taking bath together, and this scene reveals the intense love of lesbian. Also, Laurent's emotions and attitude towards Loli is quite complex after Marijo involve in their relationship. Especially when Laurent agree to have sex with Marijo while Loli is away, I think that scene is a little exaggerated and awkward. At that moment, I feel sympathy for Marijo because no matter how much she wanted to become a man, however, physically she cannot win Laurent. It shows that man and woman are still very different in many ways. Overall, this film is trying to tell audience that love does not against sex, and love is the most powerful thing in the world. Since this film is comedy, this gender issue is also interesting. I think this type movie will appeal both to heterosexual and homosexual. "},{"Title":"Explicit lesbian film","Date":"23 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" As a comedy, the film stands out as it blends in the sexuality and gender issues in. It portraits these relatively controversial issues in an explicit approach. It won Best Screenplay at the 1995 French Academy of Cinema and got nominated for Best Picturefor 1995 French Academy of Cinema and Best Foreign Language Film for 1995 Hollywood Foreign Press Association. Personally, I think this movie is a successful one in terms of the story plot. The story line is easy to follow and the editing style is just the right pace. Things do not get messed up even the relationship between the three is rather complicated. The scenes are nicely set up and every single scene contributes their importance to the whole film. Some may argue that such issue should not be shown in such explicit style, for instance, when Loli and Marijo were naked in the bath tube, at least it should not be rated Universal in Europe. However, we may have to refer back to the cultural context since it is rated differently in America. For European countries, it may be accepted to present controversial issues such as sexuality and lesbian relationships in a direct way compared to other countries such as the ones in Asia, where these are considered as taboos.Overall, I think this is an entertaining film and it is worth watching. This movie is recommended to anyone who wants to know more about gender and sexuality issues, or anyone above illegal age. "},{"Title":"Such a hilarious film!","Date":"23 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" French Twist is a sexual, yet also is a light romantic comedy film which shows the different aspects of gender roles and homosexuality which is not usually seen in a mainstream film. For people who has watch this kind of film for the first time, this could be really shocking yet interesting and humorous plot of story.This film, shows how it is possible for a person to just change their sexuality in just a matter of flirting with the same sex, or it could also be possible that their real sexuality was hidden inside them for a long time and was just discovered when the right situation happens that pushes their real sexuality to come out. It also showed the different personality that each gender has, in a very polite way though. On how Laurent criticizes Marijo because of her sexuality was not really super annoying, instead, all their clash scenes were very funny. The director successfully turned a supposedly intense scenario of a homosexual love triangle into a very humorous and light scene.This film really did a great job on making the audience nervous and excited for what is going to happen with the married couple when a third party started to show up in the picture. Over all I think that French Twist is a very unique film and will let the audience know that in love , gender doesn't matter. "},{"Title":"A lighthearted comedy that will make you laugh and think","Date":"23 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" French twist is a lighthearted comedy which centers around three characters in a love triangle not often seen in mainstream film. When it was made in 1995, this film was very controversial in America due to the nature and portrayal of sexuality in the film. However it was accepted more openly in Europe at the time. Now however the film and its subject matter, while still controversial to a point, are much more accepted in America. The characters in the film are good. Not incredibly deep but they are not two dimensional. You do feel for them and care for their feelings. And the film does a good job of having you care for each of the characters at some point or another during the film so that it is hard to pick sides and root for a single character. This film does a good job a showing the double standards between woman and men. Furthermore being a comedy it makes it easier to take in the once edgy and still somewhat controversial subject matter of the film. The theme throughout the film is that of love. The film tries to show that love does not depend on one's sex but rather on the people themselves. This is made clear many times through the movie. The topic of the film may seem rather heavy but the director and actors do an excellent job of keeping the movie light and comedic. There are plenty of points throughout the movie that were both surprising and rather amusing. Overall I think that the movie is definitely worth watching. It is a funny comedy and it does make you think. If you like lighthearted comedies which are outside the norm, you will enjoy this movie. "},{"Title":"Funny and Twisted","Date":"23 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" French Twist explores the sexual fluidity that people possess with an upbeat and fun nature. By categorizing the flow and charm of the film as a romantic/comedy, it draws and entertains the audience to a usually controversial and taboo topic, especially for American viewers. While covering the topics of gender roles and sexuality, it transcends and opens up these issues in a charming mood. Certain stereotypes for both genders are explored through the characters mainly of Loli and Laurent. Laurent as the cheating husband who is portrayed as emotionally distant from his wife. Loli as the ambitious housewife who seems to be dissatisfied with her life as one. Although stereotypes of Loli's role as a housewife seem to be something pushed to her rather than she deliberately or naturally takes advantage of like Laurent does. Although the character of Marijo is physically stereotyped as a butch lesbian, her relationship with Loli show a clear contrast between her relationship with her husband. The film succeeds in showing the dynamic, and in the end harmony between the three main characters. Although the course of events move faster than what the audience would expect, it adds up to and emphasizes the light hearted comedic theme. Over all this film covers many issues that conveys into a human drama that may or may not happen to some of us. "}{"Title":"Twisty!","Date":"22 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" French Twist, also known as Gazon Maudit in France, is a French Sexual-Comedy film which playfully explores some aspects of homosexuality, gender roles, infidelity, and homophobia. The subjects explored in the movie may sound heavy on paper, but in the actual context of the film were used more as a means to carry the comedy itself. That is to say, the themes in the film, while not commonly explored, were not overly-subversive in a sense which would the film a heavy feeling.The comedic situations take place between the three main characters; Laurent, his wife Loli, and a lesbian DJ/drifter Marijo. The film establishes quite early that since Laurent is an infidel and emotionally neglectful to his wife Loli, Loli engaging in homosexually promiscuous behavior with Marijo is not necessarily a betrayal to their marriage. The psychology of this sort of 'revenge' against the neglectful husband is what prevents the audience from seeing Loli as a wretched being.Most of the comedy is based around awkward situations created by Marijo's attraction to Loli. Some gender stereotypes and sexist perspectives are explored mainly through Laurent's behavior, and conversations between him and his perverted friend. Laurent states that he could understand his wife being promiscuous with a female, But with that?, implying that he would support lesbianism only in the case of both females being attractive. Laurent also states that it is acceptable for males to be sexual infidels to their spouse, but not for females to do so. Also considering that Loli gave up her ambitions as a dancer to be a housewife with Laurent implies that upon marrying Laurent, she had to conform to a certain gender role. Homophobia is also explored in the sense that it seems as if his wife's homosexual explorations must be accepted by Laurent for him to progress as a character, and solve the issue between him and Loli. The film playfully toys with these concepts by placing Marijo as the factor who upsets the status-quo, and quickly becomes the forefront of the chaos that ensues. Even with such aspects in the film, it consistently maintains a light-tone throughout the narrative.The film itself manages to incorporate what may be considered taboo subject matter by some, into a narrative which could be enjoyed by anyone (particularly in large groups/class screenings, etc.) If there was ever an outrage which occurred regarding the film's content, the cause of the outrage is probably more regional/cultural rather than being incited by the film's content itself. The film does portray homosexuality, infidelity, nudity, sex, verbal cursing, and drug-use; which justifies it's R-rating; though considering the film is rated Everyone in France, it becomes evident that any sort of backlash regarding the film is justified or not depending on the moral standings of the particular region in which the film is being viewed. Even with that said, I would not show this film to children because of the nudity, sex scenes, heavy language, and drug-use.The film is a comedy as being its base-genre, so in that sense the film was hilarious in the many awkward and uncommon situations that were portrayed. I would recommend this film to fans of foreign-comedies/relationship comedies who do not hold strong moral prejudices against subversive topics. "},{"Title":"Very French, with a Twist","Date":"21 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Mainstream comedies that deal with Homosexuality and bisexuality normally do so in one or two ways; they make fun of the alternate lifestyles or they use two women who are both very beautiful and seemingly straight and merely have them make out to excite the male portion of the audience that the movie is generally geared towards. (I.e. the kiss in Cruel Intentions that got enormous publicity for the movie). Basically it is used as a way for a B-movie to get some extra attention from the news media and therefore get more film goers. This French film, however has a different approach, it treats the kissing scenes as just some normal scene. There are two people kissing, not two women kissing. It also has the ability to draw you in with more of a story than a Hollywood movie of the same fashion would. This is primarily because the Hollywood movie would be shot in a more exploitive way than this film.The plot is fairly predictable, however there are several twists that make this movie much more interesting then I would have originally thought. The idea behind this story is not very original, and neither are the characters portrayed, however the story and the few plot twists that occur make it intriguing enough to keep you in your seat. The aesthetic quality of the film is about average for a film of this age (it was made in the mid 1990's), and budget.Although this is not a film that I would readily watch again, and wouldn't have normally picked up in the first place it may be worth a look if it is in the normal genre of films that you like. "},{"Title":"Makes you wonder if you know your own sexuality.","Date":"21 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The French Twist makes it believable that a straight person can suddenly change their sexuality, or how many people may not even know their own sexuality until they experience it for themselves. I really liked how sexuality whether it was lesbian or gay, was portrayed as something very natural and not forced. This movie is filled with many surprises and twists that keep the audience excited till the very end. What I found really surprising and interesting about the plot was how sexuality was portrayed through Loli's attraction to Marijo rather than her husband. She is a neglected housewife and her husband makes her unappreciated. This scenario allows Marijo to enter and start the magical relationship between her and Loli. Loli has thought she was straight her whole life which we can tell when she encounters Marijo for the first time. This is evident when she looks very awkward whenever Marijo mentions about her past relationships with women. However after a few drinks the supposedly straight housewife is head over heals for another woman. It was before she even found out about her husbands promiscuity that she was already attracted to Marijo which showed it was not something she did to get back at her husband, but out of pure love. Although the story gradually becomes ridiculous with relationships overlapping each other and each character goes chaotic with their emotions - it does a great job keeping the audience nervous and excited for the outcome. However I personally believe this movie worked because it was done in Europe, and that America would not be open to these ideas. This might explain why it is Rated R in America whilst anybody any age can watch it in Europe. I think many Americans would be thrown off by the idea of lesbians having a true, honest relationship because they prefer fairy-tale lesbians, that only happen between drunk straight women at bars. Lesbians are not something American ideals truly consider or believe is real. The reason America would rate this R is not because of the sex scenes but more so because of the morality that is against what is considered normal, or what they aim to be seen as normal.I would not say this movie is a master-piece, but it is definitely a movie that broadens the way of hard headed people that are anti-homosexuality. I consider this to be a cute chick-flick for open minded people, or to make people more open minded. "},{"Title":"Jewel on bisexuality. Cannot afford to miss this nice film.","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I remember all the splendors of this film when it was premiered in Taiwan, when it was marketed & called §Úªº¤ß¸Ì¥u¦³©p¨S¦³¥L in Chinese, which took the twist of the theme song in Latino Historia de un amor. I always thought this film is called Historia de un amor'' and could never find it. I am happy finally I found this movie here today, but astonished to find it carries a totally different new name that I have never heard of.This film is humorous and it explored politely, nicely on bisexuality, with an open tone & manner. The attitude makes me think the director/writer/actress is arevolutionist on bisexuality. I really admire her courage & vision, plus her story- telling techniques.Anyhow throughout watching, I have been expecting anxiously for more visually explicit shots for more entertaining excitement, probably I was too much spoiled by the Artistic films....(Wink!)   Anyhow the director, was considerate to make this film relatively conservative (probably a trade-off to let this film being able to suit more audience?), anyhow I still went away happy about this wonderful film.I would encourage anyone to watch this film, after watching it, you will go out of the theater & see a wider world, with a smile on your face.(From many films rating on this site, I was totally shocked to see how low this film was marked, it is so unbelievably low that I first started register here, to be able to balance this film as it deserves. Come on guys! this film deserves much more points than now! This is a jewel! Don't miss it! If I did not see this movie previously myself with so much joy, and only see the low rating here, I might miss this precious nice little film!)As for the rating, out ten, I would give it a 7.5, but for the disgraceful low mark here now, I am willing to give it a 9 to make the balance more appropriate to represent the the film.  "},{"Title":"Nice change of pace compared to most films","Date":"28 April 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoyed this film.  It was nice to see the philandering husband get his come-uppance, and his reaction to his wife's affair with another woman was very human.  Josiane Balasko's portrayal of the other woman was strong- it was remarkable.  It was a bit unbelievable but it was entertaining as I didn't know what was going to happen next.  Good to see just as a change of pace from ordinary films. "},{"Title":"Nothing spectacular, but fun","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Although I was hoping for something even better, this was still a generally enjoyable French comedy that I certainly would recommend.  Even though I was expecting a funnier film, I was nevertheless pleasantly surprised by how these characters (especially the homosexuals) were written.  While it's not a hilarious movie, it was still fun and definitely entertaining throughout. Plus, things are helped by great performances by Abril and Balasko. Despite a few too many slow spots, this is still a good film that is worth your time. "},{"Title":"good lesbian film, lesbian with a husband.","Date":"12 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  very unique story with english subtitles. some titulation with the lesbian character who is attracted to loli. the pregnancy of the lesbian lover, complicates entire movie. it does still give you something to think about. the mixture of lesbian and heterosexual love and lust worked out between the three is very strange. the humor is dry and bizarre, but very entertaining. keeps your attention, dont like the addition of children involving this adult theme movie. worth renting or buying. "},{"Title":"Continental Farce","Date":"17 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I am tempted to describe this little farce of sexual manners as mainstream, although it certainly isn't by Hollywood standards - continental Europe is a different matter.  It certainly violates the rule book of romantic comedies US style the homosexual characters have a more than ornamental role to play, the leads often behave in a less than likeable manner, and the morals our characters adhere to are thoroughly un-American.So, sounds like a lot of fun, doesn't it?  I generally liked it, but there were moments where I would have wanted the film to make a turn towards either something a bit darker and nastier or something more easily enjoyable.  Sitting on the fence between these two options did not always work.  I also was not happy with the casting of Josiane Balasko as the lesbian who seduces Victoria Abril, mostly for the very simple reason that she lacked sexual appeal to make this believable, but also because her butchness was too visibly a mask. "},{"Title":"Gleesome Threesome","Date":"11 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is Josie Balasko in her 'Ma Vies est un enfer' mode or wearing what some viewers will choose to call her 'vulgar' hat. A once-over-lightly of the plot will explain why. Alain Chabat and Ticky Holgado are estate agents and neither can keep it in his trousers; Holgado even makes a pass at his own daughter - he hasn't seen her since she was twelve when his wife kicked him out - and Chabat is even banging the baby sitter. Despite everything - including the one affair to which he confessed, after being found out - his wife, Victoria Abril, still loves him passionately but he is always too bushed to respond to her amorous advances. Enter writer-director Balasko as a cigar-smoking lesbian; she calls at the house in Chabat's absence to ask for water for her car's radiator, stays to fix a blocked sink - oh, you HAVE got dirty minds - and seduce Abril. Subsequently she moves in, The Dyke Who Came To Dinner if you will and this, naturally, arouses Chabat's jealousy; NOW he wants his wife. For a while they co-exist with Abril sharing her favours with both of them. Chabat is still not a happy bunny and finally Balasko tells him her price for walking away from Abril He, Chabat, will impregnate Balasko, who, at forty, has taken to biological clock-watching. Ultimately, when she almost gives birth in the street, it is Chabat holding her hand and comforting her and turning into the doting father. If a friend saw this movie by chance and told me the outline, omitting to mention the underlying warmth of Balasko, who's about as convincing as a butch lesbian as Arnie would be as a ballerina, and the sympathetic way it deals with alternative lifestyles I'd probably have avoided it like anything by Godard but knowing Balasko's fine track record as well as that of fellow director-actor Chabat to say nothing of Ticky Holgado I snapped up the DVD and I'm glad I did. "},{"Title":"Fun, wicked and thought-provoking","Date":"13 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A beautiful movie. Must have an open mind, tough. Lots of adult themes here - philandering, adultery, lesbianism, man-hating. I thought it was very funny and thought-provoking (my wife thought so even more). Many beautiful scenes, including the one where Laurent spends some time with an over-the-hill prostitute and they touch each other (and us) with their humanity. You'll know if this movie is up your alley by reading the reviews and the plot synopsis. If it appeals to you at all, it's worth it. If the themes are too unconventional for you, it may turn you off. "}{"Title":"Dubbing? No Thanks","Date":"19 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  strenuous effort should be made to avoid the English dubbed version that was released in the UK. The voices used detract terribly from the characters...the sub-titles are worth the effort as the film flows much more naturally with the original vocals "},{"Title":"French farce is a misfire","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I love foreign films and while I don't particularly like the attitude of the French I do enjoy French films. Unfortunately, this film requires a lot from its viewers. The story is about a housewife named Loli (Victoria Abril) who calls a plumber for her kitchen drain and she meets Marijo (Josiane Balasko) who is a lesbian and instantly attracted to Loli. Loli has a husband named Laurent (Alain Chabat) who is constantly cheating on her. One night he notices the attraction between his wife and Marijo and explodes. Loli finds out about her husbands infidelities and allows Marijo to move in with them. She sets up a schedule where three nights a week she sleeps with her husband and three nights with Marijo. Then one day an old girlfriend of Marijo comes to visit and Loli gets very jealous and leaves. She says she does not want to talk to Marijo anymore so Marijo decides to leave. But before she leaves she asks Laurent to get her pregnant but Loli does not know this. The film is directed by its star Balasko. The implausible situations that arise during this film are part of what is wrong with it. Its just a bunch scenes that are written into the film to make the characters react in a strange manner. Marijo and Loli waste no time getting romantic and Marijo has no qualms about moving into the household of a married couple and jeopardizing their marriage. The fistfight between Laurent and Marijo is just for slapstick purposes and comes off totally unbelievable. One thing that I did enjoy in this film is the performance of Ticky Holgado who plays Antoine. He works with Laurent and is his best friend and covers for him all the time. His character is the most believable and while he has obvious faults he appears to just want to get along with everyone. In a very strong scene he tells Laurent that he has not seen his kids in twelve years and that he should do what he has to do to save his marriage. Its the only authentic moment in this trivial film. One other thing that is noticeable is the nudity. Abril is a huge star in France and Spain and in this film she is totally nude a number of times. It shows how different things are in this country with American actress's and what they won't do on camera. Balasko is a very good actress and very talented but I'm not sure what she was going for in this film. Maybe she thought the comedic story line would be enough to carry this film. It doesn't and the film comes off as phony excuse for a comedy. "},{"Title":"Homophobe jerk gets the girl","Date":"11 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Simple plot Guy cheats on wife repeatedly and is an all around homophobe jerk.  So what does the wife do?  She stays with him.  Wife meets lesbian and falls for her.  Husband hates lesbian but ends up fathering her child. They all live in the same house happily ever after.  Nice fairy tale.  I think the plot could have been much more realistic and much more funny. This is a great movie for women with low self-esteem and the men who exploit them.   "},{"Title":"Victoria Abril is wonderful, but her films stink.","Date":"2 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Victoria Abril is wonderful, sexy, gorgeous, and naked...as she usually is in her films.  I have and will watch anything she does and enjoy every moment she is on screen.  In most cases I hate the films she is in.  They are crude and violent.  They substitute lust for love and rape for romance. This particular film is about a very butch lesbian who aims to destroy Abril's shaky marriage.  The lesbian character is the most ugly, annoying, without-merit individual ever to be put on screen and it is unrealistic to think that Victoria Abril's character would want to be near her let alone make love to her.  But then there is Victoria Abril running around the house with nothing on but an apron, if that.  What's one to do?  Throw the baby out with the bathwater?  No.  The lesbian loves her and stays.  The husband loves her and stays.  I keep watching.  Hoping that the wonderful Victoria does some better films.  The Spanish actress does Spanish, Italian, and French films and is very brave and uninhibited.  She has been quoted to saying she goes naked in film and in public when she doesn't have anything nice to wear (apparently those Europeans have been slipping her horrible wardrobes a lot).  She has created stirs by going au natural on Miami beaches and by wearing see-through outfits at swanky openings.  She has even admitted going all the way with some of her co-actors during filming of her love scenes to achieve realism (most famously Tie Me Up, Tie Me Down and High Heels).  Such dedication can be criticized but she certainly does give her all to any performance, never holding back.  Where the actress ends and the character begins is seamless.  Now that the Academy Awards is paying attention to foreign speaking actors it would be a crime if this woman did not win an Oscar sometime in the future.  Perhaps they are afraid she'll show up naked.  If only.  Then the Awards would be worth watching.  "},{"Title":"Really Lame and Insulting.","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I think this was one of the worst films I ever seen on cable. I know the husband is a jerk for cheating on his wife but, why is he? He wife is one hot looking woman that I wouldn't cheated on myself but what's with the lesbian stuff in all these kind of movies huh? I only like the ending just a little bit but, they should made it more good with the lesbian so called DJ fall in love with the husband and he fall in love with her but they didn't do the threesome way they did it their own stupid way. "},{"Title":"A silly French sitcom with a whole lot of subtitles.","Date":"28 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  French Twist is a mildly humorous situational comedy about an attractive women, wife, and mother who is married to a womanizer who becomes outraged when his wife falls in with a dyke. From there, the story turns into a series of who-has-the-upper-sexual-hand situations. The film, with more flaws than favors, is dialogue-intensive and probably not worth all the subtitle reading for those who don't speak French. "},{"Title":"French but not funny","Date":"16 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I was led to believe this was a very funny movie, but I found it disturbing- that people were so cavalier with their sex lives. I do think that the lesbian was portrayed as a human being, but the husband was a jerk and the wife- well I don't know too many women that are ac/dc...   "},{"Title":"Very disturbing","Date":"25 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie really disturbed me. It's insulting to think that a married woman with children would so readily entertain a lesbian love affair with a completely unattractive woman who stops by after her car breaks down. There doesn't seem to be any real intimacy between the two women or any character development as to why the wife would even consider such an affair in the first place. Everything about this movie is ridiculous, and though I waded through it to find out how things worked out in the end, the end was what was most disturbing of all! I won't completely ruin it for you, but let me just say that I was disgusted to see the homosexual direction it took. If you're a guy you might think two chicks doing it is cool, but after watching this movie you get a better taste of what a homosexual lifestyle is like and frankly, it's not a turn-on.It was definitely provocative, but I couldn't enjoy it. "}]