[{"Title":"My analysis *spoilers* Don't read this unless you've seen the movie (this contains little in the way of an actual review)","Date":"5 July 2006","Score":"19 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I write this for people who've seen the movie, and don't understand it. First of all, you have to understand that Sarah suffered from multi-personality disorder from a long time before the movie started; most likely since she was a child. She didn't know this herself, because it's like that with MPD's. The regular personality doesn't know what the other(s) are doing. They are simply unaware. And her other personality hated men, while her regular just didn't trust them. That's why she thought her old boyfriend Benny left without a note or anything. Her other personality reacted aggressively against a man that her regular personality loved; it killed him, and made it seem to her and her close friends, that he just left suddenly. She didn't know he was dead. However, although her other personality usually hates men, it falls in love with Tony, as well as Sarah herself. This is obvious in the scene where Sarah appears in Tony's home, slaps him, and has sex with him. Her regular personality wasn't ready for that kind of commitment yet; also, her other personality's way of having sex is very aggressive. Everything weird, bizarre, or directly threatening that happens towards Sarah, is caused by her other personality, because it's jealous. It wants Tony for itself. It starts out threatening her(the paper, the flowers), and ends with trying to kill her(with the heater in the bathtub). Sarah, who doesn't know that it's her other personality, and isn't good at trusting men, especially men who are close to her, blames Tony, because she doesn't feel safe when he's around. However, at the end, she is told the truth by Tony He is investigating her, in order to find out what happened to Benny. In the beginning, Sarah doesn't believe that she's been stalking herself. However, when her father enters, he triggers some memories, that awakes her other personality. She reacts aggressively to both, because she feels, as usual, that men are the root of all evil. She starts by killing Tony, because she was, in fact, in love with him, and it seems(to her, at least) like he isn't in love with her. After killing him, her father, not knowing she is not herself at the moment, tries to calm her down; this triggers more unwanted memories; she feels like she's back at the top of those stairs, her father making her cover his crime. She reacts very aggressively, as that memory is one part of the origin of her hate against men(the other being sexual abuse by her father). After killing him, she destroys the tape, which is the only devastating proof toward her suffering from multi-personality disorder. At that point she's still not herself, but her other personality. She then covers her own crime, as she feels that it was her father's fault, just like back when she was little. After covering up her crime, she sits down by the body of Tony, and her other personality subsides. Sarah is herself again; thereby, she doesn't know what happened, but guess/thinks that Tony killed her father(which would seem logical to her, as she was certain that Tony was insane) and she shot him in self-defense. We hear that the police aren't going to file charges, since it seems like an obvious case of self-defense. She then gives us a definition on a multi-personality disorder(which fits perfectly on herself) and goes out with Cliff. She doesn't know that she is guilty of killing two people close to her, and the movie ends with the disturbing conclusion, that unless something hinders her from killing more, her other personality can keep killing men, while her regular personality can have a clean consciousness, as she doesn't know the truth.ReviewWhile watching this movie, I thought that it was just the regular thriller. I was very surprised at the ending, which tries to turn it into more... I'm not quite sure it succeeds, but it made everything that preceded it easier to forgive. The movie has a very Hitchcock feel to it; suspense, shocks, atmosphere... It felt like it could have been the work of the late Hitchcock himself(save for the sex scene, which I'm not quite sure was so much necessary as an easy device to attract those on the look-out for such a thing). I recommend this to fans of thrillers(just don't expect a masterpiece... but hey, it's got Rebecca De Mornay, does anyone actually see her name on the cast list of anything and think oh, quality cinema lies ahead!?), particularly those who like them with a twist. Yes, I actually just made that pun. 6/10. "},{"Title":"Terrific De Mornay","Date":"6 April 2006","Score":"19 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" A more or less typical thriller made special by Rebecca De Mornay's awesome performance. She is the executive producer of this picture and must have badly wanted to do this role -- I'm glad she did.She plays a psychiatrist evaluating whether an accused serial killer is competent to stand trial. It becomes obvious early on that she was drawn to psychiatry because of her own severe emotional problems and difficult past. In the meantime, we are shown troubling relationships with men appearing in her personal life. An upstairs neighbor badly wants her, but she wants only to be friends. Her father shows up out of the blue seeking affection and assistance, but she resists him, and it is obvious that their relationship and her childhood were deeply troubled. A stranger (Banderas) she meets in a store ardently pursues her, and they begin an affair, but she has difficulty trusting him, both because he is something of a suspicious character and because, as she tells him, she has difficulty trusting anybody. Their relationship becomes volatile and angry, tinged with violent overtones. Then there is the issue of her ex-fiancé, who vanished abruptly and without explanation just before the scheduled wedding.As happens in these kinds of films, she is sent a series of mysterious messages and packages with no return addresses. Then violent things start to occur. Someone is clearly trying to terrorize her, but who? So many suspects -- Banderas? The upstairs neighbor (who is of course jealous of Banderas)? The serial killer, acting through friends outside of prison? Her father? The ex-fiancée? I did not anticipate the answer to this question, revealed of course at the film's end, but it was not an especially unusual conclusion for films of this kind. What made this picture worthwhile was De Mornay's utterly believable portrayal of, let us say, a difficult character, reminiscent of what she did in The Hand That Rocks The Cradle. She is simply great at this kind of thing, besides being classically gorgeous.The other acting is fine, but no one stands out. Banderas is always good, but in this one he is mostly eye candy for the ladies. Harry Dean Stanton as the serial killer is suitably menacing and crazed, but this picture is really all De Mornay. I found it a bit slow at times, but the last 20 minutes or so made up for the weak spots. Definitely worth watching. "},{"Title":"The Good & Bad Of 'Never Talk To Strangers'","Date":"6 November 2006","Score":"22 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This thriller is a bit rough-edged, but a lot of people like that sort of thing. Rebecca DeMornay was the at the top of her game around this time (early to mid '90s).GOOD NEWS - Overall, an interesting and involving story, especially in the second half. The movie is capped by a surprise ending I defy anyone to guess correctly. There are a few steamy scenes, too.BAD NEWS - No likable characters, too much profanity; a few minor holes in the story; an obvious feminist bias and DeMornay's foul mouth and morals are pretty rotten for a psychologist, the character she plays. The guys - Dennis Miller and Antonio Bandaras - play pretty sleazy characters, too.OVERALL - Interesting movie but too sleazy a feel to it. "},{"Title":"Hitchcockian Thriller with many twists and turns","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I never expected to be so positively impressed by this universally panned thriller.  Did all the other reviewers see the same movie I did?  I just shake my head, and marvel at the brilliance of all these people who found the ending so predictable.  I daresay I'm older and have seen more classic thrillers than most of the imdb audience, but this movie kept me on the edge of my seat.  And Banderas has never looked better.  I thought both lead characters were interesting and deep.  Harry Dean Stanton is marvelous, as usual, as the serial killer against whom De Mornay has to testify, and Len Cariou does a nice turn as her estranged father trying to make final peace with her. De Mornay actually produced this, and the daring sex scene could not have happened without her enthusiasm.  Okay, I agree the dead cat was too much of a cliche, but the detective?  Banderas' true identity?  Miller's real character?  The twists and turns certainly had me going.  Although I wanted to off De Mornay myself to take her place in the chain-wire fence scene.  And, yes, this old gal certainly found it erotic, despite what I have read above.  I think this is her best performance to-date.I give this 10/10. "},{"Title":"Banderas and DeMornay are nice to see, in this mediocre movie.","Date":"21 June 2004","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Seems the filmmakers wanted a Hitchcock type of mystery, they even use background music that sounds amazingly like that in Hitchcock's finest thrillers. But this is not a particularly good movie, not so much for the story, but the dialog is often unrealistic. Plus the love scene at about 35 minutes is more silly than erotic. Still, this is a mystery and will offer a surprise for many during the last 15 minutes. I've always enjoyed Rebecca DeMornay. She has fascinating looks, and is also a capable actress. I enjoyed seeing her in this movie. The median IMDb vote of 5 is about right.SPOILERS -- READ NO FURTHER if you have not seen this movie.  Rebecca plays a psychiatrist, and we see several scenes where she is evaluating an accused murdered for competency, he claims to have multiple personalities, but we suspect he is just trying to get off easy. Meanwhile she meets a handsome stranger, Banderas, who is actually investigating her to find out why her former boyfriend disappeared suddenly. Plus, Dennis Miller plays her slightly askew friend who is always trying to get her to sleep with him. She gets a gift of dead flowers, she reads her own obit in the newspaper, she gets a box with her dead cat in it. In the climax, turns out SHE has the multiple personality, triggered by childhood experiences of molestation by her father, she was stalking her own self, presumably she got rid of her old boyfriend, and in her apartment shot and killed both Banderas and her dad, then giving a statement that she shot Banderas only after he had killed her dad. "},{"Title":"Compelling, well-made thriller","Date":"8 October 2007","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Though overlooked at the time of it's release, Never Talk to Strangers is a well-crafted thriller centering on the human dilemma of whether or not to trust others. Rebecca De Mornay stars as Dr Sarah Taylor, a psychologist in an unnamed city who has a difficult personal life. She meets the charming Tony Ramirez (Antonio Banderas) in a supermarket and- despite her many fears- is soon drawn into a passionate relationship with him. Soon after meeting Tony, Sarah acquires a stalker who sends her dead flowers and dismembers her pet cat. The audience is provided with a decent list of possible suspects including Tony, Sarah's missing ex-boyfriend Benny, or possibly her slightly sleazy upstairs neighbor (a surprisingly good Dennis Miller). Other possibilities include her alcoholic father, and associates of serial killer Max Cheski (the wonderful Harry Dean Stanton) on whom she is performing a court-ordered psychiatric evaluation.As the plot unfolds, it appears as if De Mornay's character has nowhere to hide and nobody she can really trust. Various characters appear more or less likely to be guilty of terrorizing her. The film also very deftly portrays Sarah's need for a relationship with Tony even though she is terrified that he is hiding something from her. The acting is top notch and the plot is full of satisfying twists and turns. If you are in the mood for a strong, solid thriller then this ought to be a top choice. "},{"Title":"Erotic thriller dulls the senses...","Date":"27 March 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Brian De Palma has often come in for some flak over the years, his penchant for sticking tight to Alfred Hitchcock thriller formula has been the source of much consternation in certain quarters. Yet when you view something like Peter Hall's Never Talk to Strangers it rams home just how welcome it is to have Hitch like thrillers at least done well!Rebecca De Mornay is a troubled shrink who whilst dealing with the mind games of a serial killing loony (Harry Dean Stanton), meets sexually charged Latino guy (Antonio Banderas) and indulges in passions unbound. Then she starts to get very unwelcome presents in the post...The erotic thriller has been well trodden, and will continue to be so for sure, so it feels a little churlish to decry Hall's movie for coming off as a weak willed imitator of previous purveyors of the sub-genre, but this blend of Silence of the Lambs meets Sea of Love - cum - Dressed to Kill - cum Fatal Attraction etc etc just comes across as a cheat. And that's because it is!The makers know this and try to hide their ridiculous folly behind eroticism as the two lovely looking headlining stars get sweaty and wet, indulging in sexual play that's as powerful as the surroundings (Banderas lives in a loft apartment resplendent with metal cage and wrought iron doors). But, or should that be butt? The mystery element is weak, the suspense equally so, while the back story of De Mornay's father (a key character) is hopelessly under developed.Then there is H.D. Stanton, stealing every scene is he is in, quid pro quo indeed, yet he's hardly in the film, which ultimately proves to be a tragedy as the plot hurtles towards its implausible and risible revelations. Red herrings come and go as quickly as Becca and Tony's underwear (the continuity editor should have been sacked along with the writers because of one scene BTW), and even though Pino Donaggio scores the music with customary swirling qualities, this just comes off as a piggyback tactic...This is a poor thriller in spite of two very committed and visually attractive perfs from the leads - and of course Stanton's knowingly sleazy turn. Seek this out only if you think Body of Evidence is in the upper echelons of erotic thrillers. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Like a racier Woman-In-Peril flick from Lifetime","Date":"20 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is surprisingly not horrible. A product of the mid-1990s Rebecca De Mornay boomlet, it takes the woman-in-peril formula and jiggers with it just enough to come up with something worth watching&#x85;and not just for De Mornay's bosom.Sarah Taylor (Rebecca De Mornay) is a psychologist who starts receiving threatening letters and packages, like someone is stalking her. But is her stalker Tony Ramirez (Antonio Banderas), the Puerto Rican charmer she's just fallen in love with? I s it Cliff Raddison (Dennis Miller), her upstairs neighbor who had a one-night stand with Sarah long ago and seems desperate for another encounter? Is it Max Chelski (Harry Dean Stanton), the serial killer she's analyzing in prison for his upcoming trial? Could it be her father Henry (Len Cariou), who's just re-entered her life and with whom Sarah has an obviously disturbing relationship? Or does her stalker have something to do with the fiancée who abandoned Sarah almost a year ago? The story keeps you wondering until revealing the truth, which turns out to be pretty decent for a twist ending.Clocking in at under 90 minutes, Never Talk to Strangers is like a well made wading pool. There's no depth to it but it works as it's intended to. There's some sex, some mystery, a little humor from Dennis Miller and just a touch of violence. There's not a lot of chemistry between De Mornay and Antonio Banderas. However, they're both very pretty and the movie moves quickly enough that it never asks you to take their relationship too seriously. De Mornay, Banderas and the rest of the cast do reasonably good acting jobs and the film is adequately written and directed. Despite the ambition of the twist ending, there's not a lot here that will stick with you. For less than 90 minutes, though, it's a pleasant diversion.The only thing that separates Never Talk To Strangers from the typical woman-in-peril movie you'd see on the Lifetime channel are a few F-words, Banderas' bare butt and De Mornay's naked breasts. So, if you're looking for a good, racier version of that sort of thing&#x85;you'll find it here.The only truly interesting things about this film are the fact that De Mornay was one of the producers, demonstrating again the principle of Producer Self-Nudity, and that it's a product of the aforementioned De Mornay boomlet. It's one of the more intriguing Hollywood phenomena, where an actress who may have had some success as a starlet but never became a star, suddenly experiences a career resurgence in her 30s. These women usually get one attention-grabbing role and it's like the movie industry notices them again and decides to see if they can squeeze any more juice out of them. Sometimes these boomlets reinvigorate a career, like they did with Sharon Stone. Sometimes it just peters out, like it did with De Mornay. But whatever the reason for them, the 30something boomlet is probably the one thing that keeps a lot of actresses plugging away in movies long after they should have found other employment. I'm pretty sure the beautiful and talented Winona Ryder is wondering when her boomlet is going to come along. "},{"Title":"Untrusting Rebecca De Mornay and inquisitive Antonio Banderas steam up the screen","Date":"11 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Never Talk to Strangers (1995) is a modest film, not a big film in aspiration or delivery. It's a psychological kind of film, centering on a psychologist played by Rebecca De Mornay. She has a torrid love affair with Antonio Banderas. Their sex scenes are unusual in their realism, not filmed in a clichéd or boring way. The two actors do not look as if they are holding back. In addition, one of these scenes shows the more forceful side that sex can have.We cannot predict how the story will end, but from early in the film we get clear clues about what is going on between these two people that lies beneath the surface of their affair. The story is not at all confusing if one follows the trail of clues. In fact, the biggest revelation late in the film is telegraphed again and again earlier.The movie is a vehicle primarily for the attractive De Mornay and she delivers a fine performance. The character played by Banderas is somewhat less fully developed, but he does convey a man who is puzzled by De Mornay and who is falling in love with her. There are several supporting roles that come in, such as De Mornay's neighbor (Dennis Miller) who wants her and an alleged killer (Harry Dean Stanton) whom De Mornay is interviewing to see if he's schizophrenic or perhaps has multiple personalities. There is also De Mornay's father (Len Cariou). These three men all interact with De Mornay and shed light on her character in important ways. The story really very much centers on the De Mornay character, and that character has severe psychological problems. In this way, and because of her looks, the film reminds one of Tippi Hedren in Marnie. Banderas then is something like Sean Connery, but the directions of this story are very different from Marnie and this is a much more modest film.This is a film made to entertain, as most movies are, and I think it does. I liked it. "},{"Title":"Clever Whodunnit","Date":"19 August 2013","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I like this sort of picture, the kind of mystery in which you can't pick out the murderer until the end of the movie. It's not billed as a mystery, though, but that's what it is. Although primarily a mystery, it spends a lot of time as a romance between the two principals, and then switches gears before the onset of tedium. As a result, there is a considerable dead spot in the middle of the film, which may have influenced some reviewers ratings.As I mentioned, the ending is quite clever and the picture keeps you guessing, since there are few suspects to choose from and the ending was unexpected. Rebecca De Mornay was good as the heroine and Antonio Banderas was even better as the romantic stranger. Len Cariou plays her father in a wasted role. Banderas is often better than the material and does not seem to take himself seriously, as witnessed by the number of crummy movies he has appeared in.Never Talk To Strangers is an absorbing, if uneven, murder mystery which has been given short shrift by reviewers on the IMDb website. If you rent it, give it a chance. I'll bet you won't guess the secret to the ending. "}{"Title":"An Interesting Hitchcockian styled thriller a must for Thriller completist's & fans of DeMornay","Date":"28 July 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This Thriller was received poorly on it's release, this is unfortunate as I found much to like here.Firstly I liked the main musical score running throughout the film and the Director was quite clearly going for a Hitchcockian feel, which only partially succeeds though. The chemistry between the leads is excellent and the scenes containing both DeMornay and Banderas are the strongest and most watchable. I have to say I did not think Harry Dean Stanton put too much effort into his part as he was not all that convincing and Dennis Miller was just plain irritating. Len Cariou was okay as DeMornay's father, but really the two leads are the main focus and the main reason to watch this. The love scenes although a bit lengthy were stylishly made and did not detract from the film, the ending although a bit of a stretch was at least surprising and acted fairly convincingly (although I am no shrink).So although being far from a classic I certainly thought it was far from being the worst thriller. I would rate it above the Meg Ryan effort In The Cut & Ashley Judd's Twisted along with Sandra Bullock's Murder by Numbers to name a few. My rating 6.6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"chain-link fence makes great interior decor","Date":"20 May 1999","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Duh, it's a thriller during the early nineties Tarnished Age of Thrillers. I'm sure glad we're past that stage. So yes, if you don't know already, as a thriller it stinks.But as a sex movie, it's not bad. I mean, who else would you rather see getting it on than Banderas and De Mornay. There's one classically trashy scene when Antonio nails the naked and voluptuous Rebecca up against a very trendy chain-link fence inside her very trendy loft. Antonio looks more angry than turned on and Rebecca looks more ashamed and uncomfortable, but she's naked, sexy, and making some happy sounds, so who cares? And who cares whodunit either? "},{"Title":"Intriguing stalker movie","Date":"20 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I like mystery / crime movies where you try to figure out what is going on. In Never Talk To Strangers you have constant questions about who could be the stalker of Rebecca De Mornay. There is a constant tension between her and Antonio Banderas, sexual and mysterious, and it's a delight to watch. I thought both actors gave us a perfect performance in this movie. I read that some people thought the ending was so obvious. Well I can categorically tell you they are lying. Not in a million years you see the end coming. I would never have guessed and unless you saw the movie before or you read spoilers you will never guess either. And that's what makes Never Talk To Strangers special. If you like that kind of movies, with twists and turns, then this one is definitely worth a watch. "},{"Title":"Shadow Play","Date":"4 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** We first get to see pretty blond psychologist Dr. Sarah Taylor, Rebecca De Mornay, interviewing her favorite mental patient convicted serial murder and sex fiend Max Cheski, Harry Dean Stanton. Max seems to be far more knowledgeable in the science of multiple personalities then even Sarah is even though she's supposed to be the expert in these matters. It's much later in the film that we begin to realize how right Max was in that he's suffers from a multiple personality complex himself!Sarah later gets involved with ex-cop Tony Ramirez, Antonio Banderas,whom she met in the wine department of her local supermarket. Tony a guy who can't take no for an answer sweep the icy blond off her feet and within hours the two have a sizzling as well as kinky affair at Tony's loft apartment. The affair between Sarah and Tony gets under the skin of Sarah's boyfriend Cliff Raddison, Dennis Miller, who in how he handles himself may be in need of psychiatric treatment, like Sarah's patients, himself.The movie gets even more confusing when Sarah's father Henry Taylor, Len Cariou, unexpectedly shows up wanting to crash her place, because he doesn't have money for a hotel room, for the Christmas Holiday's. Henry has been estranged from his daughter since her mother died in a car smash-up when she was a little girl. It soon becomes evident that the circumstances of Sarah's mothers death are not exactly as her father told her in fact she was at the scene and made, through brainwashing, to forget the whole thing! As we soon learn it was Sarah's mothers death that was the reason that got her interested in becoming a psychologist in the first place!It's when Sarah starts to get strange packages sent to her, one with the dismembered body of her pet cat Sam, that she starts to suspect that Tony, whom she's now having a stormy relationship with,is behind them. Sarah also finds out by breaking into, at his loft, Tony's personal belongings that he's been keeping a secret file on her, with newspaper clippings and police reports, that go back to he time when her mothers died some 20 years ago! Hiring private investigator Dudkoff, Eugene Lipinski, to shadow Tony's movement he reports to her that Tony may not only be an alcoholic in that he spent $700.00 on booze at the liquor store, in one day, but is also married with a five year old daughter!It's when ex-boyfriend Cliff gets the hell beat out of him by a masked assailant that Sarah finally suspects, if she didn't already, that Tony is responsible for all the terror that she now finds herself engulfed in. ****SPOILER ALERT**** What Sarah didn't realize is that her troubles are a lot closer to home then she could ever have imagined!Nothing special in this Alfred Hitchcock-like thriller with the exception of the typical icy blond, Sarah Taylor, really heating up the screen in her almost X-rated acrobatics with Tony Rameiriz. Something that even the Master, Alfred Hitchcock, would more then hesitate in putting into his films! "},{"Title":"The She-Shrink That Ate Budapest.","Date":"16 September 2007","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Man, is this lousy. It doesn't deserve much in the way of comment so, keeping it brief, Rebecca DeMornay is a highly disciplined police psychiatrist who falls for Latin Lover Antonio Banderas in a wine store, he of the ponytail and jail-house tats. When she cuts loose, she really cuts loose. Other than this torrid affair she's having (and we must admit the affair has its speed bumps) she's a pretty cold fish. Her broke, ailing father shows up for the first time in years and she boots him out. She's also adept at keeping her horny upstairs neighbor (Dennis Miller) at bay. And there's prisoner Harry Dean Stanton who's trying to maneuver her into giving him a diagnosis of multiple personality disorder so he won't have his privates nailed to the wall for the serial murders he's committed.All these people, and perhaps more, are immediately suspect when strange things begin happening to her. Somebody sends her dead flowers. Somebody does unspeakable things to her pet cat. (The next time I see a household pet turn up in a parcel or strung up in the closet or boiled in a pot, I'm going to puke.) So who's doing it? Guess. No power on earth could force me to reveal the ending, but maybe a hint will help childhood abuse.The abuse excuse is an interesting business in itself, far more interesting than the movie. What does childhood abuse mean? Do we mean sexual abuse? Physical? Both? How about whacking a kid over the back with a wooden cooking spoon, hard enough to break it? That's what happened to me and my brother when we were kids, just as similar things happened to all the other errant boys in the neighborhood. Sexual abuse? That never happened to any of us, as far as I know, although I'm not sure it would have been rejected with any degree of animation. In the Samoan village I studied for two years, there was one case of an adolescent boy found playing sexually with a much younger girl. The girl's family beat hell out of him. The boy's own family sent him to live with another branch of the family in another village, an exile that lasted two years. By the time he returned the incident was forgotten by everyone, including the child. (By the way, the little girl we see here is under five so it's unlikely that she'd remember Dad's night-time visits in any case since long-term memory isn't really established until about that time.) DeMornay's experience leading to her mental disorder can be called the social construction of trauma. It's not there unless we put it there. Enough of the psychiatric lecture. That will be fifteen cents.You want trauma? I'll give you trauma. The film absolutely forces us to identify with Rebecca DeMornay's character, right from the beginning. Then, when she has her first tryst with Antonio Banderas, and Pio Donnagio's score is pounding the eroticism into our heads, the camera gives us a shot from over her shoulder of the bare-torsoed Antonio crawling over us with his hairy chest. Now THAT'S traumatic. It makes any male viewer feel as if he's on the floor of the laundry room at the California Men's Colony in San Luis Obispo. Don't get me wrong. I don't dislike Antonio Banderas. It's just that I'm not in love with him. There aren't enough nude shots of Rebecca DeMornay's elfin body in the entire universe to compensate for that kind of anxiety.Here's an engaging way of surviving this movie. Instead of just sitting there puling, try picking out the scenes that were filmed in Toronto and separating them from the ones shot in Budapest. It's a challenge, really, and may, for all we know, preserve your sanity. "},{"Title":"Mornay sauce.","Date":"9 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Rebecca De Mornay can be a fascinating beautiful actress but as for the parts she's given to play,if you cannot say something nice...De Mornay portrays a woman who had terrible traumas as a child with a father she can hardly stand now that she's a grown up and has become a -of course brilliant- shrink.She has an affair with Banderas ,whom we suspect of being (ouch!how original!) a serial killer.Sometimes she recalls Banderas's mother-in-law Tippi Hedren's character in Marnie .But I wouldn't count on itHitchcock died twenty-four years ago ,and a lot of regents desperately try to replace him .Here the director pulls out all the stops to make a thriller with an unexpected end,but that ending is so far-fetched it is absolutely impossible to buy it.The movie includes the obligatory conversations with a serial killer in the silence of the lamb tradition,murders (human beings and cats),split personality,and open ending in case the crowds should call for more.Apparently they did not,and they were right. "},{"Title":"Epic fail","Date":"2 June 2011","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" We watched this at home as a rental. The pacing was okay and there were enough plot points to keep the viewer watching and make it interesting. It was largely predictable, but not in a particularly annoying way. My husband and I discussed several possible twists during the film, finally deciding on the scenario that turned out to be correct. Even so, it was a decent film until the very end when my rating went from a 5 to a 2.I was willing to accept the private detective who gave unrealistically timely and incredibly incorrect updates. What I won't accept is that the police don't follow even the most basic of crime scene procedures after the shooting. The most inept coroner would notice that Tony had not fired any gun and a cursory swab analysis of Sarah's hands would show that she had two different powders on them. I am not comparing this to the unrealistic standards of an episode of CSI, Bones, or Criminal Minds where the world's supposedly best forensic minds have access to the world's best (and sometimes futuristic) crime scene forensic technologies. Even overworked NY City cops would have done swabs in what might seem an open and shut case. Maybe especially in this case as cops tend to be suspicious by nature... "},{"Title":"not bad at all","Date":"20 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I liked the way the story played out-to me most of the actors were convincing in their portrayals of their characters.It didn't bog us down with lengthly background details.I found irony in MS.DeMornay's character's occupation and her character's real life experiences.I see no need to trash her acting ability as some do she's a fine solid actress-not bad looking either.I found it entertaining with a certain scene sequence unmatched  in my opinion-see for yourself.You have to pay attention and not just look at pictures-but to each their own.    "},{"Title":"Works better as a drama than a thriller, after second viewing","Date":"3 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I've been trying to think of a word to describe the main characters in this movie, and the best one is incongruity. A macho-looking Puerto Rican named Tony (Antonio Banderas) dressed in a leather jacket with big silver rings on most of his fingers turns out to be a wine expert and an ex-cop with a great sense of fun and takes his sex either kinky or romantic. An up-scale psychiatrist named Sarah (Rebecca DeMoray) is evaluating a murderer, Max Cheski (Harry Dean Stanton) for Multiple Personality Disorder while she goes through extreme moods shifts. She falls for Tony, who doesn't seem to be her type, yet ends up being the perfect guy to help her with her sexual repression and problems with trust.This movie doesn't quite work as a thriller. It's poorly written and directed. Too many thriller clichés like the over-use of camera shots, quick cuts, and blaring, screeching music at shocking moments. There are a number of stalker suspects - is it Tony? Neighbor Cliff? Dad Henry? Cheski? Yet I never believed any of them to be credible suspects. At no point was I ever on the edge of my seat worried about her being with any of these so-called suspects.The clues, at least, are nicely woven in. Although it makes a sartorial and editorial error when it gives us a clue about the real stalker - the film unwittingly rules out one of the suspects, yet keeps on trying to make us believe he's one of them. I had a sense of who it was by the end. Although I found things about it distasteful and not well presented. I was surprised a couple of things, so I didn't guess the entire ending beforehand.I found DeMoray's acting go from passable to over the top at times. The only one who actually makes this movie watchable is Banderas, who manages to do some good things with the poor material he's given. When the film wants to be an erotic thriller, he's the one, not surprisingly, who gives it the eroticism it wants, not DeMoray. Not that they lack chemistry, but she's not as up to the job as he is. When the film wants light, fun romantic moments, he's the one brings them to the film. When the film wants serious dramatic tension, Banderas serves it up. Sometimes, DeMoray either seems to lag behind him or goes over the top in an effort to match him.In spite of it's flaws as a thriller, once you know what's really going on and watch it again, it makes for a decent drama (as long as you ignore the annoying overdone shocking moments.) Second time through lets you actually understand the whys about things. Unfortunately, most people aren't going to want to watch this thing a second time. "},{"Title":"trust is one of the most dangerous thing in live!","Date":"12 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  SPOILER!!!! damn, I saw this movie once but didn't watch it till the end, yesterday I did and I regret it!!!!!all the time I had the feeling something wasn't right about that girl, Sarah (rebecca de mornay), she had too many mood swings and didn't had her period.  But I had no idea that she was the stalker!!!! and then with the gun, she hated guns but was damn good in it. then I thought o I know what's going to happen, she thinks he is the stalker and then she will cry with the gun pointing to Tony, (anthony Banderas) but he will talk her out of it and then they will hear footsteps but I was death wrong!!! she bloody shoot Tony!!!! and I was really down about that but still, I thought he would survive it but she kicks him and then shoot her father, and even that wasn't the worse that happened! she made it look like Tony shoot her Father!!!!I'm sure I wouldn't be so damn down about it, but this was Anthony Banderas! I really cried!give me the gun, trust me that were the last words of Tony! BANG you f***! that were the last words she said to him!!!!damn, I never trusted someone.... not if that someone had a gun, and now I know why! "}{"Title":"Truly Horrible movie","Date":"18 April 2008","Score":"9 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of the worst movie I have ever seen. It's a thriller with a rather ridiculous ending. I watched this movie hoping for the best and instead found something truly bad. the movie starred two actors that I like very much, Rebecca DeMornay and Antonio Banderas. Sure they had decent chemistry together but for what? The movie's premise was bad to begin with and the execution just made it even worst.Miss DeMornay plays Sarah Taylor, a psychologist trying to analyze a convicted serial killer whose defense hinge on multiple personality disorder. That pretty much will give you a hint to where the movie is going and the identity of the killer. Early in the movie she gets an unexpected visit from her father. This being made in the 1990's when the bad daddy was the in thing in Hollywood is another clue to the ultimate conclusion.Mr. Banderas plays a mystery man named Tony Ramirez, who comes into Sarah's life. The whole first meeting and first encounter between Tony and Sarah is so badly done and so unconvincing it makes you wonder how it even got shot. And there's a sequence where the two of them are supposed to be knowing each other that is so sappy it doesn't seem to belong here. One thing that I would admit was that there was a sex scene that's very hot. Anyway creepy things start to happen after he arrives, weird packages arriving, things falling off the wall that could kill Sarah, incident that say things aren't normal anymore. Overall the movie was badly conceived, the editing at times seem jumpy, and the conclusion was laughable. Another thing that bugged me about this movie was the whole Orchestral music playing in the background. A more subtle musical score would have been better. I have to say this, no matter how bad the ending was, Miss DeMornay was very good in that sequence. It's sad that she never got first rate materials in her career. She's that rare combination of talent and beauty. "},{"Title":"Predictable with an asinine ending","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  With so many good movies coming out in 1995 (particularly Mortal Kombat and Seven), unfortunately, there had to be some bombs as well, and this film indeed falls into the latter category with a boring, predictable plot and a lousy ending.  It seems that Antonio Banderas hasn't been able to find a decent script since Desperado, the only remarkable film he's done. Anyone with an eighth of a brain could tell who DeMornay's stalker was from the beginning. Her flashbacks of the death of her mother did nothing but muddle an already paper-thin story. Pity that Dennis Miller was wasted in this film; this part resembles his eerily similar role in The Net. The convoluted ending had me shaking my head, as I pretty much did throughout the entire movie. Plus, any film that depicts animal cruelty in any shape or form, no matter how fake it looks, automatically gets the thumbs-down from me. To make a long story short, if you want to enjoy a good thriller, then avoid this at all costs. Never talk to strangers...especially those who recommend this movie. 2/10 "},{"Title":"Uh.....","Date":"3 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Well, I must say this wasnt a work of art. Rather that, it practically stunk. If sexy Banderas hadnt been in it, Im afraid I would have turned it off and left. My friend and I have a thing for Mr Banderas, so we rented it. We pretty much talked about other things when he wasnt pictured. I agree with the anonymous person who said a goof by mr director dude gave it away immediately. I will never figure out why he did such a thing. But I must admit, the end, well it was definetly NOT what I expected. I was kinda dissapointed about it though. Seemed cheesy and lame. But if u like Banderas, rent it, fast-forward through any part he is not in...it will save your sanity. Otherwise...I wouldnt recommend this to anyone.  "},{"Title":"Before there was Hush . . .","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought Sliver offered the most boring and trivial trick ending in movie history, but of course I was wrong.  I had no disillusions that this movie was going to be good.  Unfortunately, it was worse than I expected.  The worst part is that the obvious ending is so ridiculous and horrible that you can't believe it until it actually happens. "},{"Title":"Never Talk to Strangers","Date":"24 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The only thing this movie could've used was Banana Face instead of Dennis Miller. He sucks. Who can understand those big words anyway? And he didn't even get his ass bitten in this movie like Antonio did. Antonio got some AB action in this movie if you know what I mean. Know who would have been better than Dennis Miller? Dennis Leary. He's that guy who wrote that song. And furthermore, I mean, who cares about Dennis Miller anyway? So he got beat in the face with a Pipe. No one is like, Oh No! look Dennis Miller got in the face with a pipe. Everyone was like, Hey, Dennis miller got hit the face with a Pipe. That will stop his mouth from moving. When I was getting My ass bit i was getting humped to death by a wickedly smoking blonde Bambino. Alberquerkie can get her ass bitten from new Mexico by a a raging stinking asshole, because they work for like 2 dollars a day. They got real fine skin. You go to Home Debot in El Jabaho and get one. Just ask em, Antonio, what's your name? and there you go. After we use him for this movie we can give him a unicycle and teach him to prance around as a fancy man, like one of those Zorro gags. We could even write a movie for this guy, called The Mexican. "},{"Title":"Oh my god what a load of crap!!!!","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  horrible,  predictable and boring, this movie is obviously for horny demornay fans or just older/middle aged divorced women looking to lust after banderas, they're acting was pretty poor considering what they've done in the past was actully good, in this movie it felt like each of them were just found right from a casting call in hollywood with no experience.... what a cheap rip off of all the old classic thrillers in fact i must say it's an insult to good thrillers...  thank god that year Se7en came out and that kicked the credibility out of this movie..  What's realy funny is the scene in the fence, it was supposed to be special and serious but in all actuality it's hilarious, i mean think about it!!!.. The idea alone that a successful shrink like the character demornay plays just falls for low life bum (who ends up later in the movie claiming he was a cop), who some how had enough money to get a nice new motorcycle, straight off the boat from puerto rico is hilarious cause god knows most female shrinks have such an ego and are soooo snobby that she would have smacked that bottle of wine over his head in the store to begin with had this been an accurate film but then we would never have had a movie(UNFORTUNATELY WE DID), OVERALL THE BEST ACTING IN THIS PILE OF AUDIO AND VISUAL HORSE droppings (i'd much rather use bad words to describe this but i'm going to be civil with my disgust towards thig movie) WAS FROM THE DEAD PUSSY cat. The dead cat was absolutely stunning!!!! i compare that scene of death to al Paccino's death scene in Carlito's way where he's dying. the dead cat was just that good, unfortunately the humans weren't that good.. the movie would've just been better if the porn angle between demornay and banderas went from softcore to hardcore , lets face it that would have won a great award right there... i'd comment on the whole load of bs of wheter or not Demornay was abused somehow as a child, that angle was just put there to add time to the movie not the plot.....please take everything i've said seriously, don't rent it or buy it on dvd if it's offered to you say no thank you i'll wath Se7en, if someone puts a gun to your head and says the only way i'll let you live is if you watch this movie entirely i'd take the bullet!!! "},{"Title":"PASSABLE ENTERTAINMENT","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  but nothing more. DeMornay looks great for the guys and Banderas looks great for the ladies and they fit together nicely in this supposed thriller about a police psychologist who may or may not be the victim of a stalker and who may or may not have been abused as a child. The plot has some twists that are pretty easy to pick up and there are no surprises but it is still more watchable than the usual fare on LIFETIME TV. "},{"Title":"Preposterous and by-the-numbers.","Date":"30 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This derivative erotic thriller remains watchable most of the way, mainly because a viewer is casually curious about how it will turn out, and because the director, Peter Hall, manages to stage a pretty hot (and quite bold) sex scene. But the finale, though unexpected, is preposterous, and the whole plotting (complete with childhood traumas and multiple-personality disorders) reveals itself to be unbearably cliched, especially as far as motivation is concerned.    (*1/2) "},{"Title":"You theenk I keeled your cat??","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The ending to this movie was easy to guess.  Just think of the stupidest possible way to end it.  This movie is like one of those long, drawn-out jokes that takes 5 minutes to tell, only to set up a unfunny punchline. Save yourself the time and watch the last 10 minutes first.  Then you won't have to watch the rest of the movie. "},{"Title":"among the worst movies ever made","Date":"24 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What a stinker!!!  I swear this movie was written by a computer that took a whole pile of other movies and merged them all together into this platypus of film.  Ouch! "}{"Title":"Thriller without the thrills, just the er!!","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What could have been a reasonably interesting idea ends up as an underwritten piece of dross in this turgid film. Directed in such a shambolic way,Never talk to Strangers sleepwalks its way through one uneventful plotline after another.There is no build-up at all.  Indeed the opening half an hour is one of the slowest you will ever see in a film with aspirations of capturing the attention of even the less demanding viewer.The acting by the leads is passable at best with Antonio Banderas particularly poor as the ubiquitous tall and dark stranger/suspect.It seems as if all elements required to make a decent 90's thriller have been thrown together hastily and what is left is a desperately disappointing letdown.  "},{"Title":"De Mornay & Banderas Set the Screen on Fire","Date":"30 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Enjoyed the plot to this story and some very torrid scenes and horrible blood and gore all put into one package. Rebecca De Mornay,(Dr. Sarah Taylor),Wedding Crashers,'05, played a shrink who was dealing with a mental case in a prison and also had a husband who was a doctor in the same hospital. One night on the way home from the hospital, she meets up with a young woman in the middle of the road in a very dark woods near a bridge. It is at this point in the picture that things really go crazy. As the story progresses, Sarah meets up with Antonio Banderas,(Tony Ramirez),The Legend of Zorro,'05, who manages to hit on Sarah and gets a date and plenty more interesting torrid events. There are many twists and turns to this mystery tale and the ending of this film may greatly deceive you. "},{"Title":"I think Miller said it best","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I remember seeing this film one night on TV scrunched between a Very Brady chritmas and Benji gets stuck on a  Leg.  This film is a pretty standard thriller with Banderas being a typical bad guy who does the main things in a psycho-thriller to the victim).  Not too great of a film to watch, unless your a fan of the actors.  And I think co-star Dennis Miller said it best in a rant on animals a few years later- (Come to think of it, I'm an animal. Where were the animal rights people when I signed up to be in that f***ing Rebecca De Mourney film a while back?).  And he might've been right, I think.  C+ "},{"Title":"Not that bad, surely","Date":"11 October 2000","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Yes, the plot devices were, at times, obvious. Yes, there were clear hints to the outcome in the early stages of the film. Yes, some of the acting wasn't great.But, I didn't think it was that bad, and (forgive my ignorance in psychiatric matters if this is wrong) that implausible either.I think, in acting terms, it was a general disappointment in the two main star actors who have done much better work than this. But don't be too harsh.  "},{"Title":"Never liked this!","Date":"19 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Forgive me, but this work of director Peter Hall is horrendous.  If you can't get to us with the plot, why not kill someone's cat or dog.  That surely reaches the audiences.  This viewer is tired of seeing animals sacrificed for the plot of a movie.  And, believe me, I saw it coming before she opened the package.  How predictable can you get.  Take a cute animal then kill it in a gruesome way.  I have never been a fan of De Mornay and this performance tells me why.  Overacted and somewhat stagnant in interpretation, I found her rather silly and definitely boring.  I did like Banderas, but felt bad that he had to play opposite De Mornay.  He has done much better in other films namely  Philadelphia where he had some honesty in his dialogue.  In this chestnut he did his best to keep his character real.  But the writers, Green & Rush, did a good job in preventing this with their trite storyline and insipid dialogue.  Please, let us not be subjected to this kind of entertainment.  Some of us aren't fooled by corny plots, bludgeoning animals and generally long winded dialogue.  Seeing her get away with it, made me furious. "},{"Title":"Bad film.  (SPOILER)","Date":"24 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sorry I couldn't be more expressive in my summary, but those two words seemed to describe the movie perfectly.  This is not only a bad film, but a bad film with bad acting and a plot that will be inconsequential to most watchers.See it only for a naked Rebecca De Mornay tied to a chain-link fence and moaning with 'ecstasy; supposedly 'erotic', but actually hilarious. "},{"Title":"RUN, lest you get sucked in.","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A few minutes in NOT credible.  What idiot wrote this? But, What's going on...who's the bad guy...then there's that Rebecca De Mornay.  Time passes....THE END.NOT CREDIBLE.  What IDIOT actually watched the whole *@#! thing! "},{"Title":"Unsurprising, boring thriller","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Not surprised this was a bad movie - after all, it's Canadian. But did it have to be so uneventful? You could walk away from almost any part of this movie for 15 minutes or so, and not miss a thing! And because of a goof by the director, I figured out who the killer was a long time before anyone else did. "}]