[{"Title":"About the Title","Date":"16 June 2004","Score":"21 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I remember liking this movie when it came out, and thinking what an odd and somewhat misleading title (just ask for it at Blockbuster and watch the funny looks they give you). Except for the great and recognizable cast when looking at the box, one would expect a more prurient, less substantive, late-night cable skin flick from a movie so titled. But the title though is appropriate as the movie is about friends, behaving like the girls of their childhood, sharing laughs, gossiping, and candidly baring their psyches at a bachelorette party. It is interesting, funny, sexy, and even innovative (like, it was a good idea to do an entire film focused on women just conversing candidly -and the viewer is an eavesdropper). Having just seen the newly released DVD version, it occurred to me how reminiscent the dialogue and style is to Sex in the City, which started its run several years after this movie. It is not a great and serious film work, but it is good, interesting, well-made, and may be a good conversation starter.  "},{"Title":"The most unfairly overlooked comedy of the 90's","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"18 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Live Nude Girls appears to have been the blueprint for 'Sex in the City.This extremly funny movie was never released in theatres as apparently it was considered to sexually frank for 1995.My how times have changed, with the subsiquent succses of the above mentioned show its high time this brillantly acted,written and directed film got the attention it deserves.Career best performences are put in by most every actress in the film.Discussing the film in detail would rob the viewer of the suprises that help make the film such a treat.I strongly recommend the film to any and all. "},{"Title":"the best chic flick;)","Date":"21 February 2005","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I saw this movie years and years ago, and was impressed not only by the quirkyness of the film but also about where the film takes you throughout the movie.Its basically like being inside the mind of woman from a sexual perspective, from a perspective of female bonding and her life. The ironies, the joys the pains the relationships. (the pains! hahaha!) Basically leading the woman to herself and the fact that women always have one thing in common together which always brings them back together.A great female bonding movie, a great movie about diversity and also quite amusing as well!Highly recommended for women with a sense of humour who like to shmooze and bond with other women;P "},{"Title":"Ever really observed, as an outsider, a relaxed coffee klatch?","Date":"25 March 2005","Score":"13 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie was exactly like what I have witnessed in real life. It captured the essence of the woman's take on sex in modern America. It was a delight to see it played out so true to life on TV. It portrayed both the angst and delight of women's growing sense of sexual freedom. It also captured classic types and how they differ as they venture onto this new, uncertain ground. Talking more frankly as the tempo from the day through the evening quickens and each confronts and encourages the others to drop their public persona, revelations shock and titillate each in different ways. They also try to temper their tendency to be judgmental and recover and be supportive. As they reveal their idiosyncratic, even kinky, fantasies, the defenses gradually drop. Actual sexual behaviors are revealed. Those more modest and fearful of disapproval relax their defenses when they hear their friends daring escapades. These revelations stimulate recollections and reminiscences of 'first' experiences and youthful sexual foibles. This allows them to become really transparent about their suppressed unconventional longings. Gradual mutual acceptance and support leads to a sense of empowerment to experiment and take a chance of being themselves, insulated from traditional female fear of losing their reputation and becoming stigmatized. A new strength comes from their new bond in womanhood that gives them a new found freedom and courage to own their authentic sexuality. "},{"Title":"Interesting","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Being a male I had often wondered what women think and talk about when they're on their own. I had no idea that it would be so obsessively sexual. In any case, this movie is an interesting examination of the lives and relationships of a bunch of women, each of whom have their own hang-ups and problems, but with a close-knit friendship which binds them together. The title can be somewhat misleading, although there is plenty of nudity involved, as this movie is more about women empowering women than about male exploitation/domination of women. A different slant in the old 'friends get back together for a reunion/wedding/death/whatever and talk/explore their past/renew bonds/whatever' genre. Worth a watch - 7/10.  "},{"Title":"Funny and original","Date":"22 April 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I don't have much to say about the film, but I guess that's mainly because I was too engaged throughout most of it to really think about it aesthetically. I always feel that good acting, writing and characters are the three most essential elements to a good film. Live Nude Girls has all three of those elements. I'm usually not hesitant to watch chick flicks. I'm not saying this so that women reading this comment won't want to slap me in the face. I'm just a film buff in general, and I don't have much of a bias when I watch films. A good movie is a good movie. But during the first 20 minutes or so, even I was thinking, Hmmmm...this might be too much of a chick flick for me. Let's face it, there are certain things that women find amusing that men don't. If some woman made a joke involving a white sale at Bloomingdale's, I probably won't get it. But as the film progressed, I almost fell in love with these characters, and found certain elements that relate to my own situations with my friends. I did find it funny how the writer/director had the female characters talking candidly about sex and getting drunk, while the male characters were just playing pool and engaging in innocent, mundane conversations. I doubt a group of men would really throw such a dull bachelor party with no strippers, but it was funny nonetheless. And like with the show Sex and the City this film shows that men are not the only ones who can talk on and on about sex. True, we talk and think about it more, but that doesn't mean women don't talk about it at all. Being a heterosexual man, I can't help but admit that I found the copious female nudity and sex scenes between two women pretty damn stimulating. And I've had the hots for Dana Delaney ever since I saw her in Exit to Eden. The film has plenty of funny moments, though there are some broad jokes that seemed a little out of place. Man or woman, you should check this film out. You'll probably be pleasantly surprised. "},{"Title":"Pretty Funny","Date":"11 September 2001","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I consider myself very critical of movies, so if I have something good to say, it means something! )  The title initially put me off.  Here I was thinking it was going to be a senseless comedy about Live Nude Girls (wonder why I thought that!), but it turned out to be a funny view of what happens when girlfriends get together.  I found it to be quite honest!  The best part was when the friends are sharing their dreams, and Cynthis Stevenson's character imagines herself as a Barbie Doll.  That part had me rolling!!! "},{"Title":"The textbook definition of You'll like it if you like this sort of thing.","Date":"4 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is like a precursor to the HBO series Sex and the City, except it's less cutesy, less melodramatic and not at all obsessed with puns. If you'd like to see what Carrie, Samantha, Miranda and Charlotte looked and sounded like about a step earlier on the evolutionary scale, you'll find it in Live Nude Girls.Less a story and more an extended monologue on women, sex and relationships that's been split between 6 different characters, this film is about the night some old friends have a bachelorette party sleepover. I don't know if a group of women all pushing up against 40 getting together for a slumber party was considered normal in Los Angeles in 1995 but it's the nail this story is hung on, so you've just got to go with it. Georgina (Lora Zane) is a confused bisexual who's thinking of switching back to men. Jill (Dana Delaney) is the raunchy one with the happy marriage that's never really talked about. Rachel (Laila Robins) is Jill's uptight sister who's staring down spinsterhood. Marcy (Cynthia Stevenson) is the awkward one who ends up banging her house painter, who then starts stalking her. Jaime (Kim Cattral) is the neurotic B-movie actress who's freaking out about her impending third wedding. Chris (Olivia D'Abo) is Georgina's current girlfriend and one of the least convincing lesbians in cinema history. A cross-dressing Benny Hill would have been more believable.The entire film is essentially these 6 women sitting around and talking about sex, with occasional cutaways for flashbacks and fantasies, with undercurrents of Georgina's sexual indecision, Jill and Rachel sniping at each other, Jaime's overwrought case of cold feet and a couple of secrets that, of course, end up blurted out before the night is over. There's also a decent amount of female nudity, an embarrassingly bad gay stereotype and a weirdly sympathetic view of men for this sort of film. Nothing in this story ever gets resolved or figured out or fixed. The movie just starts and these women yap away until it's over.If you want to watch women yapping about sex and relationships, you'll probably enjoy Live Nude Girls. If watching Sex and the City feels like someone is trying to suck your brain out through your nose, you probably won't like this movie. There's nothing wrong or bad about it, but it's entirely one of those things you either really like or you really don't. You're going to have to make that call yourself. "},{"Title":"So This is Femininitude!","Date":"20 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Six young women sit around at a bachelorette party and drink margaritas and eat pizza. Collectively they're a rainbow of personality types. Let's see. There's the flighty soap opera actress getting by on her good looks. (That would be Kim Cattrall.) Then there's the square who wanted to be a ballerina but turned out to be a bored CPA, Cynthia Stevenson. And there's the hostess, a bisexual chef, Lora Zane.It all looks like fun. Oh, the girls may bicker at times but they get over it quickly and the next minute they're laughing and having a wonderful time again.Personal problems of a dramatic nature are explored. Well -- explored is the wrong word. Glanced at is better. Most of the conversation revolves around sex and includes the revelation of masturbatory fantasies, sometimes about kinky dreams or experiences, several of them illustrated in flashbacks or imaginary sequences.Gosh. I didn't know girls talked like this! I mean, I was aghast. Here they are slinging around words like clitoris. (What's a clitoris, again?) And sodomy -- only good, old-fashioned Anglo-Saxon words are used, while those of Latin parentage are avoided.The pace is headlong and the movie is never boring. It's especially not boring when Kim Cattrall is running around in this tiny pink piece of lingerie -- I don't know what it's called -- the shoe-string thin dorsal strap of which disappears for most of its length within her gluteal sulcus. I found it a little boring when the gay chatter turned to domination and bondage but then I'm not into that sort of thing, although I never seemed able to convince my ex wife of that. And actually it was instructive to learn about how to insert a tampon.It was also educational in the sense that I learned that ladies of this ilk don't use the F word as verbal punctuation nearly as often as men do. I was a little disappointed in not finding out what the bisexual hostess did when she was with her lesbian lover. Tribadism, cunnilingus, mutual masturbation, some kind of plastic instruments -- what? There isn't really a nimiety of nudity and not an abundance of simulated sex. It's not really a dirty movie. More like one of those plays in which everyone gets progressively tighter on booze and more revelatory.I must say I didn't get that much of a kick out of it. I kept wondering why it was made, but others might find it more familiar and friendlier territory. I've always thought Dana Delaney deserved better than she's gotten in the way of roles. There's something about her big shiny teeth and naturally compressed lips that suggests a healthful blend of sexuality and nurturance. And Kim Cattrall is always enjoyable as a madcap vampiress. The other performers aren't bad either, however much the over-emphatic script, with all that fake cackling, tries to undo them. "},{"Title":"decent....","Date":"29 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I liked this movie...whether you are 18 or 80, I think everyone can relate to this story. It is a group of friends that spend the night together before a major life changing event. it shows how they deal with certain situations. The title is misleading but I don't think that this movie should be shot down just because they don't deliver a porn. It's more of a movie for a night in with some of your closest friends. It has many instances that can be seen as points that every friendship goes through. there are secrets that are hidden from some friends that come out in the end and sibling rivalry is also apparent. the character of chris seems out of place at times but in the end she pulls everyone together. "}{"Title":"Six Women Having A Mid-Life Crisis.","Date":"12 October 2008","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I bought this DVD because it featured Dana Delaney and Kim Cattrall, both of whom appeared in 'Masquerade'. I knew the film would not be as raunchy as the title would suggest. I suppose that I had a bit of male curiosity about how women act when men are not around. With the film being written and directed by a woman, I expected that the depicted female behavior would reflect reality.Well, the women here are all unhappy with their lives to varying degree. All the characters reflect on their life choices and wish they had made wiser decisions at various points. These women have known each other since childhood, so they cannot easily avoid unpleasant truths about their lives. As the alcohol flows, inhibitions fall and the characters start to frankly discuss subjects they have never felt free to discuss with anyone else.Of these women, Jill (Dana Delaney) seems the most functional. She is not thrilled with her marriage and has just discovered that she is again pregnant. Still, her marriage seems stable and bearable and she is not looking for an exit from the relationship. With some work with her husband, she could probably have a very fulfilling marriage.Jamie (Kim Cattrall) is a modestly successful actress and emotional wreck. She has had two failed marriages and is having a near emotional breakdown on the eve of her third marriage. The characters of her previous husbands are not discussed, but they probably were show business types. Here, she is going for the unglamorous choice in an accountant. Kim did so well in this role because it probably hit so close to home for a woman in show business. Still, Jamie is relieved and delighted to learn that her fiancée's bachelor party was a dull and pedestrian affair and nothing threatening to her relationship went on. With this reassurance, Jamie is eager to plunge into another marriage.The host for the slumber party Georgina (Lora Zane) is having the greatest crisis. She is growing increasingly tired of and dissatisfied with her lesbian lover Chris (Olivia D'Abo). Georgina is bisexual and having increasing pangs about having a baby. She is a chef who is feeling an increasing attraction to one of her male co-workers. I suspect that Georgina turned to a lesbian relationship when she got hurt in a conventional love affair. Still, she is finding it difficult to endure a relationship overflowing with estrogen.Chris (Olivia D'Abo) is emotionally so insecure and needy that Georgina is being sucked dry trying to deal with her. Chris apparently has no job and is solely supported by her lover. All Chris wants to do is hang around the house and have sex with Georgina. Chris can feel the growing discontent and is anxious about loosing her relationship and having to earn her own living again. After living with Chris for a while, men are starting to look much more appealing to Georgina.The film ends with the drunken women frolicking nude in a swimming pool and little apparent change in any of their lives. This reflects how life mostly involves constant repetition of established patterns of behavior. The film has the courage to end on this realistic note rather than some incredible epiphany of awareness and radical change of course. None of us mortals lead totally fulfilled lives. Rather we all struggle to survive life's challenges as best we can. Kudos to the writer/director for having the courage to present this reality. "},{"Title":"Nice title, but not really the plot!","Date":"17 February 2005","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I thought this movie ways going to be more than it was. It starred Kim Cattrall (Sex and the City) so I thought it had to be somewhat decent. It's basically the story of 5 girl friends that get together for a sleepover and end up discussing sex quite a bit. You see a flash or two of the husbands supposedly at a bachelor party that they're supposed to be at. I guess one of the girls didn't trust the guy and wanted nothing to do with him. I really liked how the characters acted with each other. They each had their own personalities of course. This is one movie that I could say I watched and definitely say I would NOT watch it again because I just didn't care for it. It was labeled a comedy and I don't think I laughed that much at all! "},{"Title":"Inebriated partially-clothed middle-aged women","Date":"2 February 2003","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  As pointed out in other reviews, the veracity of the title leavessomething to be desired.  I humbly suggest my one line summaryabove as a more truthful substitute.Having panned the title, what about the film? ..nothing worth paying  theatre admission prices to see, but it will still cost you 95 minutesof your life, even if you see it free.And why would you want to do that?  Maybe if you are curious abouttechniques of character diminution that women can employ oneach other, you could find examples here.  (BTW, note that I didn'tsay ALL women do this.)Then there is Dana Delany, who plays Jill, the strong one for thebetter part of the movie. You may wind up hating her as her truecharacter in this role is revealed, but she is good at what shedoes.  In her other film works she brought life to Exit to Eden in areally silly role as the queen of an island where people go to playout their sexual fantasies.  She plays a beautiful, but dirtydouble-crossing woman  in The Right Temptation in which shecons Rebecca DeMornay into seducing her husband.Most of the problems with this movie center around the annoyingoveracting, exaggerated gestures, and excessive foul language. You may get the feeling that you're watching an episode of anR-rated soap focusing on an all-girls club meeting. But, what theheck, if you like that sort of thing, why not? "},{"Title":"Boring","Date":"5 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Now when I say boring I don't mean it isn't realistic I have no doubt that women do talk this much about sex when there alone but since they all seem so unlikable (with the exception of Olivia D'Abo who plays the  lover of one of the women who reunite in this film), I didn't care about what happened to them.    "},{"Title":"Hmmmmmm....","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  And the oscar for the most misleading title in the history of film-making goes to... (you guessed it!) Live Nude Girls!If you see this film as the late night movie in the TV guide, it wont do you any harm if you have an early night. It is boring. An opening scene is fairly steamy (anyone who watches this film will know what I'm talking about), but you can switch it off there. The title of this film must of been invented just to get more people to watch this film. But the audience that dose end up watching it will be dissapointed. The story is a group of ladys (over 30) just talking about stuff. You hear the 'F' word mentioned a few times, catch some quick glimpses of small, wrinkled breasts, and, well, thats about it! Think of it as a very tame 'Sex and the City' episode.Perhaps this is more a film for women in their 30's. A group of ladys talking about life and sex. But if that was the filmmakers target audience, why call it 'Live Nude Girls?'. That title gives a whole different audience to the film, and alot more critisism because of this. If they would of changed the title to, say '30-something Women', it could of attracted a whole new audience, and, perhaps, greater appreciation.But, on the whole, whatever this film is called, it is of no interest to me. "},{"Title":"Live Nude Lies","Date":"2 September 2005","Score":"7 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The tragedy is that some people -- men *and* women -- will watch a movie like this and think that it reflects the truth -- how women really feel, etc. It's utter baloney, and the fact that a woman wrote this garbage is testament to one woman's willingness to write anything in order the appeal to the lowest common denominator and make a buck. Same goes for the performers involved.This flick was apparently a precursor to prettily-packaged toxic waste like Sex in the City -- and the tragedy is that, watching material like this, gullible men end up thinking that women enjoy degrading, unpleasant sex acts, and women, God help us, end up thinking they are *supposed* to enjoy them. Saddest of all are the little girls who see this stuff on TV and have developed no defenses against it. "},{"Title":"Kim Cattrall always rates a 10!!!","Date":"20 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Some films defy carping criticism.  With a cast such as this film  boasts, all 30+ beauties, plot and technique become as irrelevant as Hans Blix.   Kim Cattrall (a certified goddess), Cynthia Stevenson, Dana Delaney, ...etc... -- what a feast for the eyes -- I'd watch them taking turns reading the phone book! "}]