[{"Title":"Just great","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"39 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Funny, absorbing and smart movie about a no-budget film and the people trying to make it.  The movie plays around with reality and dreams without getting too obscure or serious.  It's well-done, well-acted (one of those rare movies where the entire cast is great), very funny and very smart. Naturally, this bombed...it was TOO intelligent for mainstream audiences and how do you market a film like this.  But it plays on IFC all the time and it's basically one of the best films of its year and one of the best on the art of films and filmmaking.  If you even slightly like movies, you have to see this.  Don't miss it! "},{"Title":"A great hidden documentary of a film","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"25 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  For all of us who have worked on a film production before, watching Living in Oblivion is an honor and an enjoyment. For once you have experienced what it is like to work in that kind of atmosphere with that group of people, you accept it even more. A story about a director making a movie, Living in Oblivion holds many true tidbits and crazy moments that occur regularly on a film shoot. The relationship between the director and the D of P, the treatment of the actors between the other actors and the crew, and most importantly, how a director holds himself with one member of the production with another. Altogether, you got an amazing film that tells it like it is. A pure, a true enjoyment. "},{"Title":"Very funny film about the hazards of independent film making","Date":"4 December 1998","Score":"26 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Living In Oblivion is a mad-cap, zany, and often surprising film about everything that can go wrong while making an independent film.  Superbly acted by the entire cast, especially Buscemi, Keener, Martens, and Mulrony, the movie is full of twists and turns that keep you longing for more.  Tom DiCillo's wit and humor are outrageous in the best sense.  Beware, however. The movie is full of well-used and perfectly-placed profanity.  Not for the weak at heart where such language is concerned.  If you've got the stomach for good, solid funny times with lots of 'off'  words, this one will do it for you.  I give it a 10.  I've seen it more than 3 times and its humor holds through each viewing. "},{"Title":"What a dream of a movie","Date":"13 January 2001","Score":"27 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of my favorite movies and it aggravates me that it's the kind of movie that always seems to slip through the cracks. In other words, nobody watched it. It's hilariously funny and yet the public in general don't either get it or find it funny. I not only laughed a lot but found the acting to be excellent. Buscemi's performance of a Indi' film director going through the rigors of dealing with inept film crew, egotistical actor's, in-crew relationships and not to mention a certain dwarf with a major chip on his shoulder. If you are a film buff and know a little more than most about movie's rent it. 10 out of 9  "},{"Title":"A smart, biting sleeper","Date":"9 July 2003","Score":"19 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Living in Oblivion is one of your video store's coolest secrets. Writer-director Tom Dicillo takes a satiric look at independent films while capturing the ups and downs of making a movie. For the cast and crew of the film within this film, the downs hilariously outnumber the ups.Steve Buscemi shines in an all-too-rare lead role as the frustrated director. There's also great work by James LeGros as the pompous leading man, Catherine Keener as the insecure leading lady, and Dermot Mulroney as the broken-hearted cinematographer.Dicillo is especially concerned with the nightmares and daydreams of his characters, and rightly adopts a dreamy visual style that shifts between black and white and color.It all adds up to an uncommonly intelligent, artistic, and funny(!) comedy that deserves your attention. "},{"Title":"Film maker's delight","Date":"22 August 2004","Score":"17 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film captures the true essence of the stresses involved on a film set. The story is about the characters involved in the process rather than the film-within-a-film. While the film is funny it is so close to the bone that I was initially surprised to see it appear in the comedy section.Steve Buscemi is right at home in this film, his influence rubs off on the support actors, and his stress is convincing. This film makes you squirm but laugh - unlike conventional comedies - in this film you identify and live with the actors.The screenplay timing is superb and taunts the audience to an almost stressful level. Offset this with lots of comedy and you're left with a powerful mix. You are almost relieved when it is over... but you are left with great memories of a strange but enjoyable film.Absolutely the highest possible recommendation, especially if you can relate to film making, acting or directing.  "},{"Title":"One of the most entertaining films about film-making ever made","Date":"5 October 2005","Score":"16 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Steve Buscemi may or may not have been the first choice by writer/director Tom DiCillo for the lead role of Nick, the director behind the three (err, one) film(s) being made within the film Living in Oblivion, but it works so well it's impossible to see anyone else in the role. Buscemi, who is one of the prime character actors of the past fifteen years, has that range of being grounded, of being out of control, of being funny, and of being sincere even in the strangest circumstances. His character, as the quintessential indie film director of the film, tries to keep some control on what goes on, but as is seen, things don't go quite as planned.Living in Oblivion is one of those little delights for a film buff to see, or perhaps of a particular film buff. On a personal level I connect with some of this as I was a production assistant on indie films that were not far off from this. DiCillo, whether or not you've been in situations like this (which most of us haven't) brilliantly captures the coldness on a set, the uncomfortableness, the technical difficulties, and just the plain old emotional toll that goes on with the film-making process (notably, when it's under a million dollars being made). That it's a comedy of errors helps a lot, and that you never really know which way the story will turn at times. The film is split up in three acts, the first (for me) being the strongest and most affecting, as Nick tries to direct Catherine Keener's Nicole Springer in a heartfelt talk with her mother. Multiple takes bring on more woes, until Nick finally snaps (one of the funniest scenes perhaps in any film from the 90's). The other two segments come closer to being as great, one being a slick scene involving a buff man and Nicole, and the other being a very strange dream that has some kinks to work out.I've seen this film now several times, and the first time my enjoyment was more in the surface comedy of it all, and of course the performances. But with each passing view I get more and more what film-making, and what makes 'indie films' or just films in general, so appealing- there's drama, but there has to be some humor to get in the seams; there's romance, but not always in the ways you'd expect; when it's realer, more power to it. The ending also, while maybe the weaker part of the film, is still charming, and gives an idea as to what pleasures can come from such chaos on the set. I love it. "},{"Title":"A MUST for film school students!","Date":"24 May 2005","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Sundance film festival award winning comedy film depicts the process of making an independent/student film quite cleverly. Yet another A movie about making a movie sub-genre, written and directed by Tom DiCillo, I believe it his best film yet.Sliced into three parts, the movie features the difficulties of film-making through the character's dreams. Yet, what is dream and what is real, you don't realize till they wake up.Buscemi plays Nick Reve (Reve in french means Dream), the frustrated trying to get it right director, and you know by Murphy's Law that when he shouts ACTION! something will go wrong. It is amusing yet almost annoying as we get to be frustrated with Buscemi's character, and after that, it appears that it was just a dream.The character of the arrogant actor Chad Palamino played by James LeGros, resembles Brat Pitt in appearance. It is said that Pitt was cast for this role, and since he was busy with another project, LeGros was chosen. Some say that Palamino's character might be Tom DiCillo's way of portraying Pitt's behavior on the set of his debut film Johnny Suede in 1991. Dicillo denies it. The pearls of this film* The scene where Palamino shouts The only reason I took this part was because someone said you were tight with Quentin Tarantino!, which is a role model for success in the indie film industry since Tarantino is the recent indie filmmaker that became a star director. * The transition from monochrome to color and vice-versa as a difference between reality and film reality, a lovely gimmick.* The 30 second Room Tone scene, where everybody is fantasizing about their life dream. This film is a treat for filmmakers and in general a fun film. People who are not filmmakers will enjoy this film as well. The film is only 91 minutes and I wanted more. I give this movie 10/10 and just because it is so underrated in the majority of movie rating websites. "},{"Title":"Funny and interesting, if convoluted, movie-about-movie.","Date":"25 September 1999","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Living in Oblivion is an unusual, funny, and interesting example of the movie-about-movies genre, focusing on the low budget, independent movie making scene. The lead performances by Steve Buscemi and Catherine Keener are first-rate, and the supporting cast is excellent as well. The film veers from satire to realism to surrealism in depicting the problems and tensions involved in off-off-Hollywood filmmaking. One problem with its structure, though, is the repeated dream trick. Its first use creates shock and interest, but its second use creates a serious distraction in the third act since the viewer keeps wondering whose dream he or she may be in this time. Overall, an enjoyable film - highly recommended to indie film buffs.  "},{"Title":"Indie Hell","Date":"20 July 2003","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Indie director Tom DiCillo has produced a small (as yet) body of work, but has shown consistent flair for making movies which exude great affection for his characters.  This affection is contagious; the actors seem to relish their roles and in turn many viewers will share the enjoyment.Indie stalwarts Steve Buscemi and Catherine Keener (who's graced four DiCillo movies) shine as director and actress on a trouble laden indie shoot. Keener does a virtuoso turn in a scene calling for her to perform the same take over and over, each time with less and less conviction.A Box of Moonlight and Real Blonde while having comic sides to them, also have much depth.  Living in Oblivion is an outright comedy; it's lightweight, but very funny. "}{"Title":"Have you ever had a dream with a dwarf in it?","Date":"8 October 2007","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Living in Oblivion (1995) - is a 91 minutes long low-budget independent movie about trials and tribulations during making a low budget independent movie called.. Living in Oblivion. Writer-director Tom DiCillo made in 1991 a film called Johnny Suede starring a young and unknown at the time actor named Brad Pitt. Johnny Suede was a failure with both critics and viewers but an artist can learn from any experience however disappointing or devastating it is. DiCillo wrote a short story from his frustration and turned his experience into a smart, funny, playful, and highly enjoyable second feature Living in Oblivion that takes place during one day of shooting a low budget film. Photographed with the color-to-black-and-white transitions, Living in Oblivions has surreal, strangely poetic and amusing quality to it.The cast is solid and consists of DiCillo's friends who are the regulars in his films. Steve Buscemi, the king of independent movies, in the rare starring role, plays Nick Reve, a long-haired, dedicated but frustrated director who in the moments of creative inspiration has to get back to earth and to deal with the tensions between his leading lady (Catherine Keener, before her star-making turn in Being John Malkovich but already a wonderfully talented beautiful and sexy actress) with whom he is silently in love and the male star, arrogant egotist Chad Palomino (James LeGros does an un-flattering but hilarious and quite accurate impersonation of the real life model for Chad). If these problems are not enough, there is eye-patch wearing sensitive leather-clad cameraman named Wolf (Dermot Mulroney) who went through a painful break-up right on the set. There is a great scene with an irritated dwarf Tito (Peter Dinklage) who was hired for a dream sequence and who hates dreams with the dwarfs in them Have you ever had a dream with a dwarf in it? Do you know anyone who's had a dream with a dwarf in it? No! I don't even have dreams with dwarfs in them. The only place I've seen dwarfs in dreams is in stupid movies like this! There is also a smoke machine that explodes every time when turned on...And to top it all, Nick's senile mother surprisingly shows up during the shot and eventually saves the dream sequence and the movie. That's what the mothers are for, aren't they? "},{"Title":"One dream reveal too many","Date":"18 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Nick Reve (Steve Buscemi) is the director of a low budget film. Nicole Springer (Catherine Keener) is his star. Wolf (Dermot Mulroney) is the artistic cinematographer. Wanda (Danielle von Zerneck) is the production assistant. The shoot keep getting interrupted and Reve blows up but it's all a dream. Reve directs another sequence but it turns out to be Nicole's dream. Then the filming continues on a dream sequence with angry Tito (Peter Dinklage) as a dwarf.It's a perfectly fine as a behind the scenes indie but the two dream reveals just annoyed me. The movie is not particularly dramatic or funny. The first dream reveal deflated my expectations but the second one was the real killer. By the time the third section comes along, I didn't care about anybody or anything in the film. I do understand Tom DiCillo is trying to portray but one dream reveal is more than enough to get the point across. "},{"Title":"More conceptually entertaining than actually entertaining.","Date":"5 December 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Tom DiCillo's (yeah, never heard of him either) thinly veiled attack on (1) Brad Pitt and (2) Indie film-making is a movie about making movies joining much better films such as Barton Fink and, to a lesser extent, The Player in this sub-sub-subgenre. It follows the always corpse-like Steve Buscemi as a director just trying to film two scenes in a seemingly awful low-budget independent production that has the distinction of snaring a megastar who is trying to build cred played by Brad Pitt look (sorta)-alike James LeGros. The Pitt character (the comically named Chad Palomino) is pure satire of the spoiled star who believes their least inventive whim is pure genius while the others are fleshed out to the extent that we get a look into their interior lives, anxieties and to some degree hopes. There are extended dream sequences, some attempts at Spinal Tap-esque humor (and the smoke machine went crazy!!!!) and a whole lotta characters tossing F-bombs at one another (shocking!!!). Everyone on the set has slept with a least one other person, Buscemi's addled mom shows up and the whole mess tries way too hard to be either funny or poignant or insider hip or something. If you ever wanted to see Buscemi try to carry a film or if like to feel hip by picking a movie that makes fun of movies themselves you might enjoy this -- I didn't. If you want a movie about movie-making, try Hooper, the 1978 Burt Reynolds vehicle about stuntmen making movies. Believe it or not, there was a (really brief) time when Burt Reynolds was so bankable that studios would sign a blank check and let he, Hal Needham, Dom Deluise, Mary Lou Henner, sometimes Sally Fields and random celebrities like quarterback Terry Bradshaw or drunk (may he rest in peace) Dean Martin just go out and wing it in front of the camera. Hooper is a complete mess but actually entertaining as opposed to tightly directed and produced but only conceptually entertaining. "},{"Title":"is it just me?","Date":"29 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I finally saw this movie after hearing how great it was and I didn't like it.  I seem to be the only one.  Did anyone else think it was just... flat? For satire to work it has to be subtle (at least subtle in the right places) and it has to show us something we didn't know about something we did, if that makes sense.  What I mean to say is that it has to say something new about something we thought we'd made up our minds about, namely the thing that's being satirized.  Does anyone find it a refreshingly wacky thing to suggest that movie stars have big egos and act like jerks?  Because I don't This movie, to me, is not subtle.  The performances, in particular, were obvious and blunt.  The writing was, I felt, the same.  I didn't care in the least whether the movie ever got made, I didn't find Buscemi's character at all sympathetic or interesting, and while he was supposed to be the straight man, the Kafka-esque bearer of all things ridiculous (egos, zany mishaps, etc.), I just thought he was boring and irritating.  Every time I tell someone I didn't like this movie, they say, Well you just don't like independent films.  But I do like independent films.  Honest.  Am I alone here?  I couldn't wait for it to end. "},{"Title":"I can't believe I sat through this","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This must be one of those movies only people involved in the industry can really find entertaining. I found it under the comedy section at my local movie store, yet I failed to see any comedy actually in it. When a whole movie centers around a movie crew agonizing over three separate scenes, almost everything begins to seem repetitive. Better left for those sorry nights when you have nothing better to do than numb your mind.The only thing I found redeeming about this movie is the fact that Steve Buscemi stars.Sorry, I hated this movie.  "},{"Title":"It helps if you're making films","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Not nearly as funny as I'd expected, LIVING IN OBLIVION seems too geared towards people who are actually involved in making independent films.  If you've had trouble with props, or had to deal with pretentious hacks, this might be hilarious; for the rest of us, it takes far too long to get going. You don't need to be in a band to love THIS IS SPINAL TAP, or be involved with theatre to like WAITING FOR GUFFMAN.  But LIVING IN OBLIVION feels more like an in-joke than a hilarious comedy.  "},{"Title":"Nice comedy about Indie movie-making","Date":"8 November 2006","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Living in Oblivion is an indie movie about one day in the life the kaking of an indie movie called Living in Oblivion. We see that day in the form of dream sequences from the point of view of the lead actress and the director. Overall, this is a low budget film that is well written and has a good cast of talented but less famous actors. Indie favorite Steve Buscemi is the director of the movie and is his usual quirky self. Real-life husband and wife Dermot Mulroney and Catherine Keener - both very good actors - appear in the best performance I have seen either of them in. Keener in particular has a tough role repeating the same scene over and over again and giving it tiny nuances and changes. Mulroney looks right out of a 50's pirate movie with his eye patch and funny clothes. The actor who played Chad Palomino - the movie's star - was quite irritating. I wonder if that was completely intentional or the director chose to cast an irritating actor. The overall tone of the film is light and upbeat despite small irritations destroying what should be a very easy scene to film. Not boring at all, Living in Oblivion is a fast paced 90 minute movie. "},{"Title":"not worth your time","Date":"1 April 2003","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the worst movies I have ever seen.  The plot goes nowhere and the characters are so stupid that I lost interest about five minutes into it.  Sure, there are references to crazy things that happen on set during the filming of a movie, but the jokes (if that's what you want to call them) are so poorly executed that you can't tell if it's a comedy or a drama or something else.  If you want to waste an hour and a half of your life...this movie is for you. "},{"Title":"Oblivious","Date":"12 January 2004","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Spoilers herein.I'm usually a sucker for this kind of thing dreams about movies, movies about movies,  movies about dreams. This one even begins by referencing the widely recognized  prototype Valentina Cortese's problems in multiple failed takes in `Day for Night.'But if you watch that film, each repetition is from a different perspective as you peel an  onion that is the rationale for the film. This one seems to have none at all except it  would be a hoot for a few actors.I saw this together with `Lovely and Amazing' which employs all the same key actors  minus Buscemi. It was coherent and nuanced. This is blunt, blunt, blunt.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 3 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"9 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I have absolutely no idea why this jewel isn't known by more people. Seriously Living in Oblivion is one of the most underrated films ever. Maybe it's because of its low budget and independent release. I'm not saying the movie's perfect, cause I don't think it is, but it should definitely get more recognition that it does. The film is funny as hell and insightful, it shows you a side of movie making that feels very real, as the characters do feel like actual people struggling with certain situations in their lives. Steve Buscemi is great in the film as the struggling director who is just trying to get his film done. Pretty much the whole cast does a great job. Danielle von Zerneck, who plays Wanda, the Assistant Director, is absolutely brilliant. This is apparently the last film she was in and I really have to wonder why. She did a fantastic job in this one. Like I said, the movie is flawed, in my opinion, as there are certain scenes which feel like they stall the plot. But there are very few of these moments in the film and they don't take away the fact that Living in Oblivion is an excellent film. "}{"Title":"Independent Film!","Date":"14 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Film about filmmaking. It takes place during one day on set of non-budget movie. Ultimate tribute to all independent filmmakers.It should come as no surprise that the director of this film learned the trade under the wing of Jim Jarmusch. The film has a very Jarmusch quality to it, and if it had his name on it I would not have been surprised. Especially the black and white scenes. We also get some great guest stars -- Steve Buscemi, obviously, but also Catherine Keener and Peter Dinklage.Not everyone will like this movie. It is a movie for those who make movies, and for those who love the making of movies. Especially independent films with little or no budget. "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"2 June 2011","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is an Awesome Film with in a Film. Buschemi is very good playing the lead role as we usually see him playing cameo roles. If you are a film maker like myself I would recommend watching this film, other films similar to this such as The Independent, Bowfinger and the small indie film's American Movie and Le Fear hold weight in this genre, however Liing in Oblivion has to edge it for me and has it all when it comes to films in this genre, it also has a back story which makes it more interesting as both lead actors Catherine Keener and James LeGros have a fling and the atmosphere on set is intense. my rating for this movie is 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Among Spinal Tap and The Commitments as a Personal Fav","Date":"3 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Just one of the most engaging, likable, watchable films I've ever seen.What?!!! I am not going to write 9 more lines of fluff to satisfy some arbitrary requirement by the web site. You want a comment to improve the site? Stop with the 10 line minimum. Brevity is the soul of wit. Q.E.D.Now is the time for all good men...I could have Danced all night, I could have danced all night and still have begged for...Oh, Hi, White Fang. Is that meringue pie for me?The good ol' song of Wah-hoo-Wah, We'll sing it o'er and o'er... It cheers our heart and warms our blood, To hear them shout and roar. "},{"Title":"Lukewarm indie","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Living in Oblivion is a nominal indie comedy about a day on the set from hell of an indie film director (Buscemi) who struggles with technical problems, personality conflicts, etc. The film takes the audience through take after take and scene after scene, cluttering it with interjected dreams of the cast and crew, with little purpose or entertainment power. Lacking the story content and character depth of other DiCillo films, Living... should be filed under Last to watch and will be of more interest to film buffs than the public at large. (C) "},{"Title":"A Low Budget Movie About Making a Low Budget Movie","Date":"9 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a low budget film about making a low budget film by a guy who seems to always make low budget films. What this film reveals to us is not only the problems and the stress that comes about with all film making, but that which is generally connected with making low budget films.What sets low budget films apart from other normal films is that because there is a huge limit on funds available, other things are needed to draw the crowds, such as real characters and experimental filming techniques. This film begins in black and white, but when the filming begins, the film switches to colour. In the next section, it is the opposite, with the normal sequences being in colour and the filming sequences in black and white.Living in Oblivion is divided into three parts, and each of these parts a different scene is being filmed. The whole goal of this movie is that a scene in the movie is filmed, and Nick (Steve Buschemi), the director, seems to always run into problems when the filming begins. The way DiCillo makes the movie, which is very similar to what he did in Johnny Suede, leaves you wondering what is real and what is not. He is very clever with his dream sequences as they are indistinguishable from reality, except that everything ends up destroyed. Yet, the dream sequence in the film that is being made is the opposite, with smoke machines and dwarfs.The lead actors in the film are also important. One is a struggling actress who only did a shower scene in a Richard Geare movie. The famous actor is a complete snob and wants everything done his way, and he prances around acting as if he owned the entire movie. It seems that DiCillo is making a comment about actors who think that they make movies and without them the movie wouldn't exist. It is interesting that a Hollywood writer said that there is no such thing as a bankable product, and just because an actor is popular, doesn't mean that he is going to make millions from a movie.Living in Oblivion is a type of movie that I like because it focuses on characters and the relationships that cause problems. The director is not afraid to experiment, nor make comments about people, such as famous actors. Mostly, he tries to reveal to us what it really is like on a set of a low budget movies, and the problems that they face. "},{"Title":"Best Film Ever Made by a Human Being","Date":"1 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Having spent the better half of the last 7 years working on both sides of the camera, I can sympathize with filmmakers and actors. Most people have this mistaken notion that All you have to do is push a button and act a little here and there. But that is not the case at all. Whenever the camera is rolling and the director calls ACTION, practically anything could happen... and often does! What's so great about LIVING IN OBLIVION is that Tom DiCillo turns the camera around and shows us what really happens behind the scenes. And nothing is spared. We get to see the odd mix of nerves, ennui, exhaustion, desperation, disappointments, and surprises, deftly handled with a comedic touch. Steve Buscemi (who is no stranger to directing) gives his best performance as Nick Reve, the quirky director who tries to keep everything from falling apart. And if ever a struggling filmmaker needed some inspiration, this movie would grant it! For anyone thinking of making a movie, I'd highly recommend watching this movie and American Movie on a double bill! "},{"Title":"Do you want her face, or do you want acting?...","Date":"31 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Small, low budget films hold a special place in many film goer's hearts. We embrace them as our own special offspring. It's an irrational attachment we have for them, like kidnapping our neighbor's child. But cinema, apparently, is some sort of expression of our collective desire to be acknowledged, to be contributing to the public conversation. That's a bizarre, absurd role to demand of independent films, of any film, but that's the weird world we've been born into, isn't it? The ignored, unnoticed independent film is often the container and conveyor of our most salient, real desires. Frustration and anxiety are palpable, ever present qualities of modern life, and low budget films should not be exempt. Tom DiCillo has incorporated these discomforting, disturbing qualities into his poignantly absurd film. The production of the film within the film is at the mercy of unpredictable, arbitrary forces, like malfunctioning smoke machines, incompetent crew members, emotionally distracted actors, and just plain bad luck. Nothing is as effortless and perfect as it is in the real movies. This revelation elevates this film into the realm of essential; essential for anyone who is considering making their own independent low budget film, and essential for any fan of quality non Studio, non mega budget films.That it can be so impossible just getting a single scene into the can &#x97; the expression for capturing on film a worthwhile moment &#x97; is a potent metaphor for all our own endeavors. We are continually assaulted with the infinite demands of our mundane lives but are so wiling to sacrifice so much of our precious time to the act of getting it just right, whatever it may be. We need to be succeeding at something, anything, in order to feel worthy. And maniacal persistence is the indispensable means to success. However, it's usually a non productive hobby, past time or diversion that occupies us so insistently.Living in Oblivion is a rare opportunity to examine this impulse of ours to perfect relatively minor, inconsequential things. The conceit of the film is that we, the audience, like to believe that we are above and beyond such tedious, temporal concerns, yet we are equally, undeniably fascinated by the intricacies of the inner film's creation. How would I do it? is a question that frames every scene. But our involvement is irrelevant. That's the paradox at this film's core. That's the ultimate message here, that we, the audience, are inconsequential. That might sound bleak and morose to some, but I found it deeply satisfying. I am not responsible, in the end, for this film's success. I am only watching.Tom DiCillo has earned a reputation as an iconoclast, as a rebel, as an anti establishment defender of the individual. I'm not sure just how justified is this reputation - he has lately directed arguably crappy TV such as Law and Order - but still, he proves himself a potent source of genuinely profound insights in this film. You will learn what it feels like to be an ambitious, hopeful, idealistic artist working in a crass, indifferent, commercial world. That's a rare treat.The fact that Steve Buschemi, Katherine Keener, and Dermot Mulroney are so wonderfully natural is proof that Dicillo has golden instincts. We are granted access to these artist's most transcendent talents. I've seen them all in many different, fantastic roles, but here they are at their absolute best, their most real. That's a quality that nearly all films aspire too, but so very few achieve. Enjoy this film for this commendable fact along with the knowledge that it's nearly impossible to make a film like this today or ever again. (David Lynch did it in 2006 with his Inland Empire which has been ignored by the general film going public. It's a monumentally original, powerful, revolutionary film experience. Charlie Kaufman also accomplished a tremendous feat of originality with his phenomenal Synecdoche, NY from 2008. Both films are subtle expressions of artistic desire in the face of a coldly indifferent, if not outright maliciously violent culture.) "},{"Title":"OK, lock it up ...","Date":"25 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" When this came out it was marketed as a slacker or Indie comedy, so I was especially careful to avoid it. Big mistake. I just saw this now out of a misguided sense of completism, and it's a great movie. Tom DiCillo is like one of the guys who tells your favourite joke, the one you have told hundreds of times, but in a way that people actually laugh at it. It actually IS an indie comedy about the making of a low-budget movie, but don't let that throw you off.This movie also proves the great comedic value of repetition. When that dwar-- ... erm, vertically disadvantaged person walks around Catherine Keener with his apple for the twentieth time, this otherwise trivial scene just cracks you up. In a way I'd advise you to NOT watch this movie after you have inhaled, the same way I'd advise you against mixing acid with zombie movies.It's all in the magic mixture of an excellent script, excellent actors (the smaller roles (no pun intended, but Tito is also great) as well as Keener and Buscemi) and excellent direction. Hollywood please take note, more is not needed for an intelligent and entertaining movie.I'd give 8 points but as this movie really surprised me and needs to be seen by more people I'll gerrymander it up to a gleaming 9. "},{"Title":"On The Outside Looking In","Date":"26 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Steve Buscemi plays a character named Nick, a frazzled, stressed out director trying to make a low-budget independent film, in this fictional movie from real-life director Tom DiCillo. It's an insider's look at the world of film-making, wherein everything that can go wrong on a set does go wrong, from actors who forget their lines, to unwanted, extraneous noise, to fragile egos among the various stars. The film clearly makes the point that life on set of an independent film is tedious, grueling, and frustrating.The film starts off in B&W, then changes to color, then switches back and forth between B&W and color. Most of the scenes are indoors, and consist of simple, basic film sets; there are almost no outdoor shots. Parts of the plot consist of various dream sequences; this can get a tad confusing, but I guess it really doesn't matter, since the entire story is a fantasy anyway; one might even construe this ambiguity as a homage to Fellini's classic film 8 1/2.Living In Oblivion is billed as a comedy. Indeed, there are some funny segments as, for example, when Chad Palomino (you gotta love that phony Hollywood name), the hotshot stud with the huge ego, tries to out-direct the director. On the other hand, the film's plot can be irksome when it becomes repetitive. Numerous takes of the same scene not only are frustrating for Nick; they're frustrating to us viewers as well.This film gets points from me for being different. I also like the film's theme of crew collaboration. Overall, Living In Oblivion makes a good effort at showing what life is like on a movie set. That's a perspective that most outsiders probably will find interesting. "},{"Title":"Watch this movie!","Date":"20 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Sometimes a movie comes along that doesn't have any guns or cyborgs or yakuza ninja assassins and makes a damn fine movie. Watched this movie on a whim because it had Buscemi in it and I couldn't believe how good it was. You don't need to be trying to be in the biz to watch this movie, by the way, the comedy and the characters stand on their own.  "}{"Title":"Well I'm sick of it! You can take this dream sequence and stick it up your ass!","Date":"26 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" You're the director of a low budget film and all you have to do is get all the different disparate elements to come together and get everyone to peak and not screw up all at the same time, and then you're making a mother f*cking movie. Apart from on this day everything seems to be going wrong. Relationships are falling apart, actors aren't acting, stars aren't starring and the crew seem more intent on getting in front of the camera rather than staying behind it.In Tom Dicillo's perfect satire on the troublesome process of movie making, the comedy of errors that transpires is one of the funniest that has ever been put on celluloid, with Steve Buscemi flawless and hilarious as the director having a nightmare as events conspire to spoil his film. The dialogue is so damn good that it becomes the kind of quotable fare that just filters into your regular daily language. Dermot Mulroney and Catherine Keener are also excellent as the neurotic actress and art-house cameraman respectively. Whilst there is much dispute over which sequences is the best, for me, it's the last one filming the dream sequence, with the dwarf with an attitude problem who makes mini-me seem like an ewok on Valium.If it's at your video store rent it, if it's for sale buy it. It's well worth the purchase and will b a film that's a joy to watch more than once. "},{"Title":"Classic Indie Film","Date":"23 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie is definitely one of my all-time favorites. I've enjoyed watching this movie over and over. This is Steve Buscemi at his finest. I've learned to love the other actors, too. You either get this movie or you don't. It's different and that's what makes it work. I love independent movies like this that don't follow the Hollywood formula.Basically, the movie was originally made as a short, but was too long. So, they added two more scenes making it into a full-length film. Seeing how the characters interact in the various takes was great. A film about making a film. And, it worked! Highly recommended for its unique indie flavor. More please! "},{"Title":"Reminded me of  Spinal Tap","Date":"2 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I think most here have seen the comedy This is Spinal Tap about a group of idiots masquerading as a rock band. This is kind of the same thing except it's a film crew. Steve Buscemi plays Nick, the director of a low-budget movie who's just trying to film a couple scenes but something keeps going wrong with every attempt. He likes to act calm when the confusion reigns but time and again he loses it and starts throwing things and hitting actors or the crew.Buscemi is the only big name in the film but his co-stars are equally good. James LeGros plays actor Chad Palomino (love that name) who thinks he's god's greatest gift to women and takes his acting much too seriously. Peter Dinklage is a riot as the extremely handsome and arrogant dwarf . And i loved the women who played Wanda, the sexy director's assistant whose job appears to be just yelling at everyone. "},{"Title":"A hidden gem for movie fans","Date":"10 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is The Actor's Nightmare for the film industry. The entire ensemble cast is perfect, both names and unknowns.If you've ever been involved in making a film (even as a student), your heart will ache for them even as you laugh out loud -- and quite probably even if you have no personal experience with film-making you'll have new insights on why making something where the finished product runs a relatively short time can take forever to capture.I initially thought Chad Palomino HAD to be a sendup of Brad Pitt -- and while listening to the director's commentary I nearly choked hearing him say Pitt was originally slated to play that role but ended up with a conflict (apparently finishing Legends of the Fall) and had to back out.Steve Buscemi, already a favorite of mine from many indies, is a revelation in this film; he has a leading man quality, for lack of a better term, that I hadn't seen from him before (presumably because his look makes most directors loathe to cast him as anything but an odd duck), but he's still as interesting as in anything else I've seen him do.Spend some time with this film; you won't be disappointed! "},{"Title":"Living In Oblivion","Date":"4 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" How would you classify Tom DiCillo's film Living in Oblivion, metafilm? The narrative of a film within a film dissects the difficulties experienced during the process of creating an independent motion picture, set with a focus upon cinema's dichotomy between the director as the creative author and film being a collective effort spilt between many hands. While the narrative's structure (conflict/climax/resolution) is paced and moved by the soap opera-esquire exchanges amongst the cast and crew of the project, it is still unsure if DiCillo believes that cinema's nature is either of the aforementioned, but rather a synergy of the two. He makes arguments for both cases, showing how the multi-faceted approach to film-making can slow/change the intended vision and that the director can also not understand how to portray his own vision. As a conclusion Dicillo posits the idea that the ends, more or less, justifies the means. That a film can be made in many different ways, in many different hands and the same juvenile disputes, short comings, technical problems will be met along the way. This is not to suggest that these means are not important, Dicillo's makes them the entire plot of Living in Oblivion, but he rather he wants to give a window for an audience to view (while dramatized) into the world of film production. While this is a seemingly contradictory statement, Living in Oblivion is a contradictory movie, and DiCillo leaves the audience with the feeling that a film has been made and the future of that film will in no way reflect the journey the cast/crew took to get it there. "},{"Title":"Original, Creative, Raw, Funny","Date":"24 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" If you are looking for an inside look into how low-budget independent films are made, see this movie. It's a comedy and all in black and white (except the movie-in-the-movie scenes - they are in color). This is where I really saw and noticed Catherine Keener and how talented and amazing she is. I have been a huge fan of hers ever since.This movie is funny, light hearted, creative and thoroughly entertaining. Steve Buscemi is the star and he plays a director trying to shoot a low-budget film and what's funny is the day-to-day stuff and the happenings on and off the set.One character in the film is a big Hollywood celebrity type that had stupid and insane needs to be met on the set and tries to improvise and change the scenes because he thinks he knows more than the director, writer and other talent there. People say it was based on Brad Pitt, but the director/writer disagrees and dispells that myth. It's funny, nonetheless, because as the audience, we don't see what these A-list celebs ask for off-camera to make their experience worthwhile. I never even thought about it until seeing this film. Now I wonder when I see an A-list star in a low-budget or independent film if they have crazy and insane requests or if they try to change the film while taping, etc.Film is thoroughly enjoyable, great escapism and very funny. Highly recommend. You'll have a new appreciation for independent and low-budget films. "},{"Title":"A test for filmmakers.","Date":"18 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Every now and then, I get an urge to rent this film from the one store in the area that has it - a Blockbuster. Plot summaries don't really work for this movie. There are comedic aspects to the film, although it is mostly understated. The 'milk' gag is not terribly funny, despite what has been said about it. The humor is wonderful. If one were living in the situation, it would be a hellish job. But the joy of what is done in the film-making process comes out toward the end of each scene. Love is found, and the perfect shot is achieved. We see that the people involved are real, in their desires, and their petty weaknesses. If you can enjoy the process represented in this movie, you can enjoy the process of making a movie for yourself.Aside from that, the pacing is moderate, and if you don't like listening to dialogue, you won't enjoy the movie. But by all means, try it. If you like it, all the better. "},{"Title":"And ................. Action!","Date":"31 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It's common knowledge that filmmakers that run out of ideas or can't come up with a decent story tend to make a film about film-making itself; merely throwing together their recent experience and hope that it will result in a fascinating feature. We have been subjected to some real dross over the years but 'Living in Oblivion' is the proverbial exception to the rule, in that it isn't merely a conglomeration of funny disasters but they are assembled around a rather ingenious idea. As with every flick about film-making you have the different levels of the movie itself and the film that is in the making. This allows the director to switch between those different realities and blur the line between what is real and what might be merely a reproduction of reality. The basic location is a low budget film set run by a fairly incompetent and neurotic staff and apart from all the technical difficulties, true disaster strikes when the human factor raises its ugly head. The film can be roughly divided in three parts. In each part, hopelessly overworked director Nick Reve tries to cope with all the problems that can and inevitably will occur on any set and tries to prevent the whole thing from falling apart. With moderate success I might add. I don't know if you have to be interested in film making as such or if you even have to have some first hand experience to relate to this movie but I would have thought that its all kind of self explanatory. Although we would never have suspected it, the first two parts are dream sequences, thus giving the whole thing another level and hence another layer of reality, whilst the last one depicts the shooting of a dream sequence in real life. Quite clever methinks. However, the line between dream and reality is not quite as clear as you might think cause occurrences and events from the first two parts lead to what will happen in the third. All this is rather clever but what makes this an utter delight from start to finish is the directors eye for detail, how the whole thing just builds up and the great cast that is kinda stereotyped but spot on nevertheless. From the crappy catering and the bossy floor manager to the vain actor and the arty farty director everything fits just perfectly to depict an authentic scenario of underground film-making. I'm not really into comedies as such but I laughed out loud on several occasions during 'Living in Oblivion'. I really enjoyed it all the way through, but then maybe I'm a bit biased as Steve Buscemi is one of my favourite actors. "},{"Title":"Terrific movie!","Date":"22 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  To be honest, all has already been said about this film. Though it may appear dull and slow  to the Schwarzenegger/Diesel/Stallone audience, it definitely IS HILARIOUSY FUNNY, as well  as a true gem for everyone interested in GOOD ACTING! Steve Buscemi and most of all  beautiful yet underrated Katherine Keener pull out all the stops and make this movie fly miles  high above its admittedly limited script. You really have to watch it yourself to understand  what I mean. Prepare, though, to see the same scene acted five times or more, but at the  same time, prepare to witness the divine subtleties (and horrors) of filmmaking. If you rated  ScoobyDoo 9 or more, please stay away and don't mess the ratings of this masterpiece! "},{"Title":"More hipster junk from the indie dumpster","Date":"4 July 2010","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I stood this for 4133---root canal is more bearable than this gruesomely predictable time- waster from the indie psycho ward. All the by-the-numbers indie elements are here zero budget, non-existent production value, flaccid pace,edgy characters (=weirdos), cut-&-paste script (no more than a collection of notions about what a film *really* is)---in other words, the same old indie riff.*Yawn* They crank these things out, like sausages, for the tax break that these born-to-lose duds provide- --their only reason for being. These indie dogs have a liturgical quality---lovable losers struggling through life, make you laugh/make you cry, blase blase. Absolutely nothing new here. The inevitable Steve Buscemi--- hideously loathsome in the stomach-turning Ghost World (2001), is here doing his indie thing (=pre-psychotic nut-job) for the ten thousandth time. Next case. This is pure indie, to the bone ad infinitum, ad nauseum, ad absurdum. There will always be a small hard-core audience for junk like this, just like the market for '70s TV sit-coms, banjo music, political documentaries, etc. Bad & The Beautiful (1951) and Le Mepris/Contempt (1963) are the real-deal films about movie-making, made by pros who knew what they were doing---but for grown-up adults only. Indie-stoner characters will salivate over this, for sure---they're an easy sell. It's worth noting this pimple got SEVEN awards. From whom, and for what ? Citizen Kane (1941) only got three. "}{"Title":"1%","Date":"20 March 2002","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This IS one of the worst films I have ever seen in my life.  I saw this at a time in my life when I was watching 2 films a day for about a year.Perhaps you have seen TC2000 (I hope not), it is worse than that!Seriously, there is only 1 joke in the film, it's about coffee, but because there was only 1 joke I replayed the joke 5 times.  It wasn't even a good joke. But the film was so undescribably bad.The whole film is just a film crew trying to film this scene, and each time they try, there's a noise, and they have to try again.  They try over and over again (it's very repetitive) and each time there's something.  You get really sick of seeing the same boring scene again and again, so sick, as if you have played tetris 10 hours/day for 3 weeks, or as if you have been reading in the car. There are 3 scenes, each is like that. The only way the film could have been any worse is if they had stuck to just the one scene all the way through.The scenery doesn't change at all (99% is the same scenery and repetition)Funnily enough, I watched this film twice in a row,, afraid that I may have missed something (as so many people liked this film). But no, I hadn't missed anything, infact my dad came in and for 10 minutes he couldn't watch it any longer. DO NOT WATCH THIS FILM, Although, I wouldn't mind buying it, and showing a 5 minute clip of it to friends, for a laugh at how they could make a film like that. (it's the same all the way through so a clip summarises the whole film) "},{"Title":"Hidden Gem","Date":"25 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Place this in a time capsule and see how much future generations will relate to Nick and his adventures. The strength in this movie is the casting and just watch to see how the indie scene in the '90's could formulate this cast. Buscemi plays one of his most memorable characters in his facet (which is saying a lot for the King of Indies). Catherine Keener perfected her Catherine Keener-demeanor (if there ever was one) in this flick and gave a new purpose for Preparation H. Peter Dinklidge gives a deep concentrated monologue about the 'importance' of dwarfs in film. Dermont Mulrony rocks the s**t out of an eye patch and has some of the plays off of every actor so casually that it is characterization to the highest degree. And poor James LeGroes missing out on the Brad Pitt boat because he out-pits Pitt! Tom DiCillo was an indie master before this with his previous work with Jim Jarmusch but the fact that he never settled for the high road after this flick makes him miss his mark as a new Billy Wilde, and instead had to settle for being Tom DiCillo "},{"Title":"The only reason I took a part in this movie was because someone said you were tight with Quentin Tarantino.","Date":"18 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Nick (Steve Buscemi) is directing a low-budget film called Living in Oblivion, that is having a lot of problems during the filming. When the crew is ready the actors can't remember their lines and when the actors are making the scene in a superb way the camera isn't filming. Things like that are even in Nick's dreams and in the dreams of his main actress, Nicole (Catherine Keener), so Nick must deal with the problems of making low-budget films.Living in Oblivion, the second film written & directed by Tom DiCillo, is one of the most original films that i have ever seen and is an hilarious and strange low-budget comedy about low-budget film-making. The film is divide in three parts showing the dreams of Nick and Nicole and one real scene of Nick's film. But is all fun with this director and his bizarre crew dealing with a Hollywood star (James LeGros) who wants to change the film and with the mother of Nick (Laurel Thomby) who is interfering with the filming. The dreams are just how Nick and Nicole would love to deal with a problematic situation like that, Nick insulting everyone and Nicole ruining the Hollywood star and falling in love with Nick. But for me the most surrealistic sequence is actually the real one of the film with Nick's mother acting better than the real actors.Basically the plot is really simple, showing a lot of takes of the three different scenes but there is always a different detail for every single take and a different reaction of the great characters, you will be asking now, what's next? what could f*ck more the film of Nick?The cast is just superb; for me this role ranks in Steve Buscemi's top five, and that's a really difficult decision because he is an amazing actor with many memorable characters like Mr. Pink, Donny or Seymor from Reservoir Dogs, The Big Lebowski and Ghost World. I really love this character that was based upon Buscemi's own experiences during his first attempts of making his debut film Trees Lounge. The supporting cast is amazing too, with the lovely Catherine Keener as a not very famous actress who's major recognition was a shower scene in a Richard Gere film. James LeGros is really funny as Chad Palomino, the Hollywood star who works with Nick just because he think Nick was tight with Quentin Tarantino. And Dermot Mulroney as Wolf, the loyal camera man who is always supporting Nick.Conclusion Tom DiCillo was used to this kind of situations due to the difficult filming of his debut film, in Living in Oblivon he creates an hilarious parody of low- budget films that all the cinema lovers must check. This film is one my personal favourites of the 90's and maybe ever and is a gem of low- budget film-making. 10 out of 10DVD this film is practically unknown in Mexico so i have to order this DVD. Is a single edition with some bonus like comments of Buscemi and interviews with DiCillo and Buscemi. In cases like this one, to can watch a film like this is just enough. "},{"Title":"Real inside joking about trying to make a movie...!","Date":"26 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is for anyone who's ever tried to make a movie, or worked on a low/no budget film, it's a laugh-generator engine... but ya gotta be on the inside to really get some of the jokes.Living in Oblivion is that wonderful kind of film that pulls you in, gives you a few points of reference, and then turns things upside down in classic screwball fashion.As a screwball film it follows all the conventions of the genre, but with a great twist, so that we become unsure if we're watching real life, or some approximation of reality.The story is about an independent film director, attempting to complete his film, based on his own personal experiences- Or at least that what the film seems to be about at times.Nick Reve (Steve Buscemi) is trying to complete his low/no-budget film in Raw Space Studios in New York, and things just keep going wrong, from his pretentious cinematographer Wolf (Durmot Mulroney) who ends up wearing a beret and eye patch to star actor Chad Palomino (James Le Gros) who keeps re-interpreting every scene in the movie that the crew is trying to shoot. Things start going wrong right from the get-go when Reve tries to shoot a one-shot dolly in on a scene where Nicole (Katherine Keener) and Cora (Rica Martins) are daughter and mother emoting about a past event in the family. As the action progresses we discover that those in charge of making the film within the film are less than capable to the task. Things reach a nerve-wracking level when we suddenly discover that we are inside the nightmare of the director, and the action begins again. Later to complete a fantasy section for the film a dwarf actor is hired, Tito (Peter Dinklage) to act in a scene with Nicole, but things keep going wrong with adverse reactions to the script and Nick's direction. We're never sure if the movie gets finished but old wounds get salved and another day of creating is successfully completed.It's the little touches in the film that make this inside joke such a pleasure.Highlights are the scene with Nicole and Cora, where we feel that real emotion is being observed and something pure is artistically derived, only to be sidetracked by the incompetent bumbling of the comedy of errors that make up the film crew.Another great section is the one where Nicole and Chad are trying to finish a scene after having sex the night before and carrying all the baggage from that involvement onto the set, with all the accompanying vulnerabilities standing in their way of connecting creatively.The other great section is when we discover that Cora, the mother character of the character in the film within the film earlier, is really the director's own mother. Confused? It's all very funny once you start putting it all together in your own mind.There are some really great quotable lines in this comedy. When you want to really insult an actor call him a Hostess Twinkie Mother F*****- you get it when you see the movie.Another great bunch of lines Chad Palomino Ya know the only reason I took a part in this movie is because someone said you were tight with Quentin Tarentino. You're nowhere man! Tito Have you ever had a dream with a dwarf in it? Do you know anyone who's had a dream with a dwarf in it? No! I don't even have dreams with dwarfs in them. The only place I seen dwarfs in dreams is in stupid movies like this! Although the movie Living in Oblivion will appeal specifically to film-connected people and those who have attempted to create a crew-involved film, even normal people will find laughs in it.You'll come back to this film again and again to look at single scenes to laugh at the stuff that goes on. "},{"Title":"More than just a movie about a movie (minor spoilers within)","Date":"19 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Ever since the invention of motion pictures in the 1890s, watching movies has been a favorite pastime of people all over the world.  Knowing this, one should find it surprising that the average person knows little to nothing about what actually goes on during the production of a movie, nor does he or she understand how much backbreaking work is put into even the most abysmal features.  For the uninitiated, Tom DiCillo's 1995 feature Living in Oblivion will serve as a both an education in filmmaking and a wake-up call to better appreciate an art form many of us take for granted.  It can also be seen as a light-hearted warning to those who are considering a career in the movie industry, or as a refreshing, close-to-home satire to those already involved.To briefly summarize, Living in Oblivion is a film about the making of a film--an independent, low-budget drama with the same title.  Steve Buscemi plays Nick Reve, the film's hopelessly frustrated, strung-out director who's just trying to make it through the shoot in one piece.  The many hurdles--both technical and personal--that come with the territory of shooting a low-budget picture are depicted in a way that is unnervingly realistic, yet absolutely hilarious at the same time.  We learn right from the get-go that filmmaking is one of those ventures where anything that can go wrong will, and Nick Reve's movie is certainly no exception.Aside from just being well-acted, the characters in Living in Oblivion are very original and complex.  I found such depth in character to actually be somewhat surprising, since the movie's premise is relatively simple, and much of the character development isn't really needed for the jokes to work.  But the fact that DiCillo has incorporated a distinct personality and back-story into all of the main parts really helps add to not only the believability of the characters and their actions, but to the viewer's emotional attachment to them as well.  Even though we're laughing, we can feel Nick's aggravation as take after take is blown by one minor difficulty or another, and by the time he finally cracks and vows not to finish the production, the audience shares in the disappointment of the onscreen crew, who have been giving their all to make sure that this film makes it to completion.  As viewers, we can see that Nick's production is really nothing more than a tacky romantic drama, but because it is a labor of love, we develop a relationship with it anyway, and are therefore genuinely saddened during those few moments when all hope is lost.Living in Oblivion is also rife with imagery and visual effects that help to punctuate its mood as well as the characters' relationships with one another and with Nick's movie itself.  The first third of Oblivion (Nick's dream sequence) is in black and white, while the scenes of his production are shown in color.  To me, this represents Nick's total devotion to the project.  This movie is everything to him (it is `the light', so to speak), and showing its scenes in color juxtaposed with the stark black and white shots to represent reality help illustrate his passion for his work.  Conversely, Nicole's (the lead actress, played by Catherine Keener) dream sequence uses the exact opposite technique, showing the movie's scenes as black and white, while reality is in color.  Again, this helps to justify her relationship with the picture-reluctant and detached.Living in Oblivion may appear simple and unremarkable on the surface, but appearances can be deceptive!  Hidden within the film's straightforward storyline and seemingly pessimistic humor lies a very clever look at the human need for involvement, power, passion, and triumph.  It may be difficult to pick up at first, but repeated viewings will tell you that this is undoubtedly more than just a `movie about a movie'. "},{"Title":"Unforgettable","Date":"20 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Memorable behind-the-scenes look at movie making. My favorite scene involves Buschemi as the director tearing his hair out while two actors who have been having trouble getting it right, finally get it right-only the cameraman is on a break and none of it is being filmed. "},{"Title":"Hilarious and affectionate look at low budget film making. Buscemi fans will especially love it.","Date":"28 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  You could argue that Tom DeCillo never realized the potential he showed in his first two movies 'Johnny Suede' and 'Living In Oblivion', but regardless, they are still two of the best movies released in the 1990s in my opinion, and still very fresh half a decade later.  'Living In Oblivion' is basically a one joke affair (being the low budget movie experience from hell) but who can gripe when it's this damn funny and entertaining. Indie poster boy Steve Buscemi has rarely been better. I think this ranks alongside 'Reservoir Dogs' and 'In The Soup' as his most enjoyable performances to date. The rest of the cast are also a joy to watch. DeCillo regular Catherine Keener ('Being John Malkovich'), her real life husband Dermot Mulroney, who has sadly been wasted in mediocre mainstream crap for most of his career, the wonderful James LeGros ('Drugstore Cowboy') as an incredibly egotistical artiste, cult figure Kevin Corrigan ('Bandwagon'), who Buscemi later cast in his directorial debut 'Trees Lounge', and Danielle von Zerneck, who I eventually placed as Lou Diamond Phillips love interest in 'La Bamba' back in the 80s. (She's great and I would like to see her in more films as good as this one). 'Living In Oblivion' is a rarity these days - a genuinely funny film. Highly recommended to anyone who has enjoyed a low budget movie and wondered how it got made.  "},{"Title":"Hysterical!","Date":"14 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A movie about making a movie, Steve Buscemi is a beleagured director working on a set where something always seems to go wrong.  Catherine Keener is his stressed out star, and a whole cast of other characters all add extra humor to this.Tom DiCillo has made a great movie here.  I can only wonder what things were like on his set, directing a movie about directing a movie.  Must have been pretty funny.  The acting was a hoot, too; not a single person here did a bad job.  I especially liked Peter Dinklage's rant before walking off the set.  I got a stomach cramp just from laughing at this. "},{"Title":"Steve Buscemi!","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Frequently funny film about the madness of making independent movies wouldn't be the gem that it is if it wasn't for a fantastic performance by Steve Buscemi.  His Ren-like pop eyes and ferocious anger give life to the on-the-brink-of-a-nervous-breakdown director character and the scene towards the beginning of the film where he snaps and tells everyone on the set what he thinks of them gives a viewer a words-cannot-describe feeling of incredibly inspiring bliss.  It would be a one-note performance if he played Nick Reve as manic all the way through the film but he adds layers of vulnerability and plays the humanity instead of the schtick making the nervous humor burn and stay with you.  It's a quality he brings to every part he plays and is very visible in his best work Parting Glances, Fargo, Trees Lounge, and especially Ghost World.Catherine Keener and Dermot Mulroney are also very good here but James Le Gros as the Brad Pitt-inspired Chad Palomino (great name!) is just too good to be true!  Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Inspiring, Brilliant and Original","Date":"18 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"     After seeing the brilliant Box of Moonlight (my personal favorite film), I decided to track down some of director Tom Dicillo's other films.  After finding disappointment in The Real Blonde, I began to lose hope in a director I thought to be a complete genius.    This is where I found Living in Oblivion.  I laughed harder than I did at any other movie in a long while, but I was also stunned by the film's striking originality and moving beauty.  Anyone who has ever been interested in indie film, especially directing it, will find it to be touching and fascinating.     Steve Buscemi is in top form as a young independant filmmaker who strives to produce a cheesy, yet visionary art film about a woman's marriage.  Its characters are all symbolic to the creator's life, and the use of dreams always keep you in a state of wonder and always interested.     I found hope once again in DiCillo.  He truly is a genius. "}{"Title":"Wow, this movie is great!!!","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  First of all, this film is VERY VERY funny, but i think it will help if you have had some experience in film-making. That will help you to understand Buschemi's frustration throughout the film.This film is about people making a film where everything that can go wrong, goes wrong. Everything from sound booms dropping into frame, to actors breaking into fights with the directors! One of the most memorable lines in the film is that when a dwarf actor is cast for a dream sequence, but realizes that the only reason that the director cast a dwarf is so that people will know its only a dream, which the dwarf replies to in a very funny way.Overall very very funny, but i suggest you may only like it if you have had some film-making experience.****1/2 out of ***** "},{"Title":"one of the funniest lines in film history","Date":"8 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  i'm sure there are many comments on how funny- and original- the entire film is. I just want to add it has a scene with a line that had me laughing hysterically. This is not a spoiler, as I watched the film a second time, just for that line and scene.  It occurs during the 1st half of the film, when Nicole and her film mother are performing a **perect** take of a scene together, and Buscemi's charachter tells his cinematographer to film it; I decided not to give the exact line after all; just remember the word milk! Buscemi is wonderful, as usual.  "},{"Title":"One of the Funniest Films I have ever seen!","Date":"6 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the funniest films I have ever seen!  You know that feeling when you have to clutch your side and you can't breathe for laughing so much.... when, while rolling in the aisles, you catch glances of your friends curled up in tortured balls of hysterical frenzy because none of you can stop the laughter.... well this is one of those films. It helps to have experience in the film industry, but even the uninitiated can appreciate the humor. Wonderful film. "},{"Title":"great","Date":"1 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Oblivion is a dreamlike look at filming an indie. Buscemi is great as the determined filmmaker who has to deal with a nutty camerman who wears an eyepatch, a confused crew, an egomaniac star, a fog machine that is too thick. This is a funny movie for people who like movies. One of my favorite scenes is with the midget.  I'm a midget and eeven I don't dream about midgets. **** "},{"Title":"Don't miss this one","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Anyone who has any level of appreciation for indy films has GOT to see this one.  Concept 10.  Acting 10.  Set and Set Direction 10.  Steve Buscemi, who is remarkable in everything he's ever done, shines brightly, but in a most subdued manner as the director who just can't get anything to happen correctly. "},{"Title":"Cracking film","Date":"31 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  OK, so it's not a gut-buster no pratfalls, daft faces, one-liners, running gags (apart from Wolf's eye-patch) or ironic allusions. But if you've ever tried to accomplish *anything* worthwhile and succeeded by laughing - even retrosepectively - at the stuff that always gets in the way, then you'll like this movie. I've watched it what, a dozen times? It's a low-budget Barton Fink/The Player/Soapdish, with a cosy/claustrophobic (depending on your tastes) atmosphere and a film noir sensibility. Terrific dialogue, blinding acting and unintrusive direction, with only the the occasional - and eminently forgivable - continuity/script error. A simple structure with three acts assembled (if a little heavy-handedly) using a 'dream-version' plot motor, deliver a cracking low-budget classic for indy devotees, packed with with humanity and insight. For now it's on my indy top ten. My advice take 90 mins and judge... "},{"Title":"So then Steve Buscemi said to the Barman... Oh no wait...","Date":"3 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Steve Buscemi is a hapless director with around 50 quid (bucks) to make a film about some woman, who didn't get on with her dad. Once you've spent the first 20mins trying to get your TV to show colour and playing with the tracking on the video, only to realise it's supposed to be in B&W you can get into the film. Some big names considering no-ones heard of it including Dermot Mulroney (My Best Friends Wedding, Young Guns) perform excellently with Dermot, a cameraman who wears an eye patch for effect, over his good eye of course, and a leading lady who sleeps with everyone, and a soundman with a novelty beard. (Look out for that!). What's a hostess twinkie??? "},{"Title":"Dreams blend in with reality to represent the emotional strain in the lives on a set.","Date":"13 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Did you ever notice that every dream started with a door opening and ends with one closing? Watch the movie again to realize the importance of doors in this film.  The symbolism of Steve Bucesmi's character's dream being in black and white, but the filming was in colour explains the character's outlook on the film to be.  If I could reduce this movie to a word, it would have to be doors.  Every door scene has strong significance in the lives of the characters, as well as the plot and mood. "},{"Title":"DiCillo is a GENIUS.....","Date":"30 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  On first viewing (in a high school film studies class no less) I was shocked by how well this movie materialized my worst fears as an aspiring film maker and put it on the screen.  This film is a must for anyone considering going into the profession....not only is it a well written movie but the always great Steve Buscemi adds a realistic tone to the central character..... "},{"Title":"All the elements are there","Date":"15 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a well-crafted little Gem of a movie. The performance by Catherine Keener acting as someone who cannot act is outstanding. It is quite easy to differentiate between when her character is playing a part and when she is playing her character. This movie shows the Pitfalls in making a movie, especially when funds are lacking. A must for any budding young film-maker. "}{"Title":"Oh My God! Not only is this one of the funniest films ever, but Steve Buscemi is doing a bang-up acting job...AS ME!!!","Date":"9 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  As someone who's endured the rigors of indie filmmaking, I have to say that this is without a doubt one of the funniest films ever made about the entertainment industry.  And the reason it's so funny is because it's true to life.  Steve Buscemi gives one of his best performances in this film, as the frazzled (understatement) director.  Catherine Keener is great in her role, while James LeGros steals his segment as a demanding lead actor.  All in all, I suggest it to everyone.  Just give it some time, it'll grow on you.Rating A "},{"Title":"Simple brilliance","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Probably one of the most well written, cast, acted, and directed movies I've ever been fortunate enough to see.  I can watch it over and over and over, and always find something new in it.  From Nick, to Wolf, to Chad, to Tito (Toto...) and Ellen, to Les and Bob and Focus-Pull (awesome Kevin Corrigan), the entire film captivates. I suppose it helps when you are struggling in the industry to get your work made, but it is a great way to spend ninety minutes regardless.  DiCillo has made an utter masterpiece. Obviously, I cannot recommend this movie enough.  "},{"Title":"Gets better as it goes along","Date":"31 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is yet another film that seemed to take some time before it was firing on all cylinders.  But once it did, it became a great comedy.  Not quite knowing what to expect, I found the first segment to be a little annoying, but once I saw what direction that the film was taking, it became a memorable fun comedy.  I especially loved the scene towards the end with the dwarf dream sequence...I think I hurt myself laughing.  It's very rare to see such a terrific ensemble cast together, and it was great to see that they weren't wasted.  I enthusiastically recommend this one! "},{"Title":"A  movie about moviemaking. And the best education you can get.","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Nick is a filmmaker. And Nick is a maniac. Because he is a filmmaker.Living in oblivion is a movie about moviemaking. And this film is a warning. Dont even think youre Spielberg, because everything really goes wrong. I saw this movie at the end of a shooting day for a short film with the whole crew  and we felt like we have looked right into a mirror. The whole day was mad, the fuses broke, the actors got angry and my co-director leaving the sinking ship. We finally could really feel with Nick and his problems.TomDiCillo has not just made a movie. Its perhaps the best education on film-making you can get. This film teaches you all the things you will never learn in a common film school. The things that are the most important ones during shooting.And don't worry, if your mum wants to help you...  "},{"Title":"Inventive writing, use of music, great performances","Date":"12 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is very special.  The music was probably the best I can recall in a movie.  The timing of the music, the performance by Catherine Keener, the way Tom DiCillo shows the frustrations of filmmaking made this movie one of my all-time favorites.  Steve Buscemi shined. I feel this is his best performance, and I've seen him in a lot of movies.     "},{"Title":"I could look at Buscemi all day","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A film within a film - ok, been there, done that, but not like this.  Slated as a comedy - but unless your thing is main stream movies, should be appreciated for its truthful yet sad commentary on relationships.  Great acting/roles all around - in fact, seemed more like cinema verite. "},{"Title":"good independent","Date":"25 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Its been years sense I've seen this movie but the fact that It sticks out in my memory tells me it was one of the best independents I've ever seen.One of those diamonds in the ruffs.Amovie you may watch,just because your board and if your like me,you hate a movie in black and white unless it was made before color.The movies so good that doesn't even matter.Hard to find.Looks like it was made on a shoestring budget but worth seeking out.A movie about making a movie.Sounds boring but to me at least it wasn't. "},{"Title":"So real it's unreal...","Date":"28 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I can't believe I missed this film for so many years! It wasn't until a fellow production guy mentioned it do me, then pushed the DVD on me, that I finally saw it. Funny, but the pretentious title is probably what kept me away...even though it's part of the joke! For those of us who have worked on movies or commercials, there is just so much truth here. The where do we park the camera truck had me hooked from the start! God bless my fellow production pals, but that is just wonderful; despite the most detailed call sheets and schedules, no one ever seems to know where to park!The dream sequences are actually like the nightmares I've too often had...on the night before a shoot! There's a hare in the gate! A giant freakin' hare!I don't have much more to add to what's been said, other than a tip of the Mole-Richardson- Arri-Camera-Mart-Panavision baseball cap to the director! Bravo...and cut! "},{"Title":"Reunite Buscemi and DiCillo now!","Date":"5 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Despite a deceptive structure, the story here is fairly simple - a man is trying to get a movie made, but everything keeps going wrong.  The relationships on set are breaking down, the director's mother shows up in her dressing gown, the star is an asshole and the cameraman's wearing an eyepatch.  This is a hilarious study in chaos, with a delicious stab at Twin Peaks (`Even I don't have dreams with dwarfs in them, and I am a dwarf!') and a superb performance from everyone's favourite indie god, Steve Buscemi. "},{"Title":"Great movie, in my top 10.","Date":"17 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This was a movie which went along smoothly with virtually no false note. It's a series of vignettes (most likely dreams) of the making of an independent movie, and everything seems to go wrong.(The boom shows up in the frame, the main actress and actor were having an affair, a dwarf refuses to act because he feels stereotyped, etc.) Not only was this film a satire about the realities of low-budget filmmaking, but it was also an interesting character study of the film's crew and interpersonal relationships.A charming movie, with great performances all around. Highly recommended! "}{"Title":"the perfect role for Steve Buscemi","Date":"14 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" We should all know by now that Steve Buscemi is the unofficial king of indie flicks, and Living in Oblivion is possibly the best example. He plays the director of a very small movie - something right up his alley - who has to put up with the various problems on the set. We've seen this sort of story before, you say? Well, remember that Buscemi barely has to do anything to make the movie good; his pop-eyed gaze pretty much acts all on its own.If absolutely nothing else, this movie is a good look into the work that people have to put into making movies. Of course, I think that we need to consider it for much more than that. This movie has something for everyone, in my opinion. Also starring Catherine Keener, Dermot Mulroney, James LeGros, Peter Dinklage and Kevin Corrigan. "},{"Title":"Terrific sweet & deep","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This has the fun, behind the scenes quality of Waiting for Guffman. Here it's all packed in one day of rush mess up rush some more. Really loved the small touches like the battered stationwagon used to pick up the cast & crew! And what a great 30 secs of sound check. Great style and fun for both sides of the screen.  "},{"Title":"Inside story","Date":"12 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have been told this movie was written by Tom DiCillo based on his experience with Brad Pitt in Johnny Suede.  If you keep this in mind, the movie makes perfect sense. Chad Palimino is the character resembling dear old Brad and there are some delicious jabs taken at the alleged target. It makes for smug entertainment. Rent the movie again; see what one director thinks of the box office hunk. I may want to say this is just a rumor! But I believe! "},{"Title":"Strange, but good","Date":"22 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Another in a long line of excellent, quirky Buscemi films. This one started out making me squirm in aggravation as a film crew couldn't seem to do anything right. As the picture rolled out, I began to get more and more involved until finally I was totally engrossed. Dramatic as well as funny....go see it.  "},{"Title":"Manages to do well with little actual plot or action","Date":"2 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Nick Reve is a director on a low budget independent film.  After a restless night of dreaming of various problems that will plague him, he wakes up to go to the set.  With a relatively easy shot due for the day, it is surprising how much can go wrong.  Not to mention the fact that some of the others have had the same sort of restless night.  They all come together in a typically low rent day on the set of an independent film.It's hard to summarise the story here because the film simply doesn't really have one over the summary `the trials of a low budget shoot'.  The film gets around this by having two dream sequences before actually getting to the main shoot - but the two dreams are essentially the same `things go wrong on shoot' ideas.  The fact that the film still manages to work despite this is to it's credit.  The film is a funny and realistic look into the shoot of Nick's movie with all the problems that come with it.  I wouldn't say it was hilarious or outrageously funny but it is engaging and amusing.The writing is what makes it work, as it brings out the sense of frustration and sheer basic aims of making a film on that level.  Like I said it manages to be amusing but never stretched to the point where it is farcical.  The cast all know a bit about low budget movies, especially Buscemi who is very good here.  Keener is a great actress and she is also good - her acting in the first dream sequence is really good as she slowly turns her performance off in front of the camera.  Mulroney is good but it is LeGros who really steals his section as the inflated actor who can't just do as he's told and is a pain to work with - supposedly DiCillo based this character on his experiences working with Brad Pitt.Overall this is a tight and amusing little film that captures the frustrations and realities of the low budget shoot.  The plot may not be up to much and it certainly could have kept going for much longer than 90 minutes but it is still worth seeing. "}]