[{"Title":"Amazing. Best dialogue in a movie","Date":"2 August 1998","Score":"188 out of 253 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Kids is one of the best movies I've ever seen. It's funny, horrific, but realistic. Despite the cast having no previous acting experience, the performances are all wonderful, especially Justin Pierce's (as Casper). The realistic story line, the classic dialogue, and the horrific finale are the film's best features.What bothers me is that many people discredit the film. Saying that the movie is exploitation, or something even more ridiculous. I think that people are unable to except the fact that Kids is accurate. Not all teenagers behave like Telly or Casper, but you'd be lying if you said that teenagers don't talk like that. Kids is not exploitation, but rather a brutally honest piece of social commentary. Kids is a deterrent for high risk sexual behavior. The film is also a wake up call for insensitive parents who take no responsibility for their children. Therefore, Kids is a truthful portrayal of urban life.  it is not exploitation.    "},{"Title":"The Youth of our Nation.","Date":"7 November 2004","Score":"121 out of 156 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Larry Clark has broken the boundaries with this film. Not only is it one of the realist depictions of our nation's youth, but it also brings the fear of the AIDS virus closer to home. This is not a piece of fictitious work, this is brutal honesty in its rawest form. While many will knock this film because of the pornographic nature, I saw past that and witnessed the birth of the next plague. Writer Harmony Korine has taken the world of our children and transferred it to the big screen. I never once saw this as a shock film or disgusting, I saw honesty and truth behind every scene. This is really what is happening in our backyards. Kids are not as young as they used to be, and are growing up in a world with more possibilities and distractions than ever before. This is the modern world, and these are the newest leaders. While this is not what happens with all of our youth, it does paint a beautiful picture of just a handful. This is not just a story about NYC, it is a message for every city. This is happening all over this country. In the wealthy, poor, and everything in-between, our children are experimenting without any form of education or realization of their actions. This is not a film that will leave a very good taste in your mouth, but then again it isn't supposed to. This is better and more honest than any reality program out there and it will scare the daylights out of you. This is our world, we must change it.Grade ***** out of ***** "},{"Title":"You guys are sick, you know that? &#150; A character in the film says to a group of young boys who just beat the crap out of a guy in the park.","Date":"14 July 2004","Score":"62 out of 77 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The first real thing anyone can do when watching an expose on certain aspects of American culture is to ask yourself a very hard question, Is this real?I had to do that with this film.Watching Larry Clark's 1995 film Kids, an authentic and frightening expose of some particularly callous and reckless teenagers in New York City, one cannot wonder if the film is a brilliant commentary on the state of America's youth or is a cleverly exploitive portrait of a corrupted culture.I believe the latter. It depicts, with stunning authenticity, the chilling underside to a culture that abides by its own standards while tossing away the teachings and hard-learned lessons of an elder generation.First of all, I wouldn't believe anyone who says that this movie is hogwash or offers nothing close to a solution. Well, the first question that people should ask themselves is, do they know anyone like the kids in the movie? I do. I recently graduated from high school and I knew several people who were quite like the kids in this film. This film set out to do one thing to show American parents, Hey, these are your kids. Do you know what they do when you're not around?Thoughtful people will ask themselves that. This is a film that deserves a thoughtful audience as a thoughtful crew made it and took the risks associated with bringing such harsh subject matter to the screen.Like last year's Thirteen, Kids shows youth on the edge. These kids are perfectly amoral and addicted. These kids aren't all right; they're extremely dangerous.There isn't a whole lot to the story, other than it chronicles an eventful day in the life of Telly (Leo Fitzpatrick), his friend Casper (Justin Pierce) and their inner-circle of similar-minded, sex/drug-crazed associates. Telly has made it a duty to deflower as many girls as possible and later brag to his friends about his latest conquest; but by day's end, guaranteed, he would've done it again (a record for him to do two girls in one day). The main conflict of the story surfaces about 30 minutes in, when Jennie (Chloe Sevigny) discovers that she had contracted HIV from Telly during their first sexual encounter, and it becomes her mission to track him down before another young girl shares her fate.This is one powerful and dangerous film that is not for the faint of heart, as it is authentically bleak. There is no hope for the characters in the end; that is just how realistic this film is. The film is also filled with shockingly real images, and a wall of furious sound to drive home its key points. These are the kids of yesteryear, the forgotten generation; these kids are America's worst nightmare because they are young, dumb and just do not care; the fact that they do not care makes them especially dangerous.As I stated before, the imagery is extreme and frightening. If there ever was an honest thing these kids ever did, it would have to be willfully giving change to the less fortunate (a man with no legs who rides a skateboard on the subway). We also get images of younger children, swearing, drinking, smoking, talking like adults; trying to fit in with their peers who are not much older than they are. I was actually quite frightened by some baby pictures of our main character and then I see what's on screen.Then-newcomer Leo Fitzpatrick puts a face on a sleeping monster in America the doomed generation of young people that disregard older generations completely and follow their own set of corrupted values. Telly is reckless and stupid; it is impossible to really sympathize with his character, even though we probably are. But it is difficult to do so, mainly because of his preference for deflowering girls younger than him (the first girl we see him with is only 12; he's about 15 or 16) and that could open up discussion for Telly possibly being a borderline pedophile.Where are the parents? One could very easily ask that question. Strangely enough, Telly lives with his mother and baby brother. She is the only parent in the film and she seems as every bit as irresponsible as her misguided son.Watching Kids, I couldn't believe how real it is, how it sucks the viewer into its dark, dangerous, and seductive world; it's easy to see how a weak person could believe that what goes on in this movie is cool. It begs the most fundamental question any responsible person could ever ask, Do you know where your children are?It is a question that every good parent should ask when their teenage son or daughter steps out that front door and into the real world.Kids &#150; 10/10  "},{"Title":"Better than I thought it would be","Date":"26 May 2005","Score":"47 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I approached this expecting an explicit, controversial film for controversy's sake -- something disturbing and, let's face it, fabricated. I was surprised to find that yes, its aim is to make parents lock their children in their bedrooms for the next fifty years but also to truthfully examine modern-day childhood the way it really is.I knew kids like this, who talked like this, who listened to the Beastie Boys and who bragged about anything sexual they could think of. This movie follows the adventures and sexual pursuits of Telly, an AIDS-infected young teen who goes around taking advantages of virgins.We're led to believe Telly isn't aware of his disease but I think perhaps he does and gets off on possibly spreading it to others. One of his ex-girlfriends (Chloe Sevigny) becomes infected and spends the entire movie looking for Telly to warn him before he has sex with a young virgin.The end of the movie is pretty tragic and quite sad really. Yes, it is wrapped a bit too nicely in the sense that all this stuff happens to one group of kids within a period of a day or so, but by compacting many events into one scenario director Larry Clark makes quite a compelling little film/semi-documentary.One thing I should also mention is the dialogue, which I found to be the most realistic in any kid-starring film I've ever seen. He didn't just choose talented actors, he got the expressions, mannerisms and jargon perfected -- as a result it does come across as a very authentic, genuine film and even if you hate it, there's no denying it's pretty sickening. Whether you find that a good or bad thing is entirely up to you. "},{"Title":"A journey through the life of a messed up group of NYC kids.","Date":"5 September 2004","Score":"49 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film struck me in the heart, it made me feel terrible after seeing it and any movie that can have a impact on me like that, I congragulate. The film is almost like a documentary of a group of kids in NYC. It probably isn't completely realistic but its believable. It is a frightening wake up call to America.If you want to be moved watch this film. The acting is great for a group of rag-tag kids, they make the story really believable and passionate. I do believe that Larry Clark has a strage obsession with teenage nudity, in every film I've seen of his there has been tons of teenagers having sex, sometimes it spoils the film.Overall the film is powerful and moving, watch it.  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly accurate!","Date":"14 December 2004","Score":"86 out of 144 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I watched this movie with my dad. He did a bunch of stuff when he was younger, but kids weren't as amoral back then as they are now. The sad part for me was that nothing in the movie shocked me.I'd been there and done that in a few cases...but never to the extreme that those kids took it. I never hung out with people that acted like that, and i've never publicly exploited myself like many of those girls did. It was really sad for me to realize how accurate the movie was though. It makes the movie Thirteen look like a Disney movie. The movie makes me want to lock any future kids I end up having in a box, and not let them out until they are 30. It's definitely a movie parents should see. I've had way too many friends who's parents live this life of ignorance. They turn their backs and deny that their children could be doing anything wrong. It's true that you live and you learn, but the scary thing is is that not all of the kids grow up and wake up. "},{"Title":"One of the Most Powerful and True Films","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"35 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Larry Clark has created a true masterpiece of its time.  Kids is an insightful, poignant and harrowing depiction of the life of angst ridden teens in New York City.  There's Tully, the smooth talking, de-flowering (and HIV positive) teen, Casper, the cool, hyped up and not all there teen, and Jennie, the girl who is full of depression and anger for the de-flower man.  The film doesn't have much of a direct screenplay (mostly dialogue you would hear while around friends) which is good for the type of movie being made here.  The film gains much controversy by stating whether its true to life, or just a mindless depiction of what could happen in the city.  You could decide that for yourself, but for me, I think this film has more truth, heart and drama (including great dramatic acting and scenes) that most films I've ever seen.   "},{"Title":"Should be required to watch in High School","Date":"21 December 2005","Score":"18 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" KIDS is a dead-on accurate portrayal of the troubled youth of our times. But what a lot of people don't realize is this problem exists not only in large cities like NYC, but is without a doubt a serious problem in small towns. Homemade drugs and some '40s' followed by a 'roll in the hay' is the favorite Friday night pastime in a lot of rural areas. In some ways, small town kids have a bigger risk because the free clinics and youth programs available to kids in urban areas don't reach out to the country. Kids and parents alike seem to share the mentality of that stuff just goes on in the cities. I grew up in a town of less than 10,000, and there were kids exactly like Telly and Casper in my high school- from the lingo and behavior right down to the dirty, stretched out t-shirts.AIDS aside, what I think is the scariest part of the movie is when Telly and Casper go to Telly's house, and his mom is there. She takes her parental duty as far as asking where have you been?- to which Telly responds with a lie, saying they were out looking for jobs. The audience knows they are lying, obviously- but you can tell the mother doesn't really believe it either- she's just too lazy, or preoccupied to bother with the whole thing. Pretty common occurrence among today's parents.KIDS should be a part of the required curriculum in Sex Education classes for all high school freshmen. Any parent who believes the vulgarity and sex and drugs is exaggerated or glorified is in need of a serious wake up call. If it's not your kid doing these things, then it's the one sitting next to him in class. And don't be so sure it isn't your kid. "},{"Title":"Clark's brilliant and hauntingly accurate portrait of the bad side of humanity in our younger generation grips you by the throat and never lets go.","Date":"6 November 2010","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There are two highly, and deservedly, controversial movies dealing with the issues of drug and alcohol abuse, underage sex, lack of control, and the preteen and teenage minority of urban America. One of them is Kids and the other is Bully. The former is a haunting work of art; the latter is a clunk of garbage. Both were directed by the same man, Larry Clark. I saw Bully first about a year ago and I was blown out of my mind by how offensive and atrociously cruel that movie was and how it redeemed itself in no way. I initially condemned Mr. Clark as a director and vowed never to see another movie of his again.Then I happened to see the Siskel & Ebert review for his first movie Kids and after much deliberation, decided to give this controversial filmmaker a second chance. I am so glad that I did.In many respects, Kids and Bully are much the same movie. They're both frighteningly brutal, appalling in their explicit content and vulgar dialogue, and they expose the nasty undercurrents in the younger generations of today, especially in urban cities where parental control (or control of any kind) seems all but present. So why is Kids a great movie and Bully an awful one? Because while Bully only pretended to have a purpose, Kids *has* a purpose and it never once dumbs down on that. It's a sick and disgusting picture, but it's also somewhat of a wake-up call. And I can fairly say now that as a reviewer and film-goer, I can forgive Mr. Clark.Kids is set in the drug-riddled streets of New York. We see very little of parents, or adults for that matter, and focus on a group of rambunctious, vulgarity-spitting, lecherous teenagers who are devoted to getting drunk, abusing drugs, and giving away their virginity. The most sickening of them is Telly (Leo Fitzpatrick). Not because he can charm young girls enough to seduce them into deflowering them, but because he's simultaneously signing their death warrants with the HIV virus. One of his victims (Chloe Sevigny) discovers she has AIDS because of her one-night stand with him and as she slowly suffers, searches the city to confront him. Meanwhile, Telly is trying to seduce his next victim while he and a group of other nasty individuals roam unsupervised through a place as horrific as any drug underworld. More shocking is that this is just a day in the life for them.Even more shocking is the daunting realization that this is one hundred percent accurate and we must commend Mr. Clark and screenwriter Harmony Korine, the latter in particular. His screenplay is the core of why this picture is so powerful. He writes his dialogue without any apparent flow or structure, as if the behavior of his characters are not even up to him. The actions of the characters are unpredictable, as they would be. I also really commend him for his choice to not close up with an obligating-style ending, but to choose a really haunting, crusher of one instead. And Mr. Clark shoots his film in a strong, visual-focused documentary approach with long takes from his camera swinging back and forth between the gossiping teenagers. He also pays good attention to their surroundings, showing the conditions and lack of concern from their peers and elders that resulted in their being this way. Because he has a screenplay that is focused and sharp (Bully did not) his movie has a purpose and even his seemingly pornographic shots have a purpose as well.The content is oftentimes appalling, but it also has a purpose. This time I must appreciate Mr. Clark's boldness and reluctance to be contrived. Whereas I got the sense he was indulging the drug use and sex in Bully, here he clearly defines his intentions of turning our stomachs. These particular kids are scum and they are a product of their scummy environment. He wants to show us that. So the scenes of underage sex are jaw-dropping. They do not turn on the audience; they appall. Furthermore, he does not flood the screen with images of naked teenage bodies and relies on our imagination at crucial moments to exploit the real horror. He balances the explicit and implicit with professional craftsmanship.Kids is a very tough movie to watch and tough to enjoy, but I must confess that it is, to my mind, a truly great film. As I sat there watching it, I was appalled and disgusting and flabbergasted, but at the same time, I was drawn in. Mr. Clark's brilliant portrait of the bad side of humanity in our younger generation grips you by the throat and he never lets go. Not once. He's also got some very strong performances from his cast which include Leo Fitzpatrick, a very young Rosario Dawson, Chloe Sevingy, and the late Justin Pierce whose brilliant performance reminds me so much of the scumbags that I had the displeasure to know in my adolescent years. I personally managed to avoid their paths of life and now looking at Kids, I am even more thankful that I did. "},{"Title":"The Grandaddy of Dark and Real","Date":"15 January 2012","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is not a super super film, but it stays with you, which was sort of the point - especially if you saw it at the time it was released, before the onslaught of dark teen movies over the decade following. This was the granddaddy of the genre and remains one of the darkest and grittiest of them all, in both subject and style. Perhaps in part because the subjects were an urban group of kids, rather than the angsty suburban set we've grown accustomed to seeing, there is a rare and truthful ferocity to the characterizations. The emotive mechanism isn't their redemption as mere children, but their total fallibility as young adults. Though obviously this represents a small sample of teenagers in the united states, it will make you think twice about how much earlier we seem to lose our childhood these days. Great ensemble cast with very believable performances. Its attempt to approximate the reality of a documentary is a unique success. In addition to stong dialogue and direction, credit should be given to the cast for that; obviously, chloe sevigny was a standout here. A really important subject for its time and a very credible portrayal. "}{"Title":"Disorganized, sloppy study of wayward youth","Date":"18 February 2006","Score":"12 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A better title might have been Obnoxious or Bores. Resembling an extended Calvin Klein commercial, Larry Clark's disorganized cinematic snapshot of a specific teen scene can barely maintain interest. One obnoxious jerk after another jumps into bed with a naive bimbo and treats her like crap when he's done. The jerks compare bedtime stories, smoke dope, swear, screw new bimbos, swap them like baseball cards, and mouth pseudo-cynical philosophy. I didn't find it shocking or explosive or dramatically interesting. I found it boring. Clark, who has made one great film, Bully, and another interesting film, Ken Park, drops the drama ball completely in this nihilistic mess that tries like hell to feel like a Greg Araki movie. And the boy-focused homo-eroticism seems hypocritical in light of what Clark is trying to say. I don't know why Clark doesn't just say f**k it! and partner up with Bruce LaBruce and make some honest movies. "},{"Title":"Painful...","Date":"9 March 2011","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" OK...It was really hard for me to watch this movie because the main character was one of the most annoying actors I've ever seen in film. It was painful to watch him and to listen to him. It made the movie almost unbearable to watch. Even Chloe who I normally like, didn't do a very good job. It's not very believable for a teenage girl to react the way she did to finding out she's got a possibly deadly disease. She didn't seem at all upset, sad or shocked. Unlike what the taxi driver stated, she seemed very calm and cool about it. The story in itself is good but I don't like what they did with it. So I give this movie a 2 and that is me being nice... "},{"Title":"What's all the fuss?","Date":"13 November 2008","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I don't know why this movie terrifies everyone....I saw where some critic was saying this movie should be required watching for every teacher and parent in America...chill out, it's just a movie and a pretty crappy one to boot! Wow, some punky, unwashed kids drink, shoplift, do drugs, and have random unprotected sex...what else is new? Pretty lame.... I think all the mass hysteria surrounding this film has a lot to do with all the moral panic we see in this country....don't do this, don't do that, smarten up, stop this, control that...when the people laying down these rules probably have more skeletons in their closet than Jeffery Dahmer... Whatever, sex and drugs don't scare me....I did it when I was young, the only difference between me and the punks in this movie was I took a bath in the morning.... "},{"Title":"Not all that good","Date":"24 January 2007","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" To call this the best independent film ever, is the equivalent to saying that Bush is the most liked president ever...its far from the truth. This film makes some wonderfully awful visuals about teen-males, and what exactly they think about. What questions and conversations did this film mean to convey. It just showed crazy scenes of total extreme behavior....OK so Telly has a thing for virgins... thats believable and somehow with his goofy, screwed up face and semi-challenged speech pattern he sleeps with multiple girls....OK I'll let that slide. The character of Casper was one that I think a lot of kids can somewhat relate to, until the totally out-of-character rape scene, which made no sense at all. The character did not exhibit that type of behavior all film but then in the last two minutes his character is ruined. Until that scene he had shown good attributes like giving that peach to the girl or giving money to the legless man but then the director made sure that he killed every ounce of goodness left in every character by the end of the film- maybe that was his message, every teenager is untrustworthy and criminal, or at least the ones living in New York.How can this film be about normal kids? I guess the director just assumes that all urban New York kids have no code of ethics, no sense of responsibility and care about no one. Jenny is a prime example of this, how can she not contact Telly all day, I guess she took a break from searching because the film goes from mid-afternoon to late at night and how can she just stand there or not rush in trying to save the other girl from contracting a potentially lethal virus. Once again the director portrays even the girls as being complete garbage. There was no overall message to this film. I guess the only thing that you could somehow derive would be lock kids up at night, not let them out because they are all barbaric, selfish,and idiotic by nature. I watched this over a streaming connection on the internet and I still have to say I spent too much to watch this.If you want to see decent films on social commentary see American History X, Clockwork Orange, Equilibrium, Fahrenheit 451, Natural Born Killers, Crash or Syriana, Juice, Hoop Dreams, or Requiem for a Dream, Transpotting. Anything is better than this. "},{"Title":"* * * out of 4.","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  At first this just may seem like a pointless slice of 24 hours in a  teenager's life, but upon closer viewing it's points become very clear. The sex scenes are rather drawn out and some of the situations are very disturbing and very graphic, but there really is kids like this in real life. Film manages to make important statements about safe sex or avoiding sex all together, rape, and parental involvement. It's raw and it's shockingly realistic in it's treatment. A very important film. "},{"Title":"Disturbing Behaviour","Date":"30 March 2000","Score":"16 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a scary movie or more appropriately a scary slice of life. Sure it's been dramatized, but it will haunt you long after viewing. You'll first reaction might be 'Well this is only a movie. There aren't kids around like that. I wasn't like that.' That's what is truly sad. It's some cold honest truth. The world can be a dark place. There ARE kids like this who are set on self-destruction. If you look around you can see them. It's becoming all too common.Aptly the filmmakers chose the title for the film to be Kids. It seems wrong and yet so right. The characters in this movie aren't age-wise, but at the same time they're kids because they haven't grown up, haven't matured, haven't learnt from their mistakes... and as in this tale, some don't ever learn much less have a chance to learn. What am I talking about? AIDS.Now I believe Kids is more than just a pro-safe sex movie, but what you take away from it is up to you. Everyone has an opinion on why kids grow up like this, so I won't subject you to my opinion. As for it being exploitative, I'm kind of torn. On one hand, it deals with very dark, harsh moral subject matter. The filmmakers have tried and for the most part succeeded in telling a tale of growing up on the wrong side of the tracks, so to speak. At the same time though, they could have dealt with the proceedings a little more sensitively. For instance, it would have been even more shocking if the filmmakers hadn't resorted to long drawn out scenes of simulated sex that were supposed to be horrifying but ultimately weren't.At the end of the day, Kids showcases a nasty glimpse into a generation that is already messed up and concerned with growing up the fastest way possible. As a film, it needs some serious work in areas, but it's up front and harsh message remains clear to the end. "},{"Title":"A Powerful, Disturbing Look At Teenage Life,It's A Movie That Will Leave You Thinking After You Have Finished Watching It, With Dead On Performances!","Date":"9 December 2005","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a powerful disturbing look at Teenage life, it's a movie, that will leave you thinking after you have finished watching it, with dead on performances!. All the characters are extremely interesting, and the story is extremely powerful, plus Leo Fitzpatrick and Justin Pierce give very memorable performances as Telly and Casper. Some people argued that this was to exploitive, i have to disagree with that big time, yeah it may be exploitive, however it actually has a story, and it has a very realistic feel to it as well!, plus The ending was very well done. Most of the characters are unlikable, and it's just not fair that Jennie(Chloë Sevigny), tested HIV positive, because she only had sex once with Telly, yet the other girl (Rosario Dawson) had done it eight or more times.The opening has always disturbed me pretty good, and the film is extremely well made and written as well!, plus it's pretty hard to watch it at times. I think everyone needs to watch this film at one point or another, because it has a very important message to it. This is a powerful disturbing look at Teenage life, it's a movie that will leave you thinking after you have finished watching it, with dead on performances, and i say it's a must required viewing for everyone sooner or later. The Direction is top notch. Larry Clark does a top notch job here, with excellent camera work, giving the film a realistic feel,plus he kept this at an extremely engrossing pace. The Acting is dead on. Leo Fitzpatrick is fantastic as Telly, he is extremely convincing, as his character is a liar, he tells all virgins that he loves and cares about them, yet all he wants is sex, as i found his character completely disgusting and vile, but that's what he was supposed to be doing, and he did fantastic at that, he deserves a lot of recognition, for his fantastic performance here. Justin Pierce is just as good as Casper, and his character is also just as disgusting, however he was extremely convincing, as he obviously has some problems, he drinks 2 or 3 big bottles Scotch every morning, and does drugs and party's all day and night, as he delivered a very good message at the end (geezez Christ what happened). Chloë Sevigny is very good at Jennie, she was likable, and i really felt sorry for her character, she did great. Rosario Dawson is hot, and did what she had to do well as Jennie's best friend, i liked her. Rest of the cast do fine. Overall its a must required viewing for everyone sooner or later. ***** out of 5 "},{"Title":"Kids is Little More Than PSA on AIDS","Date":"1 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I don't think I've ever been more grossed out by an opening scene in a movie. The main character is tongue kissing what appears to be a thirteen year old girl over and over. The noise that it was making was particularly disgusting. Telly is only seventeen years old, but he is already a real dirt bag. He steals money from his parents and tries to deflower as many girls as he can, typically preying on girls that have just finished going through puberty. It is here that the main conflict of the movie is introduced. One of Telly's former conquests contracts HIV from him and tires to stop him from spreading his disease to his unsuspecting victims. Over the course of the movie at least three people are given the HIV virus from Telly the first virgin that he deflowers at the beginning of the film, the second girl at the end of the film and the guy that they beat up in the park. But what I found troubling was that the girl who knew she got AIDS from him decided to just take some ecstasy and forget all about the fact that she was trying to stop him. She herself even becomes an instrument to spread AIDS by the end of the movie due to her irresponsible behavior. This is where the movie kind of just became an ambiguous story about how teenagers behave and forgot all about its own plot.Overall this movie mostly just felt like a public service announcement about the dangers of unsafe sex. I'm sure that back in the 90's when AIDS was an automatic death warrant this movie was very shocking and even more terrifying, but in the twenty first century where AIDS has lost most of its potency due to modern medicine this film is little more than a friendly reminder that condoms can save you from a lot of problems. Kids is still a good movie and it's worth watching just don't expect to get any life changing message from it. Much of the point that it was trying to make back in '95 is just common knowledge nowadays, but I would say that it is still worth a watch. "},{"Title":"Could have done without it.","Date":"9 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" After watching this film for the first time, I have to admit that it might be scarier than any horror film I have seen. First of all, I am a 21 year old girl from a suburb of large city. All of my friends in junior high all talked about this movie like it was great. I was expecting it to be great as well. When I was 14 all I wanted to do was rent this movie, but I was never allowed. Fortunately, it was a good choice not to rent the movie at 14. My life was nothing like the kids that were portrayed in the movie. I've never even encountered anyone who has lived a life similar to the kids in the movie. Yes, I am naive and have lived a sheltered life. It probably would not of had that big of an effect of my life because I wasn't having sex, drinking or doing drugs anyways.Furthermore, I don't think the kids/parents who this movie was calling out to would really think twice about the actions they were doing. It cannot be a wakeup call for America, if the intended audience just doesn't care. Do you think if the kids in the movie saw a film similar to this would they change their actions? No, they will continue to think they were invisible to HIV, STDS and PREGNANCY.I will give the movie credit for not glamorizing sex, drugs and alcohol. Unlike other movies, the kids in the movie don't look cool when they are engaging in these acts because they aren't attractive. The more they engage in these actions the worse they look, which is true to life. When I first saw some of the actors I didn't realize why they weren't the typical beautiful people you encounter in films. Instead, they look like normal people. Which makes it even scarier to watch.After watching Telly and Casper talk after he just devirginized a 12 year old almost made me vomit. I was tempted to turn off the movie, but decided to continue watching to see if it got better. It really did not.My major problem with the film was how the females in the film were portrayed as desperate, sluts, or victims. All of them. Even Telly's mother seemed to be on the end of desperate. Why wasn't there a female character to stand up to these boys or say no? When Jennie is looking for Telly in the park, the one girl said she didn't agree with the boys almost killing that kid - yet she did nothing about it. Perhaps they would have beat her up too? But she had a choice she didn't have to stay and watch. It was just disgusting to see these female characters get walked all over in the film. As a young female viewer, I was appalled most at this. In addition, the scene in which the females are talking about their sex lives is really disturbing and not realistic. My friends and I do talk about sex, but not like that. Also, why is female oral sex never mentioned in this film? If it is going to be realistic it should be mentioned too- especially by the girls doing the talking in this scene, but it is forgotten I guess because it is a male dominated film.Overall, I was disgusted with the film. I would not recommend this film to anyone who does not want to see a 12/13 year old having sex with a teenage boy who has HIV. "},{"Title":"A MOVIE TARGETED AT EVERYONE, BUT ONLY LOVED BY THE IGNORANT","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Kids, a low budget, documentary style film about super rebel teens trying to grow up fast in the big city of New York, is a film that wants to have morals, a point, and shocking imagery, but by the end, is no more than another unintentional celebration of sex, drugs, and uh...skateboarding. Most of the people that have seen this movie seem to be from the good ole' heartland of America, and also seem to wish that this movie really represented the generation of teens today.  Most of these people, straight out of Texas, Alabama, and South Carolina, seem to think that New York is really like Kids portrays...teenagers don't go to school, drink alcohol non stop, smoke pot wide open in the streets, p**s on sidewalks, and beat up people in the middle of parks filled with families.  Well, I live in New York, and honey, it really ain't like that yo!  This movie seems to forget about the police for one thing.  In one highly unrealistic scene in the film, *SPOILERS AHEAD* the group of kids that the two main characters hang out with all beat up some black guy, bashing skateboards over his head repeatedly, all because he back talked to one of the little, 115 pound white kids in the gang.  They almost kill the guy!  Now, Kids in supposed to be a film that has morals and life lessons, but seems only to be exaggerating how wild an urban jungle can really be!  I know that if there was a fight, no, make that a beating, in a park, like in the film, anywhere in America, people would brake it up, and police would be called (if they weren't already there), and all these bad ass white kids would be spending a while in jail--now that's realistic, that's true to life--why do people WANT to believe that teenagers really act like the ones in this film?  I live in Manhattan, go to high school in Brooklyn, and am 18 years old, and I don't know anyone that acts even close to the kids in this film.  The whole point of the film is that Telly, a character that's like a little ball of hormones, has AIDS, has given it to someone already, and is now spreading it around the city.  The film mostly follows the period when one of Tellys past love-buddies comes around to warn him of his disease--but at the end of the film, she gets raped while being unconscious, and Telly never finds out--only spreading it to another innocent girl.  SHE DIDN'T EVEN WARN HIM AT THE END OF THE FILM; MEANING THAT THE ENTIRE FILM WAS JUST FIGHTING, DRUGS, ALCOHOL, ETC...WITH NO POINT, OR CONSEQUENCE!  This may have some juicy hidden symbolism for adults, but for most ignorant teens, watching this movie seems cool--they want to be like the characters in the movie! Plus, Telly, a kid that has sex right and left, would in real life be a virgin until he was 35--he is grimy, pimply, scrawny, and has a lisp--in real life would a little loser like this really have sex with multiple virgins a day?  I don't think so hombre.  Obviously I'm not a fan of this movie, and I might even like it more if it didn't portray all teenagers as desperately trying to grow up as quickly as possible, experienced in sex, drug-addicts, etc.  I also might like it more if so many idiots from Texas didn't think it was so real and revolutionary--THIS WAS A FILM, NOT REAL LIFE!  Well, I hope I changed someone's mind. "}{"Title":"It does happen...","Date":"17 April 2010","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When I saw this movie I was 13 years old, and back then I manage to understand the message that the movie was trying to send.Sometimes it doesn't have to be a why or a how for people get in this kinda life, you just have to grow up in the middle of it...This movie is all about life, the feeling of emptiness you get near the end credits, and you start to think how did the world become so messed up. Maybe nowadays kids are much more informed and have different perspective of the real world, back in 95 I dint have a clue, and Kids kinda open my eyes a bit... "},{"Title":"Urban tragedy","Date":"12 October 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Send these kids to camp -- fast! Or do SOMETHING. Wow, what a life. Basically this is a picture of the life kids who occupy a certain social space lead during their summer vacations. It jumps from episode to episode with a few continuing characters, including Chloe Sevigny and Rosario Dawson.To the extent that there is a story at all, it is this. The movie opens with the teen aged Leo Fitzpatrick successfully seducing the teen aged Chloe Sevigny, who is a virgin. Shortly afterward Sevigny is told she tested positive for HIV, meaning that Fitzpatrick is an asymptomatic carrier. Sevigny spends the rest of the movie looking for Fitzpatrick to tell him about it and prevent him from infecting anyone else. She is waylaid by encounters with strange teenagers, although to be sure they are all strange, and when she finally locates Fitzpatrick at a raucous party he is already putting the blocks to yet another virgin. Sevigny closes the door and staggers away to crash on the couch. Later that night, another creepy teenager wakes up, wanders about, notices the unconscious Sevigny, and does her in what appears to be two different ways. So much for AIDS.That's the thread the movie hangs on, but it serves not as a point in itself but as an illustration of the absence of any point. The kids do everything that ordinary people would consider revolting. They begin using dope the minute they wake up. They shoplift clumsily. They pee on walls in public places. They get drunk. They vomit. They fornicate at will. They don't work. They litter freely. They swear constantly. They ogle each other's mother's breasts. They get into fist fights on the slightest of pretexts. They recognize no checks on their appetites. We hardly see any adults and the ones we do see aren't necessarily much better -- an overweight and ill-groomed mother smoking while she nurses an infant.It's all distasteful but you can't really disengage yourself from what's happening on the screen. It would be like looking away from a gory traffic accident.Maybe that's a problem, too, because the film is so impregnated with debauchery that after a while it becomes frankly unbelievable. One DAY of this kind of life would stun an elephant. More than that, it's too much of a bad thing. Not a single kid we see has any redeeming qualities whatever, except for two virgins who yield readily enough to Fitzpatrick's snake oil. And for all the vulgarity and all the violence done to our ideas of good taste, I'm not sure that the film makers have really gotten it all down accurately.I'll just give two examples in which a viewer might become conscious of the effort it takes to suspend disbelief. (1) In a drug dealer's apartment (where kids who look about nine years old are doing dope) the music from the boombox is what sounds like John Coltrane and Sonny Rollins. I don't think so. I hate to buy into stereotypes too easily, but what I expect to hear is not demanding, classical jazz but hip hop. (2) In Central Park during a drug score, an exojuvenile intrudes on the gang and takes offense at some remark about a skateboard. The alien is a black guy. The gang of dopers who are buddies are racially mixed. They all gang up on the stranger and beat hell out of him, ending it with a possibly lethal whack full in the face with the skateboard. It doesn't jibe with experience. I have a feeling that the fist fight would gradually divide the group along racial lines.This is a heck of a movie. Man, the kids should bottle that energy. They'd be on the Big Board in no time. It could be found in cans in Quick-Stop reefers. ADENORUSH -- for that scootch feeling. But it's too spelled out. There isn't a moment's rest. I'm not talking about sitting down to ponder Marcus Aurelius. I mean just shutting up for a few minutes. The final shot may be symptomatic. Dawn is crashing around the sleeping, benumbed and benighted bodies the morning after a party. During the night the place has been thoroughly trashed and two girls have probably now caught HIV from our index case. One body, still holding a bottle, stirs a little and comes to life. Its eyes open. It stares blearily into the camera lens and wonders aloud, What happened? In The 400 Blows, 45 years earlier, Truffaut made the same point simply by ending on a freeze frame of the delinquent kid caught on the run, staring fixedly and silently at the camera. Kids suggests that at the end the director doesn't trust us enough to have gotten the point, although we've been hit over the head with it for an hour and a half. "},{"Title":"shock value, pretty much nothing else","Date":"2 March 2009","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I figured this was going to be a brutal movie since the person who referred it to me also referred Man Bites Dog (which I enjoyed).Look, this would easily have gone from a dumb, vile, pointless waste of time shock movie to a must watch if there was any sort of resolve at the end. Or better yet if these kids just got their asses whooped like they probably would in reality.You know those arty stupid films that don't know how to wrap up a plot so they just suddenly END? That's how this one goes. Any hint of plot you might pick up ends up just being an illusion.There's a lot of buildup for the female main character that goes NOWHERE. Instead she goes to sleep, gets another pile of bricks dumped on her and the movie ends.So basically if you feel like going back to junior high and listening to a bunch of posers talk about getting laid and busting caps for 2 hours, watch this. "},{"Title":"An almost real reality happening before you, capsuled in a movie","Date":"1 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Kids is shocking in your face stuff from the first frame. The magic of the film is that it has a documentary feel, not enough to make it documentary, where the other side of it is movie, but with a reality staring you in the face. Director Clark, has made the right choice too, using non thespians, where Chloe Sevingy as the aids infected Jenny, I must say, was an acting revelation. I know a lot of dudes who are exactly like Telly (Leo Fitzpatrick, another discovered talent) who don't respect any thing. All Telly loves is creating an impressive tally of deflorations of virgins, as seen in the first shock scene, having him, making it with a gullible girl. What disgusted me is when he left her apartment, before going to brag to his best friend, Casper, who down stairs, waiting for him. He produces a gob of spit and lets it drop from his lips, falling through the gap of stairway, proud with another victory. Kids is a pull no punches film, with a lot of expletive language and quite a bit of sex, but this is the generation we live in. The main plot, basically consists of Jenny finding out she's HIV positive, where she's only done it with guy Telly. This day her whole world has come to an end, before her, which really had me imagining, what It'd be like if I was in her predicament. That taxi driver scene I really liked, with the cheery taxi driver, trying to be helpful but really doesn't know the extent of Jenny's sadness, where one foolish mistake can't cost your life. Now driven to find Telly, who's about to deflower another girl, much less gullible (the public pool scene I liked, almost semi erotic) it's a race to find him where they're about to do it on that same night, where a big party is happening, yo. I'll be honest, the film doesn't have the best script in the world, where it's chosen to go for reality instead. Clark's debut film, really works, rough, raw, and always compelling. If you want escapist fare, see other movies, but if you really hard edged reality, with strong themes and want to be shocked or challenged, this is one of the movies for you, with a script by Spring Breaker's Harmony Korine. "},{"Title":"Scary, without having to be a horror flick","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** Warning Some SpoliersThis movie is a scary one. It is not a horror flick, but it shows how life in the city is for an adolescent growing up. The main character Telly Tries to deflower virgins in order to prevent getting aids. He always talks to his friend Casper about how sweet it was with his latest. The movie is very depressing. There is a twist of Irony in this movie as well. One of the girls who goes to get tested for HIV, has slept with 10+ guys (I lost count after ten, sorry) and does not contract the horrid disease, however Jennie (the girl Telly slept with) has contracted it, and Telly was the only person she slept with. The movie spans in 24 hours. In which Telly searches for his new 24 hour girlfriend, and Jennie must warn him before he can give another the deadly disease. Another frightening thing is that with all the kids in the movie you only see Telly's mom, but there is one thing that angered me. When you see her, she has a baby in her arms. She gives no indication about what Telly does, she just merely says be back by tomorrow. That infuriated me. What gives her the right to bring in another life if she does not care about the one she has already brought. When I saw this movie I told my mom about. Latter I bought it so now she can see the eye opener. The ending is really depressing because Jennie(The girl with HIV, given to her by Telly) fails, just as she gets to where he is, he is deflowering a virgin. It is a highly depressing film, I belive all teens she see this movie, because it shows you never know who else your girlfriend or boyfriend slept with, you never know what they got from before. This movie is a great film, I suggest you rent, then buy. Acting was good as was story. "},{"Title":"When you're young, not much matters... Fearless and extremely brutal and shocking. But stylish in it's raw nature","Date":"25 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This controversial debut film from director Larry Clark was made from a screenplay written by Harmony Korine when he was eighteen. Many of the actors in the film were close friends of Korine and not actors at all, or if they were actors, it was to be their first film. And what a movie to start your career... many of the teenagers in this film never had successful careers afterwards. Leo Fitzpatrick, who plays the protagonist Telly, decided that he didn't like acting and Justin Pierce, who plays his best friend Casper, tragically would commit suicide a couple of years later. Kids today is still as controversial and as important as ever in the message that it implores. It's an honest and brutal film that holds no punches in covering a 24hr period in a group of teenagers lives one hot summer in Manhatten. The film has a very documentary style feel to it, which contributes to the authentic feel it has and the amazing performances from it's young cast are some of the best performances I've ever seen from teenage actors.Telly, the films protagonist, is seventeen and the film begins with him seducing a much younger girl who can't be any more than thirteen or fourteen. He talks her into having sex with him, and as he explains in the narration, he has taken to only having sex with virgins. He refuses to wear condoms, so he tells himself that if he has sex with virgins he won't get diseases, and also it has become an obsession for him to deflower as many virgins as possible. Afterwards, he hits the streets where his best friend Casper is waiting for him. Telly then explains his recent 'conquest' in graphic detail and the pair set off for a day of drinking and smoking weed. Telly boasts to Casper that by tonight, he will have deflowered another girl, which he plans to do at a party. His next target is a sister of one of their friends, who is only thirteen. Meanwhile, Jenny, discovers that she is HIV positive. The only person she has ever had sex with was Telly, so she desperately tries to find him during the course of the day to tell him, and also to save the next girl from the same fate...It's hard not to come away from this film feeling sickened, and at the same time, completely blown away. Larry Clark directs this brilliantly, throwing us from scene-to-scene carried along by the graphic and obscene language and conversations of the teenagers. It all looks improvised, but apparently the film follows Korine's script very closely. In that case then this was one very real and well written script. Leo Fitzpatrick plays one of the most foul and disgusting characters I've ever witnessed on screen. He is a total scumbag, and the only problem I had with this movie was how easily he was able to talk his way into the girls pants. In fairness, he is nothing to look at. And are the girls that naive and stupid that they'd fall for what he was telling them? OK, they are very young, but I'm the same age as Telly, and I can honestly say that if he were from the town I've grown up in, he would have gotten his head kicked in a long time ago. And that's for being the p**** that he is. Also, not one girl I know would have fallen for his charm - they'd have seen what he was before he even opened his mouth and I'd hate to be him then if he tried anything. But I couldn't help wondering watching this, don't people talk? Surely Telly would have a reputation by now.The sex scenes are very graphic and realistic - they actually look real to be honest. The scene where Casper and the gang beat the man up in the park was very brutal, but could have been worse if they didn't have a stupid song playing over the entire scene. It's a shame that Leo Fitzpatrick decided not to pursue a serious acting career after this, because I sincerely think that he had talent. He was brilliant here, and how refreshing it was to have teenage actors playing the teenagers, and not some twenty-something year-olds that we usually see. The ending is brilliant, and the last line does pretty much sum up the entire movie. An excellent soundtrack accompanies the story and the superb cinematography; no one ever pays much attention to this but if you watch the film closely and forget what is going on, you'd almost forget that it was happening in New York City, because the camera pretty much stays on the ground giving us a 'fly-on-the-wall-view' feeling.Kids is a very important movie that I think every teenager should see...well, not all of them. There are after all some young men like Telly and the others portrayed in this so a film like this might only serve to encourage them. But it's a shocking wake-up call to what can happen if you sleep around without proper protection - STD's and HIV. I really felt sorry for Jenny in this film, and the rest of Telly's victims who are unaware to what has happened to them. One has got to remember though when watching this that not all teenagers are like this. Only a small minority are as vicious and primitive as some of the characters portrayed in this film. Kids reminds us how vulnerable and confused teenagers really are, and how apathetic life is for them and I think Telly gets it perfectly here - When you're young, not much matters. When you find something that you care about, then that's all you got. "},{"Title":"Blunt and unapologetic social reality","Date":"27 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Okay, first thing's first. I've met these people.Now that statement is of absolute importance, because the thing is, this movie takes as its subject vacuous and unintelligent people, but the subject matter is far from. It takes a real ear for dialog and a real eye for character for Korine to write what he did and Clark to shoot what he did, and it speaks to their experiences as artists that they collaborated to provide such a real social statement. Larry Clark had already garnered critical attention from his photography of youth destroyed by drugs in suburban, WASP environments instead of the assumed urban black culture that most mainstream media was focusing on, and Korine sort of came out of nowhere with what is straight up a vicious and powerful send-up of those annoying made for TV movies about adolescence and AIDS you typically see in freshman puberty classes. The two of them collaborate here to provoke the audience not by creating a warning about a cause, but showcasing the effect.Going back to my initial statement. When I was in college I lived in a dorm suite instead of a dorm room, that housed six. One of my five roommates invited his friends over all the time, and they not only acted like, but engaged in the same discussions, activities, sexual and drug exploration, and nearly irrepressible search for stimulation that the kids featured in this movie do. I recognized them in every scene, in every word of dialog, in how the actors walked and how they talked, and for those who simply do not relate to this movie on that level, you simply have not met those people. The thing is, reel life here matched real life then, because that constant and profligate search for stimulation eventually crashed down on all of them. Most were kicked out of school. Some were hospitalized. Only a couple really survived and went on to reclaim their lives.The story arch, as I said, is familiar from pastel made-for-TV warning movies, the ones that show a kid hurt by the awful knowledge of HIV but who eventually turns that black mark into a positive statement by getting support from family and friends and telling the world, or whatever sappy idiocy involves an 18 year old trying to look much younger and sentimental music flowing through every scene. This is not that movie. Sevigny's character's search for Telly takes her through the lifestyles of a huge proportion of people who don't pay attention to such messages because they're too busy becoming overstimulated and holding off the crash as long as possible. It slows her down and stops her momentum as she cannot keep up with the irrepressible need these people have to push forward to the next excitement, the next sexual encounter, the next drug, the next party.The cross-cutting between the guys' conversation and the girls' conversation is what happens. I've been at those parties. I've heard these things, and said some of them myself. Korine's eye looks towards all of the messages and all of the people, and shows a poor, lower class neighborhood that nurtures this sort of behavior because there's no ability for it to go unchecked (where are the fathers? Where are the mothers? Where is the money? These questions are all answered). Korine's fascination with the derelict, disabled, and diseased is used for much richer significance here than Gummo, as the encounter on the bus with the legless man and the boys' empathy for him foreshadows their future in his position, and the montage of homeless, insane, and derelict people at the end provides an argument for where they came from (the very neighborhoods they inhabit). This is an America people don't want to see because it doesn't have any moralistic answers for how to prevent what happens, kind of like Gummo, but Gummo's problem is that Korine was too interested in expanding the provocateur cinema of this attempt into blank symbols like a boy in pink rabbit ears dancing through various scenes to let the social realism stand on its own merit.It also showcases a point in time where assumptions have changed. There are in groups and out groups here, but they are not so divided along ethnic lines; on the split side, the kids maliciously attack a stranger and harass a homosexual couple. Furthermore, these tykes are YOUNG. Anyone not impressed with the performances of the actors, or even wants to get upset about how young they actually are, again are probably ignorant of the fact of the reality behind what is being presented, with no attempt or desire on the part of the filmmakers to hide or turn their camera away from the content that needs to be seen.A lot that was established here has continued. Korine has involved himself fully in provocateur cinema from Dogme 95 to Trash Humpers, while Clark has continued to focus on subcultures and self-destruction. Chloe Sevigny has almost a subcareer in acting by choosing many roles in independent and foreign films where women become the victims of impulses beyond their control, either from the obsessiveness of men (Brown Bunny) to corporately supported snuff (Demonlover). Kids, luckily, stands out in all three of their careers as one of the more accessible and well-known, and it's a good thing that it continues to be seen and shock people, as it's pretty much one of the most concise and unapologetic statements made by these filmmakers.--PolarisDiB "},{"Title":"Awkward looking paedophile obtains ecstasy by having sex with dumb, young girls","Date":"29 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Before I viewed this film, I read some reviews on IMDb saying it was a masterpiece! or greatest film ever. Backed up with great reviews but somewhat tipsy rating, I still hoped for the best. I ended up being very disappointed. I know the director was trying to be realistic and truthful as much as possible, but seriously this wasn't even a movie- barely even watchable. Throughout the film I was disgusted by the main character; I hated his face for some reason. It was the way he talked all ghetto yet looked like a mentally challenged geek that actually killed the film for me. I'm sorry but his character is so- unrealistic; even his history on how he had deflowered girls was so unbelievable. Even more fake was how the girls just ate all that cute talk like some dumb, naive- hey, even if they're only 14 or 13, they should have known better. Why? Because I'm 15 and this was really just unbelievable.You know what really just destroyed the whole movie? I really had hopes that the red headed girl would find Telly and confront him that he has HIV and totally kick his ass. But instead, she saw telly and the other girl having sex and left. Yup, that's how the movie ended. No resolution, no conclusion, just her getting raped by Casper, telly's friend. This is one of the worst films I have ever seen, but I'm giving it a 5 because it tried to be an HIV awareness advocate.Seriously, I don't care for the red-headed chick; she let another girl get HIV. I don't care for telly; he's a jackass and the rest of the characters were mostly high or having an orgy or beating up some dude. Man, this is so unrealistic, white kids beating up a black guy...Wow... I'm sorry but I can't rate this a good movie because all the characters sucked. None of them deserves any sympathy whatsoever. I really wish I didn't watch this movie. If I were you, I'd watch city of god. WAAYYY better movie. "},{"Title":"The Shock of the Young, Worn Thin","Date":"26 July 2009","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Kids (1995)The Shock of the Young, Worn ThinIn a color, AIDS-era cinema verite approach, director Larry Clark made a big impression with Kids partly because of its frankness. Having sex is like eating candy and these teenagers know it might be bad for you but so what? And so it is a culture, in your face, of adolescent ignorance and need, with music and camaraderie and drugs filtering through the movie start to finish.On the one hand, it's disturbing to see these young people so callous and so ignorant, and yet so willing to go down or be consumed, through best friend pressure and peer pressure. And desire. On the other hand, it's not really a great movie experience. The pace is weirdly slow, even with all the pulsing music and cruising from room to room at parties or down streets from house to house, day and night. And the dialog, beyond the initial gasp you might have (depending on your age and experience, I think) is a little obvious and unexceptional. If this reflects ordinary life for some unordinary times, it only touches the surface of things. Friendships are forced, diversity is enforced, nastiness is too often sugar coated (not a contradiction), and the plot is what it is, without particular force.These qualities are defensible as part of a documentary-style approach--the actors, most of them amateurs, are made to do things as if they were real. There are a lot of movies that do the same, but here it seems significant because of their ages and the subject itself--the raw world of parties, sex, and disease in the 1990s. So to glam it up or dumb it down (either) would be to make it less harsh and less important as a window on that world. The strength of the film is its unflattering view on what is too often glitzed up on t.v. and in film, and here it is, supposedly nasty.Except it's not. There is a side to this that is simply familiar to kids that age. People I know say, yeah, I've been there. Without the HIV, as far as I know. And once you grasp the fact that this is just a reveling in the party sex scene, and in a way just an entry for those who want to see it without being there, the movie become just a movie, an entertainment. It's supposed social value is thin and thinner, and once you look at it for the fictional drama that it really is, there isn't a lot going on. Some cool lighting at the parties, some good acting given the thin script to work with, and a nice mise-en-scene. For psychological insight, social significance, or a great fictional experience, it's disappointing. "},{"Title":"Sick and Pointless, from the start to the finish!","Date":"16 December 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This was the first film that i watched for my study on shocking cinema, and i did find it shocking in the way of how the 'kids' are represented. One truly shocking scene was near the end where Casper 'rapes' Jennie not knowing that she has got HIV. Larry Clark did not give the characters any way of expressing themselves as individuals, just a group of diabolical teenagers that want, think and have sex all the time, there is no real substance in any of the 'kids' and the audience does not feel drawn emotionally. One character that could have been a droned character was Jennie but her mission into telling Telly she's got HIV from him does not let her be a respected and pitied character. i thought the whole film was pointless and annoying in the way the 'kids' are shown as being one-minded. Larry Clark has filmed the film realistically and some parts in the film are true to form of the real world but in some places it is exaggerated. "}{"Title":"Shock-value pointless movie","Date":"6 July 2006","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Shock-value is overdone and it bores me. This film bored me. Does it speak the truth? I guess not. I don't believe that the situation of kids nowadays is as wrong as it is shown in this piece of crap. Really, sure kids have unsafe sex, some kids! Not all of them! Sure some kids try drugs, i did it my self when i was one, but that does not mean they end up like that. This was a stupid film. It just throws a lot of trash into the air and it hopes some of it will stay in there. If this was meant to be anti-AIDS or something it did not work. This movie is awful. It shocks any kid who tries to watch it. It didn't shock me because i'm aware of how the world really is. The world is not like this, even if some of you try to say it is. If kids today only behave this way there's is no future. But that's not true. It creates a lot of stereotypes, like kids always high, drunk, humping like rabbits. A terrible picture, a terrible plot, terrible acting, terrible message- wait, there is no message in it. It's pointless. "},{"Title":"I Have No Legs...I Have No Plot...I Have No Likeable Characters...ching-ching-ching","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I hadn't watched this movie since it came out, over 5 years ago, but I was thinking today about the worst/most overrated movies I'd ever watched, and this one came to mind.I remember at the time, when I was just in my second year of college, that I was getting into the heavy indie movie phase that everyone in college goes through.  You'll see ANYthing that comes to the University theater. Well, I had heard about KIDS well before it came to town.  It was supposed to be this hardcore, hard hitting, realistic view of childhood in a big city with severe parental negligence.  Everyone had said it was tremendous.So, I happily went down the day it came to the 2nd run University indie theater and plunked down my $5.  I can say, quite honestly, that this was one of the most over-rated movies in the history of film.  It was not just that it was a terrible movie that started nowhere and WENT nowhere, it had not ONE likeable character, and it was just plain stupid.  Whoa...kids using the word f***...what a stretch.  How artistic.  Give me a damn break.  *If you haven't seen it and don't want it spoiled, stop reading here.*At the end, I don't know about you, but I was almost relieved that all the one-dimensional characters (everyone in the movie) weren't gonna make it.  At least I could finally leave.What an incredible waste of time.   "},{"Title":"A Photograph","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Larry Clark is a photographer, the ordinary kind who creates a single artifact (the image) that has collected all sorts of power from its situation and ours.Film is large enough to accommodate this vision, though not well. What we have is a film that is solely a collection of images of growing power that feed the scene at the end.It is all a matter of situating us and setting us up. I admit it worked for me, but only as a single photograph. Film is so much more, and both Clark and Korine have gone on to make highly watchable films (`Bully' and `Gummo'). Those are films.Chloe is slightly redhead here Kim (Michele Lockwood) more so.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 4 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"Bleak but not as realistic as you'd think &#150; deliberately sacrifices credibility in preference to shocks","Date":"7 September 2002","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Telly is one of a large group of young friends who live for sex, drugs and pleasure with little thought of responsibility or morality.  Telly in particular loves sex with girls even younger than him, and they all have to be virgins to please him.  However one girl who has only had sex with Telly finds herself testing positive for HIV.  She sets out to find him before he can spread the disease any further. I saw this when it came out as it entered the UK in a rage of tabloid anger and middleclass `we'll all be killed in our beds' style furore.  Back then I was maybe more giving or maybe more determined to appreciate it simply because I thought the papers had overreacted.  I still think the tabloids kicked up a storm for nothing but now I see past the worthy face the film has on and see it in a different light.The film is worthy, no doubt, those individuals who live like this do exist and are a real problem to themselves and others, however the film tries really hard to shock us.  Nobody in this film is `normal' or in anyway considerate &#150; they all only care about themselves, they are all open to rape a girl who says no, or beat someone to near death for bumping into them.  This leads us to think that everyone is like this and to all be shocked.  Yes &#150; some (many?) young people like sex and drugs but how many live like this?But the film wants to over-blow things simply because the shock value adds value to the subject.  So we have rape, beatings, AIDS being spread, children barely 10 smoking weed etc and the film has a mix of shock but also a sort of sensationalisation about it &#150; like Clarke is rubbing his hands behind the camera ad directing, saying `worse, worse, more, more etc'.  This only stops for the final shot and line where the film condemns this but up till then you'd be forgiven for not seeing the judgement.The cats are most unlikely versions of Kevin Smith's Jay but without the crude wit or charm &#150; they make Jay look like a man about town.  I  know that's there characters but some of them just deliver crude skater stereotypes.  I know they're all first time actors but still &#150; several have done better since.  Fitzpatrick is OK but his character is one-dimensional and we never get to see him have deeper stuff to deal with.  Pierce is again a cartoon but at least appears to have something else behind his eyes &#150; shame he's dead now.  Sevigny is good as is Dawson but that's mainly because they do have something of value to say.  The rest are just all there to `shock' us &#150; `oh, look' says Larry Clark `they're doing drugs, there's girls kissing girls, there's fights and shocking sex &#150; isn't it all lovely and terrible!!!?'.Overall it's worth a watch maybe once simply because this is a lost world that I'll hopefully never see.  But don't get sucked in by the film pretending to be important or smart &#150; it's neither simply because it only wants to shock us and it revels in every disgusting or shocking frame. "},{"Title":"My duty to warn others","Date":"7 April 2000","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Edit together only the rape scenes from the DEATH WISH movies removing the justice that comes in the second 1/2 of each edition and there you have the base essence of KIDS.  The hype.  The naughty NC-17 rating.  The big artsy controversy. Yes, it must be the movie KIDS!  The story is simply REFER MADNESS except its about sex.  The movie is some out-of-touch parent's worst nightmare put on film.  Completely unreal.  Did you SEE sex taking place in the movie KIDS?  Did you even see any nudity (outside of the baby breast feeding)? Where was the nudity?  Where?  There was none.  Zip.Take a look at the last part of the movie The last 13 y/o virgin, the one who did not drink alcohol or take drugs, the one who had to ask her mother's permission before she could go swimming, and one of the few people in the movie who seemed mentally normal... this is the same attractive, clear headed, young virgin female who1) was attracted to a smelly, speech-impaired guy  2) had sex with the smelly, speech-impaired guy 3) was seduced by the smelly, speech-impaired guy after only a few hours of courting 4) spent, without a second thought, a whole night away from home 5) spent, without her mothers permission, the night away from home 6) slept deeply, in a strange bed, under unusual conditions, and just after a major change in her sexuality, into the late morning.  As if!Call me silly, but when I sleep in a new bed, I sleep very lightly.Call me kookie, but when I sleep with someone new, I sleep very lightly.Call me different, but when I sleep with anyone, I am less likely to over-sleep than when I sleep alone.This movie was unreal to the point of being silly.  And don't get me started on the girl with a mission swallowing those pills!How many speech-impaired guys have much confidence around members of the opposite sex?  How many speech-impaired guys are so popular and successful with members of the opposite sex?And what about the females in the movie?  Remember the group talk and group swim scenes?  How many young teen females, who are at the most awkward stage of their sexual lives, have no sense of modesty?   Remember the beginning of the park scene when the speech-impaired guy spends about 8 minutes shaking everyone's hand?  For a minute I thought I was watching the movie FEED (documentary about '92 presidential race).  This movie was unreal.And even the breast feeding scene was silly -- like most welfare mothers sit around for hours waiting for a people to be there to watch before she whips out her milk jug... as if!  "},{"Title":"Kids is pretentious explotation at its worst. It's propaganda garbage!","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  One of my friends in school told me to see this movie. She told me that it was artful, realistic, and poignant. When I saw the movie, I took out by Blacklist and put the director and writer on the top. Kids has got to be one of the most exploitational pieces of cinematic garbage ever to be filmed.Kids is basically unnerving pornography disguised as an art flick and a social commentary. The message of Kids is this Kids suck! Kids are scum! Kids have turned America into a raging hellhole!Just about everyone in this movie does drugs, has sex, and beats up people. All the kids talk about is sex, or how their last experience was (quite graphically, I might add). The movie later goes on to state that most of America's teenagers act like this! Kids is propaganda. Kids gives in to stereotypes, especially the stereotype that adults commonly have of teenagers today that they are drug-using, Satan-worshipping, unprotected-sex-having degenerates (which for the most part is entirely untrue!). Kids is to teenagers what Nazi propaganda was to the Jews.I do know that drugs and sex are a problem for some teenagers living in America, but certainly not to the extent that the movie portrays them. I would say that less than 1% of America's teenage population actually acts like the kids in Kids.Keep in mind that it is not just the message, but how the message was expressed. Like I said before, sex is all they talk about.The movie starts out with this slack-jawed idiot teenager named Telly trying to persuade this teenage girl into having sexual intercourse. The girl says yes and pretty soon they are going at it. He walks outside to meet his scumbag friend, and tells him how he only likes virgins, even referring to himself as the virgin surgeon. The movie then cuts to two girls who have had sex with this neanderthalic bastard as they are talking about their experience with him. They then go to a health clinic where one of the girls is tested positive with AIDS. The AIDS girl then tries to stop this self-proclaimed f*ck monster from infecting other innocent teenage girls. In the process she stumbles upon all sorts of questionable activity. She sees a vicious fight, drug parties, rampant and graphically ridiculous sex (including three girls on one guy), and contempt for humanity. All of those activities involved teenagers. She eventually makes it to a party where Telly is picking up his next victim, where she tried to save her but she is too stoned to do anything. She is then raped by one of the partygoers, who takes advantage of her stoned state. That last scene has got to be one of the most graphic and unnecessary scenes ever filmed. The camera shows everything, and never goes away.The scenery is appalling too. You see grungy, apocalyptic, run-down apartments where little boys are smoking marajuana and having sex, where filth and contempt are so rampant that you want to throw up. This, my friends, is the true definition of propaganda. There is one big thing that this movie is lacking TRUTH!Don't get me wrong, the film was well-made. They did ever so great a job at conveying how scummy us teenagers are. The movie was original, well-acted, and brilliantly directed. If only that skill was used to make a truthful movie.I consider the Harmony Korine (the writer, who was only 19 at the time) to be a sellout to all the teenagers out there. He made us look bad, and in doing so he attracted the attention of a media who is ever so eager to spread controversy. He took advantage of gullible adult minds, and from all of these atrocities he became a somewhat succesful filmmaker. He pulled a fast one on America. He now has parents and liberal critics saying that everyone should see this. It is proclaimed as a masterpiece and a wake-up call to the world. Sorry, Mr. Korine, your film is just propaganda filth. You add fuel to the anti-teenage campaign that has been a serious problem in the last ten years, already being fueled by uptight soccer moms, the Christian Coalition, and the Media itself. These are the people who say that kids nowadays are evil and out of control and that today's young generation has gone down the gutter.To all readers out there, I suggest that you see Kids. Don't see it to take it seriously, see it to get an idea of how art can be used to twist the truth. See Kids to get an idea of how Adult America sees us.We teenagers are decent people, that is the bottom line.  "},{"Title":"A sad but fuzzy and intoxicating movie about neglected youth in a warm New York summer","Date":"24 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I can see how people might think of this movie as disturbing, but I don't think it has that intention. I think what it wants at it's core is giving these unseen, unwanted, uncared for kids recognition for what is their reality. Though at times the movie may feel a little unreal. There's little to no reality checking, in a sense that you'd expect the movie to show the dark, maybe even traumatic effect of the events in the story. There's no aftermath, there's no tomorrow, but that's also just how these kids live. New York in the summer is a bright, colorful and romantic place, which adds to the movie's ever present state of intoxication and constant partying, an atmosphere fueled by drugs and alcohol. And while there's bad stuff going on, which as an adult might make you feel worried for these kids, the movie tries to let that fuzzy, nostalgic, playful feeling of careless youth (by stimulation) stay with you.There's a lot of sad and depressing stuff in this movie, but there's no rush to focus on that and milk it. Sporadically, you get a glimpse of what might come tomorrow, what would happen if summer's over and winter's there, like the feeling of an upcoming panic attack, which is instantly blocked out again, because you don't wanna focus on the consequences, you want to live in the now. "},{"Title":"Unrealistic","Date":"27 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" As a 17 year old myself, I'm one of the first to tell people that teenagers are not as socially undeveloped as people think we are. And by that, I include all teenagers, not just 17 year olds or older.This movie though, is so extreme, that its not even remotely close to the reality of what its like to be a teenager. First of all, the movie portrays everyone from the ages of thirteen to eighteen as living lifestyles that are pretty much the same. The truth, however, is that people change tremendously throughout their teenage years. I know quite a few people who told me they wouldn't be promiscuous, drink, or party when they got to High School as thirteen or fourteen year olds and then did all that when they got a little bit older.The parties in the movie were truly bizarre as well. There were scenes where preteen kids were smoking joints at a High School party. That makes absolutely no sense, in all my years in High School, I can tell you that nobody invites twelve or eleven year olds to a High School party. Some people don't even want to invite freshmen much less someone who just started Middle School.The screenwriter also seems to be under the impression that any random person can just walk in on a high school party. Real High School parties are very secretive, people don't want their parents, neighbors, or the cops to find out so they go to great lengths to make sure that it looks like nothing is happening. People park their cars in different streets and walk, the doors are locked, windows are shut, sometimes even the music will be turned down if you think someone is coming. In the movie though, a thirteen year old girl is able to simply walk into random orgies happening all over the city. Not only this but is also able to walk around the streets at night, no problem, just another day in these crazy teenagers' lives where no curfew, police, or parents exist.Despite what I've said though, wild stuff still happens. High Schoolers do party, sometimes the parties are unsupervised and when they are, there is often alcohol, there is often grinding, making out, and sex happening, sometimes there are even drugs. There's a lot of stuff my mom doesn't know about that I've done or participated in. As far as the language goes, teenagers do curse a tremendous amount and conversations or jokes about sex are very frequent and graphic. Even Middle School teenagers can surprise you, I saw people do some pretty sexual stuff when I was in 8th grade.So while I do want to point out that you shouldn't have unrealistic expectations of what what we're like and use that to impose restrictions that don't make sense... This movie, is fantasy. Even the parts that are somewhat true, are portrayed incredibly unrealistically and I can't think of one person who acts like the characters in this film. I can't speak for the 1995 teens since youth violence was supposed to be much higher then but as far as physical aggression goes, most High Schoolers rarely if ever fight people, and rape is considered abominable. "},{"Title":"Truth Be Told","Date":"28 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" An excellent account on youth. Maybe it's the extreme end of youth, with sex and drugs, but an accurate account of those types. This film isn't trying to label all kids like these ones but label kids like these ones as kids like these ones, no sugar coating it. It's disturbing, it's full on and it's as raw as possible without making it a snuff children's film. Truly an excellent piece by Larry Clarke, finally someone who is not afraid to do what he wants and does what he pleases. Gritty and raw, there is no escaping the grasp of Kids. A not-so-thoughtful nod to the children of the world, but a realistic one of the hoodlums of society. "},{"Title":"A Disturbing Portrait of People With No Rules of Values","Date":"21 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Every character in Kids except Ruby and Jenny are unlikable. Telly spends his whole day having sex with virgins and lying to them while also stealing money from his mother to buy drugs while they continue to live in poverty. Casper is homophobic, violent, and rapes Jenny. All of their friends are the same way as they try to mimic each other. Going to parties, getting drunk, doing drugs, having sex, repeat. While all this is going on Jenny decides to keep her friend Ruby company as she gets tested for STDs. Jenny decides to take the test even though the only person she slept with was Telly and finds out she's HIV positive. For the rest of the movie Jenny is on a journey through Manhattan to find Telly. After the rape scene, the most disturbing part of the movie is when Casper and a man get into a fight. He is beaten on the head with a skateboard by Harold, a friend of Telly and Casper's. They then knock him to the ground and Telly, Casper and all their friends continue to beat him senseless. As the camera cuts down to his face you see the afraid look in his eyes and all the blood dripping down from his head as he twitches. You know that they may have killed him. After, Casper and Telly discuss if they killed the man at the park or not. They seem to laugh as talking about the whole ordeal letting you know that these kids do not have any remorse for pretty much anyone. It is a shame that when Kids was released nearly 20 years ago the MPAA gave it an NC-17 (it then ended up being released unrated) and it stirred up a ton of controversy. Because, you see how important it is to teach people not to act like Casper and Telly and as easy as you may think it is, for some people it may not. The same circumstances that Telly grew up in could still apply to many people today. Kids is a wake up call to people that think children are innocent. That drugs, unprotected sex, and crime still are done by people under the age of 18. It seems that as soon as we become parents ourselves, we forget about all the bad things that happened during our childhood. But in reality, nothing has really changed. "}{"Title":"shocking unforgettable","Date":"19 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A group kids in NYC run wild in a world without adult supervision. Telly (Leo Fitzpatrick) loves to deflower virgins. One of the girls he deflowered in the past is Jennie (Chloë Sevigny). She and her friend Ruby (Rosario Dawson) go to do a STD check. Ruby is clean but Jennie tests positive for HIV despite having had sex with only Telly.I remember this was edgy at the time. It still is seeing this after 20 years. It has the documentary feel and mostly unknown amateur actors which only adds to its realism. Both Leo Fitzpatrick and Chloë Sevigny are amazing. I do forget that this is also Rosario Dawson's debut. Some of the other kids also put out raw performances. Harmony Korine's script has a real authenticity to it. "},{"Title":"The Movie is Entertaining Beginning to End","Date":"5 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" At the start it looks like a little bit of underage kids doing adult things. But little did I know how old they actually were. My guess was 16. Turns out it's 12 and 13 year old kids in White Ghetto New York. It was very entertaining to see the average day in the life of late 80s and 90s kids. The kids are crazy, and quite frankly remind me of myself when I was that age. What with all the weed, drinking, and fun with friends. But I really related to the movie. I really found laughter and drama in what really isn't too funny a movie, and no this review isn't a review on the whole movie. It's my experience with the movie. 10/10 IGN, Would Watch again. "},{"Title":"arguably the best Larry Clark movie","Date":"8 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Kids sparked a lot of controversy when it came out because of the age of characters portrayed. It happens in New York although the message screams It could happen to you, as well. I was past my teens when i saw Kids and grew up away from the geographical location mentioned above. Although i could relate to most of stuff, there were some moments that didn't work out for me. For example, watching girls discussing oral sex wasn't convincing. On the other hand, it might mean i simply wasn't the target group of the movie.What Kids does well is showing growing up without much parents' involvement in an urban environment. In fact, after watching Kids you might even ask yourself whether you'd want to have children in such a merciless world. In the case that this is the real world, that is. "},{"Title":"An exploitative coming of age","Date":"7 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I had not heard of this film until my room mate informed me of the work of Harmony Korine and the unconventional aesthetics contained within his work. After hearing about the concept of this film and the nature revolved around it, I decided to sit down and watch it. Conveniently, Youtube has the entire unedited film in its entirety for free to view. On first note, I must identify the superb acting of Justin Pierce as Casper and may his tragic suicide in 2000 be noted and perhaps this role had a daunting effect on him. Kids today are curious, and this film exploits the innocence of adolescence to a the underground world of drugs and unprotected sex. This highly critical portrait of 90s youth is a phenomenal commentary on the ignorance of adult society as parents need to be aware of what their children are up to. This film presents a message through a highly disturbing and engaging 90 minutes of drugs and teenage fornication. For a shaky independent film, Kids will leave a lasting feeling on those who view it and hopefully will provide a critical point of view to parents who let their children out past midnight. I recommend this film to everyone as it shows us the life of uneducated and rebellious children who don't know anything about reality. Phenomenal work of art and excellent criticism on the dark side of youth. PARENTS MUST WATCH THIS FILM. "},{"Title":"The glorious New York?","Date":"15 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Yes, the glorious New York, the city where everything is possible. Unfortunately, these teenagers don't know that when everything is possible, everything becomes dangerous if you are not careful. The movie is powerful. Filmed in a dynamic way, in a way that brings you closer to the characters, it sends a very important message about AIDS. The problem depicted in the movie is that most of the teenagers think they are invincible, immortal, and they don't care about the things they do as long as they are happy. The picture shows what a poor education can mean, what a family with only one parent can do to a child who thinks he's above everybody. It's a good movie, if you're looking for a movie to watch in the afternoon, after a day at school and at the same time want to learn something, to get attached to a story, to some good characters, this is your movie. "},{"Title":"Probably one of the most important films in the past 25 years.","Date":"6 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I had heard about Kids several years back after seeing Harmony Korine's 1997 film Gummo which I was not impressed with. I wanted to see Kids, however, because it sounded like one of those really screwed up films that's so bad you shouldn't watch it, yet you can't look away. Well, in a way, that is what Kids is. I finally rented the film a few weeks ago and watched it. Let me just say, with a single viewing, I had mixed feelings. I didn't expect what I saw. I am not a prude person by any means, but all the graphic sex talk between the teenagers was a bit much. It was so descriptive and realistic to the point that it was almost too realistic to be real, if that makes any sense at all. However, after some thinking, I realized this movie is depicting the way some kids really live. There are kids who talk about sex all day, come from really screwed up families, and sleep with everyone in sight. The sad truth is that this is one of the most realistic films you can find out there today. This may sound like a stretch, but I feel like it should almost be shown in schools (with permission slips, of course) because if you want a movie that can really scare the crap out of teenagers into using protection and not sleeping around, I feel like this movie can do it. Kids is shown more like a documentary than a work of fiction and is so realistic you feel like you're watching truth. 8 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"This Film Really Takes Me Back to My Days As a Teen in Manhattan","Date":"7 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" ....just kidding. I only moved to Manhattan after graduating college, well into my adult life, and nothing about my life was remotely like the events in this film.Watching Kids was at once overwhelming and saddening. While I found it incredibly rich in entertainment value, I also felt deep pangs of terror for what might be happening to a pocket of American teenage society. With the advent of HIV+AIDS circulating the modern world, the lack of responsible parenting or other forms of positive role modeling, and youth's ignorance to safe sex practices due to an abundance of abstinence-only health programs or a lack of funding that would allow schools to provide free access to forms of birth control--everything has coalesced into the microcosm portrayed in this film. I don't think I know of any place in America, rural,suburban or urban, where parents are so dramatically unaware of the whereabouts and behavior of their children as they are in this film. It is just plain shocking. Also shocking was the opening scene, in which a, what, 13-year old, sleeps with a, what, 12-year-old? I mean I felt like i was watching kiddie porn, and even if it made sense in the context of the film, and was relevant to later scenes, that didn't stop it from being awkward and uncomfortable.All of this established, however, I do think Kids is a very stylistically successful film. The shots and acting are spot-on, so much so that one could not imagine these young actors and actresses having any alternate, real-life personas outside of their characters. Ten-year-olds getting high in a parentless apartment, talking about the quality of the weed they're smoking as though they were in their college years or late high school years--what does one even say to a scene like that? Newly acknowledged HIV-positivity of Chloe Sevigny's character--her subsequent getting high and showing up at a party and being more or less raped and unable to speak up and say a simple no, not to mention divulging her health condition to prevent the disease's spread. This communication never happens during the course of the film, and it is this lack of conclusiveness that rounds out an overall very dark depiction of teen recklessness and the spread of disease due to irresponsibility.Fun times! "},{"Title":"Uncompprmising","Date":"20 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It might seem dated when watched almost 20 years after it came out, but it was showing a side of Kids that many movies were ignoring. There is the problem with identification (even more if you're not in the target group) and of course religious people or people with a threshold when it comes to sexuality and teenagers will have more than a few issues too (smoking and other drugs included).But it is very well played, no matter what your opinion on the matter is. The end might either be exactly what you expected and somewhat rounds a very open story up pretty tightly. It may be hailed as one of the first roles of Rosario Dawson, but don't just watch it because of that, it's the others who shine in this. Kids these/those days ... "},{"Title":"An interesting movie that depicts the dangers of our world and is a wake-up call to parents","Date":"12 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" You can look at the film Kids in a lot of different ways. Maybe it's a film for teenagers. Maybe it's a film for adults. Maybe both. A film that came out in 1995 and never really never got a chance. A difficult film with an uncomfortable subject but that is why it works.Directed by controversial director Larry Clark, Kids from 1995 was originally given an NC-17 rating but was then released unrated. The plot tells the controversial story of a group of poor teens who's life consists of mostly drugs, alcohol, sex and AIDS.The movie has a thin plot and even thinner character development. Even with these flaws, Clark is trying to depict a teen world that we don't usually see where these kids get away with a lot. I could relate a bit being with familiar with classmates who have similar problems. Some scenes are quite realistic and very hard to watch but many of the actions have very real consequences. This is a film that could only be made by a director with an attitude and a lot of confidence and Clark has that.I found the New York City setting to be very real and effective. This is a setting we've seen quite a bit but here New York City is not glamorous but is gritty, run down with a dangerous feel to it. Not the New York City we usually see in movies. The setting is very effective and helps makes the story.Kids is an interesting movie that depicts the dangers of our world and is a wake-up call to parents. It is probably one of the most controversial films of it's time and for an audience of the right age, it is a must-see. "},{"Title":"When a young girl has sex for the first time, soon after she discovers she has AIDS. The search is on to find the guy before the inevitable happens","Date":"26 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I am a big fan of harmony korine's films. i find that he pushes the boundaries of ordinary cinema but still manages to appeal to a wide audience. i have often found that with his films, you either love them, or you hate them.It was recommended to me by a friend who claimed there to be a twist at the end of the film, obviously this got me hyped up and was probably what drove me to watch it, but it turned out it wasn't everything my friend had made it out to be. This was probably what left me disappointed with the film. overall I still enjoyed it. I found that it picked up on some very realistic issues and was definitely a well thought out film. For what it was i think it was definitely pushed to the maximum potential it could of achieved.I would definitely recommend it if you enjoy indie films or if you're just looking for something a bit different from what you usually watch. "}{"Title":"Portrayal of expectations","Date":"13 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In cinema verite style Kids invites us into the lives of sex-driven teenagers crazed on scoring, addicted to cussing and verging on self-destructive practises. Bound to big controversy when first released due to its explicit nature, which involves sexual promiscuity, including date rape, and drinking / drug binges of minors, some barely out of puberty, the movie still packs a punch out of the blue, suggesting how break-through the movie still is.Verging on a exploitational, not withstanding the young age of the scriptwriter, through its naturalistic quasi-documentary storytelling Kids attempts to convey a sense of teenage frustration and reality as verging on nihilistic and devoid of wider purpose. Through the extrapolated portrayals many viewed the movie as a wake-up call for American parents, whereas it seems more like preaching to the choir, the repetitive belief, that this generation is more depraved then 'back in the days'. The amoral behaviour of kid characters is suggested to be representative of the wider population, but essentially shows a certain fragment of it, maybe not marginal, but certainly dysfunctional and a minority. Sacrificing reality with shock factor and sensatonalism, dimishes the overall worth, also misleading the audience as to the real state of the youth, subverting certain reviewers to gasp in baseless shock as to modern-day teenagers.Backed with then unknown actors Larry Clark however manages to introduce a sense of dramatic realism, which despite not playing as a moral compass, points out to issues rarely portrayed / touched in contemporary cinema, but one so basic as the hormonal storms of adolescence, coupled with the relatively recent change in perceptions of adulthood. Since the XIX century concepts of age of sexual initiation dramatically changed increasing the age of consensual intercourse, naturally without altering natural sexual tendencies at age 14-17. After a period of hypocritical chastity enforced by parents on youth, for years now we have entered a phase of individualistic self-realisation among kids, but devoid of the moral compass of parents often too detached to understand the necessities of constructive parenthood. Despite its many flaws Kids still remains poignant, despite no soliloquy on morality to point a direction, just as a warning sign to parents as to societal risks in peer groups and the tough educational input needed to help guide through this emotionally rampant phase of growing up. "},{"Title":"Shocking and unforgettable","Date":"28 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I saw this movie many years ago, I was probably 18 at the time and I never forgot Talie's face, the disgusting kid, nor the last scene. a couple of days ago, I was at a friends house and she had this DVD and I was like 'hum, I know this guy, but where do I know him from?'. I honestly thought I'd met him in real life, thats how this stuck to my memory. I never socialised with kids like these, but they exist all around us. I remember a girl in my school who was 13 and having sex with lots of people and drove one of my neighbours to suicide cause she dumped him for another kid. He was 14. she and a friend were later expelled from school for urinating in the class. One of my cousins used to hang out with skateboarders and one of his friends died of overdose age 21. they pretty much looked like the group in this movie language and clothes wise. I also met a guy in my hall in Uni who was basically getting laid with every girl he could get his hands on, really disgusting. But what is really shocking about this movie is the reality of aids. and the darkness of the last scene where immorality and irresponsibility turn into creepy stuff like disease, crime and homelessness. It will stay with you for life. "},{"Title":"A condom","Date":"25 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I was fourteen when this movie came out and spent pretty much all my free time skateboarding, so when i first caught the preview it intrigued me based on the skating alone. I knew who Harold Hunter was and thought it was going to be a movie about skating, only hitch is that it's NC-17. When this came out i wanted to see it so badly i didn't care what lengths that meant going to. So i asked my mom if she would take me! What a colossal mistake, i couldn't think of a more uncomfortable movie to see with a parent or authority figure. The first ten minute make-out to sex scene was gutt wrenching. My mom wanted to leave right away, she leaned over and said let's go but i was unable to move, this was around the time in my life when i was so defiant i would sit in a crowded movie theater with my mom while basically a cheap porno was playing, and still refuse to leave. So the entire movie revolves around one kid with AIDS who has a fetish for young virgins, and his miscellaneous crew including a young Rosario Dawson as they navigate mid-nineties New York. Partying, pool hopping, robbery, rape, drugs, beat-downs, it's just another day in the big apple! The movie plays out in almost documentary fashion while the audience is subjected to the unfortunate saga of a young man with a raging disease who basically rapes one girl after another. It's magnified reality to my poor mother who i dragged to the movie then refused to leave. It was way to much, she accosted me in the parking lot why did you take me to that movie i told her i thought it was about skateboarding!? she replies the only skateboarding i saw was when they beat that man to death!. Shocked, i didn't see another movie with my mom until Spiderman 3 which was another exercise in horrible movie making. Only on a different level of course. "},{"Title":"kids","Date":"22 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie accurately portrayed a lifestyle back then. I was a senior in high school when this came out and although we lived in New Haven and not New York, the group of people I knew, dressed like them, talked like them, boarded and were ravers. To me when I watch this movie, it's like watching my life when I was 17, without the HIV part of course. I love this movie and I think it's one of the most accurate, best ever made on the subject of youth. This and Thirteen as well. Both are very realistic. We don't like to admit that kids are doing these things like drugs, being promiscuous and skipping school to get high. But it's how it is happening in many cities not just New York. This movie is not promoting this lifestyle, it's simply giving an accurate portrayal into the lives of a group of skaters/ravers, and how life was for them back in the 90's. "},{"Title":"Pointless","Date":"21 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I didn't find Kids a very useful film. Kids do drugs? Boys hurt girls? They try and impress each other. They try and figure out what the other sex wants. They skateboard. None of these behaviors are particularly shocking, and to show them doing only these things and not having any other interests or things to do seems boring at best and prurient at worst. I guess director Larry Clark wanted to show what kids do, but I think that this depiction of young people is particularly helpful. It is a shallow, superficial, extremely circumscribed view of kids. I think there is enough misinformation about kids without depicting one aspect of their lives and not depicting another. It's a very limited and ultimately, useless depiction of a group which is often misrepresented on film. Rosario Dawson made her debut in this film and Chloe Sevigny also got her first exposure in it. The script by Harmony Korine is bland and unimaginative and it's not nearly as entertaining as his trainwreck appearance on David Letterman. I find the claim that it's realistic pointless and I just don't understand why it was made. "},{"Title":"pleasantly surprised","Date":"29 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I didn't know what to expect from this movie - all I'd heard about it was it was controversial and dealt with teens, sex, and drugs.I was quite pleasantly surprised, as Kids is poignant, realistic, and to the point in its portrayal of the extreme culture that some people are born into. This is especially true of cosmopolitan cities like NYC where they can easily get lost in the crowd. The acting is great, even though they are amateurs essentially picked up off the street - that's what gives it's sense of believability; of a documentary.I must disagree with others here saying that all parents ought to watch this movie. While there are definitely kids in similarly bad circumstances virtually everywhere, most other, less-tainted, kids can get through childhood and adolescence without ever knowing that world, and so can their parents. You can't force a movie like this upon anyone, especially if they are not open to the idea of exposing themselves to it. This film needs to be watched by the open-minded. "},{"Title":"some people just don't understand","Date":"9 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The only reason i even made a IMDb account was to review this movie after i saw how people were baggin on it. Im tired of hearin people say ohh this never happens and the acting sucks. newsflash it really does, i bet most people also don't know that the director found the actors on the street and just walked up to them and asked if they wanted to do this movie. so it was basically done by a bunch of street kids with no acting experience. Also to all the people complaining about the way they talk, you guys need to sit down its a about a bunch of poor reckless kids in new york what do you except?? Anyway this movie to me was really realistic, if this doesn't happen to you or never did oh well because it reality for a lot of people. "},{"Title":"Great movie without a story.","Date":"28 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I think this is easily one of the best films I've seen. This film is definitely not for everyone. It features graphic moments involving teens. This movie came out and it suffered a lot of controversy because of the underage nude people in it and its graphic raw nature. This movie does not have much of a story line. It takes place in the early 90s when aids was having an outbreak in New York city. It basically just has a group of people walk around and the camera just follows them kind of showing their everyday life. I know it may sound boring but it is the exact opposite. The acting is just amazing from young actors. It feels like you are watching actual footage from a documentary on troubled youth thats what make this movie so great. If you don't mind a slow paced movie with not much of a story line but with incredibly real life scenes this movie is definitely for you. If you need lots of action and explosions in a movie for it to make it good then you will hate this movie Guarantee. "},{"Title":"Its real!","Date":"20 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In denial of what your kids are doing? Watch this! Besides the aids, its very close to what I was doing as a teenager! Probably why I can relate! Who didn't drink beers, smoke weed, go to house parties, bang chicks out in their parents bed? Maybe I like it because I lived it, but this was a real as it gets! Nothing is sugar coated to protect parental feeling, you have to know that what we did as teenagers (and I'm 37 now,) most kids are introduced to at a much younger age. Sex is in every music video. Sex is a click away on your office computer. Drugs are in elementary schools now. Stop being in denial! It's happening! Might not be with your child, but if a close friend is doing whats in this movie, your child could be next! "},{"Title":"Kids, They Grow Up Too Fast","Date":"14 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Kids (1995), a movie every parent should watch, displays the life of many teenagers growing up in poverty live today alcohol, drugs, and teen sex. Teenagers are a different person when not around their parents and this movie opens our eyes as to exactly what we are missing.Telly (Leo Fitzpatrick) has a goal to take as many virginities as possible; in this movie he deflowers two girls in one day. One of the girls he has had sex with before, gets tested for STDs and finds out she has HIV; Telly is the only person she has been with. Her goal that day is to find him and prevent him from infecting his next target, her best friend's little sister.Director Larry Clark does a great job at hitting the daily aspects of the life of a typical teenager. Relationships, peer pressure, drugs, alcohol, smoking, sex, and fighting. He allows the viewer to better understand that this is real-life and this could easily be their child.I was a teenager myself when I watched this movie for the first time, and now that I am a parent, it helps me understand the importance of talking with my son about the dangers of sex, drugs, and peer pressure. I feel this movie, although low-budget and independent, is a great drama and deserves five stars for its ability to focus on the realism of the teenage life. "}{"Title":"Excellent Movie!","Date":"4 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Kids is a movie that you have to take seriously, it isn't a comedy even though there are a few jokes its mostly a Teen Drama.The Good parts of the film are the characters themselves, They are interesting and most of them have not had previous film experience.The Dialogue in the movie is excellent because it's exactly what a teenager would say.But The Movie Captures a great perspective on a teenagers life.The Bad Parts about the movie, for first thing is that the ending should of been better.In my opinion, the ending kinda ends on a cliffhanger and they should of added to it.The sex scenes between the teens are a little long, they should of been cut down.Overall the movie is good but it's a serious Teen Drama! 8/10 "},{"Title":"Good film, funny at times but advertises safe sex a bit too blatantly","Date":"23 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I watched this just after watching Gummo (which I gave 7/10) as they have the same writer. I generally liked the film but I was expecting more, though I'm not sure what. I wasn't expecting this film to have a plot since Gummo doesn't, and I think the predictability of the plot was what missed the marks for me. It reminded me too much of the films they show you at school that scare you into safe sex. I think for a film this blunt, funny and strange, there could have done with something more disturbing as it was a bit too tame for my liking.I'm surprised this has such a high rating, though I think it may be because the film has a plot. I suppose the good thing about this film is that it's appealing to people who are into mainstream as well as people into independent films. "},{"Title":"Neo-realism of the 90's teen era.","Date":"6 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Kids, one of the most controversial and unsettling movies of the 1990s, introduces two new names to the world of underground and independent cinema director Larry Clark and writer Harmony Korine. Today, each has gone on to direct more features while establishing themselves with their own style and substance as well as gain a cult following. Yet, 15 years ago they were simply two friends with a desire to go against the flow and do something not seen or expected at the time. Kids is such a thing.In reviewing this film, it is rather hard to encapsulate exactly how I felt when it was over. In one sense, I was happy it was because of the pain and horror I saw on the screen. Yet, the film is so well written, acted and edited that it was at the same time endlessly fascinating. The narrative could have gone on for another 30 minutes and I probably wouldn't have minded. Korine's screenplay focuses on the small details, and like all great indie dramas brings to life the sad and painstaking everyday troubles these characters face. It is no stretch to imagine the next day of Telly, Casper, Jennie and everyone else's life being somewhat a replica of what the movie captures. Their life consists of sex, alcohol, drugs, stealing, hanging out with friends and as much sex as can be crammed into a day.Is this so shocking for those who grew up in the 1990s and 2000s? Perhaps not, but it should in any case be a wake-up call to the sad truth of the moral and intellectual decomposition facing the younger generation. These teens have nothing on their mind but what is in front of them and what can happen today, right now. They also have limited vocabulary, little to no relationship with family and a complete lack of scruples and mores. Some will say the film exploits these characters but I say it is a warning, loud and clear. Parents must make a change and teens must attempt a change as well. For the sake of our future as a society, changes must be made. "},{"Title":"Heavy Film with a Self-Evident Undercurrent of Sadness","Date":"5 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Kids is a film you really have to be in the right mindset for when you see it. It is not a film to watch with your friends on a Saturday night when you're looking for entertainment. The truth is that this film is very emotionally frustrating without coming out and telling you why you should feel conflicting emotions for these characters. It's a heavy film indeed, but it's also one everyone should see as a cautionary tale.In a lot of ways, Kids is full of interesting contradictions. It's called Kids, yet it's not a movie that kids should watch unsupervised. The kids in the film are living life to the fullest, yet they are doing damages to themselves and their futures that they don't realize on this given day, but eventually will in the days that follow. The viewer knows, or can presume, what will become of these teens, and that is what is saddest about this film.If you come to the end of this film and find yourself having an intense hatred for Telly (Leo Fitzpatrick), that's a good sign. Telly is the primary main character in this film, and the more he's on screen, the more he epitomizes the word scumbag. I'm 27 years old and have no daughters or sisters, but this character makes me fear for my unborn daughters. He's a nihilistic, predatory, narrow-minded individual who takes advantage of 12 to 13 year old girls for immediate gratification at their expense.Telly's method of seducing his women are interesting, because I could tell he was being completely insincere. Can't women see through that? Plus, he's not a particularly good looking guy, but that's not to say he wouldn't be able to get away with his objective.It's the introduction of Jennie (Chloe Sevigny, who thankfully went on to bigger and better roles) where you realize how despicable Telly really is. Jennie claims to only have had sex with Telly, who deflowered her about a year earlier (and yes, Telly actually uses the word deflower). When she leaves a testing center finding out that she is HIV-positive, that's when the story really begins, not to mention the grim reality check.I've read other reviews (negative ones) where people were shocked by the amount of drug use, alcohol consumption, promiscuity, and violence there was in the film. Except for the scene where Casper (Justin Pierce) gets into a fight with another skater for merely bumping into him, I wasn't as shocked with the other elements. By nature, teens are full of raging hormones and are eager to experiment. However, I'd like to think most are not willing to do so mindlessly at other people's expense.These teens appear to be completely without adult supervision, which is how I wondered how they got that empty apartment they had at the end of the film. The point is, though, that despite the fact that the MPAA almost rated this film NC-17, teens need to watch this film with parents to know what not to do. Of course, teens shouldn't be supervised 24/7, nor should they be. The problem with the teens in this movie was not their lack of supervision, but their sheer ignorance. These kids are idiots, period.More than that, though, I hope and pray to God that there are no teens like Telly, or that there are as few as possible. My heart broke for characters in the film like Jennie and Darcy (Telly's latest interest). Regardless, the film was well shot given its budget, the dialogue was so real it was scary, and the film didn't try to conform or please Hollywood standards. I respect it for those reasons, but it's a movie I probably won't see again for a long time.On a final note, I read somewhere that Leo Fitzpatrick was working in a skateboarding shop after the film had premiered, and several teens expressed their hatred toward him because of this film. I'm sure Mr. Fitzpatrick is a good guy in reality, but that anecdote gave me hope in today's teens. "},{"Title":"Relatively accurate platform with decent plot","Date":"21 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This review is mainly a critique of the movie's style - the plot was fine, but I think one of the main purposes of this film was to accurately portray the behavior of 1990s teens...I was a teen 8 years later in a very diverse (77% minority) economically depressed post-industrial city near New York. In many ways, the kids in this movie remind me of several of my peers and several of the scenes(particularly in the less eventful beginning of the movie) are mirror images of things that have happened in my life... I'd say the basic platform for this movie is accurate. The story, as with most movies, is more dramatic and bizarre than what might actually happen to someone in a similar environment. My only complaint about the movie's platform is the scene where the skaters almost kill someone for no reason...While I remember similar things happening in my life, it was never to half the extent in this film - the lack of cops resulting from that scene, particularly in a city like New York, is just too hard to believe. Because this movie is most cited for its accuracy, I think its important to note that in this scene...Even if kids WERE this bad, there would definitely be cops, even in the crime heavy early 1990s... Other than that, I'd say every scene, and the totality of scenes closely resembled life in a similar (-the density) environment. "},{"Title":"Heart Of Darkness, Jr.","Date":"9 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Decadent photographer Larry Clark and Harmony Korine (future director of such edgy films as Gummo) teamed up for this intense and honest portrayal of a certain kind of predatory male teenager. As controversial as it was, it's not particularly hysterical; it is, actually, pretty matter-of-fact about its subject matter, which is refreshing.The story is incredibly simple. We meet a kid named Telly, who calls himself The Virgin Surgeon, in the act of deflowering yet another adolescent virgin. We soon meet one of his recent conquests, Jennie, who soon finds out she has the AIDS virus, which she could only have gotten from Telly. She then sets out on a quest to find Telly so as to inform him of his infection (and save any other girls who might become infected). At the same time we follow Telly, his obnoxious friend Casper, and their friends and hangers-on as they carouse their way through NYC on their way to a party.This allows Clark and Korine to give us a glimpse into some dark places without getting our hands too dirty. It also allows them to illustrate the film's central theme, which is played out several times that one wrong choice can lead to disaster.All this is nicely filmed in a grainy style endemic of the 1990's, with vivid, hallucinatory colors. The soundtrack, the work of Lou Barlow, is alternately ugly, gorgeous and dynamic, as need demands.Clark's depiction of decadent youth is often startlingly believable, and generally not gratuitous. There are, however, a few unnecessary, vaguely homoerotic scenes involving groups of shirtless boys practically laying atop each other, which are a little too reminiscent of those Calvin Klein ads from about the same period, and a little bit damaging to the film's credibility. "},{"Title":"Crazyyyyy. (spoilers)","Date":"13 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I watched KIDS last night at a friends house with a bunch of people. My friend had bought a bunch of new movies, ROMPER STOMPER, KILL BILL, DONNIE DARKO *coughsucks*, whatever. He decided to put in KIDS, one of his older movies. Has anyone seen this? he asked us. No one said anything, and then another guy on the couch said I saw part of it in rehab... Oh hell yeah dude, put that on! was the consensus after that. And holy god this movie is so relentless and violent, not saying it wasn't true to the lifestyles of those it was trying to portray, but goddamn, i don't know anyone that talks like the one dude that goes around infecting everyone with the hivvy. The scene where the kids all jump the guy in the basketball court was good, and all in all, the flow of the movie moved nicely. I just can't say that this movie necessarily represents everyone in that sort of lifestyle accurately. Yeeeah. See it anyway. "},{"Title":"intense","Date":"12 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I think this has been best film Harmony Korine's. It has a better story and much more order than Gummo and I just like it a lot more than the Bully, which is based on a true story. Kids is the story of a group of reckless young adults who get into trouble and pass aids around. It has a lot of shocking moments, and the subject matter in general is pretty heavy. Some of the parts almost seem like child pornography because the cast seems so young. The part with the man on the skate board that has no legs is a little sad. I like the circularness of the film ;I think it makes it powerful and sends a good message. It is almost like a very intense cautionary tale. This movie is very graphic, but I think it is shot well. The acting was great all the characters seem very real. This is a very intense slice of life. "},{"Title":"very interesting","Date":"8 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" After watching this film for the second time, I still felt a sense of depression afterwords. This film is a very interesting portrayal of the youth world and what happens when the adults in these youth's lives don't care about them. At the same time, I will not call these youth amoral, at risk, or problem children. They are living their lives the only way they know how so who are we to judge their actions? Better to judge the institutions that failed them. The school system that does not take an interest in them or teach them the importance of safer sex in a way that they will understand, the capitalistic system that forces their parents to never be able to see their children because they must work so much to just barely survive, or the criminal justice system that unjustly targets youth of color, especially men. This film, although marketed as a portrayal of all youth, is a fictional story. It has parallels to real life but should never be viewed by adults or parents as what youthhood is truly like. "},{"Title":"I'll never forget this film's experience!","Date":"29 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I'll never forget the night that I saw this film for the first time. It was my sophomore year in High School, and I was at a friend's house for his birthday party. For some reason, I guess lack of knowledge, his parents rented this movie for us to watch at the birthday boy's request.I myself had just moved to Florida a few years prior, and had lived in an unsavory neighborhood in southern Ohio, where the day to day actions of the Kids in this film were nothing but the norm. While I can't say that seeing the film didn't affect me (it most certainly did) I wasn't as horrified at the end of the film as much as my new found friends were. One I remember (I won't mention her name) just burst out into tears and went into sort of a shock induced tantrum because she just couldn't believe all the horrible images she had just witnessed in the last 91 minutes.It was noticed that I wasn't as affected as all the others, and I admitted to the group that this is really want happens in the inner city and in the slums. I've been there, I've lived that life, I've been those kids. While at first, some were horrified by my statement, most were intrigued and asked a few questions.Needless to say after the round of questions, the festivities were brought to end for the evening and everyone went on their separate ways, no one ever mentioning the film again.For someone to watch this film and simply make the comment that this isn't what happens in the Real World that this is just some over-dramatic art film that exploits children; I advise you to take a closer look into your children's lives and see what they might be up to when your backs are turned. "}{"Title":"A single day in the lives of a group of teenagers.","Date":"5 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Some people are offended by this movie and cannot accept it for what it is. The movie is simple, its a day in the life of the main character Telly (Leo Fitzpatrick) and his surrounding social clique. This movie is graphic and at times disturbing, holds nothing back, while also not adding any nonsense. The acting is lacking at times, however being a complete cast of no names its pulled off very nice, helped of course by the story.The main problem people will have with this movie is explicit sexual content, nudity, language, and drug use throughout the movie. Especially due to all the characters portrayed young age.Perhaps I have more of an appreciation of this movie because I grew up in a different, yet similar life-style. Watching this movie unfold was a chilling reminder of my own past. "},{"Title":"Kids in Summary","Date":"14 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Kids is the first realistic tale of how teenagers act by writer and director Larry Clark. It tells the story of Telly and Casper, two friends growing up in a low-income, urban environment complete with drugs and sex. The entire films takes you through a 24-hour period of a group of just post-puberty teenagers as they test the notion that they are invincible.Clark, by the current year (2006), has a repetition in the film making industry for being cutting-edge and controversial. Though this is one of the most accurate portrayal of a group of people that very few filmmakers dare to talk about, it pushes a lot of boundaries.Many people are quick to label this movie as child porn for it's many adult themes. Therefore it is fair to warn anyone thinking of watching this film that it is intended for MATURE AUDIENCES ONLY, as it says explicitly on the cover. The movie portrays vivid pictures of violence, sex, language, and drug abuse all by under-age minors. With that being said, this is one of the best films to date. Clark should be honored for his gutsy portrayal of the real lives of these kids. This is not a family movie and this is not the movie you want your kids to see. For that reason, I'm giving the Larry Clark's Kids a 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"a brilliant movie about your children","Date":"4 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" this movie isn't about kids on the 'wrong side of the tracks' at all. the brilliance of the film is that these young people do in fact exist and they comport themselves in precisely this fashion. their parents aren't necessarily poor, apathetic, bad parents, what have you. the lack of air-conditioning in tele's apartment is the only real indication of any kind of poverty. steven's apt., by contrast, is near-oppulent. the kids aren't outcasts and they aren't simply other people's children. the reason a number of parents made a point of seeing the film and found it so poignant was because the kids, particularly the girls, aren't so outwardly different from their own children. if you found this movie 'dramatized' or confined to a narrow subset of American youth then you probably belong to a generation older than my own and are, frankly, a bit out of touch. if you pigeonhole these kids, as some of the other reviewers have, then you've really missed the point. all this having been said, i would like to endorse KIDS generally, it is an absolute MUST SEE and is, in my opinion, the best of Harmony Korine's work. it's an experience buy a forty-oz., steele yourself, and get into it. "},{"Title":"Kids","Date":"28 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Brutally vivid and jarring account of a day/night period of a young girl given AIDS by a remorseless, soulless de-virginizing punk and her efforts to confront him. Stars a lot of up and coming young Hollywood actors, such as Chloe Sevigny, Rosario Dawson, and the late Justin Pierce. Unnerving and unforgettable. The realism of this film is haunting. Also, the sense of irony is particularly sad involving Sevigny's and Dawson characters in the doctors office. This would be when they are discussing how often they have had sex. Sevigny had had it only once but Dawson had multiple partners and never really used any restraint in her choice of a number of partners. This was made concretely disturbing when the viewer finds out that Dawson is negative, but Sevigny is positive for AIDS. Sadly ironic in it's nature. Completely a brutal film. "},{"Title":"Confronting","Date":"24 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I'm absolutely shocked that lots of reviewers have not observed this film as a message telling how the youth of society can become out of control. The reviewers who don't observe what KIDS is saying, they write things like 'KIDS is child porn', 'KIDS tries to insult the youth of society' and so on.The film follows a teenager named Telly, oblivious to the fact that he's got HIV, (Leo Fitzpatrick) loves to deflower as many virgins as possible. However, when Jennie (Chloë Sevigny) loses her virginity to Telly, she discovers that she's been diagnosed with HIV positive, thanks to Telly. So Jennie wanders the streets of New York, trying to look for Telly to tell him the news before he deflowers another virgin.KIDS features heaps of obscene dialogue, some violence, alcohol abuse and illegal drugs that are used by kids that aren't even going through puberty.KIDS is definitely one of the most important films of all time. KIDS is basically a film that's trying to talk about what can really be happening to your very own child. "},{"Title":"a movie all high school kids should see...OK maybe not all","Date":"16 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie came out when I was in high school and my friends and I weren't 17 so we couldn't see it. We had to sneak into a movie theater to see a great movie that shows the lives of an inner city group of friends. I remember distinctly all my friends being like oh Casper is the man but in the end he gets his due. The most messed up thing about this movie was that the prime target audience couldn't see it when it came out. Yeah the movie was racey and showed kids doing drugs, drinking and having sex but that's what high school kids do and have always done. Lost in all the hype and buildup was a truly great American film. See this film especially if you're in high school. "},{"Title":"vain sacrifice","Date":"24 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Are you telling me that the young men who died in The Civil War, WWI, WWII, Korea and Vietnam died for this type of culture or even the opportunity to choose it? I don't think so, Mr. Clark. This culture exists because we perpetuate it through MTV and movies such as this. I guess this is what I missed in high school. No loss. This movie represents the excess of liberal permissiveness and how the road to hell is paved with good intentions. What can be done for the lost inner-city youth? Nothing short of a simple choice by parents to take an active interest in their child's life by controlling their environment and choosing who they will hang out with, what they will view on television, what grades they will get, how much they will study each night, what type of clothes they will wear - all of that, backed up with consequences for failure to comply. "},{"Title":"A sadness yet so true","Date":"5 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Vulnerable, young girls who were taught good behavior and to please everyone should be required to see this. The movie so clearly points how that they are at risk for heartache, pain and their very lives by their naiveté and lack of boundaries for fast line seductions such as Telly's. In fact the movie could be incorporated into public school sex education programs for girls. Although the movie's comments on current modernity of adolescence are 21st century, its message is universal and timeless. This primitive social behavior has been going down for eons. Also tragic is the widespread saturation of drug use. This supports the intellectual theory of Darwins natural selection. Some will die young. A good movie with valuable insights for teens and adults. Only problem is that some teens could see the movie and copy the behavior rather than understand its underlying message and warning. "},{"Title":"Quick Reviews!!","Date":"11 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Larry Clark's debut is a bleak and unrelentingly honest look at how city teen life can be, which stirred much controversy upon its release, and is still powerful today. Drugs, sex, violence and no remorse for one's actions all make this daring film-making, and almost essential viewing.It is Telly's mission in life to have sex. Preferably with under aged girls, if they are virgins-all the better. The film opens with his seduction of one such girl; he spouts all the sincerity and caring words he can muster and she gives in. As soon as it is over he is out the door, mission accomplished, and telling his friend Casper everything that happened. We follow the two around their city, stealing, talking about sex, fighting, getting drunk and stoned. They are part of a young gang which seems to have spread throughout the whole city. Morals are non-existent, except their belief that homosexuality is evil, or at least a joke. Also a joke is AIDS, and all other STDs, as none of them have ever heard of anyone who has had any. We see the juxtaposition of guys and girls talking about their experiences, and planning ahead for the night. Jennie has only been with one guy, Telly, and because one of her friends has been with 9 guys, she decides to go to the sex clinic as support. Her friend comes out clean, but Jennie tests positive for HIV. Jennie begins a very slow race to find Telly, perhaps before he can destroy another girl's life. Telly is once again on the prowl.Each performance here is outstanding, particularly Leo Fitzpatrick and the late Justin Pierce as Casper. None of the characters repent what they have done, it may be all they have, and they enjoy it. Even Jennie appears to be passive, talking drugs when she should be finding Telly. None of the sex scenes are particularly explicit, but it is the fact of their age, of course, which caused such an uproar. However, this behaviour obviously does go on, you only have to hang around most city streets at night to witness it. The violence is also cleverly edited, but like the sex and drugs, we only need a glimpse to set our imagination and horror off. There are no happy endings or answers here, perhaps giving evidence to those who say this is just exploitation. Clark is simply exposing what does happen in places, maybe in the hope that we can do something about it. The fact is though that teens have, and probably always will continue to do these things, but maybe not with such a lack of remorse.7.5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Reality Check","Date":"6 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The movie Kids was the ultimate reality check for all those people out there living in their bubbles of that-never-happens-in-real-life. It does happen on a daily basis. AIDS is not going away any time soon and this movie helps us realize that the only way which they know how to - shock. Just look at the statistics in North America. Kids are losing their childhood at a younger and younger age and there ARE people out there who are set on deflowering children, male and female. The thing that bugs me the most about many of the comments is that the viewers seem to see it as a sick way of exploiting youth. I say it is a movie which shows the people watching it that this DOES happen and it may be their own children behaving like the kids in the movie, but they are so preoccupied with their own lives that they do not know what their own kids are doing.A suggestion of another movie to watch if you have seen this one is Elephant by Gus Van Sant. In one word it is brilliant. If you didn't like Kids, I would still suggest Elephant. Maybe you will think twice about how this is not happening in your little world and come to ours.  "}{"Title":"Please See This Movie Anyway You Can (SPOILERS?)","Date":"6 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  For anyone who hasn't seen this movie, don't let the things you hear about it scare you away. Some have called this movie exploitive, and said that it does not accurately depict teens, and that is bull. This movie is raw, graphic, and disturbing at times, but it is REAL. It is as real now as it was 9 years ago. It shows how kids today live by following a group of teens around a typical day in NY. The main character Telly is a self proclaimed virgin surgeon who gets off on popping young girl's cherries. His friend Casper likes sex too, but seems to prefer 40s and drugs like nitrous and weed. Also told is the story of a girl named Jenny who discovers she is HIV positive. But she has only had sex once, with Telly. So, she spends the whole movie hunting Telly down to stop him from having sex with anyone else and passing on the virus.I think the reason a lot of (older) people didn't like this movie is because they didn't want to believe it was true. They don't want to believe that kids run amok these days, sucking down whippets, having unprotected sex, and getting into fights, but that's just the way it is. Maybe it's the parent's fault, maybe it's the media, maybe it's just this generation's feeling of invincibility, but what I like most about this movie is that it doesn't try to solve the problem. It doesn't offer any answer. Instead it ends with the question Jesus Christ, what happened?What happened indeed. Don't believe all the negative hype, KIDS matters.  "},{"Title":"True to life","Date":"13 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was surprised at reading all these comments on how many people complained that this isn't really how teenagers are. Around the time this movie came out, I was still a skateboarding teenager right outside of NYC... and I've seen everything that happened in this movie happen in real life. Promiscuous kids? sure. Excessive drug use? Sure, even in public (such as the park). Houses/Apartments run by kids, that looked like Paul's.. yup.Kids has been and always will be one of my favorite movies, because it really describes what the life of teenagers in my crowd in the 90s was like.The movie isn't offensive, real life is. And don't think this is just limited to the life of skateboarders, compared to the other kids out there, ravers, hippies, goths, etc.. skateboarders are tame. 5/5 ***** for me.  "},{"Title":"i loved it","Date":"25 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Im a teenager and i think that this movie was awesome. If kids themselves would watch it they would understand the consept of aids and other sexual diseases. after watching this movie it made myself think about how much danger there really is out there. i just thought it was a good movie because it is pretty much how life is out on the streets these days. another thing is i have some friends that are just like the devirginater in this movie and it made me think that maybe he should get tested so that the people he has done s**t with will know whether or not they have stds.cause most people dont get it and it never clicks in their heads that they could be doing some damage to young girls by sleeping around. thanks "},{"Title":"Gritty, Real, Disturbing...and Important.","Date":"7 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is one of the most disturbing films I have ever seen. It is so real and so shocking. Parents of teenagers should watch this film, but it unfortunately has been slammed by bible-thumpers and all sorts of moral and Christian groups. The reason that this film is so controversial is that it shows us a side of teen life that parents do not know about. However, I suspect that the parents do wonder what their kids are doing, but what they are actually doing is beyond the imagination of the adults. It's a brutal, cynical world as seen through the eyes of the teenagers in this film. Telly is a sixteen year-old druggie whose hobby is to see how many virgins he can have sex with. His best friend, Casper, loves to inhale nitrous oxide and rape young girls when they are passed out. Jenny is a sixteen year-old girl who has become infected with AIDS from Telly. There is rampant drug use and sexuality, and brutal violence...all involving young children. The message to parents is...THESE ARE YOUR KIDS! A haunting, provocative film. "},{"Title":"Gritty, Real, Disturbing...and Important.","Date":"7 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is one of the most disturbing films I have ever seen. It is so real and so shocking. Parents of teenagers should watch this film, but it unfortunately has been slammed by bible-thumpers and all sorts of moral and Christian groups. The reason that this film is so controversial is that it shows us a side of teen life that parents do not know about. However, I suspect that the parents do wonder what their kids are doing, but what they are actually doing is beyond the imagination of the adults. It's a brutal, cynical world as seen through the eyes of the teenagers in this film. Telly is a sixteen year-old druggie whose hobby is to see how many virgins he can have sex with. His best friend, Casper, loves to inhale nitrous oxide and rape young girls when they are passed out. Jenny is a sixteen year-old girl who has become infected with AIDS from Telly. There is rampant drug use and sexuality, and brutal violence...all involving young children. The message to parents is...THESE ARE YOUR KIDS! A haunting, provocative film. "},{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"31 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was more intrigued and than excited to see Kids to what the fuss was about.  I never got the chance to see it in the cinemas when it was released as it was only shown in selected cinemas so I had to wait for the video.  Surprise surprise though when it was time to release it, it got banned but it the ban didn't last and my opportunity came.  The very first scene made me feel uneasy with the dialogue of what Telly was saying to the young girl when trying persuade her that having sex is wonderful and she would love it. The more the film went on the more happened which you couldn't believe.   Larry Clark is well known for his disturbing depiction of teenage life and some say he is no better than a child molester but that is not the case at all and anyone who thinks that is just ignorant and not looking at his work for what it is all about.   Larry Clark is bringing up discussion about what real kids are like.   There are a lot of parents out in this world who believe there children are little goody too shoes and can do no wrong but you wouldn't believe the stuff they get up to.  I have information on people I know and if there parents found out then it would give them a heart attack and everyone out there who is a teenager probably does to, because adults are blind.  Not all of them but a lot are and I think we need Larry Clark to direct these sort of films because it's the only way the parents are ever going to find and question their children.   I have said for years to friends that kids should be shown in high schools as part of sexual education because I saw Kids at 16 and I didn't even look at a girl for months, well I looked but I didn't touch, but that's not the point.If by showing the film Kids to one teenager and made them stop and think about Sex protection then this film was worth making and many others like it like Thirteen and Bully.A independent masterpiece that should be viewed by today's children. "},{"Title":"Made more to disturb than to teach","Date":"28 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I liked the movie.  Worth seeing, can't argue that.However.It's collage of disturbing images was exactly that, just a collage.  The story (but perhaps I'm wrong) seems unrealistic in many ways.Maybe thats just me being a kid from a small town, rather than a city, but who knows.Spoiler?  I did enjoy the scene in which they all beat up the guy to the tune of casper the friendly ghost.  I enjoyed it very much.And I WILL state I have an undying (bad choice of words) love for Justin Pierce aka Casper. "},{"Title":"Disturbing","Date":"25 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  KIDSRATING ***1/2 (OUT OF ****)Kids tries very hard to shock its audience and succeeds.  I suppose its message is that some people are VERY screwed up.  Recommended, but steer clear of Harmony Korine's hunk of crap Gummo.  Kids is infinite times better than that. "},{"Title":"Really grimy, really real","Date":"16 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It's actually been years since I've seen this film, so I'm writing about the lasting effects it has had on me.  It takes a lot to shock and disgust me (see I Spit On Your Grave), but this film leaves a grimy layer that Mr.Clean just won't scrub away.  It's hard to believe that any youngster can have a semi-innocent, normal relationship after seeing what passes for normal in this film.  And maybe it isn't the subject matter at all, it's just the fact that in this film (unlike almost all others), no one seems to win.  They're all stuck in a quagmire of drugs, sex, disease, and a level of anti-socialism and decadence that just shouldn't exist amongst young people today.  So, with that in mind, maybe this film is a cautionary tale. Regardless, your own reactions will dictate the film's message. "},{"Title":"The idea got to me more than the film.","Date":"16 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  No matter how you cut this film up, it's disturbing. In 1995, my generation had children -- young teen aged children for they had their kids when they were young teens. And through those eyes is how I watched this film, and that is why it disturbs me and why its a must watch at least once for those who think everything is fine and dandy among teens -- even today.Possible Spoilers ahead --On the outside, the teens in this movie seemed to be living the life of any teen partying, sleeping, not-caring about the next day, and sex. But for these teens, they had to face one more thing in their element, and that was STD's. Not just any STD, the big one HIV and AIDS. These teens seem reckless because they KNOW of this STD but still continue their behavior.One teen, of whom we follow in this film, has quite the reasoning for avoiding the disease of HIV and AIDS and still has sexual relations with as many teen girls as he can. Being a teen, he still hadn't grasped the reality of lies, of being careful, of maturity and restraint. Notches in his belt and bragging rights are his priority.What we get to experience in this film is a segment of teens who don't seem to have much parental direction. Many times I have heard Where are the parents when folks have seen this film. The parents are where they always are Working..thinking they ARE parenting...to teens who may or may not hear the messages.  There is no Hollywood ending, the film is as low as low can get and ends even lower. Many parents who saw this film remarked Not my child. I'll talk to them. But that is the point of the film.This absolutely can be your child. And it absolutely can be the child your child is hanging around.For all of us who were teens once, we know all too well how this can happen.If you're looking for a film with a moral..this isn't it. It is a film that will be interpreted differently by many who see it. Some may see it as kiddie porn, some may see it as schlock, some may see it as unbelievable without proper parenting - and think throwing in a religion as a teaching would help. Maybe..obviously maybe not.I see it as disturbing, horrific and time to get into serious actions for the benefit of our teens to live and grown into responsible adults regardless of their economic background, 2 or single parent household, and sexual education. "}{"Title":"Every parent should see this!","Date":"12 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw this when it first came out and when I didn't know who Larry Clark was and at the time it was a very powerful film. I must admit the first time I watched it I didn't particularly like it but as I watched it more and more it grew on me and now I thing it is brilliant. I know think of Larry Clark as a great director who portrays teeagers as they really are. Kids is filmed in a gritty documentary style which adds to the realism. I have now seen all of Clark's film and this and Ken Park are my favourites. I recommend this film to everyone and I think parents should watch this to see how their children really behave. The film is very hard hitting but its needs to be. I strongly recommend this and all of Larry Clark's films bar 'The Teenage Caveman'. 4 out of 5.  "},{"Title":"an Underground Classic","Date":"7 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The Film Kids is a great underground classic. This film apeals to so many people I know and be because we can relate to the life. We know people like all the characters in the film even telly. Thousands of kids in the US as least should be able to relate in some way to these kids and their Hormonal lusts and the desire to get messed up. For those who don't relate it is a great film to help blur social boundary's finally showing what inner city kids go through. "},{"Title":"'Kids' by a kid-over the years","Date":"26 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Eight years since it's release and six since I saw it, holidaying in small-town US of A at the (impressionable?) age of 14, Kids still seems to provoke extreme polarised reactions in those who view it (repeatedly, I don't doubt, in both camps), and thusforth is, in 2003, surely cemented in its reputation as one of the 1990's most important films, for theorisers' sake at least. The tale of a day in the life of NYC skate kids ( and with white middle-class big Applers in the '90's, was there any other kind?) and their rutting, drugging, drinking and (gasp!) swearin' ways was certain to enthrall all and upset most (who doesn't want to know what 'Kids get up to'?). This film is intended to premier the nihilistic, amoral children of the fin de siecle, and it really does do that, in spades. Certainly, it inspired this already cinephilic 'kid'into making movies 'like that' when I saw the reactions of all the young 'uns I was hanging with in the states, and the use of non-actors and colourful, sharp camerawork- the debts paid to a school of improvasatory filmmaking- created an almost hyper-realism which secured the film a universal appeal. Because, believe it or not, even kids in Scotland, or Korea (check out 'Timeless, Bottomless, Bad Movie'), or Australia are for the most part carefree, horny and dumb numpties. However, over the years, and thousands of films later, a revisit to 'Kids' only highlighted the perpetual problem it has had for me. It is too much fun. Now, I don't doubt that a lot of people find it as 'fun' as 'The Matrix' (or do people find that fun? I get confused), but watching it, with a group of friends, particularly outside of America, where its vernacular and attitudes towards sex (its serious and scary. This you must know) are permanently up for mocking, is a most enjoyable experience and the alien nature of some of the scenes (the club, the last ten minutes) put 'Kids' on a kind of sur-realistic (etymologically speaking) plain, where its harsh truths seem less, well, truthful. Perhaps the impact isn't as universal, or simply strong, as one had originally gathered. There is genius, however in its script. The classical form of tragedy is the template here, and its formulaic drive is crucial to a pure aesthetic appreciation. Of course, Korine has since proved himself to no end, in all walks of art, yet, while I certainly praise Clark's free direction here, I think his talent has gone a bit skee-whiff. Shocking, but fun? Depends on, like everything else generation, geography and sex. Me, I find it fun, funny and pretty. I guess, after all these years, that'll have to do. "},{"Title":"At sometimes real, other times surreal. Shocking, good and plenty scary.","Date":"16 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I don't know what to say. I have to rate this as an actual movie, because that is what it is. If it was a documentary, I'd give it a thumbs up for a great look into a world that parents are blind to. However, it's very impossible at times. These children get away with a whole lot and throughout it all, you only see 3 adults.Could this all be happening? Maybe, but I think that Larry Clark definitely has his shock value winding through this film. The impossible chance that your first time could end up with HIV+ consequences is real. Drug use amongst kids is definitely real. The profanity is absolutely real. If you could take video of public school kids after school, you'd vomit at the language.But the whole world of larry clark populated by unsupervised kids? It's not totally wrong, but exaggerated. However, if you took a hundred teens and asked them about what they do behind their parent's backs, you'd get something almost as shocking as KIDS.So if you have an OPEN mind, then you may want to watch kids. But it's a shock value movie more than a touching or sad movie. Larry Clark wants to push buttons, and he does. "},{"Title":"The Kids Aren't Alright","Date":"12 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Kids made out when I was eight. Then, I didn't want to see it nor did I know anything about it. My parents saw it in 1999, and their sheer reluctance to me watching the film told me that it was NOT for kids. I finally saw it and was I ever shocked! This is not a 'brutally honest' look into kids today. Real kids are not as stupid as these were. The girls that Telly deflowered were pathetic and the only sane character in the entire film was the taxi driver. As a virgin myself, I would never want to lose my virginity to someone as UGLY as Telly. And besides, Darcy knew Telly for like, what...two hours before they had sex? Who is really this stupid? I'm not saying it's a bad movie, but it's NOT real. Probably one out of every five hundred kids are really like these idiots. All I saw in the movie were carnal boys and spineless girls. One life lesson for all girls IF A GUY TELLS YOU EVERYTHING YOU WANT TO HEAR, HE'S FULL OF IT. "},{"Title":"Kids are Pretty Stupid...but this movie isn't (spoilers)","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is a realistic portray of 2 buddies, Casper and Telly. 2 Skaters that live in New York City. Telly's goal is to deflower all virgins......while Jenny's has HIV, and she only had sex with Telly.This film is deeply disturbing with grapic dialogue and teen drug use. But I loved it! If your watching it and you don't like it. Don't press Stop, wait till the end. An unforgetable scene.TromaDude's Rating- *****/5 stars "},{"Title":"One of the greatest works of the 90's, raw and real","Date":"25 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I remember when I saw Gummo (directed by the writer of Kids, Harmony Korine) I thought it was a work I would never forget, when I saw it again I began to wonder if the film was more than just provocaturism, and that maybe this filmmaker was really a genius.  When I saw Kids (his earlier work) it became clear to me that Harmony Korine who wrote Kids at the age of eighteen was indeed onto something big.  The Film Kids deals with a day in the life of several New York teens who get their kicks by deflowering virgins and doing drugs bought on their parents tab. This film totally engrossed me because it presented life in a real almost documentary style, the veiwer is forced to spend the day with these reckless teens, but left impotent to intervene in their actions.  Throghout the film we are left as a spectator, the film rarley comments on these kids actions but rather presents them as they are, without over-editing or manipulation, the result in in my opinion the most powerfull film of the decade. "},{"Title":"a movie that defeats itself","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  kids is a good film, but there are a number of things that prevent it from being great. 1. rating (or non rating). we can in no way blame the mpaa for giving it a n nc-17. This film comes as near to child porn as anything i have ever seen. it is groosly disturbing to watch. But the makers of this fiml could have easily cut it so that it could be given an R rating, and thus be more accesable to some of the people who actually need to see it. yes, by being so graphic they manages to lure some people in based just on the controversy element, but at the same time they keep some people at bay. I think that this movie could have been just as powerful and just as effective had it been cut a little so that it recieved an R rating. This is perhaps the greatest way in which kids fails. it alienates by becoming more sensational than it needs to be. 2. telly. though played very well by whomever it was that played him, one commentator justly notes that it is very hard to believe that these girls are ready to jump in the sack because he says that he knows they would love it if they ****ed. all they have to do is ask them if he cares about him, and if he says yes, then they are taking their pants off. perhaps on this point i am out of touch with reality. if so, then i have no point.those two points set the film back greatly in my opinion. but this does not mean that the film wasnt powerful in its own right. it says something very important and timely...but perhaps it could have said it better.  "},{"Title":"WATCH IT","Date":"10 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Kids is a movie that I think every person should see. This definitely was a smack in the face to all parents all over. Larry Clark is real and as many of you have seen, so is this movie. I recommend Kids to anyone, but not as a great movie. It's a real movie. It has a strong message to anyone with children. WATCH THIS MOVIE "},{"Title":"This is real life.","Date":"26 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  To John Taylor that's the point.This film wasn't made so that people could feel good about themselves. Instead, it's a commentary.  And it's exactly what happens when city kids have bad parents.   "}{"Title":"Kids - An HIV Positive reality hits home","Date":"17 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The most honest, exploitive and convincing film from the last ten years follows the path of young Telly (Leo Fitzpatrick) towards his destination of numb sexcapades. He is HIV positive and chooses to spread all of his germs all over New York City. This raise the question Where the hell are the parents?!I'm going to limit my words on this critique because Kids is a film that doesn't need to be looked into that deeply...for it contains lots of disturbing imagery, dark subjects & touchy scenes. . People either appreciate the honesty of it or are repulsed by the no rules antics of young teenage cliques in lower Manhattan.The message in this movie is clear -- Wrap it before you dunk it!  "},{"Title":"Best Movie Ever","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I seriously love this movie. I can't stop watching it. It is probably one of the funniest, most realistic, and most entertaining movies ever. I love the way Casper and his friends interact. It is really cool the way these kids can just show up at each others houses and hang out, or how they can get drugs so easily. It makes a lot of kids excited to see teens like themselves acting in such irresponsible ways. This is somewhat the case with me. But I also just love the crazyily funny one liners or stories told. I love the sex, drugs and violence, but most of all the comedy. This is also a good movie for parents to watch because. Yes there are teens out there acting like this and, no not just in big cities, So if your a parent or just a kid like me looking for a good movie to watch when ur high. (or not) Then go out and rent or buy this movie, Its good Stuff! "},{"Title":"Disturbing, shocking, truthful","Date":"29 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Kids is one of those movies that truly shocks you, When I first saw it it wasn't that bad but when you watch it 3 or 4 times you start to see the truth in it. Knowing that Girl #1, Telly, Darcy, Casper, and most sad of all Jennie will all die from aids someday, even if it is just a movie. And the worst part  of it is, is that It's Telly's fault, he gave it to Jennie and all the others (except Casper who raped Jennie and got it from her) but most shocking of all is that it's reality and it happens everyday, kids die from aids everyday and because they are not careful and they think that there is nothing in the world to worry about, but there is. Kids should be shown to all high school kids whether it has graphic language and scenes or not, because I think it would change their minds about having unprotected sex. even though Kids leaves you hanging at the end, we all know it ends in tragedy. 10 of 10 "},{"Title":"The Real World","Date":"30 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is the real world. First off, I'm a big Harmony Korine fan.  Larry Clark isn't one of my favorite directors because the subjects that he bases his movies on aren't really what I prefer to watch over and over again.  But Kids was a pretty good movie.  It had excellent acting for amateur actors and the camera action wasn't the best, but okay. Story and plot was original and very interesting. I thought the idea to make this film was brilliant. Korine's part in the film was hilariously awesome character. He is a funny guy. I guess over all i loved Kids. And i love Harmony Korine, Larry Clark is an alright director i guess, and its cool if he just wants to direct teen sex films the rest of his life, im just sayin that gets boring to me. My favorite part in the whole movie is the scene where the black guy gets beaten down even though there were a few bloopers.  The second thing I liked about Kids is the music, it fit.  Hard rock and metal went right along with the lives of the kids.  The thing I hated most about Kids is Telly's voice and the way he talks, he talks like a damn retard.  I also hated the photography because the camera angles and movements were just a little bit to shaky.  My favorite character was Casper, he was funny.  What makes this movie so attractive to me is the realism, superb acting, and awesome script. A lot of people can't handle this movie because they are scared of the real world and live sheltered lives.  This movie doesn't hold back and sheltered people don't have any business watching it. So come in ready to see a realistic movie, (make sure you have an open mind)  Overall, I liked it and I give it a 7.5 out of 10. See Harmony Korine's Gummo especially is your a Peter Jackson fan. "},{"Title":"Important and Controversial","Date":"5 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I first watched this film when I was a kid myself and I was shocked at how the lives of kids were portrayed. The film is very realistic and sometimes depressing as you watch kids throw their lives away by taking drugs, hanging out and having unprotected sex. The film is low budget and its unique documentary style makes the film even more gritty and the script by Harmony Korine should be commended because it is very accurate. Due to the film using unknown actors at the time the film makes more of an impact, which adds to the controversy. The film features good performances from Chloe Sevigny and the late Justin Pierce. I recommend this film to every parent in the country so they can realise the true extent of the lives of kids. "},{"Title":"Wake Up!","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I don't believe this film was made for entertainment. I don't think the people who made the film meant for it to be educational, but that's exactly what it is. Try not to view this film as entertainment and try not to judge the film because you were disgusted by the things you saw. KIDS is reality. It's a wake-up call. The story itself is fictional, but in the real world the story rings loud and clear as non-fiction. KIDS may as well be a documentary of the American youth sub-culture of the 1980's and 1990's. I saw this film when I was 21 and I vowed I would someday show it to my own children (when they're old enough, of course). The film touches on subject matter no one has dared to touch and leaves nothing to the imagination because it's not supposed to. It tells it like it is. Things like this happen daily in America and around the world. We just don't hear about it because it's not news worthy of reporting. Still, the dangers posed in the film are very real and they're lurking in our backyards. Please watch with an open mind.  "},{"Title":"Powerful","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie was a complete eye opener. The fact that there are kids out thereliving this life was disturbing as well as fascinating. This is one of those movies that stays with you and makes you mull over the world you live in and what is happening to our youth. This movie may happen in a city, but looking back a few years to my high school days I see that it was there, in my small rural townwhere the naive don't see it and most people ignore it. Wow. I wouldrecommend this movie to anyone who wants a peak into this culture. One stepfurther would be to watch Bully afterwards (by the same director). Although based on a true story, this is the next step up from Kids, all the characters being a few years older. Again Powerful. (Plus if you watch Bully, note that the Hitman is Leo Fitzpatrick who played Telly in Kids) Both great movies, both worth renting if not buying. "},{"Title":"People say the children are innocent","Date":"13 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is the movie that describes exactly how teenagers are nowadays. This movie is dead-on every subject. Sex, drugs, violence, feelings. All of them bases are covered. Most adults say this movie is child pornography, or its just exploitation. Its not. This is how we are. No other movie covers it so well. Just like Alex in A Clockwork Orange, teens aren't all happy go lucky. The most of us ( me and almost all the kids i know) are cynical, mean, and selfish. We care about whats important to us. We don't care for history, or anyone else. The reason adults think this movie sucks is because they didn't live it liek we do. If you are 14- 28, i think this movie would appeal to you more then it would anyone 29- death. I think the writer wanted to wake the parents up with this movie, to tell the parents   hey your kids are falling apart, but like all people, most won't listen. I reccomend the highly but be warned, this movie isn't child's play. this is serious. "},{"Title":"Spot-on","Date":"6 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Superb. I rate Kids as highly as I do La Haine, man bites dog, City of God, and The Outsiders. All of these films contain elements which I have experienced in my life, Kids included. Without wanting to step on any toes, I would venture to say that anyone who thinks the events depicted in this film are unrealistic have lead sheltered lives as I have witnessed much worse behaviour in children younger than those who appear here. "},{"Title":"I hated it, but lots of people like it.","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" KIDS portrays a day in the life of a group of Manhattan teens who spend their time drinking, doing drugs and having sex. There's a subplot involving a boy who enjoys deflowering virgins; one of his earlier conquests (Chloe Sevingy), who has just discovered she has AIDS, spends the evening looking for him. That's pretty much it.This controversial movie has been hailed by some critics as an eye-opening, no-hold-barred look at today's unsupervised youth. I see it as sensationalistic, pretentious trash. I'll admit it is a tough film to sit through, not because of its touchy subject matter, but due to the irritating performances, obnoxious screenplay and documentary-chic shooting style. I don't buy the movie as a condemnation of these kids' behavior but far more an exploitation of it, with lots of indie and alternative rock songs blasting over much of the action in an attempt to make the movie hip. Judge for yourself. Written by Harmony Korrine, who went on to write and direct the mind-numbing GUMMO. "}{"Title":"I could relate.","Date":"18 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Kids is the realness. The kids in the film portray how a lot of NY urban youth look, act, talk, and speak (ESPECIALLY in the 90s). It's real, I can vouch for this. I first saw it when I was 15-16 and the first thing that came to my mind was this looks like me!. After the flick I told all my friends about it and we sat and watched it again. We were so intrigued by it because this was exactly the life we were living (we were a lil worse tho)!We were cutting school, going to ppls houses that were PACKED with other kids, drinking liquor/smokin herb/havin sex in the crib, watching ppl get beatdown, giving beatdowns, getting beatdown, smoking and drinking in park, my friends were urinating in ppl's hallways. I can even relate to the lil kids throwin stuff out the windows at people, I've seen like 18-19 year olds doing the same thing. I've seen ppl dropping shopping carts at ppl from the roof!Even some of the conversations that they've had, we had the same ones!I know many kids that act JUST LIKE Casper.  I coulda sworn he was modeled after a kid I know.When I saw this movie, I saw myself and a lot of my friends. This flick made me look at myself in a different light and switch up my whole agenda. I had to depart from that lo-lifestyle.Bottom line, I love this movie. I definately think it's authentic. I dont know about all that AIDS talk, but everything else I can relate to. If you want to see a one of a kind, urban, classic, gritty, no holds barred film... then this is it! "},{"Title":"And you thought your youth was pretty wild. &#145;Kids' is totally in your face!","Date":"12 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I know from my childhood that I got up &#145;mischief' of one kind or another many times. However I did not do things which could harm me or anyone else. In Larry Clark's &#145;Kids', he leaves nothing to your imagination as we see kids doing things I know I would cringe at if I saw happening in real life. This film shows what sex drugs and violence can do to adolescents in this day and age, in addition to what &#145;low-budget' film making is all about.This is a bleak and uncompromising look at the dangerous world of New York street kids in the 90's.  It shows the generation of tomorrow living for today on drugs, sex and violence. You will follow a typical 24 hours for teenagers, Telly, Casper, Jennie, Ruby and Darcy, as they indulge in their pubescent sexual appetites and cure their boredom with any substance they can get their hands on. &#145;Kids' is the film that you thought America would never dare dream of making.Larry Clark has once again pushed the boundaries to what makes a good film. But for some reason I was enthralled by what kids was all about. Clark steps into the &#145;teenage' world beautifully, and does it in such a way, that nothing is hidden to his viewers. I have viewed &#145;Kids' just a fortnight after seeing Clark's other masterpiece, &#145;Bully'. In fact the resemblance to that film is quite evident to me, although it is nowhere nears as explicit in its vision as Bully was. The slack is taken up by its language.Clark also has a unique style of directing, whereby his viewers become part of the movie. I know I felt this way with &#145;Kids', which makes watching these sorts of films much easier. &#145;Kids' was heavily focused on the young people and what they do. This was a clever and deliberate move by Clark. In fact you can be mistaken for thinking that there is no other people in the world besides these &#145;kids', as the adults in the movie are few and fair between. It is as if they do not exist. I still think that Clark is a voyeur, and someone who is fascinated in the sexual exploration of young people, with &#145;Kids' going even deeper into a &#145;child's psyche' and what it is like for them to &#145;experiment'. This story follows the lives of a young group of teenage louts who have very little to do with their time. Its main character is Telly (Leo Fitzpatrick), a boy who delights in sleeping only with virgins. The girls fall for him, for reasons which are beyond me, as Telly is a very sleazy looking guy in this film. The film starts there, with Telly seducing a girl, then in the next moment is gloating to his friend Casper (Justin Pierce), about what the experience was like. The language these boys are using in public is quite amazing. The story soon switches to the female gender. They openly talk about what sex means to them. Jennie (Chloë Sevigny) and Ruby (Rosario Dawson) are the main girl characters. The story follows them both to a health clinic, where the pair is getting tested for AIDS. This was Chloë Sevigny's first ever movie role, one that she was perfect for. The other characters are not as well known to the audience. They are down and out kids who delight in doing things that &#145;kids' definitely should not be doing. There are some amazing scenes attached to this movie. In one scene, we see one of the &#145;gang' who is being bothered by a stranger. When his friends see that he is in trouble, the violent retaliation that they take out on this stranger is disturbing. In fact the group is wondering afterwards, &#145;did we kill that guy?' Then for contrast the following scene shows Jennie as she is being driven around by a New York cabbie. After seeing such violence, this scene talks of Jennie's beauty, as the drivers remarks to her, `If you want to be happy, don't think, don't bump into any walls and if you stutter, don't talk'. Even though she knows this true, deep down Jennie knows her irresponsible &#145;choice' in life will make this virtually impossible. This film also looks at the issues of safe sex and STDs (sexually transmitted diseases). The girls at the health clinic are told be &#145;careful', when being sexually active. However to see how careless the males of the story are with their sexuality, makes me pleased that people can see what &#145;sleeping around' can do. Telly openly admits at the end of the movie &#145;F_____g is what I love. Take that away, I have nothing.' If young kids treat sex as a game or conquest, like Telly does, then I am sure they will get into trouble that not even they could comprehend.I watched this movie on my own, but I am sure if I had watched it with other people than there would be a lot to talk about. That is what people need to do when there is a film such as &#145;Kids', talk about it. I believe that young groups like those in this film would be hard to find, well I pray that this is true anyway. Yet some are. If I was to come across such a group of young kids today, I would be scared and unsure of what to say or do. &#145;Kids' is a movie that will confront you to the limit, with its story, camera work and language. It also makes me feel lucky that my childhood was &#145;innocent and trouble-free'.  All of its factors taken into consideration, &#145;Kids' is a movie that deserves much praise.CMRS gives &#145;Kids' 4 (Very Good Film)  "},{"Title":"True but False","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I agree that this film was ture to life and a good and accurate depiction of the youth of today. From the dialogue to the drug use, I feel that it is a true depiction. But, I do have a few faults that I feel made the movie slightly unbelievable, at least to me.1. The main character Telly. I do not care if the girls were virgins, or 12, or 8 at that matter. In reality, no goofy nerdy kid with buck teeth is going to get chicks, let alone as many as he does in this movie. It would be like the nerd from the wonder years getting laid on a regular basis. Sorry, not feasible.2. Some of the dialogue seemed forced, like the scenes with the guys in the apartment talking about sex....and the scenes with telling and casper trying to talk like gansta's.Even with these few exceptions, the movie hits home hard. This probably is the most true to life film about teenage life to date. I highly recommend this film. It will stick with you.  "},{"Title":"I could be one of your kids....","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  One of my all-time favorite movies, Kids will have you saying to yourself dang, this is the stuff that goes on in real life?  It might also make you ask yourself Are all these actors over 18 cuz I'd swear some scenes made me feel like I was watching illegal kiddie stuff.  This movie is REAL, like it or not.  The actors dialouges were as if they really knew what they were talking about (such as the girls talking about sex).  I've read alot of comments saying that this movie ain't real, its not a true depiction of the youth, it don't happen in my city, you midwesterners need to be for real, bla bla bla.  Well yeah I'm coming out of Memphis so what?  Put things in perspective.  All movies will sensationalize things a little bit.  But on a basic sense, all the things in this movie are played out everyday by somebody's kids.  Kids, is just the worst-case-scenario.  We talked about sexual encounters at 12 and 13 in school and by the ninth grade, we were out there trying to score.  AIDS is a reality in high schools all over America today.  Same thing with marijuana.  The adolescent years are prime for drug introduction, with a few regular users. Also, some children just recently ganged up on a grown man and beat him to death in Chicago (I think thats where it was).  Watch the news and tell me this type of shhh don't happen everyday. BTW, somebody go back and watch that little 11yr. old boy smoke, blowning rings and all, and tell me he isn't smoking like a veteran.  The characters may have been one demensional but to me it is besides the point. But to sum it up, this is a shocking movie that I highly recommend watching so that you the non-viewer can form your own opinion.  "},{"Title":"Kids will be kids.","Date":"25 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  KIDS. There's no other way you can explain than PURE CLASSIC. This incredibly truthful movie stars Leo Fitzpatrick (Bubble Boy), Chloë Sevigny (American Psycho), and the late Justin Pierce (Next Friday). This story seems almost too real to be a movie. This movie has real life problems exposed for ever one to see what kids really go throw. If your are a parent seeing this movie (god save you) you might want to keep in mind this might not be your kid but it could be.Telly (Fitzpatrick) is New York City boys that love's only one thing sex. Jennie (Sevigny) just found out she has HIV and got it from Telly. But sadly Teddy doesn't know and he is out no where to be found with Casper (Pierce). You will follow Telly, Casper, and Jennie throw one day of there life. If you think this is bad try a year.This film has great cast, awesome soundtrack, and a pure story that all can like.I give it *** of ****  "},{"Title":"A very realistic portrayal of 1990's teens gone haywire!","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Now, here's a film that I havn't seen since it was first released in theaters back in 1995. Now, believe me, this film really scarred me to death back in 1995, and the shock value hasn't died out one bit. I recently rented this low budget indie flick a couple of weeks ago, and guess what, it was a terrific movie. Not only did Larry Clark accurately portray the 90's teens in a shocking way, but, it also shows audiences how members of generation y out of control. This film is for any parent who has an out of control child, see it before your child gets the consequences of inner city life.A 10 out of a 10 for a great portrayal of 1990's teens run rampant in NYC! "},{"Title":"I liked this movie because it reminds me of my youth.","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Hey all!I liked this movie for several reasons. I will list them and their rationalle as follows1. Some kids really are like this portrayal.I'm 47 and did everything shown in the movie (except skateboard - theywere s**ty little things with metal wheels back then) by the time I was 17. Drugs, yes sex of course, violence... wellll not really but others I knew were into beating up gays and street fighting etc. That was then and this is now, sure, but I just can't believe that so many adults have wiped out the memories of their own teenage years and can be heard saying inane things like, I just don't understand (these) kids (today)! They might as well be saying, Because I am now a (responsible, successful, mature etc.) adult, I formally renounce ANY bad memories of my growing up!2. The acting was realistic.Kids do have paper-thin personas, I know that I was only as deep as my experience which was not much.3. As a morality play it was well done.Sure it's a morality play, but not at all as heavy handed as others here seem to say. They let you make your own conclusions and lots of the kids in the movie aren't all that bad. Of course dogs like Tully exist and do prey on innocents, and considering the risks it is truly tragic.I would recommend this film for anyone with an open mind!  "},{"Title":"Shameless, realistic and impossible to forget","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is one of those films. Like it or not and want it or not, once you've seen it you'll never be able to fully forget it. It will haunt you for the rest of your life. Not necessarily the whole movie, it can might as well be one scene or just one picture from it but one thing's for sure watch it at your own risk, I mean this is an impressive film. Almost too impressive.I've seen Kids about 3-4 times and if I would claim I don't like it I would be guilty of a huge lie. I loved Kids, simply everything about it. It so different if I compare it to any other movies about the youths of America. It's so honest, straight-out and shameless, it has nothing pretty or romantic about it.Acting is terrific and extremely natural. Two lads in the leading roles, Leo Fitzpatrick and Justin Pierce as Telly and Casper are playing their parts with such a devotion audience can only marvel. Later on Justin Pierce commited suicide, he hung himself five years after his debut role. What a shame, considering how much talents he clearly had.I've always been very fond of so-called lifestyle movies. It can might as well be The Saint of Fort Washington, excellent film that shows what the life of a homeless people is like or practically even Scorsese's sensational Goodfellas can be compartmentalize into same category - the story of a life in the mob.Kids tells about bunch of pitiable misfit children, juvenile delinquents, drug addicts with nothing going on in their lives excepts sex, drugs and violence and perhaps skate-boarding. It's so realistic it feels almost like a real-life documentary. It's so gripping and upsetting it lefts you speechless. It's unspeakable. 10/10. "},{"Title":"Kid with Herpes gives it to all the kids","Date":"22 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Kids is about Teddy A teenager who loves to give people aidsHe gives it to Jenny then Jenny gives it to casper later when In the end Jenny rapes casperLet me say i have never laughed harder at Aids in my life, this movie shows something as terrible as aids can be looked at in a diffenent light and rise up those who have it, the terrible dieaseFrom the kids that rollerblade themselves crazy as they smoke crackKids is the funniest movie you will ever seeAfter watching kids you can act like your agree and its so true to life even all you live in texas and play tennisIf you like a movie within the lines of Something About Marry check out KIdz! "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is Great.. it really shows how teenagers are.. how they act, and the kinds of things they do.. i loved this movie  its actually my favorite.... I remember when it first came out my sisters and my parents didnt let me see it for some odd reason... until one day i jacked it from them.... I'm 14 now and i think everyone should see this movie... "}{"Title":"Perverted?  No, informative","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The plot of this movie revolves around a hormone driven teenage boy named Telly (Leo Fitzpatrick) and his lust towards young virgins.  Taking place in New York City, this movie depicts the darker side of youth in our society today.  The topics of HIV, illegal drug use, and drinking is not normally shown in such a way as this movie, although the script, actors, and direction are excellent.Telly and his sidekick Casper (Justin Pierce) are the ultimate duo. Telly's ever-growing escapades with the opposite sex are often shared with Casper listening intently to every detail.  The life of Telly, Casper and friends seems rather careless until a former lover of Telly's (Jennie, played by Chloe Sevigny) returns to his life with some disturbing news.Not available in most rental video stores, I would highly recommend purchasing this movie if not for the comedy so intricately placed, but for the educational value.  To some, this plot may seem inhumane and perhaps even slightly pornographic (although no nudity is shown in the movie) yet this movie is extremely informative about the dangers in our world.  "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  cool movie and it realistic too it doesnt make it nicer for tv it tells it like is yo. it sends the right message though. you want to have fun and stuff then ya sometimes ya gots to do the hard sh*t you cant get around the hard stuff it runs up and bites you in the a$$ when you least expect it. ya know sh*t happens so f it have some fun "},{"Title":"Drinking, doing drugs, stealing, fighting and having sex","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  KIDS is a really good movie. I saw it in the theaters when it came out and I remember looking around at all the older people, older than 22 and thinking they have to be hating this movie right now, cause it's what most parents fear and what most teenagers are really doing, drinking, doing drugs, stealing, fighting and having sex. It's a very honest movie on what a lot of teenagers really do. "},{"Title":"Oblivious or just in denile?","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  As I was reading through the currently posted user comments of this frighteningly well made film ( i like Clark, ok!), there was one main question running through my tired brain where are you people from? obviously most comments had to have been posted by movie goers well over the age of 30. Though I was only 11 when Kids hit the theaters, it held strong for me 4 years later when it was introduced to me via HBO and my best friend.  Needless to say i purchased it shortly afterward and we watched it at least every weekend if not more until my STUPID broken vcr ate it a couple of weeks ago. If you are one of those who think this movie is unrealistic and pure shock value, I have concluded that you are either totally ignorant or in fierce denial of this generation. This movie didn't nearly shock me. If anything it reinforced my beliefs that all men are shit. ( sorry, men) I had seen worse things in person by age 15 than what i saw in the movie. I mean Jennie having the HIV virus wasn't funny or anything, but the language and drug/alcohol abuse was mild. In today's world you don't have to be void of morals or a complete idiot to get caught up in that kind of life during adolesence- you just have to lose all hope, and have a cheap liquor store down the corner that doesnt card you. It isn't that hard. Drugs are easier to get becuase half the people at school sell them and the other half have them on hand for fixes. And pot is not a drug according to this generation. it's the remedy for overdose. I don't live in the projects either. In fact, the only difference between classes in this case is rich kids get better drugs in larger quantities, and have orgies in fancier cars. Everyone seemed to miss the real point of this movie- unless you follow your kids 2 inches behind and monitor their every step, you DON'T have any idea about their lives. The absence of character background was ingenius in my opinion. These could be anyone's kids. But what the makers of this film overlooked was that the parents who are already comfortable in the comotose state of denial regarding their children won't be shaken by a Fictional drama. "},{"Title":"Shocking but true","Date":"1 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Pros Directing, teaches a lesson, memorable characters and lines.Cons Manipulative, Shows the extreme sides of kids.Kids is a tough drama to digest and this is how Larry Clark intends it to be. It is both shocking in it's subject matter and its characters. These kids do everything from drinking fourty ounces to smoking weed and as the put it deflowering virgins. Leo fitzpatrick plays Tully whose mission is to deflower as many girls as he can. The problem is that he has the HIV virus and neither him nor his victims are aware of that fact. The scary thing about Larry Clark's film is that there are actually kids who act like this. The sex scenes are shocking to watch not for the fact that they are intense, but for the fact that you the viewer know a deep fact that this kids are oblivious to. It is sad that Telly, Casper, Jennie and Telly's other victims will be dead within 10 years. Not a masterpiece as some critics as hailing it but a good friday night morality lesson.Premise A day in the life of a reckless teen.Kids wasn't nominated for any academy awards but got numerous critical praise.Grade 8.6/10 (OK but not astounding) "},{"Title":"Meh ... What can I say?","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If the film had a little less bad language, I'd say it should be played in health classes at school. But, it wouldn't really be REAL without all the swearing, would it? Sheesh, aren't you sick of all those shows that claim to depict the real, true, raw life of a teen? They're all the same Sex, drugs and alcohol. It's just not fair. Let's make a movie about a teen who grew up in a fairly good neighbourhood, had a nice group of friends, little girlfriend trouble, possibly a little trouble with family, money could be an issue ... But that makes for a boring movie. Truth is, I have never EVER seen kids like the characters in Kids. If you're going to talk about how REAL the film is, you're going to talk about how it related to you. All kids are different. I have morals, so a movie like Now and Then could be my reality. I guess you could say I'm a little disappointed with my purchase, but I do think I'll watch it again. Telly and Casper are pretty hot and Jennie's really talented, I recognized her from Boys don't cry. Ahhh ... I really don't know who to recommend this one to, but the cover box was right I won't be forgetting about this movie!  "},{"Title":"A cautionary tale, albeit maybe an uncomfortable one.","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was in my teens when I saw this movie, and living amongst kids very similar to the ones portrayed. I wish I could say that there is no basis in truth in this movie, but unfortunately there certainly is. I don't think the issue with this movie is whether kids were rich, poor, black or white... I think it's that they were looking for something to fulfill their life -- and were looking in the wrong places. Although the gritty nature of this movie makes it an uncomfortable ride, the realism aspect of it serves well to promote a strong reaction from the viewer. This is an effective tool of any cautionary tale which doesn't want to be outwardly moralistic. By watching things which are not beautified or edited down the viewer draws his or her own conclusions without being pulled along by the movie's ethical stance. Anyone who knew kids similar to this would probably react to this movie, whether in a positive or negative way. Whether you feel good after the movie or not is fairly irrelevant in this case... If you feel strongly about it, the movie probably did its job. "},{"Title":"read on and find out...","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I periodically watch Kids for many reasons.  One is that i dont get bored of it, as it very well directed film. Another is because of the talent on the screen, where kids 12-16 give better performances than many actors i know today.  But enough about the technical, lets get down to whats really at hand.I first saw kids when it came out on video, in 96'.  I was 14 when i first watched it, and was astounded at what i was seeing; as i knew people my age were having sex, but nothing as crazy as what i saw on screen.  I live in baltimore, which has its fair share of characters similar to the ones in the story, so i wasn't completely dumbfounded at what was going on.  what amazed me was the rawness that Larry Clark captured from the screenplay, and how much it made me want to get into filmmaking.The kids in the film could be anyone, it just happened that it took place in NY, which gave the characters a more urban feel that went along with the storyline.  The racial lines crossed were not addressed because of the diversity that NY represents, which i liked a lot. One scene that made my eyes open up as to how fantastic this film was the scene in the park, where casper gets in a fight with someone he bumped into skateboarding.  1st he and one other kid start beating him up... then the ENTIRE group of kids there (including girls) run up and join in, as a song that completely fits plays in the background.Kids is a film everyone should see, and will remain in my thoughts whenever anyone mentions a good movie.  "},{"Title":"Memorable...to say the least","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie the first time when I was 12 or 13, I loved it, being the sex-crazed person I was then, I loved Telly and Casper. I recently saw it again, now 16, from a friend's copy. I couldn't believe how much this film had changed in just 3 years. It disturbed me, I still laughed when Telly and Casper stole the 40 from the store. Telly's quest of de-flowering young virgins made me sick this time around, especially knowing that he was killing each one of them. I agree with another view saying this movie was a white movie, I'm white, but I've been to NY, and no white kid aged 16 or 20 would ever attack or talk back to a black man in the park around age 23. The most disturbing part though, is at the end when Casper rapes Jennie (the only character in the whole film I actually liked). It was hard to watch, especially when he'd say not to worry, that it was just Casper. It's good to see the girl that played Jennie ended up making it in Hollywood (American Psycho), but all in all, I have to say, my entire generation is summed up in Telly's words, When you're young, nothing much matters. When you find something you like, that's all you got. These kids are immoral, but who can't help identify how it felt to be in control of your life for the first time and be independent, most don't go to the antics of Telly or Casper, but we all have that ruthless nature in us as humans. I'm currently writing a sequel to Kids where Casper is shot by a member of a gang (the guy in the park who got beat belonged to them) and Jennie tells Telly he has HIV before she dies of AIDS, Telly then goes back to the women he's had sex with and finds most of them have been feeling the adverse effects of AIDS, then Telly finds that the young teenager he has sex with at the end of Kids, has died. Overwrought by sorrow, Telly shoots himself. A paraphrase of a generation who can't do anything but destroy itself. "},{"Title":"Misunderstood","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  People, people, you just don't understand.  Let me clear things up for you.A) Yes, life is like this.  Not for everybody, but for a LOT of people. Live with it.B) What on earth are you talking about?!?  Lack of plot?  It's not supposed to have a plot!!!  Just like Gummo, Kids paints an accurate portrait because of the (for the most part) lack of plot.  Do you have a single, distinct plot in any given summer day of YOUR life?!? NO!!!  That's how life is (and why Harmony deserves heaps of adulation).  If you don't understand, go watch Legally Blonde or something. "}{"Title":"Very good","Date":"23 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I'm 15 years old and ive seen this movie a few times not too long ago. its very interesting and true. i love this movie, and i cant get over how real it is,and  my life is  surrounded by that kind of environment, and its sad but true that kids really live like that all over the world "},{"Title":"Say what you will either way.","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie once five years ago, when I was fifteen.  I haven't seen it since.When I saw, over the next five years, people around me and characteristics in myself sliding into this catch-all...I worked very hard not to become this movie.That's all. "},{"Title":"True to Life.","Date":"28 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Kids is the realness. The kids in the film portray how the urban youth look, act, talk, and speak. It's real, no one can deny this. I first saw it when I was 15-16 and the first thing that came to my mind was this looks like me!. After the flick I told all my friends about it and we sat and watched it again. I was so intrigued by it because this was exactly the life we were living! If you want to see a one of a kind, urban, classic, gritty, no holds barred film... then this is it!  "},{"Title":"Okkkkkkkk","Date":"28 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I really didn't get the jist of this movie, it depects the *real* life of kids in New York city and it was gritty, it was painful, it made me feel sick ( This movie does show you exactly what it can be like to have an upbringing in the big apple complete with the sexual illness' problems and sweet talking guys who stop talking after the act is finished, I didn't like the main characters in this, they are your typical male scum who do nothing but waste lives, and I think the purpose of this film is to show you what happens when people like them are let loose with no moral boundaries. This movie was good because it didn't hold anything back, it showed you what life was like for the kids, they had to learn to laugh and fight back or else they would have been crushed, but at the price of this was their innocence and also the way in which they looked at the world, I couldn't understand the mental wiring behind some of the things that these people do. This movie is something you should watch and try to understand, but just don't let it rule your thinking. "},{"Title":"praise","Date":"17 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  'Kids' is one of those films that leaves you stunned and horrified and for this reason is a film not easily forgotten. The young lives of Telly and Casper are made more harrowing by the realisation that, although the individual characters may be fictional, the situation is not. However controversial, the film does have an educational purpose. After watching the film, the subject of sexually transmitted diseases is brought into the mind of the viewer and reinforces the importance of protection. Telly's seduction of innocent young girls and their obvious pain and distress also enforces the idea of rape and the taking advantage of impressionable young minds.We feel pity for Telly's 'victims' and there is definatly a disturbing irony in his attempts to sleep with only young virgins to avoid contracting HIV. Although unarguably controversial, the detail of the lives of Telly and Casper have the desired effect of shocking the audience and ensuring the film is not run of the mill. The acting is superb and the actors well chosen to produce a film so fantastically different and unforgettable. "},{"Title":"Well, its not genius, but....","Date":"16 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Kids is a good interesting film, what it is not is perfect. I'm not convinced that's its a great work of art either.To debate whether the characters are shallow is to miss the point, we are with them for a day and they are not characters so much as architypes, representarions of how some people do behave. There is no interest in fleshing them out, there doesn't need to be for veracity; some Kids just are like that for a good percentage of the time. Nor is helpful to say that they are unlikable, plenty of great books are filled with unlikable people, it makes them HARD not BAD, this is supposed to be a mirror to reality.Similarly the dialog is accurate, for a certain type of person. To say its vile is missing the point. A judgement about how we chose to live imposed on a film that aspires to just show reality.The, sex, drugs violence, again accurate for a certain type of person. To complain on grounds of taste is like complaining about the news showing death.The absence of plot, well that's just a matter of taste, personally I'm quite happy with no driving nartive.No what gets me is the lack of desire to explicate the situation. Kids aspires to be a fictionalised documentart and in its quest to show reality it is as if the film can see no further than the sex drugs and violence. The naratorial perspective has no emotional core, its numb, blank if you will. There is no desire to explicate the situation. A lack of desire to actually engage with the subject matter, it is content just to show. As if the artist can and should do not more than represent reality. This seems to me to show a lack of grasp of the artistic position that can be truthful as well as trancendent, beautiful, melancolic etc. Kids fails on all those grounds. At its heart, like so much of American culture, is a large (____________) "},{"Title":"Studied it in Deviant Behaviour class","Date":"23 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie was by far the most disturbing I have ever seen. I was forced to watch it in a college class called Deviant Behaviour and Social Control. It was a very well done movie, but it made most of the people in our class sick.  "},{"Title":"Purleez!!!","Date":"7 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  oh my god some of you people are narrow minded and sheltered! you're all complaining that 'KIDS' is unrealistic and that the characters are one dimnensional and that the content is too crude, well that IS life! i'm sorry but it is! i live in a small town in the North of England and most of my friends behave in a comparitable way. nearly all my friends drink, take drugs, sleep around, steal, beat people up for fun. i dont however but it would be pretty naive and dumb of me to say that it didnt go on. and things like this need to be pointed out to people. just like other causes such as cancer, its here and it needs some attention. thats exactly what KIDS does. it gets a strong and real message across that today's youth is in a lot of trouble because we are misguided or un-natured etc. dont critisize KIDS for being false. you can maybe critisize it for it's acting or camera work (although i thought everything about this film was stunning) but dont critisize it for its content or characters. i live that life and it does happen and it needs to be noticed. if you hide your eyes from it and try and dismiss it as unexistent, then you're doing the young generation a huge discourtasey. "},{"Title":"The Gruesome Facts Have Finally Hit Home..","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  KIDS. KIDS. KIDS. My god, what a movie. What can you say about this movie. 1 thing I will say, if you haven't seen it yet, what are you waiting for?As a matter of fact, this movie should be shown to high school kids around the country. This movie hits you and hits you hard. It's amazing to think about how easy the AIDS virus can spread, and it's amazing to think about what teenagers of this day in age are really capable of.The acting of this movie cannot be critiqued. The movie quality itself video-wise and audio-wise was horrible. The movie was low budget, and it consists mostly of kids hanging out in various locations.This movie cannot be treated like the usual gar-bage from Hollywood. This movie has to be viewed as a documentary, after all this movie is basically a documentary. Informing it's viewers of the dangers that surround today's youth.Rent, Buy, Steal, or Kill to get your hands on a copy of this film. It's a movie that will really scare you, not by fake monsters and un-realistic goblins, but by facts, trials and tribulations.Rating 9/10 "},{"Title":"Documentary","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Realistic movie about youngsters in New York. It deals with negligence of the AIDS treath and what the consequences can be when being tested. It portraits New York as a look-at-me-and-you-can-get-in-my-pants kind of town. Too much of a documentary for me. But a 6 overall. "}{"Title":"See this movie.","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Kids is a powerful film.One that makes you think.It's kind of like a tour of the city and the lives of today's kids without running the risk of getting jumped.The actors performances are flawless.All of them represent the arrogance and angst of the characters.Justin Pierce's character,Casper is what makes the movie entertaining.All in all it's a good movie.One you can watch again and again. "},{"Title":"Guaranteed disturbing view of life","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Trend-setting and disturbing view of life for some teens in New York.  The story involves a lot of drug and alcohol use and sex involving the teens, making it more biting.  At the time, this kind of stuff was really taboo, now KIDS looks like just about any teen movie, or any teen's life, for that matter.  Still, a must see film because it is incredibly realistic, and thoughtful.  Many unforgetable scenes and sequences including the legless man on the subway (one of my all-time favorites). "},{"Title":"Some reviewers are in denial","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"       I just wanted to tell people that some of the reviewers are so in denial about this film. Now, I'm not saying it is 100% accurate, but it has the right idea. I'm 15 and I do what all of these kids in the film do, maybe not to that extent, but I have expierienced the things in this film. I'm not going to lie. I, once agian, only 15, have done a lot of varieties of drugs, I've stolen many times from stores, I have had sex, I've gotten in fights at the park over stupid things with strangers, I've broken in to places, and I have been to many heavy parties.       But the reason I'm saying the film isn't totally accurate is because it makes us seem like bad people because we do it. I am a good student at school, I have wonderfully nice friends, and I will hopefully one day become a film maker. But I still do all of these things. In the film we are potrayed like senseless bullies who have no hearts. We do.      I have also done a review on Gummo, another film from Harmony Korine. The funny thing about that film is, it takes place in a small town called Xenia, Oh. Well, I live in Xenia and we do not act at all like that in the film. So maybe Harmony isn't as in touch with kids as he thinks.      Though, I would never call this film a masterpiece, I will recomend it. 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Is this the message we should be giving to teens?","Date":"6 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"     I saw this movie on HBO one day, only to be disgusted at what I saw.  This movie simply called Kids.  It's tells the story about these big city teenagers who get their kicks by doing drugs, deflowering, going to raves, acting like they're ready to hold their own, and being on the path to self-destructive behavior.  Kids is an unrealistic look at teenage society.  No person under the age of 18 should even be exposed to this miserable monstrosity of teenagers movie.   It's almost as if this movie was saying that all the teenagers in America are actually like the characters in this movie!  Teens nowadays have to watch something worthwhile. Plus learn that not every teenager is like the characters in those WB shows, Angela Chase, and in other teen-flicks (and this movie Kids) as well.     So, if you don't want to teen to exhibiting self-destructive behavior, then find something else to watch.  Watch Almost Famous if you want to see a good and realistic movie for teens!   "},{"Title":"it's about time","Date":"1 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  i'm  glad that someone made a film that portrays teenagers in a real way. teenagers do not all hangout at the mall and talk on the phone. some teenagers do exactly what the kids in this movie did every day. this movie isn't exaggerated in any way. cussing, fighting, smoking weed. this is what's reality. "},{"Title":"A depressing & dull look at NYC youth","Date":"20 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a controversial look at teenage life in New York City by Larry Clark. Written by Harmony Korine (director of Gummo), it focuses on two skateboarders, Telly and Casper. Telly boasts about how he likes to have sex with virgins. There's nothing better than deflowering young women, he tells us. Casper doesn't say as much, he'd much rather steal beer from liquor stores and savagely beat up a man in a park for getting in his way. Most of the characters take drugs and talk about sex. The other main character is Jennie (Chloe Sevigny of Boys Don't Cry, Gummo & American Psycho). She has a blood test and finds she is HIV positive - but she has only slept with one guy, Telly. It's a depressing film, but it is a worthwhile look at the problems of drugs and promiscuity of young people in the Big Apple. Worth a look, but it's not a film you'll be watching many times. "},{"Title":"Mixed bag...","Date":"30 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This would have to be the movie that would fit the very definition of a straight up 5 rating from 1 to 10.  It has some very redeeming things, although delivery of this message was a little below par.  On a straight up commentary level- yes, it is quite a disturbing movie.  You only spend a day in the life of these main characters, yet almost everything they do is irresponsible, spontaneous, and very destructive.  Rebellous-maybe, stupid-yes.  Maybe that should be some reflection of what this movie tries to bring about.  Casper wakes up the next morning and shakes his head, saying what happened?  This would perhaps be parallel to what is to come in the future for these kiddees  Jail, overdosing, homicide, STDs.  Everything in this movie suggests that the characters are on an express elevator to hell.  Yet the delivery of this message is weak.  American History X deals with a similar theme The price of destructive behaviors that come back to haunt you.  The only difference is, the delivery of this theme is much stronger and clearer in that movie.   The first few times you see Kids, the only thing that really ever becomes apparent is the saturation of sex, orgies, fighting, drugs, drinking, and ummm really big losers with ego problems.  "},{"Title":"the best movie i have ever seen","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  this movie is the best movie i have ever seen in my life. i am a 14 year old girl in the city this movie was made in. people always warn you about things but unless you know someone that these bad things happen to there is something telling you it is all myth. this movie gave me so much insight to what is really going on. i see all of my friends going through all this crap, and i know that i am never going to be as stupid as to do that without thinking ahead. this movie has not only been an eye opener for me but will be a guide through my teenage life. for all i know if i hadnt seen this i could be ending up as Jenny did in this movie or Casper or Telly i could name all the cast if i had to. and for all these people who think this movie was a stretch of the truth or over acted why dont you come to my school one day and then hang out wit my friends after school then i want you to tell me that you dont think this movie stressed truth but mirrorred reality. i would love for people to write me back so i could get your feelings on this movie. "},{"Title":"A dark but powerful film","Date":"3 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Directed by Larry Clark and written by Harmony Korine, KIDS is a disturbing look at a day in the life of Telly and Casper, a pair of sex obsessed teenagers, who spend their day stealing, doing drugs and of course having sex. Telly is a young lad who prefers even younger girls, preferable of the untouched variety. Casper on the other hand spends his day ripped on drugs and listening to Telly's tales of virginal conquests.Everyone got the wrought iron authoritarian knickers in a twist but I found it quite endearing the way the respective girls and boys candidly and awkwardly talk about sex. Let's be honest, adolescents have always been crippled by their fascistic need to be cool, insular and diametrically opposed to adult norms and values.Filmed in a documentary style with a very young looking cast, KIDS is an honest depiction of youth culture, with their we're going to die anyway attitude. This film has caused controversy since its original cinema release and will no doubt continue being talked about by cultural historians for years to come-The real issue is the old chestnut of whether critics can rationalise and intellectualise the issues here and whether others are merely affected by this film in a primal way... So is it prurient voyeuristic right wing alarmism dressed up as informed researched social commentary, an indictment of alienation or just teenage kicks 90's style in a rather well put together film or a chance to see Chloe Sevigny in the buff - you decide...KIDS contains several relatively graphic sex scenes which all help deliver a powerful message - it's not a film for everyone and definitely not one for a romantic night in but it does highlight a problem that needs to be dealt with and talked about. "},{"Title":"Not everyone should watch","Date":"3 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Some films are just not some people's cup of tea. Barney's Big Adventure for example. And then there are some movies that certain people should not watch. Kids is one of those films. It's is shocking, unblinking and terribly disturbing. And to be honest, I bet it is still tame compared to some of the things teens are doing today. Still, I think this film is an accurate representation of the idiot culture that is thriving in America. These kids have no morals, no innocence, and no conscience. They make stupid decisions, manipulate anyone they can, and lash out when they feel there is no other option. It was the darkest and most creepy film I ever saw until Happiness came out. Two real quick points in response to previous posters. There are kids out there like this, and not just in the big city. I think anywhere that parents have passed the buck, this behavior can happen. Finally, someone wrote they couldn't believe Leo Fitzpatrick as the Romeo getting all the girls. Trust me, I have seen boys more goofy looking than him who seem to attract the prettiest and sweetest young girls. The point of his whole character is his sweet talking charm lures these girls in. It may be the most disturbing thing in the whole film, in fact....... "}{"Title":"A shocker of a movie","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie really blew my mind.  I can't believe how far they went in portraying the teenage kids, although I think it was very realistic.  The lead guy was a big goober and I couldn't believe that he got laid as often as he did.  Movie was very entertaining  "},{"Title":"AN EYE OPENER","Date":"24 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Kids is a movie which i think i couldn't watch more than once. Don't get me wrong, this is a very good piece of film which delivers stunning performances by a few no-name actors and it is great seeing Chloe Sevigny deliver her great and memorable debut performance. Kids opens your eyes and sends out a warning to todays youth saying If you do anything like the kids in this film you are screwed up. Some images in this film will disturb some viewers (especially the under-age sex)and leave them feeling scared.Overall, Kids was a very good movie which I enjoyed. "},{"Title":"Mad Tight","Date":"23 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is great. A real eye opener, true to life. Mad tight. Check this movie out as soon as you can. Incredible Movie!  "},{"Title":"the best youth movie ever!","Date":"21 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  this movie is the best youth movie i have  ever seen .. actors were damn good .after watching this you wanna watch it again and again s-one.the story was realistic and shocking.. watch this movie or you going to miss damn good movie points 10/10  "},{"Title":"Very Disturbing","Date":"2 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Hi, I'm 14 and live in a small town. So that probably means I am nothing like the kids in this movie.  I still find it disturbing that people around my age do this kind of stuff with no remorse.  The majority of the hicks in my town are sex fiends so I can sort of relate to this film, I know a girl who's 14 and has already had 2 abortions, and I can't help but think what's becoming of society, and this film reassures my disgust. "},{"Title":"Accurate Portrayal of Teen Life","Date":"7 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is a very accurate portrayal of teen life.  I know many of you out there believe that this is a dark exaggeration, but it's not.  I know because I am a teen; although, I do not live in a large city the exact sort of things happen around here.  Teens do smoke weed, drink large quantities of alcohol, and have sex.  the only thing that is a slight exaggeration in my eyes were the pre-teens, there are some kids like this, but not too many in my area.  I enjoyed this movie, but i would only recommend it to those who are into indie pictures and aren't offended by long scenes of teen sex. "},{"Title":"TOO BAD CLARK FIZZLED","Date":"6 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  After this fine film, Larry Clark also made the excellent Another Day in Paradise with James Wood and Melanie Griffith but after that, he seems to have fizzled as a film maker; too bad.I believe this was the first movie for Chloe Sevigny, one of my favorites who is still going strong in such pictures as Boys Don't cry.My only dissatisfaction with Kids is the casting choice of Leo Fitzpatrick.  To me, he just seems so unattractive that is is hard to believe he could make out with even the dumbest of girls.By the way, Andrew below reflects the parochialism of New Yorkers in describing New York as THE ONLY CITY; something I find irritating.  I have been there and believe me, unless you have big bucks for rent and its show biz stuff, forget it.  He should try and get out of New York for a sell and visit some other large cities "},{"Title":"The Movie vs. Myself how scary it truly is.","Date":"5 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I just finished viewing Kids and the movie really made me think, mostly because of five observations I made and the fact that they reflect my own self1) Age I am also 17. 2) Location I also live in a big city in the United States (Miami). 3) Hobbies I'm also into skateboarding (not that that really has much to do with anything, but it just kind of caught my eye). 4) Main similarity I've deflowered a few girls in the past (some virgins, some not). 5) The seriousness of the whole issue It really does happen and it happens a lot more than any of us would ever like to admit.The main character of the story was kind of my mirror image (except musical tastes) and, as a result, it portrays to me the simple fact that this too can happen to me.  I'm just glad it hasn't already.  Nonetheless, that whole concept of not being immortal and also of acquiring the HIV virus and how quickly that can be done... those are two eye-opening concepts.  So although this movie didn't wake me up to this issue, it did help emphasize something if you ever even think of it... DON'T have unprotected sex.  It can really screw up your entire life.As for the movie itself, it was a pretty good movie.  I enjoyed it and, therefore, I will recommend it.For now, take care everyone. "},{"Title":"shock film -- but message says nothing","Date":"21 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Reflecting on this film1.  It's a shock film.  Does it represent the lives of 'most teenagers' who grow up in New York / America?  Of course not, and the comments/generalizations on this website that portray this film as an accurate depiction of teenage life... really disturb me.2.  Is the film's message powerful?  I'm not sure if the film maker is really trying to generalize his message of what's going on in the world to everything in life, but there's no doubt that there are people (kids) who live their life in this fashion.  Some things in the movie are unrealistic, and the plot didn't make sense to me at all times, but this really has nothing to do with the powerful message that the film delivers.  In fact, I'd say the film delivers a message that the media has already portrayed about America's youth, and even though Kids disturbingly presents this message, it really doesn't say too much that carries any weight.3.  Would I recommend it?  Eh.  It's worth seeing just to explore the director/writer's vision of this sick world that we live in.  Again, the subculture depicted certainly exists, but not necessarily in the way that Kids depicts it, and it's not necessarily as powerful or true as a generalization.To sum it up  Shocking and disturbing stuff, but it doesn't live up to the claims of those who speak of it as brilliant and a masterpiece -- more like a shock flick whose message is not one of exploring the subculture, but rather a theme that is portrayed by mainstream culture, depicting the kids of today in a very mainstream and immoral way.  "},{"Title":"All Too Accurate","Date":"16 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I'm really disturbed by all the people writing about how untrue and impossible this movie is. I myself live in NY, and spent many nights in my teen and early 20 years at Tunnel, the club that was used in filming the Club USA scenes.I spent many a night staying at a girlfriends because someone's parent's were always away and a party to be had.  And my lifestyle wasn't that way because I was a bad kid, or grew up in an unstable impoverished home (quite the opposite in fact) I think it was mostly about wanting to FEEL like an adult.I'm sure if my own parents were to see this movie, they too would think it was over melodramatic and dark. Unfortunately that IS NOT the case. Harmony Korine is my age now, and lived in NY and I'm afraid to say that his portrayal is so accurate that we probably had some mutual friends. And in NYC, it doesn't matter what income level you're at, or how much you try to shelter your children.To be honest the only scene that was innacurate was the fight scene in Washington Square park...because there are usually police and undercover cops all around. So even if a fight got started, it never would have gotten that far.  "}{"Title":"Gripping movie!!!","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I thought that this was a chilling, interesting look into the life of kids in New York.  An inspiring job well done by Chloe Sevigny.  The scene of the brutal beating was jaw dropping.  I would recommend to all to see at least once. "},{"Title":"Outrageous and entertaining.","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie shows teens and the things they go through including drugs, sex, and violence. A movie that isn't for everyone but still enjoyable with an open mind. Has a sort of reality feel to it. Great acting(if it is acting). Watch if ready for something new and shocking.  "},{"Title":"mind-blowing","Date":"4 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film is richly stylized yet the style seems unintentional.  I live in the UK so i cant relate to the surroundings or the characters, but i could still feel their emotions and feelings throughout.  The ending is unpredictable and moving.  The whole film is amazing.  "},{"Title":"It's a movie - not a sermon. Enjoy. (possible SPOILER)","Date":"4 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I first saw this movie about 3 years ago, and I had never heard of it. I had no preconceived ideas about it. I liked it. I think a lot of it is totally real. Having read most of the reviews for KIDS, I can tell you that half the people will say that this movie is totally ridiculous, and that teenagers aren't like this, and that life isn't like this, and the other half will say that KIDS is brilliant and that teenagers are like this, and that life is like this. People have different experiences as teenagers and with teenagers, so it is safe to say that some people will encounter kids just like these & some won't. But, the fact is that they do exist. I know many of them, and once upon a time was one. The only shocking thing about the movie was that people were so shocked by it. Especially the last scene, where Jennie is raped. It is unbelievable how common this is. The sad fact is that most of the teenagers I know wouldn't even consider that to be rape at all. But I digress - I think it is definitely a movie worth watching, but face it, it is just a movie. It is not something to gauge your moral compass by or to lose sleep over. It's a movie - get over it. P.S.- Don't blame Telly. Yes, he's a sweet talker, almost to the point of coercion, but in the end the girls have to take responsibility for themselves, and the fact that they are losing their virginity to a virtual stranger without a condom. But, like I said, it's just a movie.....  "},{"Title":"Shocking, terrifying, horrific and at times quite, quite brilliant.","Date":"28 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A strange and often disappointing film, which despite its moments of fantastic insight and genius falls all to often into the pit of relying on its own unparalleled (in my experience) ability to shock. Perhaps the director/writer should concentrate on his clear ability to create something brilliant (even beautiful) on film rather than simply imposing extremely unpleasant (if realistic) images on the screen in a way that rapidly becomes monotonous in its own horrendous fashion.  "},{"Title":"Utterly convincing and incredibly depressing.","Date":"21 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  KIDS is brilliantly made and entirely believable, which puts it near the top of my list of movies I never want to see again. I can't think of any movie villain I've more desperately wanted to see fail (or better still, die horribly) than the teenage boys in this film. A must-see for film students, but while it's as riveting as being in a car that's about to crash, I don't know that I could recommend it to anyone else. "},{"Title":"Without hesitation, One of the best of the 90s!","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Without hesitation, one of the best of the 90s. One of the best teen films. Here's whyIt defines the archetype of theClubkid/raver/skater today just like Easy rider did for the hippie generation.It addresses through the audience identifying function of suspense, the underlying notion of death that could come with one of our most innocent, vividly remembered experiences losing our virginity.It plunges the viewer into the atmosphere of the streets of today, the NOW, its language, its fashions, its landscapes.That said, it melds the elements of Hitchcockian suspense with the urgency of powerful subjective filmmakers like Cassavettes, Fassbinder, and Alan Clarke. With truly personal writing by Harmony Korine and a stunningly shocking sad yet beautiful performance by Chloe Sevigny, this film still gives me the goosebumps. "},{"Title":"Not for the weak @ heart!","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I don't have a whole lot to say about this particular movie, except that it is so real, that it sickened me to watch it. The director took a group of actors, and filmed them in their invincible state of mind in a big city environment. There is a plot to the movie, and if watched carefully, a moral can be found. This movie was given a R rating by the MPAA, while I usually agree with the MPAA, I feel that this movie deserves a stronger rating.  In 1995, NC-17 had yet to be incorporated by the Motion Picture Association of America, but let it be known that this movie have very strong sexual innuendos, and a great deal of obscene language.   "},{"Title":"Good yet terrible....","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I watched about the last half hour of this film and, truth to tell, I didn't like it. I know this is real life (in some places) for many children. However, I wish I had not seen it.But at the same time, I agree with some of the other comments made. This film IS a major wake-up call for all parents. The all-too-realism shocks you into shape.The only aspect I didn't like is that some scenes reminded me of nothing more than kiddie porn, especially the last scene. I think it's perfectly ok to place realism in films, especially ones based on modern society problems. But having children participate in some of those scenes, even for the benefit of Hollywood, is not apropriate.  "},{"Title":"Disturbing Film, no need to watch more than once.","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Recently I rented Kids. The film starts out as a boy and a girl kissing. The the boy (Telly) wants to have sex with the girl. The girl tries to reists Telly's advancements but since He is such a sweet talker he talks them into it. Telly thinks the safe way to have sex is to do it with virgins. When Telly persuades his virgins into intercourse its Slam Bam Bam thank you ma'am I'm done. He goes out to to brag to his loser Friend (Casper) about his achievement. Although I did like the film I cannot recommend this to anyone. Anyone under 18 should not view this film. These kids are no Angels. They fight, steal, gang bang, and get stoned. Parents who watch this film with their children are urged to have a talk with thier kids about the consequences these kids face for thier actions "}{"Title":"The way not to lose your virginity","Date":"15 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If Hollywood has a stronghold on American myth in film, then these filmmakers are among its accessories.KIDS stood out at the video store because it was supposed to be an honest film. So often independent movies do not earn the title of their genre -- they are reactions to the stories that are told and watched, payed for en masse and listed in order of earnings at the weeks' end.  Korine's film seemed promising as a true independent and some scenes were quite striking and memorable.  But, as a whole, the reality this movie was just as simple as a summer blockbuster.After about 15 minutes of being shocked by the film's rough style it quickly got routine.  Beyond the cruelty and Telly's blank narcissism, the vibes I got were that there is nothing in this life for young people and that everyone else has failed them except themselves.  We know what choices children have to face; they are better informed than the generations ago. Why would they choose to behave like the children in KIDS and put their lives and health behind their sexuality?  Sure, we know some do, but why? Brief implications at parental neglect or peer pressure were never really explored.This film might have had more substantial reality if Telly wasn't so clearly a villain or his victims less helpless and victimly.  If KIDS was made in a way television friendly way it might have been an after-school special.  I can't concede that the true point of the movie was its style (albiet a fresh style that was meant to disturb the old folks) -- it refuses to grant the audience insight and instead delivers a shocky lesson that some people are *bad*.  That just canned it for me.The talent was certainly there behind this movie but the bullet never really made it out of the barrel. "},{"Title":"Very true","Date":"14 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  You know, after seeing about five minutes of this very disturbing movie, you think that this is total rubbish. But somehow in a strange way I changed my mind as the movie continued. I liked the realistic way that this movie was directed in and you get the feeling that the director wanted to show us the real thing and no censored Hollywood thing.I don't think many kids live like the ones in this movie, but I'm convinced that there still are some - and that is sad. They are lost before they even get the chance to grow up and start thinking for themselves. Still, if you think about the situation and the persons he is surrounded with and if you had a bad school you didn't care about, no father, drugs and fights all around you - then maybe, MAYBE, this is how your world would have been... "},{"Title":"Somewhat realistic, but the tone is somewhat too dark","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What's amazing about this movie is that, as a teenager you watch it, and think this is way over-dramatized, and it only applies to a few losers which doesn't include yourself or your friends.  But  then you go out, and do some of the same things, and you realize that there probably are people whose aims are this feeble.  It is extremely frank, but when I watched the movie and I heard the conversations, I thought these people were complete perverts and dimented, and I felt that the scenes were certainly disturbing.  And then I realize that I talk about some of the same things, and it doesn't feel as bad as in the movie.  Certainly, this movie somewhat overemphasizes the AIDS facto, and I think that is decreasingly a problem for today's youth with increasing education.  I think the protagonists attitude is an unlikely attitude.  What's interesting in this movie also, that is somewhat new among movies about inner-city life is that the races shown are not the ones classically seen in inner-city movies.  Most of the characters are white or Hispanic.  I must say that living in New York, and particularly close to Harlem, this movie is somewhat unfair to inner-city children in that it fails to show any hope.  That is why you leave this movie ready to cry and super-depressed, and with a feeling of helplessness.  That feeling of helplessness, I am sure, is not what the writers/director wanted for this movie.  There should have been more hope displayed in the movie so that we do not feel that the situation is hopeless.   "},{"Title":"NOT REAL LIFE, JUST REAL LAME.","Date":"19 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Topics depicted in the film Kids  under-age sex and drug use, promiscuity, obsessive profanity, homophobia, animal cruelty, rape, contracting STD'S, stealing, assault.Consequences None.If you the viewer find the material in this film entertaining, ask yourself why and take a good look at yourself.  Trying to convince yourself this movie is so real and cool is casting a blind eye on your moral fiber as a human being.  I don't care how kewl this movie seemed to be, it served no purpose and I learned absolutely nothing from it.  Besides that, most people know a thing or 2 about city life and how rough it is. We don't need to see it glorified in film with no redeptional final outcome. To all you kids out there that think this behaviour is so kewl and real, you are corrupted and damned and will get nowhere in life.  Your bravados are only paper thin, but then again I guess you need a movie like this to make you feel resiliant and strong in a world so cold.  Garbage is as Garbage does. "},{"Title":"Disturbing yet Insightful","Date":"11 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I more or less enjoyed the movie Kids.  I found it fascinating how disrespectful one person, Telly, could be to everyone he knew yet he kept a smile plastered on his face the entire time.  This was a very sad movie, because all of these young people were having their lives ruined without even knowing it.  Even the people that did not know Telly were being ruined, for example the man whose eye he spit into in the park.  Telly even ruined his best friend Casper's life.I think this film had a distinct message of how AIDS can hurt many people around you, not only the person you infect.  I did not find this movie to be exploitive or harmful in any way, unlike many people I have spoken to.  I believe that it sends a strong message to the youth of America to think about their futures, and the futures of the people around them.I am 16, and although no teenagers I know act like the kids in this movie, I believe there are young people who do act this way.  They need to watch this film, for it is a realistic portrayal of what AIDS is doing to society.  "},{"Title":"Exploitation?","Date":"24 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Kids is not exploitation. I would know, because I am 14 and I hang around kids like that, and it is a dead-on portrayal of teens in the 90's. It's very intense, and the actors give flawless performances. Harmony Korine is excellent with bringing creating realistic characters, Larry Clark is great with bringing them to life, and with creating symbolic imagery. This film is grim and highly disturbing, but essential for politicians and parents, but most importantly, teens who are becoming drug addicts or gang members. It certainly had an effect on me. "},{"Title":"The Acting","Date":"23 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I recently saw this movie and it was an eye opener about acting. For first time actors this is great acting.  It was so real. I find it strange how casting directors won't hire actors on the D list. But you look at these actors and it's amazing the  acting challenges they overcame. I don't think it would have been easy to play any of the girls in the film. I give these actors/actresses a Great Job Very well done...they did very well. Overall, the script never went anywhere. But it was real and you don't see that in a lot of teen movies any longer. It really did tell the story of what some teens go through (most of them).  It makes you wonder what becomes of these kids later on. I wonder how the actors/actresses parents felt about their kids doing this film? ....yes, it portrays the reality of life...sex, drugs, violence, the real world we live in.  "},{"Title":"Artistic and Brilliant","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Larry Clark's KIDS is one of the defining films of the 90s'.  It is a landmark in cinema and will be hailed as a masterpiece a few years from now; along with Natural Born Killers and The Shawshank Redemption. KIDS basically follows a group of New York City teens on a summer day as they get drunk, smoke herb, and have sex.  It's understandable why nobody would want to expose their eyes to this.  However, everything you see in this movie is really exaggerated.  Very very few middle-class kids do the things portrayed in this film.  The dialogue is dead-on though; every yo boy in my school talks like this.  But here's where Clark's brilliance comes in.  The film seems somewhat pretentious at first glance, but it actually works more effectively this way.  I think the film is showing us what the teenage world will look like if parents keep neglecting their kids.  If Clark showed us what was happening right now, than whats the point?  We have a fairly good idea of what's going on right now, and its really not that bad for the most part.  But as the 90s' progress, it is getting worse, and by showing us the future in a contemporary way; it becomes all the more terrifying.A common complaint I hear about this film is that very few (if any) of the characters are likable.  Hey, at least they aren't romanticized like in so many other teen dramas.  The awful Can't Hardly Wait comes to mind right now.  Besides, Clark does find a subtle way of showing that the kids in this film aren't totally unmoral, and that they are still humans. Some people may dislike the film because it offers no real solution to the problems it portrays.  The way Clark pounds out one visually distressing scene after another, he is in fact hammering us over the head with the only possible solution.  PARENTS, WAKE THE *#@% UP!I could rant on and on about this movie, but you really just need to see it for yourself.  "},{"Title":"a very disturbing and explicit film that unfortunately doesn't have a point to make.","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  most of the controversy surrounding this film around the time of it's release was in regards to the explicit and graphic dialogue spoken by the young cast. there are only a couple of sex scenes in the movie and only one of them i found graphic and upsetting (you'll see what i mean if you decide to watch it)the film, while well made and acted, unfortunately doesn't really seem to have a point to make. it is realistic in it's portrayal of todays youth and their sexual experiences and thoughts, but by the end of the movie, the film remains just that an observation nothing more. if the film had devoted more time to an actual well developed plot it might have been more effective. the plot that is presented is very thin and stretched really far.but, on the other side, the film is an eye opening experience and very disturbing on quite a few levels.just don't expect any sort of a point to be made.rating7    "},{"Title":"Mixed","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I rented this at a video store because of the controversy surrounding Kids.  After viewing it, my opinion on Kids is that it was a gritty, realistic and sensationalized account of at-risk urban youth engaging in sex and drugs. However, it was a bit offensive and frank.  If you want a dramatic film that is somewhat similar to Kids, I urge you to rent Hurricane Streets. "}{"Title":"Is there a message?","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Kids IS a shocking movie representing an underground youth culture of excess and liberty to the extreme in an inner-city urban habitat. It represents a shocking reality, which not many of us will, hopefully, ever encounter. Fair enough, it does not represent a sizeable part of any population, but the subjects covered do happen. I am a teenager myself and from personal experience you can only be naive in believing this doesn't happen. It is unbelievable due to its complete and utter excessive depiction in every sociopath youth cliche this pseudo-documentary tries to deal with, from the perverse deflowerment of sub-teens to dealing with HIV.What am I to think of a film, which makes me hate the two main stars from the word go, two perverse freaks - Telly and Casper? Jennie, portrayed by Chloe Sevigny, was the only character I could possibly feel for, who also had the most noticeable performance. The style of the film was the only thing going for it. I found the script was funny in a I'm laughing at you bunch of no-hopers, not with you way. At some points, a mate and I even thought there was an element ad-lib. Either that or there some talent there. The film is not positively entertaining. Whether or not you take this film seriously reflects your apathy to society because this is horribly realistic. But there are only a few films not worth a viewing and this is film that should be viewed purely for its controversial subject matters. From the rest of comments, you can see this film is meant to shock.People saying this is a great party film is almost as annoying as people who give the plot away in the comments section. (Did you know there was a plot summary section?)  "},{"Title":"This is the way the world ends...","Date":"16 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A sickening look at today's teen wasteland. Not only will the (probably truthful and realistic) actions of the teens in this story make you queasy, BUT the acting is just annoying. You want to reach out and slap the scuzzy actors around (come to think of it, maybe that's the point of the film). The character Tully is especially obnoxious. ugh...And hey, does anyone REALLY think that the actors were over 18 and adults when this movie was made? Suuuuuure. Man, the actors are WAY exploited here. I am suprised that the feds didn't try to shut down this flick as child abuse.NOT a film for anyone under 18, that's for sure. God help us all - for me this film helps represent how our society is going down the toilet.  "},{"Title":"A disturbing film that makes you think.","Date":"28 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was very disturbed after viewing this film. I couldn't believe the callous,crude,disgusting behavior the teens displayed in this film. All I can do is hope that there are very few teens like this in real life. Telly played the biggest juvenile delinquent loser. Its unreal how he cares nothing for the teenage girls he beds not knowing he is carrying the HIV virus . The acting was so spectacular  though I had a hard time at first determining whether or not this was a true documentary or just a movie. Although the subject matter is disturbing, the film really packs a punch and acts as a real eye opener to all parents out there. Do not under any circumstance lets your children turn out like the punks in this movie.     "},{"Title":"A fictional yet entertaining portrayal of NYC youth","Date":"12 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I grew up in NYC in the 1990's....let me just say that although Generation X from Long Island to Seattle agree that this is the way it is I must say that the actions in the film portrayed are full of crap.  I know tons of skaters who rave and have fun who have never even heard of someone getting mugged during the day by 6 guys with skateboards....grow up all of you renters of artsy films....go see a Jodorowsky film before you tell me the Kids is the way it is...you have no clue what it is....admit it. "},{"Title":"Complete Trash, but one of the best endings in history","Date":"8 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Complete Nonsense.No Story, no good soundtrack, not one good dialogue. Probably this movie is the most discussed trash movie ever. Kids isn't a real movie at all.The only thing I like is the end. Could be that this is the best film ending I saw in my whole life. It leaves you on such a down note. You know, that nothing will work out right for this Kids.Sic "},{"Title":"Good, But not THAT Good!","Date":"24 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  When Kids came out four years ago with an NC-17 rating, I thought Brother! There must be some hot stuff in that. Having seen it recently for the first time, my thought is What was the big deal about? The kids in this movie talk trash, hack around, show off skateboarding, and, in general, act like most kids you know. I reiterate What was the big deal?As to the kids themselves, they turned out to be pretty decent actors, particularly Leo Fitzpatrick as Telly. Even if he does talk like Hanna-Barbera's Mr. Jinks, he exhibits a certain charm and natural talent. Why haven't we seen him in more things?  Ditto the girl, whose name escapes me, who finds she's contracted AIDS from Telly, the virgin surgeon. She gives the most moving performance in the film, sensitive and funny at the same time.One question, though, about the plot that kind of defies logic If Telly only makes love to virgins, how did the girl get AIDS from him? "},{"Title":"No, I don't think so","Date":"18 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is not an accurate portrayal of urban life.  As a teenager growing up in America, I think I have the best idea of what it's like today.  This is not it.  These kids have got serious problems; most of them are freaks.  I know I don't talk about sex all day every day with my friends, and when we do, we don't tell each other about the most minute details of our goings-on.  We know what's personal and what's not.  We're not immature little 2nd graders.  We have morals, we have class, we have brains. Harmony Korine just better stick to the f*cked up trailer trash he's used to writing about. "},{"Title":"Gritty look at aimless teens","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is a gritty, unpleasant look at a group of amoral, delinquent teens which makes Over the Edge look like a feel-good movie by comparison. The script, direction and acting overall were well-done. The exchange between the girl with HIV and the cab driver especially stood out. My only real criticism about the film is that I would've leked to have seen more of an explanation of why these kids ended up the way they did. Maybe an explanation of their home life or their relationship with their parents. Nevertheless this was an ugly, though well-done film. "},{"Title":"Another Day In Puberty","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Anxious I was to experience KIDS again, not having seen it since a first-run engagement four years ago. Now, after Larry Clark's second feature ANOTHER DAY IN PARADISE (both titles given pleasing transfers to dvd) and a keen fondness for Chloë Sevigny's seemingly effortless moments of truth in THE LAST DAYS OF DISCO (moins de GUMMO & PALMETTO), I have to say, it wears well. Less about shock, more about knowing, Clark was on to it then. We had turned away and forgotten the sheer thrill of teenage anarchy, the bliss of parental absenteeism. Clark had to get up in our faces with it, make it sting, burn a little. And he got noticed. This time it's just beautiful.  "},{"Title":"A really ugly film","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a really ugly, really pessimistic film. Is it truthful? I hope not, but I fear it may be. It does have a few lyrical moments--but not enough of them to make me want to see the movie a second time.I had heard that Harmony Korine, who wrote the screenplay for Kids, is a grandson or nephew of the magnificent Huntz Hall of the original Dead End Kids. For that reason, I was expecting a better movie than Kids turned out to be. I hope he goes on to do some better movies than this. I haven't seen Gummo yet.(P.S. It turns out, according to my research, that Harmony Korine is probably NOT related to Huntz Hall.) "}{"Title":"Will not forget.....","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  See it. More than once. The greatest movie of the 90's is one of the most potent films you will ever see. Even though it is extremely difficult to watch, it should be viewed by everyone. Graphic, raw, fresh, uncut, it will make you think about it long after you watch it. Please see it. "},{"Title":"Realistic but somewhat pornographic","Date":"30 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I came in half-way into this movie and due to the no-name cast and documentary-style filming, I thought it WAS a documentary. Films like these NEED a no-name cast to fly. It was entertaining and worth a watch. But, the scene where Tellie takes the young Spanish girl's virgintiy did some like kiddie-porn. On the KBONE scale of 1-10 it gets a 6.5. "},{"Title":"im glad it shocked america...","Date":"27 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What in the hell is so shocking about this movie???  I don't quite understand, being brought up in a small town in south texas....i saw just as much teenage angst, and destruction (drugs, cussing, sex) if not more even...parents should wake up and smell the pot brownies cause believe me...it is laying around your house somewhere.  like gummo, i loved kids, and give it 5 *s for originality, and realism. "},{"Title":"funny realistic dialogue, exaggerated hooliganism","Date":"24 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  well, i liked it okay. its worth seeing, although its a little too much. i think the dialogue is hilarious, but i think the amorality of the kids is overdone. the dialogue is really accurate, and it alone makes this movie worth seeing, i don't think this is some wake up call for us to pay attention to our dumbass kids or they will go crazy. i think this movie is a bit unrealistic, but what movie isn't yunno?  "},{"Title":"....and the KIDS are screwed up","Date":"24 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A disturbing if not terrifying look into the life of NYC kids. No doubt this movie is not for all, but the cheap production value and the authenticity of the KIDS make this movie almost voyeuristic.  The movie, almost spontaneous in nature, weaves through the lives of NYC kids.  There are no holds barred.  Drug use and unprotected sex pervade in the lives of these children (10-16 years old).  A somewhat intriguing and incredibly terrifying movie. "},{"Title":"Gives problems, but no solutions","Date":"18 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Larry Clark has decided to depict kids as monsters.  These young ruffians do everything illegal under the sun.  The camera work and dialogue are constructed to give this film a feel of a documentary.  That way, more people will believe it.  Yes, Kids is fairly accurate.  But Clark simply is pointing out a problem and saying to parents, What are YOU going to do about it?  I don't think there is much value in doing something like that. If this film's sole purpose is to raise attention to what is going on, then it's wasting its time.  No one should be surprised by this film if they keep up with current events.  Those who don't know AIDS is a problem are never going to see this movie. But the thing I hate the most about this movie is that parents will watch it and project those images onto every kid who looks like the characters they saw on screen.  I feel this movie will create some unjustifiable prejudices. "},{"Title":"Art at its ugliest . . . reflecting our young!","Date":"16 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Kids certainly is excessive and unbelievable in its ascertain that teenagers can/will consume that excessive of an amount of drugs and alcohol in a day.  However, since the film takes place in one day in the life of . .. it is conceivable to believe that Director Clark is attempting to portray the full facets of urban youth.  It may be true that most teenagers will not do the mass majority of what occurs in this film (drug consumption to this degree and/or brutal gang attacks) but the attitudes, discussions and beliefs in this film are dead-on.  Thus, Kids really is art at its ugliest. . . an accurate reflection of our youth.Perhaps most teens aren't this ugly or brutal, but Kids stands as an unforgettable and important work.  The stand-out scene of this film is the final seconds when Casper stares into the camera, disheveled and disoriented, and dares to ask, What happened?.  Indeed! "},{"Title":"Disturbing, but wholly forgettable...","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Kids is one of those films whose every scene, every line of dialogue, every moment on screen is entirely there to shock the viewer.It doesn't serve any sort of worthwhile purpose, not even as entertainment which is what movies should be.  Instead it uses a lot of young, talentless actors traipsing around Manhatten talking about their pre-pubescent sexual escapades, using illegal drugs, and beating up one another.The production value is definitely in the one hundred dollar range, and is definitely set against the seedier, grimier side of the City That Never Sleeps.Is Kids exploitive?  Sure, that's its makers' intention.  Is it disturbing? Yes, but it is also incredibly trite and unbelievable.  Is it a good film? No. Don't waste your money.  I caught it on Cinemax at two in the morning, and I found only through the grace of God that I stayed awake through it.Not recommended. "},{"Title":"Well done, unfortunately","Date":"22 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I actually saw this movie a long time ago.  However, it still haunts me. This mockumentary is the most disturbing movie I have ever seen.  However, it is also one of the best.  It wouldn't have been so terrifying if it hadn't convinced me how realistic it is.  This is what makes it so good. Despite its excellence in all respects, I actually recommend people NOT see it.  I was not offended by the movie.  I simply can't wish these memorable images on anyone.  It breaks my heart every time I think of the victims of teenage lust and persuasion in that movie.  Everyone can relate to it, and it is scary to be reminded of the extremes of its consequences. "},{"Title":"Good party movie!","Date":"15 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I think this movie was a great teen movie and one you do not would want to sit with mom and dad to watch! It is full of drug used and profanity. Although several sex scenes occur there is no nudity in this film. I think it was a great movie but the budget was most likely in the 100$ range!  "}{"Title":"Kids are bad","Date":"13 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have no pity for those who find Kids offensive. It is your own choice what to watch.Kids is not a beautiful piece of filmmaking. So, the sound and picture quality isn't that great. Who cares? It is a stirring movie. I don't care if Larry Clark is trying to change things or send a message. I know I'm not going to do anything about it. The reason Kids is a good movie is because it is entertaining. That's what movies are. I don't watch them for social commentary. "},{"Title":"a 'so and so' shockumentary","Date":"13 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I guess everyone else has summed up this film already, so i'll make this short and sweet.  This film shows us a day in the life of 2 junkies/teens/hornballs/drug abusers/thieves/etc (Telly and Casper). Basically, Telly hangs out with Casper, seeking young innocent girls and stealing their virginity, stealing 40's from Asian markets, buys marijuana and then smoking it minutes later with another group of junkies, and so on. Another character is a girl (her name slips my mind right now) who has only had sex with one person, and that happens to be Telly.  She gets tested, and finds out that she may be infected with HIV.  For the rest of her day, she goes looking for Telly, to either beat the living daylights out of him, or to just notify him or what not (the film doesn't really say what her intentions were when she found him).  During that time, Telly asks this girl to hang out with him during the day, a girl whom he has been meaning to 'be alone with' for a long time.  And of course, you could imagine what happens next.The film has a raw production, which could be a plus.  Other commenters complain that the quality of the film was rather dull, and they seeked a higher quality.  But if they did, I think the film wouldn't have been believable.  To me, the lower the budget nowadays, the more realistic the film is.  KIDS is just a little bit realistic, because some parts are exagerrated.  Director Larry Clark throws out at us some really brutal subject matter, such as depicting some really really young kids smoking up a joint, a brutal beating by more of a dozen street kids.  And the sex scenes were very graphic and convincing.The lead character who plays Telly is a very good actor, yet i think he was miscast.  Plus i think some of the other actors were a little bit confused. The majority of the street kids were 'skaters', yet they talked like 'wiggers' or white people who talk like black people.  And i think the acting could've been so much better.  If KIDS wasn't filled with so much kidde porn subject matter, this would be a perfect film for parents and adults to view, because KIDS is a wake up call for them.  I don't know. Judge for yourself.  The film could have been so much better, so therefore, i frankly don't think this is a truly great film.   "},{"Title":"  Veary realistic, not terribly entertaining or innovative","Date":"9 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Cinema Veritae.  This film is a brutally honest portrayal of adolescence, but one must keep in mind that it isn't anything more then that.  Frankly, KIDS trips over itself to be shocking.  For instance when Telly kicks his cat, or when Casper describes his menstruating women as having, mad flavor.  I've scene  every form of anti-social behavior depicted in this filmBinge drinking,theft,violence,sexual battery,sh***y family life, but I've never witnessed all things repulsivve in one day. As far as the production and technical side goes, could they really have made the films cinemetography any duller?  This film is really no more then a realistic but exaggerated script. "},{"Title":"Consumption of drugs, explicit violence and AIDS,Kids is an important discussion, but a terrible film...","Date":"3 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  In 1995, film director Larry Clark filmed one of the most polemics film of the modern cinema. The film was commented, for the specialized critic, as an alert about the violence and the drugs in the adolescence, but Kids is a cinematography's work that surpasses that qualification, and it could be defined as an interesting study about the cruelty and the degradation, a film that shows the world of the drugs and the violence, and about the people who are sucked into that whirl and that sometimes pay with their own lives.Kids is not a pleasant show but yes a frenzied, difficult and depressing film, that becomes more and more distressing with the uncoiling of the story, when showing one day of the two adolescents' routine, Telly and Casper. Telly has as the goal of his life to use drugs and to have sex with young and virgin girls, without knowing that he is infected with the AIDS virus and therefore,he is contaminating the innocent girls who trust him and make love with him without condom . Dirty and poor sceneries, weighed consumption of drugs, sex, all this is shown with fidelity and realism by Larry Clark's lenses without concessions. While an alert,Kids reaches it's aim, but it is weak, bad, unpleasant and incomplete as film. A movie needs to present fundamental elements, such as a balanced and interesting story, a technical quality (as sound, picture) that has a level above the average and an efficient plot, that has a beginning. Kids fails in almost all the previous inquiries. Almost because Larry Clark's direction needs to be applauded by its courage, but the sound of the film, its picture and most of the performances are terrible. Perhaps, more interesting than showing adolescents addicting with drugs and killing each other (and this is a point that  Kids portrays with absolute fidelity, in documental style) it would be trying to find solutions for such problems, through the love of the family. But Kids ends up being victim of its own aim, because instead of discussing the violence, it ends in some moments idolizing it. Kids isn't rated,as long as boys under 18 are with their parents, and it runs 91 minutes. "},{"Title":"A shockingly real depiction of teenage life in the big city.","Date":"1 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Kids is one the the best real life movies I have ever seen. It's a day in the life of a small group of teenagers in New York City. It is so real, so shocking, that you can't help feel the emotional impact that was intended. Even though the actors are inexperienced you would never know. The plot is very real, the acting is stunning, and the cinematography is superb. This movie should be required viewing for every parent and politician.  "},{"Title":"A day in the lives of teens in NYC in the 90's","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Kids is a brutally honest movie. It is funny, scary, violent, sad, and sexy movie, but brutally honest above all. It follows through the course of a day of some city kids. It shows with unflinching reality, how they hang out, do drugs, talk, walk, act, have sex, buy drugs, fight, live, and die. The director does squeeze a bit much into a single day but that's so the viewer gets the idea. The cast of amateurs adds to the  documentary feel of this. An excellent soundtrack is good but somewhat off center of the movie's brutality. I love the scene of the kid being beaten to death with skateboards. No movie can ever accurately capture teens. For two reasons. One, most young directors are in their late twenties and early thirties therefore they have no knowledge on what modern teenagerhood is like. Two, teenagers are very very diverse. They all go to extreme ends of social groups and so there is no average teenager. Plus different areas produce different groups. City kids are completely different then near suburban kids, who in turn are even more different then high class suburban kids, and I don't even know what rural kids are like. However despite the fact that it is impossible to make an accurate movie about teens, this one comes close. It has fine writing that doesn't even seem like it was written. And good urban area cinematography. "},{"Title":"Virgin Surgeon?","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I really disliked this movie. I was not offended by it, as some of the previous commenters were, but I still cannot recommend it to anyone. I found the dialogue to be horribly trite, and the one good performance was by Chloe Sevighy. It is also more boring than realistic-I could find the same kind of people if I drove to Philly or NYC. So, if you liked this, then I'm happy for you. I just can't say the same. "},{"Title":"Disgusting? Yes, but GREAT.","Date":"19 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A very gritty film about disturbing subject matter, and no happy ending. Of course some people are going to hate this movie. If everyone loved it it would be The Parent Trap, or She's All That. No Jennifer Love Hewitt here... this is the real thing. Kids like this DO exist, some kids DO talk this way, some guys DO roam around all day trying to get laid, and succeeding. The people who say they have never known kids like this are lucky; but please do not say they don't exist! Movies about unlikeable people always frost someone's butt... but hey, every movie can't be squeaky clean and sober. This film is great for so many reasons... the writing and acting are topnotch. See it, unless you afraid of reality. Then rent yourself a Disney film. "},{"Title":"disturbing","Date":"30 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I only recently saw this movie, I've been avoiding it because from what I had heard it's subject matter dealt with issues that cut deep in my life and seemed too personal for me to want to see it. For the people that say this film is exploitation, it is not. It's a one-sided movie to be sure, but its depiction of teenage drug use and promiscuity is so disturbingly honest that I had to stop watching several times. By sixteen I'd lost two of my friends from stds and my best friend died just last year at a rave from morphine pills and xanax. I'm not drawing sympathy but would like to say one thing, this is a movie that MUST be seen. The sooner people realize the enormity of this problem among today's teens, the better the chances are these kids can be helped. Thanks for your time. "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece","Date":"21 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  One of the greatest films ever made. It tells the truth, stays real, stuff like that. It's all about what kids really do. It's so realistic that it's almost as if a camera crew followed a bunch of kids around for a day and just filmed whatever they did. I recommend this movie to everybody.  "}{"Title":"honest filmmaking..","Date":"3 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is one of the most honest pieces of film in years. Larry Clark and Harmony Korine have created a work of art.Disturbing and painfully graphic KIDS is 24 hours in the life of the worst inner-city children around. The dialogue is so good I couldn't tell if this was a documentary or an actual scripted film. A message to all the naive, sheltered, children out there; people like this do exist. Unfortunately, I have known kids that could have walked straight into this film. This sub-culture does exist and this movie is the wake-up call.four stars out of four "},{"Title":"it's not all bad","Date":"2 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The movie KIDS is not completely accurate of all kids in our generation, but does show how some groups are.  For instance I know a few people that all they think about is drugs and sex. The places in my town don't like the movie because of content so they made it that you have to be 18 to rent the movie. I got a chance to see it before they did that and I thought that the movie was totally truthful of that particular group of kids. Different people speak using different slang words. People in different groups tend to use the same common slang terms and words but in a particular group you will notice that they use words only the people in the group understand. Also people in groups act the same ecause they have the same ideas and all that. People sometimes judge this movie too harshly and when I asked a friend of mine what they thought they said they hated it and they made up an excuse so I went as far as to ask if it scared them and I found out they couldn't face the truth. It's a harsh view on reality but it really is like that somewhere. I think the movie is very good and they did a good job with what they had and they made it very believable.  "},{"Title":"Powerful, shocking, brilliant!","Date":"22 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The verdict is certainly divided on Larry Clark's Kids.  You either love it or hate it.  The sign of pure genius, I think!  This is a powerful, sometimes shocking look at the lives of some spoiled children.  Not a statement on America's youth as a whole, but rather a group of NYC pre-teen/teenaged kids who hang out, get high, and screw.  What did most of us do when we were teenagers?  Clark is going to an extreme here, but we can not say that there aren't kids that live like this in the world. As far as crictism of the dialogue; most teenagers really DO talk like that when you're not listening. On crictism of one-sided characters; Casper is the dopest ghost you know, who also gives what little cash he has to the man with no legs, or his stolen peach to a lonely little girl. Casper is a bit more complex than we would like to think. I could go on, just rent it. "},{"Title":"A FILM FOR GENERATION X","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  As a teen myself, I can honestly say that this film is genuinely realistic. And yes, kids like this really exist. It's just that in society today, some people ignore what's really going on with teens because they're afraid. A film like this is a-slap-in-the-face to those individuals that feel that way.   "},{"Title":"Decent representation, not totally accurate","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Kids is a horrific film. Watching it, I can't help but become almost physically sick. What's so disgusting about it? Events/occurrences depicted in this film actually happen.Many teens today use drugs, and most teenagers experiment with sex at a young age. Kids shows this, and acts as a wake up call to parents who don't realize it. Kids gives a decent portrayal of the lives of many teenagers today.But it falls short in the sense that all it shows is how bad kids can be. It doesn't show that there are many kids today that are staying away from drugs and not being promiscuous. I'm 17 years old, have never used drugs or alcohol, and do not sleep around. Kids gives a bad name to my generation and lays a stereotype on many teenagers - one that I, and many people I know, do not fit in.I gave Kids a 7 out of 10. Watch this movie to see what is happening/can happen to many kids out there - but not all of them.  "},{"Title":"WOW...... great but disturbing","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I thought this was a phenomenal movie.  It is simply like stepping into the life of an inner-city youth for 24 hours.  It is almost a documentary.  I really think it can give some parents a little better understanding of their children.  The sex scenes were a little too realistic, and I think that really bothered some of the people watching it with me.  Though it added a lot of realism to the film.  I recommend it for anyone over 16. "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece!","Date":"18 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Kids is one of the best movies to come out in the 1990's. After recommending Kids to people- some thought the movie was a documentary and wondered how the director got all of those shots. That, I believe, is the ultimate compliment. The use of amateurs made the movie even more realistic. The dialogue (written by a teenager) is fantastic! You can believe that the things that happen in this movie go on every day in small towns and in big cites throughout the US. Many find this movie disturbing and upsetting. Others find it cool and refreshing. Either way, everyone will have a strong reaction to Kids.  "},{"Title":"Ugh","Date":"15 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is disgusting. And yeah, it's a 'realistic' portrait of today's youth,  and i'm not one to turn from reality,  and i'm by no means a prude, but i just don't want to see 13 year olds having sex. It really is gross. The film succeeded in delivering a haunting and disturbing view of the life of kids today,  but the sex seemed (even though i know it was somewhat vital to the plot,  but did they really have to show it??) more of a shock-value device,  rather than being used for an accurate depiction of youth. "},{"Title":"Kids is definitely not intended for kids, but serves as a wake-up call to teenagers and adults all over America.","Date":"31 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Intense, powerful, gripping the three words that best describe Kids, a controversial yet realistic look at what teenage life has come to in modern-day American society. In roughly an hour and a half, we see young teenage girls lose their virginity, young teenage boys engaging is huge doses of drugs and alcohol <one character drinks three 40 oz. bottles in one day>, and we see plenty more. Is it necessary? The real question should be is it real? And yes, it is. Which is why, in my opinion, I feel every teenager in school over the age of 16 should view this movie. The film soars in its realism and dialogue, two things that have eroded films in recent decades. It fails a bit in showing what all the consequences are, but then again the movie only spans 24 hours and not several weeks. Sure, not every teenager is like this, but a vast majority are, and that is what makes the film almost genius and masterpiece. It captures the dialogue and the actions of a modern teen better than any other movie has or ever will. Aside from all the controversy, all the negativity, and the unrated billing, Kids is intelligent and thought-provoking, and a definite wake-up call to families and teenagers all over the country. "},{"Title":"It was a true pictorial of the life of a lot of KIDS.","Date":"30 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I believe that this movie is a true picture of a lot of teens life in this modern day. It's rough out there and all some kids know is to get drunk, stoned, and have a whole lot of sex. It is too bad that in this society today we cannot provide more things for kids to do. "}{"Title":"a masterpiece","Date":"26 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  this movie is indeed a brilliant detailing of realistic issues. negative reviews of this movie are just afraid of the truth.  not only does this movie realistically portray some gripping issues, it leaves the audience to make the moral judgements without forcing any. the lack of adultsthroughout is also enjoyable. "},{"Title":"odd, yet interesting","Date":"7 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I stumbled upon this movie quite by accident, but was intrigued by it from the beginning.  At first, I thought this had to be some kind of joke...my roommate and I were talking about how we'd like to kill Telly, because he was such a moron.  I still would like to kill him, but I digress.  Anyways, as the movie went on, I began to realize the depth of the moral of this movie.  I truly felt sad for Girl #1 (that's her name???), because that's always the way it seems to happen, isn't it?  The only wholly unrealistic point was at the beginning when Casper and Telly apparently downed two 40's consecutively, yet did not appear the slightest bit drunk.  what's up with that??? An interesting, if odd and disturbing movie, I would give it 4 outta 5 stars. "},{"Title":"piece of crap.","Date":"3 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  bad acting, bad storyline, overrated dialog and not shocking at all. I bought this movie much against the advice of my friends and regret it greatly. I was expecting a shocking, realistic masterpiece, and received this messy, badly filmed piece of crap. I rate it 5/10. "},{"Title":"Exploitation made for the sake of shock value, and it misses on that point.","Date":"29 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Don't let the snotty film school elite or your local suburban film critics tell you that this is a shocking portrayal of teenage life  or better still, accurate.  The movie is extreme in all aspects and takes the worst case scenario in any urban environment.  For all the viewers saying that this stuff happens every day, when was the last time you saw a gang of kids beat a guy in broad daylight in the middle of a park?Korine likes to take extreme behavior and exploit it in front of a camera. Just watch his other movie, Gummo, and you'll understand that...As for the brilliant dialog, that whole mumbled speech to the convenience store owner while his buddy slips 40's down his pants was far from brilliant dialog.  The acting is so bad, that it detracts from the reality of the movie.Rent something else. "},{"Title":"shocking reality","Date":"28 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Wow, what an eye opener.  Kids is a brutally graphic film that is in the style of a documentary.  I heard from others that the movie was graphic, but I didn't quite believe them.  I was shocked, and I'm not shocked by much. The movie follows a group of 14 or 15 year olds as they drink, do drugs, have sex, party, steal, and almost kill a guy.  The language and the portrayal of children having graphic sex is not what is shocking; these children have no self respect, and no respect for others whatsoever.  That's what shocked me.  The film may be too graphic because the teenagers that should watch this film may not get to see it because of its adults only content.Unlike what some others say about Kids, it does have a point and that point needs to be made, especially in these dangerous times. "},{"Title":"wake up america!","Date":"28 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  the most shocking thing about this film is that so many people were shocked by it.  i grew up in suburban houston (not new york city) and the things these kids did (sex, drugs, cussing, etc.) is exactly how we acted.  another thing that is troublesome is the fact that the mpaa wanted to give this a nc-17 rating. why?  there was little sex and almost no nudity, and nobody got their brains blown out. you know in europe, they are more offended by graphic violence than sex. WAKE UP AMERICA!!!!! "},{"Title":"Not entertaining, but enlightening","Date":"12 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" So many scenes in Larry Clark's Kids are immoral and reprehensible that naming them all would eventually birth a list. The film, itself, is a remarkable piece, but the dialog in it is harsh, degrading, yet such a common standard today that it sadly seems like the norm. Filmed and released in 1995, it was certainly ahead of its time, and it's safe to say that things haven't gotten any better for society.Consistent readers will know that I love films with sharp, inviting social commentary on our world. I recently awarded three and a half stars to Bobcat Goldthwait's remarkably sharp film God Bless America, about a man and a young girl taking a loaded gun to things they have a disdain for in the world, such as empty-headed celebrities and hate-spreading political commentators. I awarded the same amount of stars to Falling Down, with Michael Douglas, another brilliantly crafted exercise providing a stern lecture on the arrogance of our world. And now, here is Kids, which comes straight out of left field for me. It is a poignantly made picture chronicling the lives of societal degenerates as they hopelessly wander the streets of New York City, unaccompanied and unprotected from the grittiness that lies ahead.Our protagonist is sixteen year old Telly (Fitzpatrick). The film opens with him kissing a twelve year old girl, and it eventually leads to sex after Telly forces the reluctant youth. He gives her the I care about you spiel, as he desperately wants to be the one to take her virginity. The inevitable happens, and afterwards, he meets his pal Casper (Justin Pierce) outside where he heartlessly discusses, in explicit detail, sex with the youth. Words fly to the viewer like bullets in a shootout, and we see the two casually walk up the city block, where they talk loud, shout obscenities, maybe shoplift a bottle of malt liquor, etc. Casper tells Telly that if he were to die tomorrow, he'd be remembered by the girls whose virginity he took for fifty plus years.Kids follows their footsteps in a day in the life kind of fashion. The two go to a drug-dealer's house, have a few hits off a joint, go to a party, get drunk, force each other to answer uncomfortable questions, etc, all in a parent-less, soulless environment. The subplot involves a group of girls, where the film decides to focus on two of them. One of them is HIV negative Ruby (Rosario Dawson in a stunningly offbeat role), who has had sex eight times. The other is HIV positive Jenny (Chloë Sevigny); she had sex once, with Telly. Jenny is sickened with anger and sadness, and drearily plods her way through the day at nightclubs and contemplates what will come of her future with this mishap.The film paints a tragic portrait of American youth. What's worse is the ignorance from parents. Telly stops quickly at his decrepit apartment to steal cash from his mother, kick his cat, and continue to take advantage of his life in a relentless fashion. What spawned such shocking behavior? Most likely years of careless parenting and neglect. His parents, we only see his mother, are hopelessly ignorant towards the fact their son is the degenerate from hell, having sex with young girls for temporary gratification. They ask no questions, possibly because they fear such answers. A shallow, yet common, example of parenting.What a remarkably sad picture this is. What an extremely well written one it is as well. Coming from someone still in school, a lot of it has been heard from me, yet thankfully not endured. It was penned by Harmony Korine, who also made a film I vow to never see. If the film proves anything, it proves that kids need to be taught to formulate an understanding of vital things such as art, philosophy, politics, and film itself. They need to be shown such mediums in order for sustainable growth to occur. My grandmother brought up a point about the vastly growing unemployment rate in America recently, and I think it's one that fits perfectly with this film; how do you expect to have a thriving country when you have louses inhabiting it? Starring Leo Fitzpatrick, Justin Pierce, Chloë Sevigny, and Rosario Dawson. Directed by Larry Clark. "},{"Title":"...","Date":"11 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie should come in its little DVD shrink wrap with a pistol so you can shoot yourself after you finish it. Most. Depressing. Movie. Ever.The movie starts with a more-than-probable contraction of HIV between (surprisingly enough) a couple of kids. It ends with the carrier's best friend contracting it from one of his buddy's former conquests. Sparing you the gory details, it's just a big ol' ball of HIV, wrapped up together.Does the movie show a very likely scenario? Sure, and even does a good job at it. But an after school special this is not. Certainly not for young audiences, and don't expect any glimmer of hope in the entire film. Just imagine a drama where EVERY character dies.Look, this movie does a very realistic job of showing the dangers of unprotected sex with many partners. Perhaps if you can find inspiration from the scare 'em straight style, this movie is watchable. Personally, it's far too depressing to bear. "},{"Title":"Gritty is not the word.","Date":"24 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" As an English man born in the 1960s (when mods and rockers were fighting on Brighton beach, I have to ask myself if this film shocks me. It doesn't (although the amount of early teenage nudity was too much. An equally strong message could have been put across with far more subtlety in that area) because thinking back to when I was a 16-17 year old art student, apart from kicking 7 tonnes of sh*t out of an innocent bystander and deflowering pre-pubescent virgins (virgins yes, but 16-18 year old ones in my case), there wasn't a lot of that film that I didn't do myself. Soft drugs, under-age drinking, even shoplifting will figure in the lives of most young people. It certainly did in mine (not so much the shoplifting, I have to say) until I caught myself on and joined the Air Force. So when you consider that this film is about kids growing up in one of the most notoriously violent cities in the world, after an hour of watching it, I was shocked (although far from disappointed) that I hadn't seen one single firearm being pulled.However, the documentary-style filming of these fallen characters does lend a certain grittiness to one's viewing experience, in that the style of acting and nature of dialogue is far more candid in its realism than your average film. I even had some sympathy for the Casper character after he gave the little girl some fruit and donated some money to a paraplegic beggar on the train. That was of course until he instigated a vicious multi-assault on a member of the general public. I sort of lost him at that point.It seems ridiculous that many reviewers have accused the film-makers here, of being exploitative. To whom, may I ask? Certainly not the actors. I believe that this film was a major platform for one Chloe Sevigny (now, a highly successful actor, model and fashion designer) and kick started her career, as it did for one or two of the other kids.I've yet to see the last half hour of this movie, but I will shortly. So far, I've been very impressed by all concerned, especially the young actors. And I would quite happily have given it 10 if they would have eased up on the child nudity a bit. "},{"Title":"Boring, Uninspired, and Stereotypical Realism","Date":"1 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Realism has become increasingly popular over the years. Kids is definitely part of the reason why this has happened. This movie, which was filmed for about $1.5 million, ended up being bought at the Sundance Film Festival for twice the budget, and grossed even more in theaters. To say that Kids is not an important piece of film history would be wrong, but then again, importance is not everything. Kids is not artistic in the slightest and incredibly boring. Larry Clark, the director of the movie, wants the movie to be so disturbing, that it just ends up failing because the viewer can see that he's trying too hard. The film's script, written by (at the time) eighteen year old Harmony Kormine, is a real treat, however there's not much else great about the movie other than that.Kids follows three teenagers in New York City during one average day over the summer. Telly, played by Leo Fitzpatrick, and his buddy Casper, played by Justin Pierce, travel around the city as Telly looks for virgins to have sex with. In Telly's alcohol soaked and drug addled mind, having sex with virgins is the way to prevent HIV. The irony of all this is that Telly already has HIV, but does not know it yet. Jennie, played by Chloe Sevigny (who is now famous for performing a fellatio on Vincent Gallo in The Brown Bunny) in a debut performance, attempts to find Telly to tell him that she has become HIV positive as a result of having sex with him. All three characters' lives intersect over the course of one regular day as a result of their unfortunate situations. Rosario Dawson also can be seen in her first acting role as one of Jennie's friends.Kormine's script is the one thing that saves Kids from being totally bad. The script is well written that the dialogue often becomes confused with improvisation. It sounds unlikely, but there was no improvisation done for this movie. The script rolls out of the actors' mouths as if it was an everyday conversation between two long term friends. Though the dialogue can become a bit hard to decipher with so many uses of the f-word and thick accents, the script is the only thing that appears to be real in this movie. Some of the authenticity of the script can be attributed to the actors' skill, but most of it can be derived from Kormine's wonderful writing.Kids suffers primarily for the fact that it does not come even close to being realistic. Although there are probably many people who fall into situations close to Telly and Jenny's, most do not. Many people are raised in whitebread suburban America where there is nothing like this, yet there are still never ending amounts of teenage corruption. The teens (or should I say kids?) in Kids are ruthless and amoral which thus forces no emotions out of a viewer. Suburban teens have everything they could possibly want yet work themselves into terrible situations involving drugs and alcohol. This creates hatred, rather than sympathy, something Kids should have tried to harder to instill in the viewer. Larry Clark's direction also feels a bit boring. Drab hand held camera movements do not make for a gritty storyline. The acting is mediocre from the male performances, however it is not really all that hard to see why Chloe Sevigny and Rosario Dawson became famous for this movie.Recent realist films have definitely borrowed a lot from Kids. Requiem for a Dream and Thirteen use similar themes and styles to make their points. But it is a good thing that directors have moved past the boredom that Kids creates. There are very few scripts as good as Karmine's from this movie, but many other films about similar topics have made many improvements. Directors have now learned that it is, in fact, a good thing to create a sense of hatred towards a movie's characters rather than begging for sympathy. Primarily held up by a strong script, Kids never manages to make a connection with its viewer and therefore suffers. "}{"Title":"Reassessing KIDS, 14 years later","Date":"8 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In 1995, Larry Clark's directorial debut quickly became one of the most controversial films of all time. The acclaimed photographer asked 18 year-old Harmony Korine to write a script about 24 hours in the lives of suburban NY kids whose routine consists of risky, promiscuous sex, and random acts of violence/petty crimes.I watched KIDS for the first time in 2000, when I was 12; and I just rewatched it now, at 21. Naturally, the way I view it now is different than how I did back then. It didn't have the power to shock me even back then - thanks, mostly, to the fact that I really didn't fully understand half of what they were talking about - I was, indeed, an innocent kid myself. I knew these kids were having random sex and couldn't care less, but I had seen plenty of that on TV, and even a few people in my public school in Brazil, acting similarly. Although it still doesn't shock me, now I can, more than ever, understand why this movie was so controversial and yes, important, to the way modern youth is now presented on the silver screen.Kids was filmed in a docudrama style with hand-held camera and conversations that seem largely improvised - and very real (Korine, though, affirms that his script was followed closely). The premise, very simple when you look back (trying to forget the similar movies made since then), had never been fully explored in such a raw way before - hence the impact this movie made. Christine Vachon and Gus Van Sant produced it, and Van Sant himself has always been visibly interested in youth sagas (from his earlier and better work in Drugstore Cowboy and My Own Private Idaho, to his recent, more experimental work in Elephant and Paranoid Park, which curiously seem to be heavily influenced by KIDS).As to the plot itself Jennie (Chloe Sevigny, who's been one of my favourite actresses since) is 16, and recently lost her virginity to Telly (Leo Fitzpatrick). She hasn't been with anyone else since, and along with her promiscuous friend Ruby (a 15 year-old Rosario Dawson), she decides to get a blood test. Ruby is clean. Jennie finds out she has AIDS.Jennie will spend the rest of the day trying to find Telly, but when she finally does find him at the end of a party night, it is too late he's devirginating a 13 year-old, transmitting her the disease. Jennie falls asleep on the couch, and the next morning, Telly's best friend, Casper (Justin Pierce) rapes her, getting the virus himself.And that's it. In 91 minutes, we see an account of an apparently ordinary day in the lives of kids you see on the streets every day. Among the countless KIDS imitations, Catherine Hardwicke's Thirteen (2003) is probably the most successful - less sensationalistic, a little clichéd, but made strong by a solid cast (Evan Rachel Wood, Nikki Reed and Holly Hunter).In spite of Clark's sometimes visible attempt to shock for shock's sake, there's a palpable honesty behind this piece of cinema. Larry Clark has become a victim of his obsession to shock by subsequently making a bunch of forgettable, similarly-themed movies (including the atrocious Ken Park, which at moments makes Kids look like Capra). Harmony Korine has become some sort of cult director with a few interesting projects (and misfires, too). Out of the cast, only Chloe Sevigny (who'd get an Oscar nod for Boys Don't Cry in 1999 and had a career blunder with the infamous oral sex scene in Vincent Gallo's The Brown Bunny in 2003), Rosario Dawson and, to a lesser extent, Jon Abrahams (Meet the Parents, Prime) went on to have careers (Justin Pierce, who won an Independent Spirit Award for Best Debut Performance for this, killed himself in 2000). Leo Fitzpatrick has had parts in a Todd Solondz and Hal Hartley here and there.In the end, KIDS deserved to be as talked about, and 14 years later, it remains strong; especially because, unfortunately, things haven't changed much since (for the better, that is). Perhaps it didn't shock the 12 year-old back in 2000 because I was already growing up in a world where kids hear or learn about the things these kids do here from the cradle. The fact that my generation is more callous, even cynical, toward the tragedy of such, say, lifestyle, shouldn't mean KIDS isn't strong enough. Just by making people reflect on an ugly reality out there, if not realizing it for the first time; it already accomplishes more than most movies out there do. There is definitely honesty in the rawness of these KIDS - a dangerously nihilistic, if not suicidal, approach to life. A sad, impossible to ignore sign of our times; and perhaps Janet Maslin wasn't exaggerating when she said this movie was a wake up call to the world.My rating 7.5/10. "},{"Title":"truly thought provoking","Date":"11 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" this is not one movie from which one can expect a good time rather this is one of those movies which will eat you away for the next few days..the movie is outright SHOCKING to say the least..the desperation in the characters crosses all boundaries..the boundary of 'that you can't do that,this is the limit' is mercilessly broken in this movie....it will provoke a strong thought provoking process culminating in your thinking that the teenage life sucks..and thats exactly what Larry Clark wanted...it also made me wonder whether these things really happens in real in the western countries because i have never been there...it would therefore be wrong for me to comment whether this movie is the correct portrayal of the American teenagers.. there are a few scenes in this movie which i think deserves special mention for its immense shocking value..the nudity shown in this movie is nothing compared as the nudity shown in Larry Clark's later works namely 'ken park'..but as a whole i think it is much more shocking..the guys do drugs until they are almost dead..they rape 13 year old girls..the ogle at the breasts of their friends mother in front of their friend and also comment on it...the main protagonist knowingly spreads AIDS by luring young virgin girls to have sexual intercourse with him,they mercilessly beat up a black guy due to some very minor reason,and never bother to feel bad later,they make fun of the Asian man in the shop...and one cannot miss that the protagonists also has a very humane side to them..they give alms to the poor and also take time to see a performance at the station...this indicates that they would have turned out to be perfectly fine if they were under proper guidance and love.. altogether they lead a lifestyle which many teenagers may idolize to lead,but at the same time as many teenagers will try their best not to become like them.....this is exactly the reason why i liked this movie and gave a 10/10 rating...it will provoke some thinking or the other ..you just can't ignore it ...any movie which has this capability can be considered great.. "},{"Title":"Thoughts on Kids","Date":"7 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The only sure-shot bang here is Justin Pierce's performance as Casper. The story doesn't center on him, but his sharp acting grabbed my attention and won all my merit. Meanwhile,though, I felt my gut twist as I watched a girl chase down the boy who took her virginity (and in turn gave her HIV) through New York City.In your face displays always catch attention. But when it shoves itself too hard, it may blind the audience its trying to appeal to. KIDS is too far over the boundary to hold itself steady. I'm reeling back not so much because of it's message, but rather at how disgustingly brute its physically portrayed; a side of me realizes the theme, while the other wonders how the director got away with child porn.I'll give it an extra 0.5 for Pierce's work.3 of 5 - Decent. "},{"Title":"A Full-Blown Disaster Of Vanity","Date":"12 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Before becoming a somewhat prominent figure in modern cinema's art-house scene, Larry Clark was a successful photographer. Clark was well into his '50s when his directional debut Kids hit cinemas in 1995. Controversial on release and still the same today, this tale of immoral, NYC teenagers garnered mixed acclaim and caused widespread uproar, with its taboo-breaking material and questionable intent. Some critics claimed the film was a product of the time, citing it as an accurate illustration of today's youth, while others sensed that the film's content was close to paedophilic. This is a topic open to debate, but one thing is for certain, I have now seen the film twice and am assured that it speaks nothing but irrelevant generalisations of today's troubled youth. Revolving around a group of sexually promiscuous teenagers, Kids mostly centres itself around the intrepid lifestyle of HIV-infected skater, Telly. His aphorism is that along as he only has sex with virgins he will not become victim to sexual infection. Unfortunately, this fairytale is not the case and one of his former playmates soon learns she has the HIV virus, thus she attempts to track down Telly (the only person she has had sex with) in the hope that she can stop him having sex with any other virgins before it is too late. I am being sincere when I say that this is about as far as the narrative goes, with the exception of additional, o-so-shocking scenes of teenagers taking drugs, fighting, stealing and causing general mischief. The film simply spans the course of an ever-spreading and endless cycle.There is a distinct and unfeasible curiosity found in Clark's appetite to convey as much young flesh as is legally possible. I find it quite unnerving as to how the performers seemed so care-free in their willingness to lay bare, to such an extent and at such a young age, for a 50-year-old man with a movie camera. Yet is there any worth to such a monotonous and self-indulgent work? It makes one ask if there is really any objective to viewing a film which so actively seeks attention, and what have I actually learnt from this supposedly educational drama? Kids is not an insightful work for those reasons alone, but also because we have long before acknowledged what is being shown. Clark seems to wallow in the notion that most people have never heard of sexually-infected teenagers or encountered teenage drug-abusers, and that he is the all-knowing eye &#150;as an adult who is down with the street kids- to all teenage escapades.According to a documentary I once saw, Larry Clark spent a lot of time with inner-city, teenage skaters; this was an attempt to research the lifestyle he wanted to show the world via the silver-screen. Many of the teenagers he met while doing this were cast in the film, therefore subjecting these people he supposedly respected to stereotypical showcase. In my opinion, this makes Clark's message lose all purpose, as informed as he might be and ultimately defines exploitation in the name of art. Some of acting might be vaguely commendable (from the likes of Leo Fitzpatrick's chilling performance), but Harmony Korine's swear-and-spit screenplay makes a bunch of teenagers seem like wannabes. It does not define a norm of the period, but instead enables characters to spew ridiculously repugnant dialogue formed of errs and ahs. His aimless, teenage caricatures are nothing more than a depiction of a selected individuals and it is the film's sweeping generalisations which infuriate me to no-end. How can characters that seem to have no concern of any consequences be convincing? For me, this leads to a detachment and eventual helplessness to lose complete care in the consequences these faceless drones are tackling. The fact that there is not even a glimmer of hope penetrating the coagulated surface muffles all honesty. With only one character (the girl who is infected by Telly) seeming even so much as remotely mature, everyone is made out to be the bad guy and even this female character becomes stilted because of some peculiar drug she reluctantly swallows.Throughout the film the viewer is bombarded with an array of apocalyptic assumptions. If that is not all, it seems that Clark indulges himself in the lives of these degenerates, glossing over as many touchy and pity them topics as is humanely possible in a ninety-minute project. The message behind Kids is an overcooked and simplistic one; today's youth are evil and need to be tamed. You see, as a director Clark films, but fails to speak; denouncing nothing of society and culture, let alone of kids. Larry Clark truly is a born educator on the utmost degree of nihilistic incapability, and has obtained a longing knack for gross-out reactions. "},{"Title":"Bankrupt culture.","Date":"13 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" 'Kids' is an okay film. Sometimes people think that because it has a pretty controversial topic and unorthodox style of representation that this in some way makes it original and therefore great. But I have to point out that the; direction is average ( raw one moment / standard Hollywood the next and neither done in any particularly eye catching form) there doesn't seem to be any kind of story here, apart from the AIDS message and focus is often lost on that.The subplot (to the non-existent main plot) has something powerful to say. But it is not maintained by much outside of the Taxi driver's decent speech on life and Sevigny's character occasionally asking Has anyone seen Telly?.Harmony Korine has in many ways got away with murder in getting this film funded/ directed by an experienced photographer in Clark and distributed by Mira-Max (operating under an independent name so as not to incur the wrath of they're pay masters Disney) in the screenplays current form. I mean it could have done with about 3 or 4 rewrites in order to hone it's focus and clarify it's message.I've also got to criticise some of the performances. Sevigny looks out of her depth in this. Kind of numb and uninteresting throughout the whole film. Its very difficult to distinguish between her sober and stoned. And its almost impossible to feel sympathy for her such is the unconvincing level of her performance when she is upset. Leo Fitzgerald also seems inadequate as Telly. There is some good non-dialogue scenes from him but when he opens his mouth he just sounds plain stupid. I found it hard to believe that an uneducated ignoramus with the appearance of a junkie could be Manhattan's under 16s ladies man.However a lot of the younger kids at the party scene near the end are very impressive. They're dialogue is very well scripted and executed. And Justin Pearce looked like a star in the making. I thought he was brilliant and towered above the other lead roles of Sevigny and Fitzpatrick who were just plain poor. Sad to hear that at the age of only 25 , Justin Pearce took his own life. He definitely could have gone on to bigger things.Anyway 'Kids' did have it's heart in the right place but it's execution was disappointing and it looked like a rushed job to me. Some better casting, direction and scripting/story development could've made this a powerful picture. But I guess thats the case with most average to bad films.I think its interesting how America was so disgusted by this kind of gritty, harsh realism. I also think its slightly amusing how some of the American commentators think that gives it some kind of shocking originality. Believe me there are many European films ie- 'Prisoner of the Mountain' (Russia), 'La Hain'( France), 'Small Faces', 'Trainspotting', 'A Sense of Freedom'(Scotland), 'Made in Britain', 'The War Zone', 'Scum' and'The Firm'(England) which are all at the very least equal if not way ahead in portraying depressing and graphic realities. If you really liked 'Kids' I'd encourage you to check out British actor Gary Oldman's film 'Nil By Mouth'(2000) which makes this look like a tea party. "},{"Title":"Kids would be provocative viewing for the age group depicted here","Date":"17 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When I watched the beginning of this movie with Telly (Leo Fitzpatrick) deflowering a young girl who we found out later is one of many virgins he has used since they are clean, I can now understand why many parents who were members of the MPAA at the time would want to rate this NC-17. Not that I'd actually support their stance since I would still want any adult with teenagers to have the option of taking them to or renting for their viewing this disturbing depiction of city kids having sex and male and female teens talking about it openly segregated by gender, but it's understandable for any adult who doesn't want his or her kid exposed to such depravity among the young. During the 24 or so hours that the film takes place, another girl Telly had sex with the year before, Jennie (Chloe Sevigny), tries to find him to tell him she is HIV positive. Meanwhile, Telly and Casper (Justin Pierce) steal Telly's mom's money, help some friends beat an angry black teen, buy and smoke some weed, and go to a party at a friends' house where Telly brings his next conquest. During this time, Jennie rides a taxi whose driver tells her to stay happy since life's too short bringing an ironic point that lasts throughout the picture. Also appearing is Rosario Dawson who plays Jennie's friend Ruby who tested negative at the same clinic building as her friend. Many parents may not want their growing children to be exposed to such a provocative view of teen life, but if teens do watch Kids, they may think before doing many of the things depicted here... "},{"Title":"A fine depiction of youth in America during the 90's...","Date":"25 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" As a kid who lived...for one, in America and not Scotland much unlike the other guy here who everyone seems to think is a damn film genius...and two, was an adolescent during the 90's, I know that this is a rings-true cultural landmark for the film maker. And as much as it seems the movie was put together purely for shock value, it scared the s**t out of all of us as kids. It was like holding a mirror up to our faces and saying look, you guys are out of control. This s**t is ridiculous... This movie is a classic for people who were once the delinquent youth of 90's American urban subcultures. Not to mention the soundtrack is genius. If you want to criticize one of this guy's movies it should be Gummo...while that movie has some outrageous s**t in it...most of it doesn't make any sense really at all...and it's really only meant to be watched while you're stoned. But not KIDS, leave kids alone. Thanks, Hunter "},{"Title":"Hits very close to home!","Date":"18 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I would like to address the people that called the movie disgusting and disturbing. I guess if you didn't grow up in these kind of urban environments,it could be. Me growing up in NYC can't agree. A lot of things in the movie were very familiar to me. I was 17 when the movie came out,and 27 now. Besides the situations and dialogue portrayed, even some of the places were familiar to me. Washington square Park for one, and the club Area(a.k.a.Vinyl) was a regular afterhours hangout for me until it closed last April.The club they used in the movie was actually the Tunnel,cause Area wouldn't let cameras in.I even still see the black kid Harold from time to time,still chillin'. Bottom line is I was in some ways like this,I know people that were or still like that, and this movie is straight up reality.The people that said the movie was disgusting are probably the same people that used to frown or stare when me and my friends used to have these conversations. GET IT TOGETHER. KIDS IS REAL. "},{"Title":"The Kids are not all right.","Date":"12 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Kids are actually having unprotected sex and spreading VD? Give me minute to recover from this earth shattering news. oh, wait, they have always been doing that. We just ignored it. I remember now. Well, it is a good thing Larry Clark told those seven people in Oklohoma who didn't know. If there is one thing that really disturbed me about this movie, it was the rape scene at the end. It was filmed in such a quiet, restrained fashion that it was almost erotic. There was no fighting or screaming. It was not like the earlier scenes of rough consensual sex either, which were also disturbing. What disturbed me was I wasn't sure if the scene was intentionally disturbing. Did Clark simply make the scene erotic to make it more powerfully sickening? I think so. The sad thing is whenever I hear people I know talking about this movie, they talk about how hot this scene is. Maybe, I need better acquaintances. I found the movie boring mostly as it featured another typical Leo Fitzpatrick performance. It is important for the above mentioned scene's power and for a good performance by Chloe Sevigny. I don't see how parents, role models, can not be partially blamed for the actions of kids. Even though those talk to your children ads are manipulative, the message is still a good one. I hope that is what Larry Clark intended with this movie. So, parents talk to your kids. "},{"Title":"Just watch it","Date":"8 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I'm not going to commit on the movie in whole, if you want to know what it's about then read any one of the other reviews. All I can say is watch it, this type of stuff does happen and if your into beat downs the slaughter that happens in the park when some poor guy finds out the number reason why not to talk smack to a group of teens holding skates in their hands, *although unbelievable* is one of the best that I have ever seen.Just watch it, it will have you thinking when it's over.*(come on, you got about 7 trash talking aggressive skaters each with big pieces of wood with metal trucks on each end, does trying to act like a bad ass sound like a good idea to you?)  "}{"Title":"The most shocking film i have ever seen!","Date":"6 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I couldn't say that I liked this film, to me it isn't a film that one could enjoy, but rather tolerate, for the sake of art i suppose. Its content is so shocking i felt awkward throughout the entire film. I first watched the opening scene and then switched off because I was so repulsed that I couldn't watch anymore. However months later I decided to watch- from start to finish. I admit there is more to it once you look beyond the sex, violence, drugs etc, however whether the need for these scenes to be so graphic might not have been necessary to the plot. The opening scene, where we see two 'kid' having sex was really shocking. The way the camera was so close to the actors- virtually invading their personal space, made me feel very uncomfortable. It was also quite apparent that they were really kids. Also the behavior of Telly not listening to her as she calls to him in pain and how he behaves after he leaves her house. He calls himself a 'virgin surgeon', making his sexual acts more of a biological operation than an act of emotion. The fact most of 'kids' is shot in a fly-on-the-wall documentary style following the lives of teens today for 24hours. It makes the content more shocking, it feels as though we are watching 'real life' which is a disturbing thought. The representation of gender is also shocking, women are subordinated; they are either the mother or the whore. The female corpse is fetishized into 'tits bums and c**ts' It is the woman who is the victim of the story (Jennie) contracting AIDS on her first sexual experience.Blacks are also represented in a negative light. The stereotype of the hyper sexualized black man is exploited here and the only roles black characters play is as victims or the violent and crude. When reading about the life of Larry Clark, it is quite clear to see where he found his inspiration- his own life. The behavior of the kids in the film is similar to the way he himself behaved as a teenager.Another possible inspiration is the story of 'Dracula'. Where Telly is Dracula, Jennie is both the victim and the Dracula killer. He hunts down his victims- usually virgins and moves on. Sex is closely associated with death in this film, and to have to deal with this at such a young age seems shocking in itself. Kids has been compared to 'Clueless' in its content- there is a scene in 'Clueless' where Cher is at a party and walks over people that have passed out, she smokes pot, and aims to lose her virginity. This is essentially the same content- however the way in which Kids i filmed makes it so much more shocking, also the language is completely different. Clueless is classed as a 12 rated comedy however Kids is not rated at all. Overall this film is very shocking- from start to finish, both in its content and its cinematography. It touches base on all taboos that most filmmakers wouldn't dare to explore. It has been greatly criticized especially by feminists who regard this as 'insulting' however others have classed it as an 'instant classic' for me it is both really.  "},{"Title":"can you say overrated","Date":"29 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  KIDS is (or was at the time) fresh and somewhat shocking. But it is no masterpiece, is not groundbreaking. good story. The lead character, Telly has HIV and unknowingly spreads it around to his virgin conquests. One girl, Jenny, finds out she has it and spends the movie trying to find Telly. Something shocking happens at the end. This movie is like a short story. There is no closure. Good to watch; one tip, the DVD is a piece of crap! as much hype as this movie had, as much of a stir it created, and they are going to make a crap DVD like this? The only reason to get this DVD is if you watch this movie alot and dont want it to wear out like VHS. Other than that, the sound and overall quality of the DVD is crap. "},{"Title":"In Hollywood, the kid that looks and acts like Gomer Pyle can even get some.","Date":"22 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  First off, I want to say that Kids is a poor movie, at least in my opinion. There are others that think this movie is great, and I am okay with that. I'm not going to debate with them. Everyone has their own opinion. But I do have some dislikes, and the main ones I am going to discuss in this review. Also, I do have some minor spoilers in this review.First off, One of the reviews listed on the box claims that Kids is a wake-up call to the world. I do not agree. A wake up-call I wouldn't have minded. I think the reviewer should have said, A brow-beating from the director AND getting dunked by a bucket of ice water while the world is peacefully sleeping in it's bed. Kids tries to hard. I'm twenty-one, I know these things happen, I don't need to be shown in graphic detail. Besides, I can believe some of these things happening, but a lot of the shock moments seem extremely cliche'. The sex scenes were way too graphic and they seemed to be added for shock value. Plus, the entire plot line of the Telly character bedding all the virgins was ridiculous. The kid is no catch. If he looked like Brad Pitt, I could buy that all these girls were ready and willing to give up their flower for him. BUT THE KID IS HOMELY! Plus, who in their right mind would believe the sh*t that Telly was spreading? I know these were supposed to be innocent girls, But would you be willing to give up your virginity AND have sex without a condom because a guy who looks like Telly says You should do it because I like you a lot, and I'll be gentle, and It'll feel good. And one other comment while I'm at it. After he told you how gentle he was going to be, and then preceded to sleep with you with all the romance of Speedy Gonzales, wouldn't you tell him to stop, or cry for help? I'm sorry, but that whole plot line is ridiculous.I think the main reason why I hated Kids so much was because you don't feel any sympathy for most of the main characters. I felt sympathy for the Jenny role (Chloe Sevigny (Did I spell that right?)). But she lost a little because her character was stupid enough to sleep with Telly. And I felt sympathy for the two virgins, because not only was their first time almost a rape, but they have been given HIV and their lives are ruined. They basically can never have sex again. But again, some sympathy is lost because they believed Telly.  Casper was TOLERABLE until he raped the drug-induced Jenny, and the only satisfaction is that his character now had HIV. the rest of the characters I didn't care about.And Telly. Let me begin by saying, I watch a lot of movies. And yes, I usually like the bad guy. My favorite character in Reservoir Dogs was Michael Madsen's Mr. Blonde. Tommy Lee Jones' over-the-top Ryan Gaerity in Blown away. Lee Van Cleef in The Good the Bad and the Ugly. The list goes on and on. So for me to HATE a character is pretty rare. But let me say, I HATED the character of Telly. Never in my life have I watched a movie and literally wanted to kill a character. My fiance' kept saying It's only a movie, but I have never hated a character as much as I hated the Telly role. When it was revealed that Telly had HIV All I kept thinking about was all the girls whose lives Telly had ruined. Plus, the Tender way that Telly slept with the girls also p*ssed me off to no end. And his ridiculous soliloquies. Plus, even when Telly finds out he has HIV, I doubt it would stop him from sleeping with virgins. And that is the thing I hate most of all. If the director wanted the audience to hate Telly, at least in my case, he accomplished his goal.In my opinion, kids are this bad now, there's no way anyone could change them.The only thing that would have made me like this film would be a scene added in the end where Telly is interrogated by a cop, (Played by Michael Madsen) who puts on Stuck in the Middle With You and does some Mr. Blonde torture techniques on Telly.* out of ***** "},{"Title":"Depraved does not = realistic","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I think I'm going to erupt into a fit if I ever hear This movie is so realisticLet's get one thing straight. A movie crowded with repugnant examples of humanity shall not stand as a testament to realism.Depraved is simply what the film makers wanted to concentrate on because they knew it would turn heads. And it's a selective reality that ignores anything that doesn't reinforce it.This film is not important, is not a masterpiece and is not brave. It is a simple exercise in Jerry Springer film making where we get to see, instead of hear all the gory details.It was made for vicarious thrills with a somber resolution to excuse you for having those thrills.It does work on a Jerry Springer level, but there is no need to heap praise on that acomplishment. "},{"Title":"Shocking for the sake of shocking","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What shocked me most about this film was how hard it attempted to shock the audience. It seemed as though the writer had sat down and thought, 'hmmm what can I do to make this film in/famous? I know, make a whole load of people do screwed up things.. no wait even better make kids to horrible things, even more shocking!' They take drugs, speak like sailors and are generally candid about subjects you would expect from people 10 years older. It's fairly unrealistic- I know kids can be shit*y but this bad; please. I was disappointed, and in parts it was was painfully obvious none of them had acted before. Better luck next time. "},{"Title":"Ugh","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I finally go a chance to see this film after hearing the buzz about it, and what a dreadful film it is. A plodding story about the absolute worst society has to offer. While the film neither condemns nor praises the characters it portrays, it suffers for a lack of doing so. We follow the exploits of a group of mid teen 'kids' who run amok and destroy all lives they encounter along with their own. There's not a rotten juvenile in the bunch that wouldn't be better served in military school, boot camp or prison, led by an illiterate, slack-jawed doofus. If the underbelly of New York youth is/was truly this bad, then civilization indeed has no future. All the more frustrating is the lack of a cohesive end to this film, which just seems to stop when the material ran out - and I use the term material lightly, as the film appears to be scriptless. The best purpose this film serves is as a snapshot of New York back when it was a scary place to visit. Rental dollars would be better spent elsewhere. "},{"Title":"An uninspired documentary","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw Kids many years ago when I was in my early 20's and just saw part of it again recently.  Seeing it again made me remember how bad I thought it was the first time I saw it.  It tries to be shocking, and I suspect that it would shock middle aged suburbanites, but it had little effect on me.  The basic flaw with this movie is that a character driven drama like Kids should cause the viewer to have some empathy with the characters, but this movie only creates a mood of apathy.  The plot of Kids is such that you need to care about the characters if this movie is to be successful on any level.  As I watched the movie, I realized I didn't care what happened to the characters.  With no emotional interest invested in this story, the ending seemed anti-climactic and pointless.  If you want to watch a Harmony Korine movie, watch Gummo instead... at least that movie was somewhat entertaining.  3/10 "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"22 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Kids is one of the most brilliant films ever released involving teenagers I've ever seen since River's Edge. The things these Kids do is what teenagers really do in society. Larry Clark knew he had a brilliant film on his head and I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"STUPID STUPID STUPID AND VERY SICK","Date":"6 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I dont care what you fools think Kids is a disgrace to film.  This movie is not worth the film that filmed it.  I mean yeah maybe it is true to life and stuff but that dosnt mean its good.  In fact if you ask me this movie sucks.This movie is made like a movie that would be shown to you by a sex ed teachor.  The acting well im not going to make fun of it because it was alright.  However Larry Clark is a very bad film maker.  (Kids is the only one i have seen but i hated it) Come one now you cant call this film a movie ether though because even though there is a plot it does not really stand out.  So it is more like a cheap MTV saga.   "},{"Title":"Thoroughly repugnant film, clearly inaccurate","Date":"3 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"   I've seen this once, only on video, and once is enough. Had the film held my attention I would have something good to say about it, but that just isn't so. I've lived in NYC for half a year, in three of the 5 boros as I was taking an undergraduate film program in downtown Manhattan. (which turned out to be a bust) I've seen skaters on the street that cussed, smoked, and looked like junkies (as well as their girlfriends) and clearly, these people were not like those shown in the film. The main character, who looks like a G (if you know that jargon) listens to U2. There's one flaw. The next, he's so mean and nasty, yet he's still good enough to give a dying legless man in the subway some change. If you've been in NYC subways, you'll notice people don't react to things like that. Not a homeless person, not a crazy person, not even if there was a slimy rodent loose on the floors. This part of the plot was a reason just to give sympathy to this character, but it didn't work. At the end, there was no sympathy felt for any of the characters. Couldn't feel sorry for them, couldn't hate them, you just couldn't feel anything for them. The director, who had no previous release before this film (other than smut movies) didn't research the subject long enough to make a thorough movie about it. The only way you could see the real life of NYC street kids is a documentary, not a monotonous, repellent pile of exploitatious heap like this movie. "}{"Title":"Kiddie porn masquerading as commentary","Date":"6 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Larry Clark, who seems to enjoy filming and photographing minors having sex, somehow managed to pass this piece of trash off as a wake up call (Alan Dershowitz) to America.  Now, everyone has known violent, abusive brats like these, but thankfully they are a tiny and insignificant minority who, one imagines, typically end up dead or in jail after messing with the wrong people.  So what is the contribution of making a fictional movie about these little monsters?  Zero, except that it (1) brings the chattering classes out of the woodwork so we can see just how stupid and out of touch they really are, and (2) helps the career of Chloe Sevigny, a terrific actress who then goes on to star in much more worthwhile productions.  If you want to see this stuff done right, rent (and/or read) A Clockwork Orange. "},{"Title":"Lord of the Flies - American Style","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  KIDS documents a day in the life of a gang of Manhattan teenagers. Apparently freed of all adult supervision and restraint they rut, fight, steal, take drugs, and generally enjoy themselves at society's expense. Filmed in low-budget documentary style we the viewers are lead to believe that what we are seeing is the real low-down skinny on urban teens. Maybe so, although I hope not. The movie almost works, but the moviemakers desire to shock drives them a tad over the top, and the documentary style doesn't allow a story to develop. The movie ends up falling short and flat, and we're stuck eavesdropping on some people we don't really care too much about. "},{"Title":"Disturbing","Date":"8 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A sick and twisted film that gave the teen actors a chance to swear and show no respect for authority.  We know it happens.  We care that it happens. It's not like we are not aware.  This film should not have been made if for any reason than for its horrible acting and bad script.  A real stinker! "},{"Title":"Cartoon or Acid Flashback?","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was interested in seeing this film for quite some time.  However, the film was forced to be released unrated by the wonderful scum at Disney, Miramax's parent company (don't you just love parents!).I wasn't missing much.  I am still not sure, some three years after the FIRST time I saw Kids what exactly its purpose is.  It is surely not to entertain, as is the main duty of motion pictures, so why are we drawn to this horrendous piece of schlock?Perhaps it is titillation that we are seeking, as Kids delivers that in droves.  Drugs, sex, AIDS, dance clubs, public urination, theft.  No stone is left unturned, and frankly, I didn't mind the stones being there and didn't want them fussed with.In the end, Kids remains unsure of its own fate, not even attempting to hand over a decent ending, instead forcing you to slap a conclusion to this hodgepodge mockumentary excuse for a film.  Normally--in a decent film---leaving a cliff-hanger ending is good moviemaking.  Yet here, we have precious little to go on besides a lot of white flesh and liquor bottles, making yourself wonder, Who cares?I give it a D. "},{"Title":"This film wasn't commentary; it was exaggerated, vindictive rage.","Date":"30 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What gave director Larry Clark the reason to make this? Whenever you make a movie about a specific subject that you don't know about (but you find interesting) it's important to get background info so your thesis will not mislead the viewer.  KIDS was misleading, so much so that if I flew to Earth from another planet, I would expect ALL 90s youth to be foul mouthed, drug dealing, abusing, sexually active scum of society. And is that true for every 90s teenager? Clark must have an agenda against children;  he was probably walking down his New York street one day when a bunch of young street hoods whacked him over the head with their skateboards and stole his money. And this film would be considered a way of getting back. This film wasn't commentary; it was exaggerated, vindictive rage.Despite the misinformation that this film is known for, it is also a slow and uninteresting one. The plot revolves around Telly, a 15 year old who deflowers teenage girls like what a chainsmoker does with Marbolos. When one girl (played by Chloe Sevigny) finds out she contracted AIDS from him, she must find him before he affects any more people. Like he really is going to listen to her. Sure. Okay, I'll just stop, go home, sip on some Beta Carotene cola, stay in bed, and watch 90210 reruns. Give my apologies to the people whose lives I've ruined, baby. Ta ta.Disney refused to take credit for this, and it nearly came away with an NC-17 Rating. But it got away with no rating instead, but with a viewer discretion is advised sticker. It also took a very long time for it to be released. As if we really cared if it delayed any longer.Skip this film, and see Jose Louzeiro's Pixote, Emir Kusturica's Time of the Gypsies, and Todd Solondz Welcome to the Dollhouse instead. These were all an accurate depiction of 20th century youth, they were pleasant, at the same time unexploitative and interesting. They were nothing like Clark's scapegoat on film, at the same time they are nothing like inane Disney comedies portraying teenagers. The three films hold the spot where all other's have failed. "},{"Title":"The only movie in America that opened my eyes.....","Date":"28 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie scared me. I thought it was good, but absolutely stunning. I couldn't believe these kids and their behavior. It is scary because this goes on in America right now..I have seen it a couple of times and would watch it again and it is the only movie that I have ever seen in my life that shocked and startled me. "},{"Title":"Thought-provoking...","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  When I first heard of this movie, I knew nothing about it.  Then I made the TERRIBLE mistake of watching it with my conservative parents.  I have never been so embarrassed before in my life.  Now my parents think I am just like the kids portrayed in this film when I am the exact opposite.  However, this is a thought-provoking film that is a social commentary of New York teenage life.  This is a great film, not recommended for parents of teenage children. "},{"Title":"What a Movie!","Date":"20 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What a Movie! You walk into the movie store and pick it up and read the movie jacket. You think to yourself this movie sounds good,so you rent it and take it home. You pop it in the VCR and after the very first scene.You think to yourself WHAT HAVE A GOTTEN MYSELF INTO but you keep watching thinking it has to get better. It never does.When the movie is done you think to yourself and say Oh my GOD I can't believe I just watched this movie.I have seen lots of movies and can handle almost anything but never before have I been so moved in such a bad way by a movie . This movie by far is the worst and most untasteful movie I have ever watched. If I could have given a negative vote this movie would have received it.  "},{"Title":"stunning","Date":"6 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I read others' comments before posting mine.  I don't think this movie gives the impression that all kids are like this anymore than Wizard of Oz gives the impression that all kids wear ruby slippers.No movie has ever had the kind of effect Kids had on me.  I was just stunned when it ended.I was disappointed that the cable channel showing it followed up with a apologetic feature about how the producer/director/ studio/etc knew it was a controversial film and maybe parents ought to watch it with their kids.  Weak.  Show the movie and shut up.My inclination is to think of what would make a good double bill with Kids. I came up with Showgirls. Any ideas? "},{"Title":"Worth skipping","Date":"10 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  KIDS is a graphic piece of garbage, attractive only to paedophiles. It is  shot documentary style, leaving the viewer uncertain whether it is a  documentary or just a movie. Following a number of NYC teens in the summer,  it gives an unrealistic portrayal of their lifestyles, leading to believe  that ALL city teens are promiscuous drug users who are unattended from  parents. It also leads the viewer to believe that these teens can not think  beyond their own common sense. The film's graphic content is nothing more than what is seen in legitimate  films that have been viewed forever. What makes KIDS different and also  worse is that the main characters are teenagers and are played by teenagers , instructed to perform graphic lifestyle acts. This film is a perverts  image and wholly not very good at all. "}{"Title":"a masterpiece","Date":"9 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"   I think Kids is a great film. It truly depicts the behavior of teenagers.  Some scenes may be surprising to people but they really happen everyday.  Many people dislike this film because they can not deal with the ferocity  of it. A great film that explores a day in the world of teenagers living in  Manhattan a rave , a skatepark , party , etc. Some pro- skateboarders were  in the movie( Harold Hunter and Jeff Pang) "},{"Title":"Inside a Kid's Bed","Date":"9 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Smooth-kissing Leo Fitzpatrick (as Telly) opens young virgin Sarah Henderson to the pain and pleasure of sexual intercourse. A promiscuous teenager, Mr. Fitzpatrick enjoys deflowering babies most of all in life - because virgins are pure and disease-free. After knocking his dirty socks in the sack, Fitzgerald meets rough alcoholic pal Justin Pierce (as Casper The Friendly Ghost). They cop some booze and snacks from a corner store and visit one of those New York City apartments to hang and smoke - one of those places, usually 70-something street, where acquaintances give you a free buzz.Meanwhile, one of Fitzpatrick's old conquests, sweet sixteen-year-old blonde Chloe Sevigny (as Jennie), talks about sex with her girlfriends. Unusual in her group, Ms. Sevigny has only had intercourse once - with Fitzpatrick. She was bummed when he provided no follow-up attention, and sometimes sends wassups through friends. Sevigny's best friend Rosario Dawson (as Ruby) is much more sexually active, and fears she might have contracted AIDS. The girls go to the clinic; and, although Sevigny primarily goes to keep Ms. Dawson company, she learns she tested positive for the HIV virus.From there, Sevigny goes on a quest to find Fitzpatrick, who must also be HIV-positive. At the same time, Fitzpatrick is on a mission to deflower nubile young Yakira Peguero (as Darcy)&#x85; Kids is an incredibly rich drama from virgin (i.e. first time) director Larry Clark.Handling this kind of material well isn't easy, and usually results in a stupid, offensive movie - though, probably, many still found it offensive. Mr. Clark gets excellent help from writer Harmony Korine and director of photography Eric Edwards. Catching a cast before they learn to act results in great characterizations. Leading players Fitzpatrick, Pierce, and Sevigny are incredibly etched in your mind. Dawson and dozens of others are also memorable - like the I have no legs man in his Kiss Me I'm Polish tee-shirt, wistful cabbie Leon Hascal, and even writer Korine, who puts Sammy Davis Jr. and Leo Gorcey in Heaven. ...umm... 'K.********* Kids (5/22/95) Larry Clark ~ Leo Fitzpatrick, Justin Pierce, Chloe Sevigny, Rosario Dawson "},{"Title":"Every time I watch it, it messes with my head...","Date":"13 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I loved the direction this movie took. When i first saw this film, i was around the same age as they portrayed. I have lived everything in this film, minus the HIV stuff, but thats all you heard about in that day. Parties, drugs, sex and just living life to the fullest. So I can relate with the film. It is one to make you think, in other terms, if you never lived like that as a teenager, then you wont understand.The music fit the film very well. Off shoot underground digs for the big's. Chloë Sevigny did a superb job, along with Rosario Dawson, Leo Fitzpatrick and Justin Pierce(R.I.P).Set in New York in 1994, these kids are just trying to beat the summer heat and sobriety. Pushing the limit, they find out sooner or later that life will get a lot harder as the years pass, with consequences.I lived this so I can say that I relate, I give it a recommend a watch. "},{"Title":"Not as good as it could of been!!","Date":"6 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I watched this film out of intrigue as i had heard a lot about it. Its shot in a documentary style and this does give it a realistic feel. However the film does lack a story and there is only one sympathetic character in the film which is Jenny, who has contracted HIV from Telly(who only sleeps with virgins). Underage sex, drugs and in one scene mindless violence all play are part in these young people lives. The film works as a wake up call and offers an insight into a world which parents fear there children will tred. Perhaps the most shocking is these kids have no regrets and no conscience about what they are doing. The film might of worked if it were a genuine documentary but as a film it lacks heart, energy and real substance despite some good performances. You get a sense this film had to be made but you also feel it could of been done better. "},{"Title":"This movie depicts life as it REALLY IS for a teenager","Date":"24 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I think it is a 10 because that is basically what our life is, full of the harmful decision making and pressures. I know this especially cause I'm a teen and these events in the movie are constantly taking place in my life. Being a virgin is so hard in life these days, especially if your a girl. Always doubting if you are so childish for not having sex and waiting or cool for going with everyone else. As a girl your afraid a lot, about get diseases, if it hurts, and most of all, GETTING PREGNANT. This movie real bring the truth out about these feelings one has and how guys just sweet talk you into sex. It also shows how parents are not present in a kids life. this happening, is resulting in such events in the movie as drinking and smoking, drugs, and sex. "},{"Title":"The kids are (probably) all right","Date":"16 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Larry Clark's 'Kids', an uncompromising look at the lives of a group of contemporary New York teenagers, attracted a certain amount of criticism on release for its supposed prurience. Viewed ten years later, it's a bit hard to see what all the fuss was about. Like most of the films criticised most virulently by the moralist right, it is in fact a deeply moral film itself, exposing but condemning, rather than celebrating, the hedonistic lifestyles it depicts. The portrait it paints is also very believable; yet the film is slightly less interesting than the controversy suggests. Kids behave badly it's hardly news, and unlike Ken Loach, Clark never attempts to put his portrayal into a wider social context. Without this, it takes a storyline centred on HIV infection (a relatively rare phenomenon among heterosexuals) to provide some sense of urgency into proceedings. Also, it's noticeable that one aspect of teenage life is missing from the film, namely the tendency of teenagers to exaggerate, particularly when talking about sex these kids actually have sex as often as they talk about it, which is I suspect atypical. If you meet some kids in the street talking filth and acting boorishly, you may well decide the best thing to do is ignore them and wait for them to grow out of it. If you really want to experience more of such behaviour, then watch this film, which to me seemed anything but prurient; but not a little dull. "},{"Title":"In a word AAAAAAAAAHHHHHH!","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is terrible, terrible, terrible. It's a clear, transparent attempt to show what life in the big city is like for a couple of loser teenagers. Unfortunately, what you end up with is a bunch of teen stereotypes walking around uttering some horrid dialogue.There are apparently some people who believe this is what life is like. Don't think so. For starters, the characters are paper-thin. They have no depth to them whatsoever. Think about it, for a moment, and you'll realize that Telly is totally evil. Also, that any girl who had the slightest clue who he was would never get anywhere near him. Furthermore - forty kids don't just beat the stuffing out of some guy and a park and attract no attention.Aside from the complete and utter lack of morality in any of the characters, the script is just awful. Someone needs to give these people scriptwriting lessons, or else tell them to stop writing dialogue under the influence of heavy narcotics. I can't remember for then for or five sentences that consisted of multiple ploy-syllabic words. Kinda scary when you think about.This movie is clearly an attempt to accurately portray teen life in the big city. It didn't ring true with me - a couple scenes made me laugh at the the pure ridiculousness of it, but most of the time, I just felt like turning away. An entirely awful movie that I am sorry for have seeing. "},{"Title":"Completely overrated.","Date":"10 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is completely flat. The characters have no depth, and leave you without the slightest concern for their melodramatic, seemingly rehearsed tragedy. It ends up being a movie about stupid kids acting stupidly - nothing more. Never a deep moment, never a provoking thought - simply empty, overrated, and perhaps laughable. "},{"Title":"Overhyped, overwrought, and overrated.","Date":"8 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Larry Clark's Kids is, in my estimation, an overrated character study. This is a movie that gives the audience of set of wooden, narcissistic characters (like so many  teen-oriented films this decade), exposes the audience to their reckless, destructive behaviour, and then doesn't even give the merest inkling of consciousness. It never explains why these youth are involved in the crime, promiscuous sex, and drugs, and ultimately paints a desolate, hopeless portrait of urban youth life. The absent voice of reason and sensibility makes this movie all the more frustrating to watch (unless, of course, the content doesn't turn you off). I admire the risks taken, but the final product, while not inherently exploitative, is overwrought and ultimately makes for ludicrous celluloid. "},{"Title":"Shocking, harrowing, and thought provoking","Date":"30 July 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is one the most shocking, graphic, disturbing films I've ever seen! It's frightful to think that certain scenes depicted in this movie are actually going on in the USA today. Very chilling. "}{"Title":"Sexploitation","Date":"6 November 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I championed this film for many years. It was the first real document of the '90s teen skateboard set, and I was taken in by the subject matter. However, scrutiny and a broader understanding of film have more than marred its effect. The gritty 'realism' which supposedly elevated this film from exploitation to art, simply does not withstand any serious prodding. The crux of the story, an HIV infected teenager intending to deflower two thirteen-year-old virgins in the space of one day, is rendered difficult to believe by the casting of Leo Fitzpatrick. Bellow average in the looks department, and with an inarticulate lisp, it's hard to fathom that Leo could bed anyone, let alone two virgins and the tally he boasts of. Furthermore, the aimless youth chic which Larry Clark pioneered is ultimately hollow. Consider that his subsequent films are very hard to defend artistically, and you will struggle to derive real depth from KIDS.Other less charitable critics have called him pedophilic in his sustained exploitation of good looking youth. Whilst not entirely fair, there is something of a dirty old man about him. A shot lingering on a pretty girl's crotch in his latter travesty, Bully, more than deflates the notion of Clark as profound auteur.The redemptive aspects of KIDS are oddly the most exploitative. The scenes in which a gaggle of unnamed youth huff N02 from balloons, and openly smoke pot from a hollowed out cigar, will ring true to those who experienced adolescence in the last two decades. And the emotional punch at the conclusion still remains, unscathed. It is just an incredibly bitter pill to sallow to concede that Clark was proved right. This generation is wretched. "},{"Title":"Shock","Date":"30 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" As a shock/brutalist film student, I am expected to self censor and respect the safety of the film environment. People have Personal Limits. For some, its Alien. For others, its Clockwork Orange. I found my Limits.Larry Clark's 'Kids' is viscerally, emotionally and intellectually disgusting. I've watched the first 25 minutes of Telly and his exploits of 'Virgin Surgery' and I sit here now, having walked out of my 'A Level' Film Studies Class because I refused to watch something so sick and depraved that its reality has been forced upon me.Whilst it does indeed deal with a problem so common among todays adolescents (And I should know - my mom works in a Sexual Health Clinic), this film is done with such distaste I have not had a full nights sleep since Last Sunday night (It being Wednesday today) when I saw the first 20 Minutes. Is this film supposed to be about awareness? Clark films this so lax, the scenes of a more sexual nature being continued way after having made their point, I begin to wonder - just who is the audience for this film? I think Mr Clark my have the problem of an over enjoyment of voyeurism, and not quite knowing when to turn the camera off.I recommend this film to anyone wishing to lose sleep, or those who need to run up psychiatric bills fast. "},{"Title":"this is the real deal","Date":"19 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" before i watched this film, my 25 year old brother warned me that it may disturb me. being only 15, i was a bit frightened, especially at night to watch Kids by myself but what i saw didn't surprise me. i really felt like i knew who telly was. like my ex-boyfriend. he had done the same type of sweet talking to me. at the end, i felt like i was in Darcy's shoes. i learned a lot. you cannot trust people no matter what they say. i also saw the drugs and alcohol and it reminded my a lot of my own high school. i would be lying if i said kids shocked me because it is a mirror image of us teens. it was just so ironic that Jennie contracted the aids virus from telly yet she was too late before he deflowered Darcy. then the rape scene. i just wanted to shake these teens and tell them to stop. but kids is the cold hard truth of teen life and i know because i am experiencing it now, and its not easy whatsoever. "},{"Title":"Misbehaving.","Date":"6 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A crazed teenager (Leo Fitzpatrick) just wants to skate, slack and have sex with young virginal girls. What he does not know is that he is carrying HIV and infecting all those he happens to bed. Classmate Chloe Sevigny learns she is one of the unlucky victims and attempts to find Fitzpatrick before he sleeps with anyone else. Of course Fitzpatrick and best friend Justin Pierce (about as rotten a kid as his pal) move all around the city and are near impossible to track down as we see teenagers on an endless ride of sex, drugs, parties and general mischief. Kids is one of those films that ultimately falls due to the fact that it wants to shock and disgust rather than educate and convince. Thus we have a movie that has very little upside. It quickly becomes a cheap way to make society wonder if this could actually be going on in our nation. By the finale, the primary characters were all so backwards and out of their element that I was numbed by the experience and had no legitimate feelings for any of the teenage players (this by the way is not a good thing). Pierce, admittedly a potential talent, committed suicide a few years after this was released. 2.5 out of 5 stars.  "},{"Title":"The Purpose?","Date":"25 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I haven't seen Larry Clark's photography, though I hear it's really good. I haven't experienced the world that the characters experience in KIDS, though I am a kid and I hear that the world is true. The movie KIDS is a well shot movie on what looks like a small budget. It's raw, realistic, shocking, revolting. All things that I don't mind in my films, as long as there is purpose. But this film is mediocre, not because it's hard to justify why we are shown something so horrific (the opening scene would have been enough to get the point across), not because it lacks a proper narrative, sympathetic characters, and humor, not because it fails to offer any clear reason why our KIDS are so self-destructive, not because it fails to offer any solutions. Gus Van Sant managed to make a movie that contained all of these things, and still managed to make a beautiful and powerful piece of film. What makes KIDS mediocre, is that it can't get past it's 'realism.' There is no creativity, other than the placement of the camera (which is done excellently). It's just a basic story, and once you get over the audacity of the film, you realize that there are better ways you could be spending your time. You could rent Elephant, or Raisin Victor Vargas, you read Requiem for a Dream, or The Catcher and the Rye. There are plenty of more subtle, more artistic, more beautiful pieces of art that share the same purpose of KIDS, which is to show our KIDS as they really are conflicted, and often reckless. So what else is new? If only Larry Clark could have done something great with his photography skills.  "},{"Title":"The only thing we find out from this movie is that Chloe is not a true blond.","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is real bad.  As a New Yorker you do see kids hanging out in Washington Square skate boarding, but the drug scene, violence and impoverished are greatly reduced thanks to Rudy Giuliani.  The way the movie tells its story also has problems.  The lead female character catches HIV from the lead male character, a guy who deflowers young virgins.  The catch, she has only had sex once ever.This has got to be the ultimate stupid flick.  Go to the CDC web site, less than 15% of people in the US with AIDs are women.  Less than 1% of all AIDs cases happens with teenagers.  This has got to be the statistical anomaly.There are so many great movies that tell better stories than this.  Run, Lola, Run or Go are much better about young people.  Rumblefish or the Outsiders better coming of age movies.  The story telling is a disaster, no flashback to the moments things happen.  No adults.  "},{"Title":"The everyday life!!!!","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Well when i started watchin this movie it was boring and as i paid attention more and more i was like wait this is so ME.  I couldnt belive how much i related to the movie.  My b/f was just like telly i was living almost the exact same life. . . and all these people that are giving bad comments about o its just a waste of time, kids r not like this  HELLO! im sure almost every teenager has r had a role of this movie in there everyday life, because i no i sure have.  Those people that are talkin bad about this movie must really have not have a  real teenage life.  EVeryone goes through it. It's LIFE! People **** up all the time.  This movie really makes u stop and think....  It took it a while but im sure it happens to everyone.  And this really is everyday life.  I would advise every teenager atleast 15 yrs and older to watch it.... "},{"Title":"A day in the life of 2 guys with no direction","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I first heard of this film through my friend Mark, he brought it in to my A-Level Film Studies back in collage. What I saw was the scene where a coloured boy was being beaten up for making the mistake of talking back to Casper. What was most interesting about this scene was a the music, and b the mix of children who helped into the beating. I would like to think I am not racist and I don't condone this type of behaviour, but it was amasing that the film director choose to use both Coloured and Cocasion kids in it.From then I kind of forgot about it, until I was walking through my local super market looking through the Ex-rental boxes and I saw this film. I bought it and loved it. I thought that this film spoke to so many people from so many back grounds, anyone who has ever had underage sex, anyone who has done drugs and to a lesser extent, anyone who has ever been shouted at for dareing to be different, remember the scene where they call two guys a bunch of 'fags', yeah I know how that is, I get called a goth.I think that anyone who has ever found themselfs looking for direction, or that they life is bad should see this film. It is said to be the most controvseral film of the 90's, they are right. "},{"Title":"Pretty Accurate","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have to say that if you think that this movie is bad because 1)kids don't act like this, 2) the language is foul, or 3) the characters are shallow, you really are uninformed or missed the point. Kids acted like this when I was growing up in suburban Ohio in the late 80's to early 90's. And kids in New York act this way now. Kids use foul language, and they have sex. What's more, they have shallow paper thin personalities and personas that they use for defense mechanisms, but that they also adopt as reality. Kids are scary. I didn't really see any acting here. It seemed totally real. I wasn't shocked at all. "},{"Title":"A 90 minute After school special","Date":"29 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Not entirely useless, but can't say I recommend this one.  I was not offended by this movie, just very bored. Some kids lead aimless violent lives, sleeping around and using drugs? Really!? Gee, I didn't know that. Good movies can and have been made about this subject matter, but it takes more than images of kids behaving destructively to make a movie.  I don't need to like the characters in a movie to enjoy it, but give them some personality- most of the characters in Kids were completely forgettable. I would much more highly recommend renting either River's Edge  or Over the Edge. I feel compelled to add that about the only scene I liked in this movie was when the guy in the subway was singing I have no legs, I have no legs!. For some reason that stays in my mind.  "}{"Title":"Not very good.","Date":"9 December 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Maybe I just don't get it. Without a real plot it gets boring fast, and is it just me or do movies like this get made only for the shock value? Instead of trying to tell a good story it shows the lives of a group of kids living in New York City who find nothing better to do but have sex, get stoned and beat people up. One of the quotes on the box from a movie critic (almost every movie critic liked this film, Go figure) says A wake up call to America! Well don't believe the hype. Things were just as bad in the 50s 60s 70s and 80s, it is just that no one ever made films like this for the youths of those  generations. Unless you like to get punished while watching movies, skip it. "},{"Title":"Ugly Kids","Date":"28 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A bunch of kids take drugs, drink alcohol, have sex, and talk about drugs, alcohol, and sex, with every other word being the f-word. The main character is a kid who is HIV-positive but continues to have sex with as many girls as he can because it's all about himself. Director Clark is obviously fascinated by the New York City youth scene but it's tough going for anyone not into this lifestyle. There are some truly repulsive scenes, such as the one where a guy is battered senseless by a group of skateboarders. It is not clear what the point of this movie is. There is hardly a likable character in the mix but Sevigny and Dawson are notable. "},{"Title":"This movie is a stupid scare tactic","Date":"21 April 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I watched this movie when I was in high school, and I watched it again at school today (ten years later). I'm working on my PhD in clinical psychology and the professor had some crazy notion that watching this stupid movie would be an insightful way to learn about kids. Wrong.This movie's sole purpose is to freak out every parent in the country. Yes, these things happen, and yes, some kids are that messed up, but to parade every negative thing a kid could possibly do in a 24-hour period of time is just stupid and unrealistic. The director is probably sitting back and laughing that anyone took this movie seriously. ____ __________________ _________________________ __________________________ ___________ "},{"Title":"Good as a realistic view on the mid- '90's life of kids.","Date":"30 December 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The movie has a realistic, almost documentary like feeling, thanks to the way the movie is shot and acted. It provides a good and realistic view of the life of mid- '90's New York young teenagers. However the movie falls flat when it comes to shocking the audience. Some of all the things that are happening in this movie most probably happened to everyone once in their lifetime when they were a teenager, so everyone should be able to relate to some of the characters and events that are occurring in this movie, rather than be shocked by it. But the makers obviously tried to create more than just a realistic view on teenage life, it tried to shock the audience with its 'controversity' but due to the documentary style of movie making and the story that is almost non-present, it just falls flat as a 'shocker'.I would had preferred a movie with more story and consistency in it. It would had made the movie more interesting to watch and perhaps because of that it would had also worked better in terms of shocking the audience. Now the makers only try to be controversial without just having a real story. That simply didn't worked for me.Would this movie stop teenagers from having unprotected-sex, drinking alcohol and taking drugs? I don't think so...The movie doesn't make a powerful enough impression and the ending is too abrupt and leaves an unsatisfying impression. It would had so much more interesting to see what actually truly happened to all those character after the party at the ending. The ending only leaves us guessing. Sure we mostly know what possibly happens afterward but why not show it in the movie? Those could had been some really powerful and confronting scene's but it sadly now remains nothing more than a missed opportunity.Of course all of that doesn't automatically mean that this movie is a bad one. It still is good as a raw, honest and truthful portrayal of teenage-life. What makes Kids mostly a realistic movie is not only the documentary style of movie making, it's not only the 'acting', it are not only the events occurring in this movie but it is mostly the dialog that does this.This movie marks the debut for actresses Chloë Sevigny and Rosario Dawson who both were really excellent and believable in their roles. Both impressed me. The main character to be honest didn't exactly impressed me and to me it seemed an odd choice to cast Leo Fitzpatrick. He hasn't got the right look and talent for his role, so his character doesn't quite work and is not believable enough.In short, it works well as a view on the life of teenagers but when it comes to being powerful, controversial, making a statement and leaving a message it isn't good enough. I 'enjoyed' watching this movie and thought it was really good but it simply failed at what it really tried to achieve. It didn't really mattered to me though and I could still recommend this movie to everyone. It's not a movie that makes you start thinking but it is a movie that you'll remember.8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Kids has a healthy message, but the method of delivery is extremely uncomfortable.","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The inner city is one of the worst places in the country to spend your formative years, and the makers of Kids add a bit of crime and self-destructive behavior to that in order to show some of the dangers of this type of lifestyle. Yes, the film has strong messages about drugs, AIDS, violence, and crime, among others, but it is so negatively overdone that the positive side of the film is almost cancelled out. There is so much that you have to look past before you can derive anything good from this movie that it is almost not worth watching. The acting, however, was strikingly convincing, but probably because not much actual acting is called for for a movie like this. I realize that violence is a part of life, especially in downtown New York City, but the violence as well as the excessive partying scenes and the gruesome sex was drawn out much more than necessary, and this took a lot away from the film. It's almost as though the movie resorts to this kind of thing to keep the audiences attention, when in fact it did the opposite. While not a completely worthless film, Kids just has so few redeeming values that it is hardly worth the time to watch it. I've always thought that the closer films are to reality, the better they are, but the thing that really ruined Kids was that it focused so hard on the drugs and the sex and the violent elements of reality, while virtually ignoring every other part of these kids' lives. A message like that does not need to be so hard to swallow in order to be effective. "},{"Title":"A Wake-Up Call...for who?","Date":"10 January 2004","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie clearly has the intention of showing us just how messed up the lives of these kids are. That was the point, right? I didn't get that wrong?If you are a real-life version of one of these kids, I understand how you might like the movie, but I doubt it's going to change your lifestyle. Ditto for the absentee parents of the kids.For the rest of us....what's the point? What does this movie do? I will say that it kept my interest while I was watching it. I wanted to find out how it would end, and then it does end, darkly. Doesn't have any re-watch value for me.The intention was clearly to provoke. Point a camera at this stuff and say, Here, look at this. What do you think about that? Don't like it, do you? Doesn't sit right, does it? That's right, it doesn't. And what are you going to do about it? Nothing. You can't do anything about it. Hah! We don't have to explain it either, because it's art, so it just is what it is.The trailer quotes a critic calling the movie a Wake up call.  If this movie had actually caused a decline in any of the problems it depicts, you could say that, but it didn't. If this movie didn't solve anything, but was really funny like a Michael Moore film (sorry, Michael, but it's true) it would be worth it, but it isn't.I don't think this movie is a dark comedy, or an exploitation film, or porno as people suggest, because I think they were trying to make a serious movie. I just think they failed.  "},{"Title":"Reality.....?","Date":"12 May 2001","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Having ploughed through most of the of the viewers comments for this film, i find myself impelled to say that, far from being a case of opinion, this film is awful. This is truth. This is reality. Kids is not. I hate every character in this film wholly and unremorsefully. Why? Because they're not human in any way. Humans tend to have a bit of depth, some sort of duality, something inside. I don't want spend time with one-dimensional psychos. Most teens aren't psychos, and even those that are, however crazy they may be, are human. Whats the point in showing the sex and violence and nothing else? shock value. What does its say? These people have sex and act violent answers Mr Clark. Then its pointless. And this film is. And its amazing how many morons fell for the laughably tacked on HIV plot. Its a shockingly half-hearted attempt at injecting morality or substance into what can only be described as a movie vacuum.  Horribly pointless, horribly boring, horribly pretentious, horribly useless, horribly tactless, horribly over-rated.   "},{"Title":"All too real..","Date":"21 December 2005","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I first saw this movie when i was 10 years old. I didn't take much from it then, but when you grow up you see just how real it is. I thought the little kids doing drugs and all of the sex were just there because it was a movie. Now that I have grown up and i see all of this stuff happening, the movie truly shows how scary life is for stupid-ass kids like us. Drugs are EVERYWHERE and it shows just how easy it is for us to find them. Sex is the exact same way. Its everywhere. And you don't know who has what. And just because a kid is 12 or 13 or 14 doesn't mean they cant or wont have sex. Their young minds can be persuaded very easily. Look at the first and the second sex scene with Telly, the words are almost exactly the same. That is one of the most real parts of the movie. I've seen it myself. Not with 12 year old girls but with girls who are anywhere from 16 to 17 to 18. The movie should be something that every parent should watch and take it very seriously. "},{"Title":"Bad dialogue, Poor acting, Uninteresting characters, Lack of plot","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  All I heard about in my sophomore year at high school was Harmony Karin's movie Kids.  I kept hearing that it was realistic disturbing and many other adjectives often used to describe good independent films.  Finally, as a college senior, I had a chance to watch it.  The urge to shut it off as soon as it began was overwhelming.  I watched it through though, in the same fascination that one watches a nine car pileup.  Just when you think it can't get worse, it does.The only reason Kids was thought of as Disturbing was because adults do not like admitting that their children have sex.  There is nothing enlightening and no important message told in this movie. The characters are unlikable. They have no traits that are sympathetic or that would allow a viewer to associate with them.Dialogue, which I had been told is realistic, is just teenagers sitting around saying f**k at the end of every other sentence.  Add in the fact that the lines are poorly delivered and you have the sensation of watching a sixth grade play on acid.As for the plot... well... there is none.  It can be argued that this was supposed to be an ethnographic piece showing the lives of kids.  However, in my opinion, there is a clear attempt at a standard narrative plot.  It's put together as a series of random scenes that have nothing to do with each other.  Making this horrible ride of a movie bumpy. In the end Kids can be summed up with one word. Bad  "},{"Title":"Best Sex Education Film Ever Made","Date":"21 July 2006","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I think KIDS should be shown and be a requirement in every school across the nation since it's simply the best, most realistic film ever made about teenagers' attitudes and behavior about sex. When I watched it the first time in 95 or 96 I was so impressed with the cast, the script and dialog and the way the plot developed. I knew Rosario Dawson would be discovered after KIDS since her sensuous looks would captivate most men, any age. I was happy when I noticed that she'd been cast in Men in Black 2 because I knew she was on her way to a long big screen career. Harmony is such a great role model for independent film makers and producers and his attention to day to day reality and how most people really talk deserves to be applauded. "}{"Title":"A wake up Call to the world","Date":"12 August 2004","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film came out in 1995, and have teenagers learned anything, well no. Why, because they haven't seen this masterpiece. The first time I saw Kids, I felt sick inside. This is what everybody goes threw in every day life, not just kids. I feel if the parents would take their kids to see this film, then maybe thing would be better in the world, but we'll never know, cause parents are to scared to reveal that kind of information to their children. Director Larry Clark created the most cruel and sad film about kids being pushed into things they shouldn't do. If you've seen Bully, then come back to Kids and you'll see where his career started.  He just doing films that are probably based on his experiences and what he's heard and seen.THE PLOTPowerful and passionate, colorful and compelling, Larry Clark's Kids is 24 frenetic hours in the life of a group of teenagers, and like most teenagers, they think their invincible.This is a great film, I give it ****(out of 4 stars).  "},{"Title":"This film is degrading to young women & depicts sexual violence","Date":"16 December 2008","Score":"11 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film depicts 13 year old girls being raped. It also depicts them as passive, dis-empowered and unable to engage in intelligent decisions. I found myself really frustrated watching young girls get raped while screaming It hurts, it hurts. I find no value in this film in terms of education about sex or drugs. It is so extreme in terms of sex, violence, theft and other amoral acts that it does NOT depict the typical teenager--then or now. It also shows a girl drugged and then her legs being lifted up to her ears as she is raped. I was aghast at this and other scenes. It leaves women feeling like victims--because during the entire movie the girls are victims. The film did show some pubic hair and was very explicit without getting into nudity. One scene where a stranger is beaten is highly disturbing as well. If they were going for shock value, then OK I was shocked that a film could use a roll to depict young men treating each other and others so poorly. They also discuss the girls very graphically--offering their hand so that one could smell the scent of the girl he had just conquered's vagina. This was a sad little movie, which depicts the extremes of past and present. I am a former faculty member at an Arizona university and feel qualified to say that this film has little if any educational value. It is more disturbing than educational or entertaining. A word of caution this depicts graphic discussions of sex and simulation of the act, along with over 150 swears. Combine this with a gang beating the heck out of a stranger for no reason and you have a film that should not be watched by most of us that don't need negativity and have respect for young girls. "},{"Title":"youth of our generation","Date":"17 December 2005","Score":"31 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie is terrifying but extremely true at the same time. I am 14 years old and I know exactly where this movie comes from. Since I was raised in the Bronx, sex, drugs, and violence are what make things happen here. I know what it is to get pressured and trust me this movie speaks the truth. You should watch it with your teenagers and let them know what really happens of they get involved with these important facts. Let then know what drugs and sex will come out with them at a young stage. But most of all let the boys see this movie because, truthfully, boys think about sex most of the time, and they are the ones who pressure girls into sex. So if you wanna teach your kids a lesson let them watch it. All in all---10/10 "},{"Title":"The dregs of society disguised as the youth of a nation","Date":"23 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is not a great film. Pictures, lighting, costumes and plot are in no way astounding. Probably not a very big budget film. Yet in 1995 some started calling it a masterpiece. It was not and it is not and it will not be. It is at best a manifesto and a testimony. Even Andy Warhol was better in his Flesh series of films.An underage kid, out of school and out of work and still taken care of by his parents is explaining us his philosophy reduced to a three letter word that he dares call love. He has no love for anything and anyone. He only has lust for the three letter word he calls love. It starts with one girl and it ends with another girl while the first girl is being taken advantage of by another boy while she is out of it due to some drugs. But in between, since this chap only takes virgins, the first virgin has been discovered and tested as HIV positive and the second who was tested negative will be tested positive afterwards, and since another boy takes advantage of the first girl he will be tested positive too later on. The lusty and lubricious boy is also an HIV spreader.And that chap dares say he only has that three letter word he calls love and if it were taken away from him he would have nothing at all. And make sure you hear me properly. He only takes and fancies virgins, and of course only girls. He is deeply anti-gay naturally, since he is a natural cock though closer to a chicken than to an adult rooster. But I guess he can cackle all the same. This vision of these young men and women all of them underage and all of them cheating one or two or more years, evolving and indulging in endless promiscuity, in never ending alcoholic binges and in perpetual drug taking, this vision is sickening but it is true to the marrow and the bone for a rather important minority of young people who are not able to find any stability in their own families. So they steal, even from their mothers, so they brutalize and eventually kill &#x96; who cares &#x96; those who stand in their way though the film only shows Chinese and blacks in such situation of the victims of these hooligans' thieving and mugging and brutalizing. These are the dregs of society and to show them without any kind of depth or humanity is more or less targeting the good society to show them how bad it could be if these were to be authorized up even only one rung on the social ladder. They deserve to be at the bottom and to stay there. Luckily for good society at the time, and still today, these dregs do not want to go up and they are satisfied with soaking in their own sweat and other bodily juices.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU "},{"Title":"This movie is about young girls and boys having unprotected sex and the objectification of girls bodies.","Date":"12 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I just finished watching this and it was an uncomfortable experience. I understand the director wanted to be realistic but to me that was just an excuse to get away with child exploitation, There was no need to show the amount of girls bodies that was shown. As usual, it's all for the pleasure of the male tits, two girls kissing, rape. In the swimming pool scene where the black kid is shaking his dick they don't show it, you hear the sound and you see their friends laughing, but when it comes to girls you see their nipples and their butts. It bothers me a lot how directors get away with inappropriate things in the name of art, like it somehow justifies whatever they do. There is no story, no point to prove apart from the fact that the blonde girl gets HIV after having one sexual encounter without protection. You see her crying and being miserable but nobody does anything to help her or tells her what to do, not even the people who tested her. It's a really upsetting movie to watch and I bet that was the director's intention, to disturb and provoke people. Well he did it but that doesn't change the fact that, to me, he's a perverted. "},{"Title":"Unexploited potential","Date":"26 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Kids is a movie that inevitably touches you, the subject is powerful and can speak to anyone, of course the context isn't the same as the one in the early 90's, where knowledge and prevention weren't has developed as today, but everything the movie relies on remains valid.Larry Clark depicted this group of kids and their debauchery in an ultra low-key, observant, almost documentary style but the mise-en-scène being very good, the choice turns out to be quite successful.The problem is that the script is as low-key but not in a positive way, the plot, rather thin, and the characters could have deserved a lot more development since the potential was so high.Therefore, Kids leaves you with mixed feelings, the movie strikes you but you would have liked the scenario to be as ambitious as the approach behind it. "},{"Title":"Very realistic!","Date":"10 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When I lived in NYC during those times, I found city well depicted in this film. This is how it was during those years, I believe mid 1990s. There is a legendary line from one of the male characters Once in your life you get out and then the whole life you try to get back inside. He obviously thought of female lower organ, of which whole heterosexual males are so fond of. Let us not forget lesbians and trans. The young actors acted well, script was interesting and I was pleasantly surprised on how NYC life is well portrayed in that film. It is the Big Apple and it can be so confusing and dumbfounding for teens growing in it. NYC changed a lot since those times, including 9/11 events. It is a pity I did not have opportunity to spend more time in it, I really fell in love with it. Well, may be in the other life... "},{"Title":"Far from kids' stuff.","Date":"4 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Shocking, raw, scary, intense, tragic all words that I would have used to describe Kids when I first viewed it in the 90s, but which seem even more applicable now that I'm the father of two children fast approaching their teens. Director Larry Clark's uncompromising tale of a group of reckless New York youngsters spending their days drinking, fighting, smoking weed and screwing is enough to give any parent severe palpitations.By employing a cast of real NY teens with little or no acting experience, Clark achieves a remarkable sense of realism&#x97;although his voyeuristic style makes certain scenes seem just a little TOO real for comfort as the adolescents make out, strip off, and get it on, Clark's camera lingers on their entwined pubescent bodies more than is really necessary, making this viewer&#x97;and quite a few others, judging by the posts on his IMDb message board&#x97;question the director's motives for his film-making. "},{"Title":"almost as good as taxi driver","Date":"13 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" this is my first review on IMDb and i would like to underline that it's a result of unjustified negativity towards this movie. the movie kids is kind of a testament to a certain generation. just like the movie taxi driver is to another generation, or merely a different span in time.i cannot comprehend why anyone would rate this movie negative in any way shape or form. it tries to deliver a message and it actually succeeds doing so in the most authentic way i can imagine. even more so than taxi driver which used a lot more theatrical elements to create more of a movie experience rather than kids which i personally think is almost like a documentary.aside from this, i think i just fit the generation that is portrait in this movie and i know how accurate and authentic it is. don't misinterpret me though. i don't have aids, i didn't f... any virgin and i never beat anybody up. but i feel like i am part of this generation and this is why i feel this movie did a awesome job capturing this generation, this momentum. "},{"Title":"Bleck Controversial Film","Date":"10 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When a film starts out with a seventeen-year-old bloke seducing a twelve-year-old girl just because she's a virgin it clear that this film isn't going to be a light-hearted story.Kids focuses on two friends, Telly (Leo Fitzpatrick) and Casper (Justin Pierce), two seventeen-year-old skaters who seem unfocused in life. They take a lot of drugs, drink, steal and have sex with young girls. Telly only sleeps with virgins because he believes wouldn't get STD and just a lot better then someone who ready had sex. He deliberately seeks out young girls just so he can take their virginity, which shows he is a uncaring bastard and slightly pedophilic. The film focuses on one day in their lives in New York City. One of Telly's victims, 16-year-old Jennie (Chloe Sevigny) finds out she cause the HIV virus off Telly, the only bloke she had sex with. She searching the city to tell Telly that he has got the virus.This film tackles a lot of dark films from urban youth culture, sex, drugs, date rape, HIV and STDs. It shows how ruthless some blokes are to have sex. This film doesn't pull any punches. But at the same time the film seems aimless, just like its characters. As well the film two leads are completely unsympathetic, making you are not care or just wanting them to suffer. I think the film may have had a better impact focusing on Jennie who was a just girl who life is thrown into chaos or one of Telly's victims or a member of their crew who was having doubts about their activities. But then that's the way I would tackle it. The film takes a grim, realist approach, similar to British film-making which works for the storytelling. As well the young actors do well with a tough picture.If you look like this film I recommend watching Thriteen, Kidulthood and best of all A Clockwork Orange.I personally give Kids a 3 out 5. "}{"Title":"Shocking and controversial drama","Date":"6 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Kids follows teenagers Telly and Casper around New York, two guys who have sex with virgins, rob stores and do drugs, unaware that one of Telly's former flings is coming to tell him she is positive with HIV.In one of the most controversial films of the 90's, Kids depicts lives of teenagers in a shocking and realistic film with hard gritty ideologies of illegal activities encoded for dramatic and realistic effect.The main ideology which will get you thinking is sex. Telly, a teenage stereotype, epitomises what a teenager is believed to be like in current society, with his mind on sex, drugs and booze, and is justified through a very shocking opening scene as he lies in bed with a virgin, seducing her. His talk with best friend Casper after is shockingly horrible and very unforgiving, but will instantly get you immersed into his life.As epitomized in films such as Kidulthood, teenagers have this view on sex and think its OK without protection, and Kids shows the dramatic consequences through Jennie, who has only had sex once but catches HIV.This dramatic ideology is essentially realistic to hit out at teenagers, to warn them of the dangers out there, and picks up on such a valid point that the film is watching for this preaching factor alone.The film takes place during one whole day, following Casper and Telly around New York as they get involved in robbery, drugs and parties. Despite the heaviness of the issues, the plot moves at a steady pace, with frequent dramatic moments.Chloe Sevigny (Broken Flowers) gives an excellent performance as Jennie, who you will be in tears with during the course of the film, and Jennie gives a balance of equality by being the strong minded realistic female in the plot, against the fantastical sex loving boys.The ending is unbelievably open and opens the plot into even more controversy, but will take another watch to get a true grip of some ideologies. Kids lacks in a few places but the strong realistic issues regarding teenage life will have you open mouthed come the shocking ending. "},{"Title":"underrated and misunderstood","Date":"9 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This was a highly misunderstood film at the time it was released it was controversial because its showed sex,drugs and violence as an everyday occurrence for the teenagers of new york some reviewers even calling it child porn. The thing that really made it controversial was HIV being spread by teenagers at a very young age,this was the most important aspect of the film because many found it hard to watch well too bad for that crowd because the truth hurts. That sort of thing is happening kids are having unprotected sex, kids are catching STI's.People found this very hard to except because the film shows how fast the aids virus can spread and it only takes one arrogant, reckless sexually active teenager to do it.This is a very sad film that takes place in 24hours an shows teenager with 1 mission to take the virginity of every girl unprotected little does he no is that he has caught the aids virus and his ex girlfriend also positive sets out to find him before he infects another girl. A very sad underrated and misunderstood film. "},{"Title":"The Kids Aren't Alright","Date":"10 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Kids is a shocking and daring view of the youth of our times. Larry Clark puts together a riveting portrayal of kids gone amok and shows what happens if the urges of youth completely take over. The scary fact of the matter is that this story is not a what if story but one of reality and what really goes on in many parts of the world today. The cast gives amazing performances in situations and events that seem to be filmed live for a reality TV show. However because of this the film lacks a strong plot and drifts more from situation to situation. But I believe the point of the film was to give a harsh and uncensored look at what is happening to kids out there so that the viewer might think, what's wrong with this picture?! As a result the film is not one you enjoy watching but afterwards think it was good that you did. "},{"Title":"Responsibility","Date":"8 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Ohh yeah! Another masterpiece depicting nothing else then the human decadency, a bunch of people who have no goals in life and don't take responsibility for their life. If i want to see such masterpieces I'll just turn on the TV and watch the news and let myself get depressed. Instead of making more piece of arts like this, they should start making films that deliver the message which may release people from their poverty and depression take responsibility for yr life and for yourself. And just in case some of u may think that i grew up in a castle on the French Riviera, no, i grew up on the left side of the iron curtain in communism where 20 years ago u had to stay in line 2 hours just to get some bread and flour, and even with the European Union an economical recession in the US is better compared to our economical ascensions. People should start making changes and take responsibility for their lives to make the world a better place. "},{"Title":"Asking for help about the ED Music~~~","Date":"14 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When you are young,not much matters.When you find something that you care about,that's all you got.When you go to sleep,the night you dream will pursue it.when you wake up,it's the same thing the same on you face you can't skip it sometimes when you are young , there is always a place to go inside . that's just it . taking itaway from me,I really got nothing.The last words said by the little boy really shock me a lot.Since we are young ,we pursue the thing without other consideration.We want it so we seem to pay any price for it willingly. Hard to say it's right or wrong,but that's the only way to make us feel alive.That's make the life whole full.When we start to recall our life,may that's the only thing we can remember.Last but not the least, there's something we've done to evident we've been living in this world.I love the ED music of this film very much, but I do not know the name of it, who can help me??? I really need some help... ...Since my English's so poor... ... Can't hear the lyrics clear enough... ... If you have the song or~know the name of it will you please E-mail me? And the address is satandevildom@hotmail.com Thank you very much~~sincerely~~~ "},{"Title":"I love this movie beyond reason","Date":"18 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I am going to hold off on moral judgment of this movie for my review, simply because I found it wildly entertaining. A lot of people seem to think it's exploitation or propaganda; personally, I consider it more of an elaborate fantasy than either of those things, though you do have to wonder if the young screenwriter Harmony Korine is some sort of Holden Caulfield type who absolutely hated his peers. The main storytelling problem is that neither Clark nor Korine gives the slightest explanation for why these kids are the way they are, an obvious requirement if this is going to be taken seriously, but as I said, I will not pass judgment, because this might be the greatest monster movie of the 90s. I will explain more in a second.First, I have to give the movie objective praise for being entertaining in a strictly visual sense. Bright sunlight combines with big, wet, refreshing splashes of color in the outdoor scenes, and at all times the screen is filled with bustling crowds and movement to the point where it becomes overwhelming. I can see where some people might find this annoying, but it does an equal job of creating a sense of heat and agitation that Spike Lee was praised for in Do the Right Thing, and, for me at least, it's fun to watch. (Note that my comments here are only extended to the color scheme other elements that make a good movie, such as pacing, sound quality, etc., generally suck.) So, photographically speaking, it's already enjoyable, but the enjoyment is cranked TO THE MAX with the character of Telly. Now we get to the movie monster thing I was talking about, because Telly is definitely not human except in the strictest of taxonomic terms. Scene one establishes him as a lanky, freckled kid who looks like Alfalfa and talks in an extremely garbled, incomprehensible voice, like he has a mouthful of condoms, and also has somehow gotten a 13 year old girl to fall in love with him. Soon afterward we cut to a group of attractive girls in their mid-teens discussing the horrible sexual experiences they have all had with one guy, and I, the viewer, am taking this in quite passively until I realize they are talking about TELLY. WHOA--BACK UP FOR A SECOND. The same Telly we just saw!?!? I can buy him getting young and inexperienced girls, but hot 17 year olds!? From here on the movie turns into a supernatural thriller as we find out that Telly, who hilariously refers to himself as a f**k monster, has apparently seduced half the teenaged girls of Manhattan with almost no effort--the only explanation being that he has demonic mind control powers. The suspense builds as Jennie (Chloe Sevigny, whose performance is the best in the film) attempts to track down the f**k monster before he gives another 13 year old girl AIDS. The final shots, where she closes in on him, are edited together at increasing speed in the actual convention of monster movies.As an objective portrayal of modern youth, the movie may be accurate for a small part of the population such as Larry Clark and his friends (you can read about his early life in interviews), but normal people will be turned off by it unless they view it as I do an insane, surreal, vivid and captivating fantasy/sci-fi thriller about the world's most unrealistic ladies man who must be stopped at all costs. Be sure you are extremely drunk while watching it; it helps. "},{"Title":"Kids is definitely one of the most horrific portrayals of teen life in the 1990s.","Date":"31 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Larry Clark's highly controversial Kids, released in the spring of 1995, remains to this day one of the most controversial films ever released in history, and there's a good reason why.Never before in the history of Hollywood was such graphic and realistic portrayals of kids gone wrong had ever been attempted in Hollywood, and it's doubtful that another film anytime soon will impact it's generation as Kids did in the mid 1990s.Kids concerns a group of young teenagers living in New York City in the middle of summertime. Instead of going to school, and doing things like normal kids do, these kids are completely out of control, they have unprotected sex, they steal, they nearly kill a skateboarder, you name it, there are no boundaries to the limits that Larry Clark pulls in his landmark and controversial film.The film's premise is where Telly, (played by Leo Fitzpatrick, who was also terrific in Clark's shocking 2001 film Bully), is the main character of the film, loves to have sex, and he loves to have sex with virgins, who are pure in his mind, and require no condoms. In his opening scene, Telly convinces a young 12 year old to have sex with him, and after a lot of convincing she agrees. Telly loves to brag to his friends about his sexual conquests with the neighborhood girls. Eventually this becomes a contest between him and his best friend Telly.Then the shocking occurs, one of Telly's past sexual encounters, Jenny, played by Chole Sevigny of the HBO show, Big Love, discovers she is HIV positive, even though she's convinced that Telly was a virgin at the time. The film becomes a race against time to stop Telly before he infects more people.The films ending, involves one of the most shocking scenes in film history a large orgy of teenagers having unprotected sex with each other, and with an obviously drugged out, Jennie having unprotected sex with Casper, there the film ends.A lot of critics unfairly criticized this film for showing unprotected juvenile sex and activities, but my theory is that the public needs to see films like this as a wake up call.No one said this film is pleasant, far from it, but to hide some of society's ills from our children is downright censorship in my opinion.1995's Kids remains a wake up call to teenagers out of control in a very big city. It's success led to many more similar films from the very controversial Larry Clark. "},{"Title":"Duh!","Date":"29 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" For all of you who simply discard this film as trash, I am afraid you are terribly mistaken. Though it is hard to see, if you look past your first thoughts of discussed, you will see the films true meanings. The movie is about seeing the good in others no matter what, looking past race, and most important, these are KIDS. They aren't old enough to have learned from their mistakes yet, and some of them will, and others wont. Granted that these kids are the extreme of the stereotypical teenager, Larry Clark must realize that in our jaded community you have to show the extreme to get your point across.But this isn't even the most extreme things anymore, even I can relate to many of the things in this movie, and have friends in rehab for things much worse then the kids did. So no more of the kids don't really act like this Bull "},{"Title":"Shocking Cinema *Spoilers*","Date":"27 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Harmony Korine, at the age of only 18, wrote a screenplay that not only dealt with the problems of a specific group of teenagers but also acted as a social comment of the youth of America at the time. The Larry Clarke film Kids, released in 1995 by Shining Excalibur Pictures (a division of Miramax, created solely to distribute this film) follows a group of teenagers living in the poverty of New York, never growing up but simply finding more dangerous and violent ways to satisfy themselves. The story focuses on Telly, a 17 year old skateboarder whose only goal in life is to de-flower as many virgins as he can, all the while drinking, taking drugs and partying with his like-minded group of friends. However the life of his last conquest has just become far more complicated when she discovers she is HIV positive after her all to brief relationship with Telly and now she must find him before he can ruin another virgin. This film has all the markers of shocking cinema, strict 18 certificate, problems with distribution, picketing outside of cinemas, denouncement by the government and persistent rumours surrounding the making of the film concerning scenes said to feature real drug use and sex between the actors. However even to an audience unaware of all this trouble the film itself deals with issues that will shock the majority, it is not just the use of drugs and representation of sex presented, but the openness with which it is dealt. The audience would have to struggle to find any redeeming qualities in any of the main characters aside from Chloë Sevigne, who plays Jennie, the girl trying to track down the sexually indiscriminate Telly whist trying to come to terms with her own predicament. This blatant portrayal of the corrupt lifestyles of inner city teenagers is cruelly underlined by Casper, Telly's friend. He finds Jennie barley conscious at a party and has sex with the inebriated girl, unaware the she is HIV positive, this is a chilling reminder of the risks associated with their choice of actions.Kids is constantly shocking, from the scenes of unprovoked violence, unprotected sex and criminal acts, through to children as young as 10 imitating the older group and partaking in drink and drugs, an ominous suggestion towards the cyclical nature of the life in the city. Yet throughout the whole film the most piercing shock shown is the sense of apathy shared by almost all those on screen to a world so far removed from the upper classes of the modern time. "},{"Title":"Mockumentary about amoral NYC kids who live for drugs and sex.","Date":"11 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" On one level this is an interesting movie to illustrate what can happen to young teenagers who are allowed to grow up essentially without guidance and supervision. In this fictional story, Leo Fitzpatrick plays the lead character Telly, who seems to be about 16 or 17. We only see his mother once, she is in the kitchen nursing her baby, and tells Telly she has no money to give him. But we then see Telly and his friend in mom's bedroom, getting the money she hides in a sock, and taking a few bucks.Telly and his friends act in a manner that we might expect a bunch of juvenile Chimps to act. They have three priorities, get some food, get some sleep, and get as much sex as they can. They have no morals, they steal when they need, they have no remorse at beating up a guy on the street to near death, and they will tell a young girl what she wants to hear to get her to submit to sex.There is a thread of a story, Telly has decided to have sex only with virgins, partly as a way to avoid exposure to STDs. But the irony is, we find out, Telly already has HIV. When a girl who has only been with Telly finds out she has HIV, her goal becomes to warn him and others so he won't infect anyone else.Although it never hints at this, we can look at the movie as a cautionary tale. First, to all the kids who probably shouldn't see it but could benefit from it, this is a way to act which will surely ruin your life and any chance for happiness as an adult. But perhaps more so, to warn parents that here's how your children may be growing up if you are not doing your job.Sadly there will continue to be kids who grow up this way, and as adults we find them on the streets or in prison. "}{"Title":"An alarm clock for parents","Date":"27 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I just watched Kids, one of my friends, who is a huge independent film lover, recommended it. I've seen pretty much on what there is to see with the Teens on Drugs films, or even the sex type of films. While I think this was a poorly made movie and almost made me hate it, I don't think we should shy away from it, especially when there are a growing number of kids out there who are acting just as badly as these kids depicted in the movie. It's incredibly depressing how ignorant we are when we are kids, thinking we're invincible and trying to act all grown up.I think this movie shows what the youth of today is like, in some ways I was glad that it wasn't too dated, because it's kind of an important film. This behavior is the reason actually why I yell at my little cousins about rap music, not to get all holier than thou, I just feel that today's society is just horribly scarred with disrespectful hatred towards race and the opposite sex, it's really just scary to know that my future kids will be surrounded by this crap. But the reason I say this is an alarm clock for parents is that, they need to keep a better eye on their kids, and we can only hope for a better future and hope our kids don't turn out like these kids in the film.6/10 "},{"Title":"bit like a porn","Date":"7 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" film is very interesting and acting is quite realistic very good film for a mature teenager to watch and grasp the truth about sexual diseases but this isn't just for teenagers this is a day in the life of a teenager from the streets not saying that sex has to do with class but this does however represent a lower class background where i do come from and not long out of my teens being there done all that overall great movie much recommended the actors be warned are actually quite young and some scenes are fairly explicit this how ever will not deter u from watching it probley want to watch it more the movie is how ever shortish and would of liken to see more happen although being satisfied in any case ill finish by saying defo get to see this movie if you have,nt "},{"Title":"Honest display of a teenager's life.","Date":"20 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is more of a documentary than a movie for teens. In fact, it was a clever idea to show the real lives of kids in this manner rather than making a movie based on clichès. I consider this to be a honest movie because the situations displayed in the movie are very common among teens.The acting is honest, real. Sevigny delivers the best performance of all the cast. I dug the direction and editing in the movie. As I said, it's like a documentary with the obvious Hollywood referenced script but still it's a movie to watch. It's like the younger version of Trainspotting. A younger and more naive version.Some of the situations could be considered as over the top but overall, this is a must see if you are a teen who likes to think and does not scares that easily. I watched this movie when it first came to the theaters and it was a good experience. Of course, I watched it with fun purposes. "},{"Title":"great film, spoilers, but kept to a minimum","Date":"7 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Just watched this movie, it has to be said this is a real eye-opener.Kids tells the story of a group of teenagers from New York who love nothing else but to get high, drunk and have sex. However there is one thing that they do not know too much about, nor do they think that it will ever happen to them, this one thing being disease and more specifically HIV. From a viewers perception we see how it is all fun to start with, with small thoughts on the whole debacle, but how easy it is for someones life to be conflicted from one passionate moment.Straight from the first scene, the director lets you know exactly what to expect from this movie, i won't spoil it for you but basically it involves under age sex which is realistic in the way that the scene is shot. Showing the worries of sex from a virgins point of view. This scene also displays how one can tell the other not to worry and how simplistic but yet effective it all is to change a young persons mind.From then on we get a good feel of the teenage lifestyle in New York at that time, were people don't care about the possibility of STD's but just care about getting what they want which in this case is sex.The way the film shows the discussion of boys talking about sex and girls talking about sex is brilliant as each opinion conflicts with the opposite sex shown by switching between scenes after each discussion is made. But also shows the fickle mind between both in the sense that they both love sex and don't care too much about it being unprotected.From then on, there is so many jaw-dropping scenes that in effect there is too many to mention, but all in all this is a must see movie which i also believe would be an eye opener for teens even now. Kids makes you think, it makes you laugh, it also makes you sad and in the times were people think only about one thing, it really does change a person and make you think twice. 8/10 "},{"Title":"great film, spoilers, but kept to a minimum","Date":"7 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Just watched this movie, it has to be said this is a real eye-opener.Kids tells the story of a group of teenagers from New York who love nothing else but to get high, drunk and have sex. However there is one thing that they do not know too much about, nor do they think that it will ever happen to them, this one thing being disease and more specifically HIV. From a viewers perception we see how it is all fun to start with, with small thoughts on the whole debacle, but how easy it is for someones life to be conflicted from one passionate moment.Straight from the first scene, the director lets you know exactly what to expect from this movie, i won't spoil it for you but basically it involves under age sex which is realistic in the way that the scene is shot. Showing the worries of sex from a virgins point of view. This scene also displays how one can tell the other not to worry and how simplistic but yet effective it all is to change a young persons mind.From then on we get a good feel of the teenage lifestyle in New York at that time, were people don't care about the possibility of STD's but just care about getting what they want which in this case is sex.The way the film shows the discussion of boys talking about sex and girls talking about sex is brilliant as each opinion conflicts with the opposite sex shown by switching between scenes after each discussion is made. But also shows the fickle mind between both in the sense that they both love sex and don't care too much about it being unprotected.From then on, there is so many jaw-dropping scenes that in effect there is too many to mention, but all in all this is a must see movie which i also believe would be an eye opener for teens even now. Kids makes you think, it makes you laugh, it also makes you sad and in the times were people think only about one thing, it really does change a person and make you think twice. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Astonishing; An honest, powerful piece of film-making","Date":"16 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" PLOT An amoral young skater (Telly played by Leo Fitzpatrick) sets out to deflower as many virgins as possible, but things go badly when one (Jennie, played by Chloe Sevigny) gets tested for HIV. The HIV positive Jennie finally tracks down Telly, but discovers him having sex with young Darcy, potentially infecting her with HIV. Later, while Jennie is passed out on a couch surronded by drunk, half naked teens, from the drug she took earlier, Casper, a friend of Telly's, rapes her, unknowingly potentially infecting himself with HIV.Larry Clarkes Kids is certainly a powerful, raw and eye-opening piece of film-making and brakes every boundary in the movie industry, one of the most compelling, honest films I've ever seen, at some points a little trashy, vulgar and maybe a little tough to swallow for the light-hearted but very provocative, it's one of those films that must to be talked about after viewing. The film suggests no solution for this situation, and there certainly won't be one any time soon, as almost everything portrayed in this film, is still happening (and getting even worse now), it merely shows what happens when predatory people are loosed upon society, and when kids leave their childhood in adolescence, and loose their innocence. A lot of the film is about the danger of AIDS/HIV from unprotected sexual acts also, apart from alcahol and drug use amongst youths. Evidently Telly has the HIV virus and is spreading it around with gusto. Although it did give the story some poignancy, one would miss the point of the film entirely if all one got out of it was a message about so-called safe sex. The film also makes no argument that this particular group of kids is in any way typical of their generation, although some people who have viewed this film have leaped to that conclusion. It is a work of fiction, after all, not a documentary, despite the fact that due to the camera angles and the way the film is produced, people have believed that it was all in fact a documentary.You'll watch Kids repeating is this real? and soon even though it's not an exploration film, the events and the people exist and happen and not just among the segment of the younger population portrayed in this film, it happens with everyone, in fact everyone does it. And, unlike most people I never found anything totally pornographic, I saw a raw and honest depiction of youth, definitely disgusting, as well. It happens everywhere, not just in New York City&#133;but everywhere. It's a good film, not a great film but it's certainly one you'll never forget, and I recommend (to the strong stomach peoples out there)! And I must say it has left many raw, frightening and harsh imagary in my mind, and not many films can do such a thing to me, so I must praise this film and the director for having the ability to do such. In a very tonned down and cut form, this should be shown in high schools, as a study on sexuality, drug use and AIDS/HIV in the sexual education class...honestly, I mean honestlyIf you like Kids, you'll also like Thirteen, Bully, Fun7.9/10 "},{"Title":"The sex and lusts of kids in the USA. A world of emptiness drugs and random encounters.","Date":"20 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Modern day existentialism? I don't know. The nihilistic drug and sex filled world of todays teens and preteens seems to be betrayed here in this voyeur trip into there world.Maybe it is true there is nothing but sex and emptiness. People drift and float around without any purpose except copulation and drugs. A film without real plot about from the HIV infection of a young virgin from her first sexual encounter.The rape scene of the same girl when she was unconscious from drugs was quite shocking but at the same time it seemed to fit into story somehow. Not a film to give one hope in humanity. But still a unique film and worth seeing. "},{"Title":"wow, what a movie!","Date":"16 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" KIDS is, at best, a very disturbing film. Don't get me wrong, it's not disturbing in a bad way but in a good way. It makes you open your eyes.CHLOE SEVIGNY plays a girl named JENNIE who has just found out she tested HIV positive. Throughout the movie she searches for TELLY (LEO FITZPATRICK-from another LARRY CLARK movie BULLY), the guy who made her this way. TELLY is a teenage sex fiend who likes to deflower virgins and has his eyes on a certain girl. JENNIE must find him to stop him from doing this to another person. When she finally does get to the party where TELLY is at, it is too late. He has already deflowered his new conquest. JENNIE, being drugged up, passes out on the couch. CASPER (JUSTIN PIERCE-who, by the way, committed suicide in real life by hanging himself) sees this has an advantage to have, I guess to him, some much needed sex. So, there in the living room, he proceeds to have sex with the drugged up JENNIE. CASPER wakes up the next morning, says something along the lines of Oh, sh*t and the movie ends.KIDS is, probably, one of the most powerful movies you will ever see. "},{"Title":"IMDb Grade doesn't reflect real quality of this film","Date":"7 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I was disappointed with the grade on this film. I heard a lot about the film, finally got around to see it, and was surprised with its accuracy, reality, and courage this film displays. It is a true-to-life depiction of teenage America, which, although some may find offensive for language or morals, in my view does complete justice to today's culture. Unfortunately, The tag line does not paint a realistic picture of the story either. Story is based on realistic development of characters, filmed in a quasi verite style, which increases the story's veracity. Characters are uncontrived, real. Rare story coming out of the 90's, a time when AIDS was still considered taboo. Not scary or depressing. Heartly recommend! "},{"Title":"KIDS isn't that wrong about real life.","Date":"13 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" i loved this movie, simply because.. unlike the last comment... it reminded me a lot of all the people i hung around with as a teenager. partying, skating, fighting, doing just about every stupid thing you could do to yourself. it tells of hard times and good times. times of being a good guy then turning around and ruining that image.Rosario Dawson in her first big role as a teenage girl who catches the eye of our main character telly. this movie also has one of my favorite first narrative lines ever...Virgins. I love 'em. if that doesn't give you an idea... i don't know what will.the movie itself i've heard to be rather disturbing. so if you don't have a strong mind, or stomach.. i wouldn't recommend it. "}{"Title":"Captures teen life","Date":"6 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Before last year, I had never heard of the movie Kids. Someone at my school had the tape and passed it around to everyone in the school. My peers saw it and one by one everyone was telling me about how good it was. So when I got my hand on it, I expected a good movie. What I got was an accurate portrayal of teens in todays society. It may have been released in '95 but from what I've seen in my 17 years of life, it is very relevant. Basically, it takes a look at the lives of several New York City teens and the real drama of the film begins when one of them is infected with HIV. In this film we see the beginning of the careers of young actresses like Rosario Dawson and Chloe Sevigny. What I also liked about the movie is that it showed the experimental sex and drug use that is practiced among teens in such a graphic and accurate way. It never sugar coated anything. That's the type of films that I like to see. To sum everything up, rent Kids now (especially teens)it is a great movie.Kids- ****/**** "},{"Title":"Honest attempt!","Date":"4 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film works to expose the secret life of a certain culture group (unsupervised inner city white kids) as an innocent lost affair. This is fairly true, and although the dialog and action can be described as 'realistic' there are probably many examples of behavior and language that's a lot worse than what goes on in this film. The most striking is that there is a 'comeuppance' at the end whereas most of this kind of behavior exists and thrives without any immediate and apparent consequences. But the point is that this is bad behavior and will have a bad ending. Whether all that is true or not is one for the social philosophers, but it's a great movie to bring up that subject and execute it fairly well. "},{"Title":"Watch it with an open mind","Date":"21 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Kids is vulgar but realistic,it gets under your skin.Watching this movie may change your party life and sex life.It's still a good movie,like all of Larry Clarks movies,vulgar but good.Life is vulgar he just shows that from his point of view.Kids was banned in some countries because of it's content.Even in America it was bad mouthed.When I first saw it I thought it was a cool movie,but then I saw the life I was living and it scared me.I didn't want to end up like the kids in the movie.I now look at this movie in a different way,but I still love it.It changed my life and it could change yours.If your a parent of a teen and are worried if their having sex show them this movie. "},{"Title":"A stark warning of society's downfalls","Date":"17 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a clearly daunting film, where we as the viewer can follow a group of troubled youths as they engage in smoking drinking and fighting. Larry Clarke, has, in my opinion dwelled too much on the sexual content of the film, and thus releasing this excellent movie of it's shocking material. Realistically the film explains its intention immediately and although issues bar underage sex and HIV occur I still feel that the film just places too much emphasis on the troubles of the youth. Yes this film raises eyebrows, for much of the film deals with very delicate topics that are constantly growing as the years pass. But despite this I feel that the film depicts the worst of the worst. It does not single out a more mundane set of characters to make the film seem more realistic, but instead it focuses on an extremely naive teenagers and in my opinion dampens the brutal effect. Gus Van Sant helped to make this film and he is clearly a controversial film maker. One of his later films 'Elephant' explores the delicate issue of gun crime. It would do you good to see this film, but I recommend that you see another film too, that in my opinion delivers the ultimate insight into troubled youth and social class; La Haine, which was released around the same time as Kids is far superior in its message and although it would do you good to see Kids, La Haine is essential viewing. "},{"Title":"required viewing for parents of 6 year olds...","Date":"21 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie opens and closes with identical scenes...a guy deflowering a virgin. While the opening scene may titillate an audience which is too young to see the movie in a theater, by the time the closing and yet better framed scene arrives all sexual interest has been stripped from the viewer. The effect of this movie is depressing and, if you have a child, equally terrifying. It points to the moral abyss that yawns open to accept those who have rejected the puriance of their elders but have not yet found their own way. Like in life, in this story there is no salvation...these children are swallowed by that abyss and there they will die.This movie should be required viewing for parents of kids who are just starting school and might work with early teens in a manner similar to that of shock drunk driving programs.  "},{"Title":"Eeew.","Date":"12 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Of all of the movies I have seen, (Oh, and believe me, there's been many.) this has got to be one of the most outrageous and revolting film I have EVER come across. As IMDb reviewer John Taylor said before me, this vulgar film opens with a boy and girl -both have extremely bad skin by the way- making out on a bed, only it's not ordinary making out, these kids are like MAULING each other! They are eating each other's faces! It's disgusting! The scene continues with the boy, Telly (Leo Fitzpatrick) telling this 13 year old girl about how much he loves her and basically he is coaxing her into having sex with him...HOWEVER, you cannot really hear this dialogue because it seems that Leo forgot to remove his retainer on the set! So instead you hear drooling and lots of vowels instead. Anyway, this Telly kid ends his little coaxing speech by telling this girl that he would never hurt her... CUT TO Telly on top of the girl pounding away and the girl screaming, Oh GOD STOP! PLEASE STOP TELLY IT HURTS! OW! IT HURTS!Hmm. Let's continue.The film goes on to introduce Telly's best friend Casper, as they head for their hangout at a drug-haven apartment. On the way to this crackhouse, we learn that both Telly and Casper are very much into stealing the virginity of girls anywhere from the age of 9 and up. Pretty gross huh?Anyway, when they reach their little drug haven they start to talk about their fetishes whilst smoking dope with druggies from the ages 6 to 20. Suddenly, the phone rings, and it's a group of GIRLS who are *also* into this bizarre nymphomania. But most importantly, this is the introduction to the decent, but very creepy Chloe Sevigny, who plays Jenny.To skip through all of the mumbo jumbo hubbub, we'll fast forward 20 minutes.Jenny and one of her sex addict friends go to a clinic to get tested for STD's. (At least 2 of the girls in this movie have half of what you would call a brain.) We go on to find out that Chloe's friend is clean and doesn't have anything... Chloe on the other hand discovers that she is HIV positive... Thus begins the strange and graphic mission of Jenny, that makes up the real story to KIDS. The only boy to whom Jenny(Chloe) had ever had sex with was the diabolical Telly, and it becomes her mission to tell him before he can spread the disease to anyone else. Jenny knows that it is too late for her, but she *can* save the lives of everyone else telly is hungry for if she can get to him in time.If you want to see a vulgar and disturbing movie, rent KIDS.  "},{"Title":"Epic","Date":"4 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  For those of you who do not know, the lead actor, Leo Fitzpatrick WAS a street kid who was found by Larry Clark. And to add to that Larry Clark was a photographer who took pictures of real life. I have seen his set Tulsa at the Art Gallery and it was awesome. My point is this, they now how life is for some people. That is why he chooses to make his movies like this. The faux-documentary is the best way to profile the two characters of Telly and Casper as they travel through the day. This film is not as explicit as his other Bully or Ken Park but at points it can seem more real, just because of the camera work and colouring. Its definitely a must see for those who like a shocking movie that has a truly real message. And for those lucky people, a really good laugh at the comedy.  "},{"Title":"Fraud","Date":"16 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This exploitation film- in the fraudulent guise of a true-story documentary, is what talentless filmmakers make to gain attention. It's a slapdash mishmash of sex, drugs, AIDS, cursing, violence, and every other hot-button issue to get people talkingKids- when first released- was considered controversial... an eye-opener that had people asking, Is this REALLY the way kids are?!?No.The only thing worse than happy Hollywood bullsh*t is gritty Indie bullsh*t... but at the end of the day there isn't much difference.For other awful movies from the makers of Kids, try Gummo and Teenage Caveman. You've been warned.GRADE D- "},{"Title":"Weak.","Date":"5 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Despite everybody's comments that this is an intense, gritty documentary that shows what  teenagers are really like, I have to disagree. I think that this is hype, and crass stupidity, that  scares people into thinking that this is how all teenagers are. I have a few points to pick out  about the film.A) The title implies that the film is a tell all informative look at the world of /all/ teenagers,  which it is not. It is simply a look at the lives of inner city teenagers whose parents have not  raised them to find the subtle shades of grey between good and bad. Instead of being the  rule, these kids are the exception to the rule, and the film leads parents to believe that all  their kids are out there getting high, drunk and having unprotected sex, wildly and without  reason.B) The so called /gritty/ filmmaking style doesn't work. There is something in the editing  style that makes the film seem like a total fake, weak representation of what could be out  there. The attempt at gritty realism falls flat on its face as the film proceeds, and becomes a  gummy, stuffy, convoluted mass of worthless scum.C) Parents If your kids are doing this kind of stuff, it needs to be stopped, but the best way  to find out, and put a stop to this is to find information on the internet on how to deal with  kids who are out of control. This movie is not going to help in any way except to scare you.D) Everyone here is saying that this comes very close to kiddy porn. Kiddy porn is quite  possibly one of the most vile, disgusting things that humans have ever created, but this is  not kiddy porn. This is a weak attempt to show the (contrived) sex lives of teenagers.E) I cannot imagine what kind of idiot girl would submit to Telly's Don Juan tactics. Telly is  not an attractive person (in my eyes at least, but I'm a guy), and he is incredibly stupid, and  talks like it as well. What kind of girl would want to lose her virginity to a guy she had known  for two hours? I am at a complete loss as to why these girls are so incredibly dumb. I think  that this is simply a sexist portrayal of women in general, showing them as being stupid and  incredibly submissive sex objects. This film angered me, because it was such a poor portrayal of teenage life.If you want to see a gritty, wrenching, painfully abusive film that sticks with you for a long  time, watch Requiem for a Dream. Requiem for a Dream is possibly one of the most intense  films I have ever seen. Kids, on the other hand, is not, by a long shot. "},{"Title":"Ugly","Date":"3 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I had seen Bully and out of curiosity decided to rent Kids.  Giant waste of time.  I thought this was one of the ugliest movies I've ever seen.I don't know what the director or screenwriter were trying to say -- if anything -- other than 'when the cat's away the mice will play.'  I have no doubt that there is a subculture of kids out there who are raising themselves and become predator and victim to all kinds of behaviors and substances.  Which is a tragedy.  But in this exploration, if that is what it could be called, the director painted a portrait of hedonistic, misogynistic boys and stupid, naive girls in which only one, the character of Jennie played quite well by Chloe Sevigny, drew out any of my sympathy.A couple of things that I could not buy1)  That a guy as flat-out ugly as Telly could seduce girls into losing their virginity.  There is no possible way a girl even half as attractive as the two girls he slept with onscreen would go near a guy who looked like that.2)  Girls talking with each other in detail about their sex exploits. Maybe I've just never met people like this, but I have an extremely hard time believing that there are girls out there that like to sit around and trade sex secrets with their friends.This movie is a waste of time on many levels.  The main characters of Telly and Casper are utterly sickening, the portrayal of women as morons is wholly insulting and it left me with a bad taste in my mouth. "}{"Title":"Wonderful perverse experience","Date":"29 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film is not about safe sex! They may try to market it as one, but this is definitely not the focus of this film. 'Kids' rather handles a very sick society and is a wonderful cinematic experiment of kids exploitation cinema. I don't know how they got the actors for this film, but in the first scene I must admit I felt disgusted by the almost pornographic shots of kisses between a 15 years old guy (who looks about 13 years old) and a 13 years old girl (who looks about 9). This is like the wildest movie about sex, drugs and rock'nroll - only it is about kids doing all that in way most of us never imagined. The effect is wonderfully perverse. The perverse adult world looks even more perverse played by the kids.This is reality for some. Being 25 years old, I am shocked at how fast I am being shock by kids.Ido Hartogshon  "},{"Title":"Hard movie to swallow","Date":"24 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Kids is a movie that has an interesting premise but an awful execution. Simply put, the performance of the late Justin Pierce steals the show, as he provides comedy and drama in those crucial moments.Unfortunately, the other parts of the movie, such as the constant sex, drugs, and violence really make this movie seem less and less real as it goes along.  Also, the documentary feel just doesn't work.  We know it's not real, we gathered that from all the rampant illegal acts.If you want to see what all the fuss is about from this controversial movie, give it a rent, but in all honesty, this movie has aged horribly and should be viewed with extreme caution. "},{"Title":"horrific","Date":"5 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I had heard a lot of good reviews of kids from friends and was even more encouraged by the many positive comments that people have posted on imbd. However, all this achieved was to build me up for a very big and very sickening fall. I do not post many comments on imbd but as soon I had watched kids I felt I needed to channel my anger and frustration against something. This film was not poignant; except for maybe a few scenes with the HIV riddled Jennie. It is not powerful or groundbreaking. In fact it's just not good. It's not even a proper film. The only reason I might watch this film is to see two young girls kissing in a pool. As for the rest of this train wreck of a film, it can kiss my narrow arse. It is just a gang of white lads who, for some bizarre reason, want to be black. Now that is fun for a while but what is the need in seeing little kids taking drugs. This film was designed to trap people. It was made overly shocking to grab people's attention, which I have no problem with. however, many of the more ignorant viewers believe that is very grown up to say you like a film with such a dark subject matter, well if that is your only aim then watch 'the secretary' and keep your mouth shut. The acting is abysmal. In conclusion anyone who likes this film has clearly taken leave of their senses, and that's all I have to say about that.  "},{"Title":"Can't put this movie into words, but I'll try...","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Kids is a great movie with a point with what some of the teenagers in the world are doing these days, although almost all of it isn't that true, and if it is, then that's not good. I understand how they use an extensive amount of profanity, as do I, but having sex with almost every girl that you can isn't something I go out and do.I remember one scene where the a kid does a 360 Flip (skateboard trick) and hits a 'black' man (I hate using that term, I'm white, but I'm not racist) and then he starts to talk 'trash' about the kid who hit him. Not knowing what is going on, the black kid gets hit in the back of the head with a skateboard from another kid and a big fight breaks out against the black kid. It's approx. 30 kids hitting this black kid, and he is down on the ground bleeding from his head and chest. One kid holds him up, and another smacks him in the face with the 'trunks' (wheels with metal bars) of the skateboard, and then spits on him claiming that this is his turf.I had it by then, cause I couldn't believe that kids are doing that during their daily time. Drug use is normal amongst teens, and I know they wanted to state that in this movie, but also slipping a girl with a drug that knocks her out for awile just to have sex with her isn't really that true. This movie is extremely informing, but is also informing us of some wrong material. Maybe that is normal behavior in Brooklyn or Harlem, but not in my city.I rate this movie 4/10 stars, cause it is mostly about lame things that only 'sick' people like my friend Lawrence would watch, he wanted me to watch it, so I did, and I pretty much hated it. He enjoys this kind of crap, and also just bought a movie called Salo which is also very demented, so I hope he doesn't ruin his life and end up making even more twisted films.Kids aren't doing most of these things, trust me, and if they do, then there's nothing that we can do, they're going to disobey you (adults) anyway. This is some world that we are living in today, and I don't want to be a part of it if this movie is completely based on real life. Think about it for just 1 second, and you'll see what I mean.Thanks  "},{"Title":"Perhaps the worst movie I have ever seen","Date":"21 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have a lot of problems with this film. As has been widely documented, it features some of the most vile, distressing scenes imaginable. Telly is for me the most repugnant character in the history of cinema, and the abuse the female characters in the film suffer by him is heartbreaking. This film was a total endurance test for me, and at the end I felt an overwhelming sense of relief that it was over. I then began to think about the movie a little deeper, and pondered its message. What was Larry Clark saying? Why did he make this film? Of course there are people who behave like the characters in this film. Everyone who is likely to watch the movie knows this, so what was his purpose in creating such a cauldron of wonton debauchery? He neither explains how the youths got to be this way, or how the social problems can be best tackled. Having thought about it for some time, I am at a loss to explain why this film was made, and as such I say this is a sick, totally pointless exercise in shocking an audience. Depraved. "},{"Title":"An Immature Film","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie was completely immature. The only thing brilliant about this movie was that it was targeted at teenagers (kids),and so it gave them what they wanted; gluttony of sex and drugs. And so this is what gives it the undeserved, overrated cult status it has today. To say this film was a wake up call is an insult to my intelligence. Nobody is denying that this happens. And you are an even bigger idiot for believing that the adults of todays conservative society are ignorant to kids' true lives. The dialogue was flimsy and the visuals were completely lacking. The camera is simply used as a recording device, nothing more. Anybody could make a movie about sex and drugs to stir curiosity. The movie take an hour and a half to make a bad stale, hackneyed statement about troubled youth.And so in conclusion I would say that any smart filmmaker could say what Larry Clark said in 10 minutes. The concept isn't that complicated. But Spieldberg could probably do it in 2.If you would like to question any of this I will gladly welcome the challenge.  "},{"Title":"Brutally Honest","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Having grown up in the south, I can't say I've had any experiences that can compare to the lives of these kids. However, I shared a seat with each of the characters as we all rode the emotional roller coaster that is Kids. I could never begin to imagine what each of the characters went through in the movie, I don't think I could do it. And what I felt was so scary, is the fact that this may be a fictional movie, but there are kids on the street living this life every day.    "},{"Title":"Nothing more than pure exploitation","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It is amazing how this movie caused such controversy around the time it was released and then ended up being crap. I can not believe how much people like this movie. Its not even a movie. Its more like a documentary but a bad one at that. Its a disgrace that a movie with no plot, no answers, no solutions could be enjoyed so much. The film is nothing more than trash.The most disturbing part for me is that how Larry clark could take such an important subject matter and exploit it. I do admit though that the film is powerful in parts. For a moment I felt sorry for the girl who had found that she was HIV positive. After that though I didnt care.But what annoys me the most about this film is that Clark can only keep the viewer interested by being exploitive. Every action or line that comes out of every character's mouth is more shocking then the next. Dont get me wrong though, I like films that shock but I dont like them when there is no point. And with Kids there is none.If you like watching movies and can understand how a good story is structured then many will agree with me that Kids is the most over rated movie ever made.  "},{"Title":"I didn't care about the kids.","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie was surrounded by a lot of hype and controversy.  I never got around to seeing it until lately (a few years after it was released).  I have to say that I was somewhat disappointed.  It told a slice of life story that was probably pretty close to what goes on in the streets of the big city.  However, the way the characters were presented didn't make me really care what happened to them.  That is the main problem with this movie, the fact that things happen to these characters but after the movies over you don't really care. "},{"Title":"A cult classic","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Larry Clark's gritty drama is an underrated cult classic and definitely one of my favourite films. The direction is spot-on, giving the film a  gritty and realistic style. As a fifteen year old, i can relate to a lot of the issues and events presented in the film and i sure that at least some of the aspects of the film will ring true to any teenager. The best thing about the film is the impressive performances of the young cast, especially Leo Fitzpatrick who is perfectly cast as Tell "}{"Title":"Not the Best but good","Date":"5 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is of course not the best movie ever made. Everyone should know that Fight Club is. It is actually like someone took a video camera and followed a bunch of NYC kids for one day. They put everything in the movie. They were truthful and any movie that is truthful is good. "},{"Title":"These are the real teenagers.","Date":"27 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Kids is the only film I have seen that shows the real life of the teenagers. No other film shows the real things that happens in teenager life like this one,the real teenagers are like this ;they take drugs,drink a lot of alcohol, and when they aren't ****ing (oh!,sorry,I am swearing!), they are thinking about sex (always;boys and girls want to have sex the same). I like to talk about the real life;that's the reason why I am writing about this film;this film is the real life, not stupid things you see in (surrealist) teen movies ,like She's all that,Down to you, American Pie,10 things I hate about you,and a large etc...You must be asking yourself how I know how the teen life is;and I know it because when I was a teenager, I and my friends used to do the same things this film show.So, if you want to know how the real teen life is,see this film;it's the pure reality. "},{"Title":"Very powerful, disturbing, but very good overall","Date":"1 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The filming, which is akin to the sort employed in docu-dramas that we have been seeing a lot of recently, transcends the movie-denoted style and brings the main themes straight in front of your face. You feel sometimes confronted by the seediness from the outset, leaving an uncomfortable feeling. Yet the source of this uncomfort is really rooted in the realism of the work. The themes underpinning the move - particularly of the dangers of permiscuity - are somewhat preachy, but raises a point in such a dramatic way that it is hard not to be effected and not to take notice. "},{"Title":"The most realistic portrayal of teenage life I have ever seen.","Date":"6 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  To sum up Kids in one word I would say amazing.  Never have I seen such a realistic portrayal of teenage life. It being banned was simply scandalous. It portrayed AIDS in the most realistic manner that it could be shown and punched through the message that the disease is here and it can be caught so easily.A masterpiece.   "},{"Title":"Over hyped","Date":"1 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  When this film was released it caused great controversy and was criticised for 'exploiting children', so when i rented out this film i expected it to shock me, however this is no more shocking than a regular day in a city high school. Maybe the reason that i was not alarmed by this is because i am 14 myself and well aware of the drugs,sex and violence surrounding teenagers in modern society. The fact that adults (mainly parents) criticised this film for being 'sick' or 'unrealistic' illustrates perfectly the fact that parents are not aware of what is going on their childrens lives.  "},{"Title":"Harsh realities come to life.","Date":"19 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie stunned me at first. How could someone have the balls to show such material. This surprise soon turned into utter fascination. KIDS was superbly casted in it's cinema verite like presentation. It is harsh. It is reality for some. And most of all, it was convincing to one, myself, at least.   "},{"Title":"I want a bucket!","Date":"21 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Well , where do you start with a movie like this?? ok lets start at the beginning. The first scene opens with some spotty young kids kissing , or should i say eating each other! totally revolting. Thing go down hill from there. Having said that this film is engrosing and fascinating to watch , sometimes disturbing but mostly annoying. These are the most immature kids i have ever seen on the big screen yet they asked to do to each other only what adults are capable of. Perhaps this film was made for the Directors own sexual gratification? i dont know . but what i do know is , its one the most explicit mainstream films i have ever seen if not THE most. 5 out of 10.    "},{"Title":"That´s reality","Date":"1 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie surely is disturbing,but it´s well done.The dialogue isn´t bad or stupid,but authentic. Regarding the massive discussion about this movie and whether today´s Kids are really that wayYes they´re that way.Not only in cities,but also in smaller towns.Everything shown in this movie is accurate.The reason why parents can´t believe this,is because the kids don´t tell them what they´re doing in their free-time.This movie is an honest description of (a big part of) today´s youth and everybody should have the chance to see it! "},{"Title":"THE BEST MOVIE I HAVE EVER SEEN!","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The best movie ever about teenagers! That movie is so true,it gives a good look at what it's like to be a teenager. Pretty tough if you've seen the movie. AIDS is a big factor in today's society, I think Jennie played a good role as a virgin who had sex for the first time. Casper was my favorite character. "},{"Title":"A surreal documentary?","Date":"8 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is a masterpiece. I gave it a ten. When thinking about other films that I have given a ten to, this one received that rating for a different reason. Others have received a ten for overall excellence in a multitude of areas such as acting, writing, cinematography... but I believe that Kids deserved this rating because I am still not sure what was real and what was not in this film. I can think of no other film that I felt this way about. I am so impressed with the guts it took to cast this film with unknowns and the style of direction which Larry Clark chose. So truly unique. Wow!   "}{"Title":"Not a masterpiece movie, yet a very important social message","Date":"4 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I'm not conservative by any means. Yet even I must admit that I was slightly shocked by this film. What shocked me however was not the picture but the realization that such events happen, and happen regularly in real life. Granted, the movie does show extreme examples which are not always true in real life, yet I know from own experience that these things happen, both on the scale shown in the movie and also somewhat 'milder'. Another reason why I believe that the portrayal is so extreme is because it tries to educate both parents and children that sex, alcohol and drugs must not be abused (as opposed to used). Therefore it sends a strong message showing what happens when these are abused.One of the many complaints about this film is that the characters are bland and undeveloped. Partly true. Yet is it not true that many teenagers, especially in the USA (excuse the America bashing, but I've experienced it) are in fact bland undeveloped characters with little substance to their lives. Loss/Absence of values both moral and on an even larger scale cultural is the norm rather than exception.Despite its many flaws I think this movie carries an important social message. It's an eye opener. In my opinion all parents who believe that they shield their children from sex, alcohol and drugs are very naive to believe that they are 100% successful. More importantly shielding through ignoring the subject, not talking about it and flat out forbidding is contra-productive. I hope that more parents will actually talk openly to their children about these topics and educate them rather than keep them in the 'dark ages'. "},{"Title":"The scariest movie I've ever seen","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is undoubtably the most terrifying movie I've ever seen, with Telly (Leo Fitzpatrick) taking the prize for the scariest movie villain. He was like a wolf stalking the innocent sheep, with a sadistic pleasure that makes your skin crawl. It wasn't an easy movie to watch, but as a teenage girl I found it to be an IMPORTANT movie. It's so easy to fall for a guy who seems to honestly care for you, but your can't forfeit your intelligence when entering a new relationship. Fantastic debuts for Fitzpatrick and Sevigny, who both deserve a lot of recognition for their roles.  "},{"Title":"A brief comment on Kids","Date":"1 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie could be degrading women and promoting alcohol or unprotected sex. Good we can agree on that much. But it is so, because the purpose for it is, to fight fire with fire. The movie is an advocate against any acts the antihero's, in this film, participate in. I was a teenager when I first saw the film. I had no longing, whatsoever, to do any of the things they had just done. This movie brings criticisms of drugs and alcohol, unprotected sex and violence to another level. Everyone who saw it with me, would agree. And another thing they would agree on is that this movie did not, in any way, make them want to taste alcohol or take drugs or have unprotected sex or engage in violence of any sort for some time. This hullabaloo of violence and drugs does not seem to the audience as a fascinating world. And if it does not do that I must admit that I cannot see why it is such a harmful movie as people tend to say it is.This tactic is called reverse psychology and everyone who do not seem to realize it tend to get very angry because of the message they think it is spreading. My advice is try learn something about psychology, sociology and philosophy before you comment in any haste. And you will get my meaning. It are movies like this that criticize, all those things mentioned above, in a more sever manner than those lenient 'do not take drugs' advertisements. But all in all, this movie sums up a close-up view of teenagers in a very disgusting way, and if it is not as real as some may tend to think it is, mainly because they themselves have not experienced such childhood or, on the more ironical side, have a child they think they know up-close, then it is still a movie to enjoy.Thank you for reading... "},{"Title":"Exploited Teenage Angst","Date":"8 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Once in a while you encounter a movie that's so unbearably amoral in content and execution that all the usual redeeming qualities present in a balanced review are for naught.That's surely the case with this vile and voyeuristic depiction of teenage sociopaths. The abominable direction pretends to awake social conscience with a wagging finger, but revels in pictures of child nudity and aggression. A real understanding of and empathy for the protagonists is nowhere in sight, neither is the director capable of an unbiased clinical character study. What we really get is a tasteless exploitation of issues like rape and AIDS to generate cheap suspense.These kids are treated like freaks in a traveling show, not human beings.To see how this kind of pic is done the right way, watch any Michael Haneke movie instead.1 out of 10 points is even too much for this filth "},{"Title":"CRAZY AND UNRESTRICTED! THE 10TH Anniversary","Date":"19 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie is very good. It's basically about teen sex in the mid 90's and the dangers of HIV among sexually active people. this movie takes place in nyc in 1995, at the time i was 16. It was so real to me , just watching it i felt like a teenager back in the 90'5. the characters were raw and unrestricted . The situations were so real . it's almost like it was a documentary. casper is my favorite characters. so wild and unleashed. he reminded me of a lot of young guys like that in nyc. R.I.P to justin pierce (the actor who played casper). it's a good movie to watch with your peoples. good , crazy ,wild and funny movie. GET IT!!!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Not Enjoyable, But Realistic","Date":"9 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Kids is a largely realistic portrayal of life for a certain strata of New York youth society. The one major departure from reality is the depiction of this subculture as racially mixed. This is inaccurate; although such behaviour can be observed separately in all racial groups, such groups are strictly delineated along racial lines.This depiction is in itself an interesting (and unintended) comment on the subculture of the media classes. Their taboos and mores require that they show harmonious racial integration even in a film which focuses on one of the lowest underclass subcultures in contemporary American society.Kids was made in 1995, and cast a light on a cultural phenomenon that affects an even greater number of people &#150; across the Western world &#150; today. The film is even more relevant now than it was in 1995.Many people, existing within mainstream societal culture, find it difficult to believe that such subcultures exist. The values (or what they perceive as an absence of values) held by the characters in the movie differ so greatly from the assumed norm that many will believe such lifestyles to be no more than a dark fantasy. This is a mistake. Such subcultures do indeed exist.Across Western society, over the last four decades there has been a steady progression away from what are currently termed `traditional' values towards the values seen in Kids. This trend is merely more advanced amongst the underclass than in society as a whole. In truth, the logical and inevitable result of social liberalism is that all society must adopt the behavioural patterns exhibited in Kids.The extent to which mainstream Western society has already come to resemble the Kids culture is not widely appreciated within Western populations. The reality is that in many places in America (and elsewhere) the recreational activities of heavy drinking, drug use, and promiscuous sex have become the norm amongst the young. (In this context `young' no longer refers to those aged 18 to 25, but rather to those aged 12 to 16. Moreover, such behaviour is increasingly to be seen in even younger age groups.)The surprise encountered amongst those from older generations (`older generation' includes many people no older than 24 &#150; and often younger) when exposed to the realities of the sex, drink and drugs culture amongst the young is interesting. These people exist in a general societal environment which encourages the very attitudes and actions exemplified in Kids, yet they are unable to appreciate the inevitable effects of this culture on the behaviour of the young.The depiction of drug use as normal is prevalent in the media. Likewise, promiscuous sex, and deviant &#150; or perverted &#150; sex is depicted as normal and even desirable. These ideas are not only included in dramas, but also openly advanced both in broadcast discussions and in the printed media. The idea that morality might have any relevance to sex or drug use has no representation in films, television or novels. This promotional wave of social liberalism has an inevitable impact. Over the years and decades, it alters attitudes across society. We thus witness an inversion of morality.This inversion of the moral values that were generally unquestioned in Western societies prior to the 1960's must inevitably result in the behaviour depicted in Kids. The disbelief of those who are shocked at this idea is irrational. In many cases, their own live resemble &#150; to a greater or lesser degree &#150; those of the characters of this movie. Yet they fail to understand how the young could engage in such behaviour. The reality is that the young wish to be adult, to partake of the fruits of maturity. When those fruits are principally represented as promiscuous sex, drugs and drink throughout the media, and these activities are seen to be increasingly central to the lives of those who are older than themselves, the young will inevitably adopt the pursuit of these activities as a major objective in their lives.Those who view the behaviour shown in Kids as aberrant and atypical are simply unaware of the degree to which behaviour amongst the young in the general population has come to resemble the behaviour of the characters in Kids. For example, recent research published in the respected New England Journal of Medicine shows that one in five Americans aged 12 and over now tests positive for herpes, eight thousand American teenagers a day contract a sexually transmitted disease, and 25% of sexually active American teens have an STD.These figures, and many others, refute those critics who believe Kids to be unrealistic.What we are witnessing &#150; and living through &#150; is merely a stage in the ongoing evolution of social behaviour. It is not a unique occurrence; it is a part of a recurrent cycle. The last period of sexual permissiveness in Western society preceded the Victorian era &#150; a time in which rather different values were adopted. The current era will similarly give birth to a very different culture. We exist during an interim period which marks the end of what was, and the beginning of what will be.Kids is one small part of the process of cultural evolution. In itself it does nothing to alter the cycle, but in its realistic depiction of a section of our current culture it becomes a part of the process by which the cycle changes. The film thus has a value beyond the illustration of life as it exists for a certain section of contemporary society.Very few people will actively enjoy this movie. Those who are unaware of this kind of lifestyle will find it utterly distasteful, whilst those who follow the same (or similar) behavioural patterns will not wish to be reminded of the threat of disease that permeates their existence.Still, everyone should consider watching Kids. It won't be fun, but it will be informative &#150; and it will make you think.Rating - 6/10  "},{"Title":"If you didn't think it was realistic, you don't know JACK.  And I mean JACK.","Date":"26 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The other user comments nearly scared me away from seeing this. Many thought this film was haunting and perverted. I was afraid to see it, but I'm glad I did.This is a completely realistic portrayal of how teenagers really act. Granted, there are many teens who don't do these things, but this isn't even the worst case scenario. We live in a country where inner-school violence, teen gangs, and unprotected sex amongst adolescents run rampant. In 1999 the entire country witnessed the Columbine Massacre, which occurred not more than 100 miles from where I live. After all this, people still have the absolute NERVE to think these things don't happen with America's youth? That is just disgraceful.The drugs, alcohol, street fights, lack of discipline, and casual, unprotected sex that is seen throughout the film is still a serious problem with teens today. Not every teen is good-looking, which is something else that's often depicted here. The only thing the film doesn't have going for itself is a plot. There is one that hangs loosely around, but it isn't a story that could really grab hold of the viewer. I would've liked more of a plot so that more people could see a bigger justification in the characters' actions, and besides, I like a good film story with which I can get involved. All in all, it's worth a good watch. This is as real as it gets.My personal rating **+/****  "},{"Title":"Although shocking, a vital movie for exposing the harshness of reality.","Date":"31 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Although this movie may be redeemed as shocking by some viewers, Kids is a movie which actually functions as an educational film.  This film addresses adolescents to inform them of the harshness of reality, thus exposing the many cruelties, and perhaps saving themselves from the same fates depicted in the film. "},{"Title":"This movie was very disturbing","Date":"23 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I made the mistake of picking up this movie and talking my mother into renting it. I said kids hey this should be a good movie I AM a kid so why not. My mother fell asleep before it could even begin and the first scene just took me a for a loop I thought maybe it doesn't go any further than that. Basically it's about all these kids having sex and passing AIDS to one another. At 12 years old. It confused the heck outta me kinda. scared me for life really. I never could figure out if I didn't like the movie or if i did. This movie has the potential to either scar you for life or help you. either way this movie is not something that I would recommend you see. "},{"Title":"Garbage","Date":"5 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" If this Is a realistic portrayal of New York youth then the kids definitely ain't alright.I don't know anyone who grew up In NY but I have known a few skateboard kids and they didn't act like the jerkovs these two blokes do. To me the dialogue sounded like this Yo dude, It's like hey man, It's like this film Is really ace man, It's street dude, we're white & bad - whatup? - the two muppet lead characters need a proper shoeing.If the black guy who gets rushed Is half as dangerous as he's made out to be surely he would have got his boys down there to use them as target practise. And the ludicrous Aids plot Is so contrived It could pass for a government propaganda piece shown to 9 year olds.The title could so easily be an anachronym Kleptomaniacs In Directionless Sh*t. Disaffected kids loiter about every where, go loiter around with them Instead of taking this haemorrhoid of a film as gospel. "}{"Title":"Realistic but vilifying","Date":"3 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have two things to say about this film First It is a portrayal of an EXCEPTION rather than a rule, in many ways.Second It portrayed this exception VERY well.To the main details, the main character in this movie, as we find out a little bit of the way through, is HIV positive (yet presumably doesn't know it). He likes to have sex with virgin females, as he does so in various scenes in the movie. A little way through the film, one of the females he'd had sex with before finds out she is HIV positive. We also hear the females he has sex with in various scenes, moan - perhaps in visible (or audible) discomfort (quote oh argh - that hurts - oh oh) and I found it easy to be perceived that he is probably (to an largely immoral length) good at seducing girls into sexual activities. All horrendously graphic and realistic, except for one thing, and these words were ringing through my head much time after I had seen the whole film-length in the hope (in my humble opinion) that everyone who has seen it would also understand - that while this is a realistic portrayal of SOME sexual events in our world today (and this should be taken seriously), perhaps we also need to considerIT'S NOT ALWAYS LIKE THIS!!What we have in this movie is a display of not only youth in their most immoral wrong side of the tracks character, but also all the things they do coming along with it! Most of us should be at least aware that sex is potentially a glorious and pleasurable experience in itself, and yet this movie showed only the ugly side of sex while not disclaiming that it is doing so, I believe. For example, if they had made it more clear to us that these instances involving careless HIV transmission, emotional seduction (etc...) are the EXCEPTION and not the RULE (so to say...) when it comes to sex...then I would have felt more comforted when viewing this movie.Don't get me wrong for one SECOND - I have friends who have lived with the HIV virus for the bulk of their lifetime and it really does horrify me. Speaking of AIDS awareness promotion, this movie was also very well done IMO. It is an issue to EVERYONE however, and we should not vilify kids more than adults because EVERYONE is at risk of contracting this horrendous virus in this world today.Lets remember that while this movie was in many areas well done, we must not let it vilify our intrinsic, OVERALL ideas of (1) Sex and (2) Youth ......in society today.7/10  "},{"Title":"Bad, worse, the worst teen movie I have ever seen","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Very bad movie. It is just a cheap way to provoke scandal, maybe it did in America, but in Europe it didn't. It is  your typical story of bad kids doing drugs and sex, nothing more, nothing else. It is a gross attempt to create free publicity, nothing new. The final message about AIDS is ridiculous. Just for a laugh. I rate it 1, because here I didn't have a 0. "},{"Title":"Shocking, but empty.","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I did not enjoy this movie.  I will not watch it again.The film makers did a fine job portraying the lives of morally-defunct NYC teens over the course of one day.  The acting was good and there were some really original scenes that made you think.  But I just couldn't relate to the characters.  I couldn't sympathize with them. I just got angry with them. The character of Telly is one of the most grating people ever to grace the silver screen.  I was hoping and praying that someone would just do the world a favor and push him out a window.I'm not one to normally shy away from intense, or real topics in film. But, this one just had no appeal to me at all.  I judge if movies are good or not if they affect people, in a manner either positive or negative.  This movie didn't affect me in anyway; it didn't cause me to re-evaluate my life, or have a new appreciation of kids in NYC.  it just evoked feelings of rage, which were empty and useless.  Therefore, the movie didn't really accomplish anything for me.  I give it4/10 "},{"Title":"Utter Trash - The Nineties' version of Reefer Madness","Date":"6 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The characters in this film feel two-dimensional, never acting believably like teenagers. With its weird mix of underage sexuality, HIV, drugs and social collapse, the movie was sure to receive lots of press. But Kids merely portrays ghetto life without asking any questions How come the US has a huge part of its population living way beyond the poverty line? Do ghettos, unemployment and a complete lack of perspectives make drug abuse more likely, as studies have shown? Rather than an intelligent study, Kids is paranoid social porn. "},{"Title":"Social pornography Oh my, look at...","Date":"18 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What am I to think of a film which pretends to be a problem film about today's youth - while at the same time indulging in stupid clichés, lacking in true street credibility and exploiting sure seller topics like (sub-)teen sex, the oh so great danger of dope-smoking, and HIV.A terrible film to see if you want to know anything about today's youth.A great film to see if you want to know how to make money off squares who think that the young generation of today consists only of sex-starved, drug-addicted, HIV-infected fools without brains or forethought.As a film which seems designed to make money off showing a perverted young generation to concerned middle-agers, it seems to have worked. It made money. Apart from that? Zero out of ten. Missable.  "},{"Title":"wasn't supposed to make me laugh, but it did.","Date":"21 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is one of those movies that sets out to paint a real picture of what it's like for kids today. As a kid today, I found it grossly inaccurate. Kids of today do exactly what kids of yesterday did. I watched this with a group of friends, and it just made us laugh. The character of Telly, for example, talks with an affected (I hope) speech impediment that makes him sound like he's got a mouthful of saliva at all times and is in danger of drooling all over over the place (yet the virginal girls still find him attractive...). We spent most of the movie sarcastically yelping, This is SO like our lives! You want to know what real teenagers do? Observe them sometime. They're incredibly boring.The rest of the characters are one-dimensional and completely unbelievable, talking about nothing but drugs and/or sex, and it was clear the writers wished only to showcase their stupidity. There is actually a scene in which a girl talks about sperm getting caught between her teeth. Really. There was also, it seemed to me, a disturbing sort of pleasure taken by the makers of this film in seeing these pretty young things partake in various sordid activities, and a sense that this film was meant to expose the dark truth about today's youth and their degeneracy compared to generations past--but come on, the generations before us grew up in the sixties, seventies and eighties. Remember what was said about them? "},{"Title":"too bad - spoiler (if you could call it that)","Date":"19 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I read a lot about this movie before watching it and I was really excited when I finally got the chance. I'm a huge fan of any movie that's considered kind of rebellious or different However this movie just made me sick. It was boring and pointless. The only reason I kept watching was because I wanted to see the main character (foul mouthed and really irritating Telly) get whats coming to him and guess what in the end he doesn't! There isn't even really an end, it just starts and then a whole bunch of characters are flashed before you getting high or drunk and then there's a rape and its over. Nothing is resolved. The main character has sex with a 13 year old girl! Really stupid movie, left me wanting the hour and a half back.Don't waste your time, you'll hate all the characters (even the poor little victim) "},{"Title":"Not a documentary","Date":"1 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It is important for viewers of this movie to realize that it may seem like its a documentary but its actually just a movie with actors, that was shot in the documentary style. It tries to be real and does a pretty good job of it. It is so real that it will probably be offensive to some people but the point the movie tries to make is that the real lives of a lot of teenagers are full of some shocking experiences. This movie hits you immediately with the very first scene being the 16 year old guy who is the main character making out, then having sex with a 12 year old girl. And no there is no underage nudity, don't get excited. But there are scenes of sex, not much nudity, of the other teens and there is a rape scene of the girl who has passed out at a party. The movie tries to depict a typical day in the life of some screwed up teens but there is no real point other than to maybe make you angry or concerned. Older viewers would probably not like this movie but some teenagers would probably watch it and say, Yeah, whats the big deal? "},{"Title":"Mid-'90s Trash!","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I had never heard of this movie being in the theatres.  I caught it on TMN in 1996, about a year after it's initial release.  I must say it was a depressing portrayal of mid-90s youth.  It's the type of movie that keeps you watching, but that's just to see how much worse it can get. However, after you watch it, you feel that you just wasted your time, and subjected yourself to kiddie porn.  Watching a documentary about rat infestation in New York would have been more entertaining. I found the movie was not an accurate portrayal of youth. I heard from a friend that teachers and guidance councillors were advocating teens to see this movie, and I thought what cheap drugs were they on?!  Sure, we have all known people like this, regardless if you were a teen in the '90s, '80s, '70s, or '60s.  Anyone with any brains would steer clear of these losers, regardless whether you're a kid or not.  The movie tended to glorify these kids, and paint a picture that all teens are like this.  What I saw were a bunch of over indulged brats with nothing better to do than inflict themselves on one another, and society. There was no character development, it just seemed to be a bunch of moron-clones drinking, fighting and getting laid. It makes the viewer not really care what happens to these kids. Along with this, the gritty atmosphere and porno style music just made this a movie that should be thrown in the discontinued bin.  To make matters worse, it's available on DVD! In conclusion, if you don't have anything better to watch, don't even waste your time with this movie. "},{"Title":"GROSSLY INACCURATE!!!!!","Date":"30 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  There are not kids as dumb as the lead in this film. Sorry no. I wonder what concerned citizen or baby boomer made this film? Come on... first off, if there were kids a dumb as this do you think they could nail a virgin a week? Pulease! There were kids simular the him in my school but they usualy had black eyes and busted ribs. They weren't deflowering the girls in school. They deflowered dogs eventually.    Kids are not this hopeless. This is what some parent thought of when she found out her billy was smoking grass. If you want reality look to yourself not this garbage. "}{"Title":"It's just like they say","Date":"9 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I had always heard this film described as kiddie porn. Well, frankly, I can't think of a better term. It's just plain offensive.I have had a number of very offensive films described to me by friends which I have never seen. But of the films I have actually seen, I think this is the absolute worst. "},{"Title":"Kids is Kiddie Porn","Date":"17 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is the most vile and pathetic movie I have ever seen. First of all, the movie is child exploitation, if not pornography.  I didn't need to see a 13 year old having sex.  I didn't need to see a guy going to the bathroom.  I didn't need to see a girl who is passed out be raped.  Second, all the characters were the same.  Each character spoke the same dialogue.  Usually, characters are different.  In this worthless movie, Tully spoke and acted exactly the same as Casper or any of the other losers in this movie.  Third, the acting was horrible. Of course, the actors had nothing to work with but still did nothing that resembled acting.  Fourth, the dialogue was idiotic. Who wrote this movie, a 7th grader?  Who talks or acts like these idiots?? I never knew anybody like these people.  Yes, we talked a lot about sex but a whole day of it?  No. Even after Tully has sex, the next thing on his mind is which girl he is he going to bang that night.  Most guys usually don't obsess with sex immediately after they've had it. I don't know anyone who was as mean-spirited as the whole group of characters in this waste of film. All of the characters were one dimensional.  Even the meanest people I knew had some redeeming qualities.  Fifth, who in their right mind would have sex with such a goofball as Tully?   Where I grew up, guys like Tully got beaten up and spent many a lonely night watching the tube.  While I have bashed this movie, I do appreciate other opinions. One person's trash is another person's art. "},{"Title":"This movie seems to attack effects rather than causes","Date":"28 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Let me start by saying this is probably the worst movie I've ever seen, besides that parasite eve movie that i watched because i thought it would be cool like the video game was. Anyway...If you look on the surface and not much deeper, you will see the youth of our nation (the extremity of a statistic) being corrupted and destroyed by drugs and sex blah blah blah. It had a lot of potential but that was washed down the drain with scenes that were way drawn out and some pretty poor directing.Let me ask you a question. Did you see ANY parents in the movie? There was one parent. And she was smoking cigarettes while breastfeeding. She was smoking cigarettes every second around her baby. To me this movie is really about bad parenting. Do you know what your kids do when you're not around? No you don't because you aren't ever around, you are being a bad parent, maybe if you raised your child normally and taught him/her whats right and wrong, acted as a guide and a loving parent, that wouldn't happen.I bought this movie for seven bucks thinking it would be more along the lines of requiem for a dream. I thought it would be like a punch in the face and a knife to the heart. I wanted to see a movie that would really hit me. Watching this movie was just a waste of time. I wish there was some way i could get the 2 hours of my life back that i wasted. "},{"Title":"One word BORING!!!","Date":"18 December 1999","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  ***** WARNING SOME SPOILERS *****WOW! I am amazed at the multitude of people who actually found this shocking. Stan Marsh was right, parents are more worried about what their kids are watching on TV than what's going on in their kids lives. After all the reviews I've read for Kids, saying it is powerful and disturbing...well, it's all just a crock. About the NC-17 rating the movie almost received. What was that? No, tell me. The only nudity I saw was in the last 2 minutes. I mean, they cover the bodies with their arms, they go skinny dipping in underwear(?). What I thought was really dumb was that you were so scared after this was only in one day. What was only in one day? Drinking and smoking? You call that disturbing? I call that a pretty boring day. Why didn't Harmony explore a year of these kids lives? You probably would have cried if it was the way it should have been.And I really hate that you call that un-realistic dialouge. I'm 14, and I talk like that. I can say all those things in one hour multiplied by a factor of 5. Shocked now?God, I really wish parents would get up off their lazy butts and start talking to their kids before another member of my race dies from an STD again. "},{"Title":"Distasteful and Unrealistic.","Date":"20 September 2007","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I had a free night at college, so I attended a showing of this movie. I can assure you that anything they force you to watch in sex education was much better than this crap. I walked out somewhere in the middle, trying to decipher why this movie was made. Okay, so teens think they own the world and do whatever they want. Point made, but if I copied the behavior done by those extremely ruthless boys, I would most likely be in the slammer for life.Which brings me to the characters. Nobody can relate to any of them because they're unlikeable. They're more profane and stereotypical than an episode of South Park, minus the humor. Yes, I know everything that goes on in this movie happens in real life, but the plot didn't seem believable in any way.Bottom Line Stay away from this movie. "},{"Title":"Very, very bad","Date":"4 April 2002","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  First I thought it was the Europe Factor, that, being European, I could not believe there was a thing like this group of white trash kids. But in the end, it doesn't matter where you're from to realise that what comes in disguised as a pseudo-documentary is in fact the most lurid voyeurism. Contrary to what the PR guys wanted us to believe, this movie is not the social study it wanted to be. It was designed merely to make us gasp in horror as we continue to hear ever more shocking things coming out of youthful mouths. With the exception of Jennie's fate, perhaps, it conveys zero empathy with the characters on screen - characters, by the way, which are never developed beyond their initial tag line. Bottom line This is one of my Top Five Worst Movies Ever. I still regret having spent money on it. If you want the real thing (story about adolescents without a perspective), go see La Haine.  "},{"Title":"A Foul Mess","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I'm just glad I saw Bully before Kids,because if it had been the other way around,I would have ended up missing one of the most intense movie-going experiences of 2000.Larry Clark's first feature is a foul mess,populated by a group of foul-mouthed little punks,who could all probably benefit from a good long stretch in the Reformatory.Don't waste your time.Life's too short. "},{"Title":"I'd pay never to have seen this","Date":"26 November 2004","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Quite possibly the worst movie ever made, unless you find explicit rape scenes somehow thought provoking. If anyone says the movies tells it like it is, remind them that art isn't supposed to tell it quite so unpleasantly or with such a lack of wit, sophistication, or insight. The acting might have been interesting enough if there was some semblance of a story to act; unfortunately, the writer/director chose the standard shock route to express his ideas. The dialogue is stilted and pedestrian, and the shots are typically grainy, which I suppose is meant to be a metaphor for life or something oh so deep. The movie made about $200,000, from unsuspecting patrons like myself who hoped for something insightful not insipid. This movie was absolutely dreadful. "},{"Title":"Making Chicken Little Look Like Plato","Date":"27 November 2005","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Hardly the work of meaningful social commentary that so many viewers suppose it to be, this film is nothing more than a poorly written, shallow work of scare mongering. Nothing proves this better than the gauntlet of positive reviews on this site, which can be summed up as follows Dude, this movie is sweet. It's just so real, man. Ah, thank you for your insight, Applesauce McGee. What bothers me is that many people discredit the film. Saying that the movie is exploitation. A real user comment. I'm not kidding. To continue, if anyone has any interest, thematically, generalizations run rampant and all depth of thought is lost. No, it never existed. The characters are completely one dimensional, not even coming close to resembling real people or conveying real ideas. Was the point to illustrate the degradation of morality at the hands of 1990s youth? If so, Korine and Clark's ambition far exceeded their intellects in the endeavor. After watching this, no one should be convinced that the sky is falling on contemporary morality (though maybe on a few careers). Even this assessment, however, may be a little too glowing and the writers may have had a more malevolent intent. At worst, Kids is a pile of relativist garbage in which the protagonists are not bad but confused and oddly sympathetic. The fact that some people saw the movie this way is discouraging...discouraging in a Darwin Award, If Derek Zoolander were a real person kind of way. In sum, this movie is terrible in every conceivable way. Even that is unjustifiably glowing. "},{"Title":"It doesn't get much worse than this","Date":"24 September 2004","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Just when I think I've seen the worst movie ever made, along comes a new contender called KidsKids makes Reefer Madness look like a Ken Burns documentary, except that Reefer Madness was watchable. And funny. And entertaining. Hell, compared to Kids, Reefer Madness even seems educational and enlightening.The Public Relations department portrays Kids as some kind of stylish, biting commentary on the reckless feeling of invincibility among contemporary urban youth. But that's the beauty of advertising. Once you give the DVD store your hard-earned money and open the package, you can't return it no matter how bad the film is. I can only imagine the magnitude of buyer's regret worldwide that has been caused by this one film alone.The formula for creating a movie like Kids is embarrassingly simple (and simple-minded) Don't bother to hire a screenwriter, gather a huge cast of the most foul, unattractive young people you can find, tell them to do and say the most shocking, degenerate things their warped imaginations can come up with, film their actions while drunk with no steadycam anywhere to be found, and insert some credits at the beginning and end. Oh, and throw in a bunch of children smoking pot and having sex to appeal to the niche market that really, really enjoys watching five year old girls prance around in beauty contests.Then create a doosie of a PR campaign that would make any performance artist proud--one that convinces even the critics that the film is so profound, if you don't like it, that's only because you're just not clever enough to get it.The sad thing is, I'm not trying to be funny. That is literally what this movie is. If that appeals to you, by all means, flip hamburgers for four hours to pay for the privilege of wasting 91 minutes of your life on this rubbish. After all, Siskel and Ebert gave it two thumbs up, and Siskel and Ebert are honorable men.As for me, I'm going to keep looking for a real filmmaker, one who bothers to film real kids who are experiencing real troubled lives, so that we might really learn something, even if it means no one makes a great deal of money or manufactures a career out of stale, rancid, thin air.  "}{"Title":"Don't bother","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Take away the shock value of this film, and there's nothing left.  Sure, the acting is competent, but there's no story, no character development, there's not a single character you can even like.  I saw it on video, and it's one of the few films where I had to fast-forward through parts to try and find something interesting (I didn't). Don't bother seeing this one.  "},{"Title":"please, please believe me------this movie sucks!!!!really!!!!!! watch Bully instead","Date":"23 September 2005","Score":"12 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Director Larry Clark, ScriptHarmony Korine, Cast Chole Sevigny and others I almost bought this movie because I have Bully so I was curious about this because I have heard a lot about it. On Bully's box cover it says from the director of Kids. Jeezs, this must be good. Thank God I rented this and did not buy it. It is the most boring movie I think I have ever watched. The plot is about some ugly scrawny runt of a kid that-- ha!! god forbid, is having sex with as many virgins as he can. I am not trying to knock the poor young actor, but if you see this tyke, you will will agree with me and that is-- I think not!! Anyhow, two girls go down to the department of health office (one of them being Chloe), one does not have any STD's (although she had had anal sex 3 times) and the other one does (Chole). That one kid did that to her. That is basically the plot.Most of the movie plays like a documentary. It simply shows a bunch of teenagers bulls***ing about a bunch of nothing. Who cares? Their is no acting here or really even a plot. Most of what the kids say could have been improvised. Please trust me, anybody could have written this. So what else does that leave?--- maybe teenage nudity and sex? something Larry Clark is so known for. Well--I am one hour and ten minutes into the film and so far-- neither. Just a lot of mother F this and F that. If this is the best that Harmony Korine can come up with, then I can't imagine anything else by him being any good. I will give Chloe Sevigny credit, that girl has more bulls than a lot of these prissy little chicks in Hollywood. I think she was doing the best she could do based on what was given to her. If you have to see a Larry Clark film, make it Bully. It has more nudity,sex and gosh forbid--- an actual plot to boot with a better cast!! (with the exception if Chloe). I think Larry Clark got lucky on that one(Bully), he was given a decent script. I have often read that this is a true to life film. It is probably too realistic, that is probably what makes it so boring. A bunch of self centred teens hanging around talking about a bunch of foolishness. Wow! "},{"Title":"Why all the controversy?","Date":"5 May 2005","Score":"16 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Movie (purportedly based on real events) about a bunch of amoral teens hanging out in NYC. It seems one of the guys is HIV+, doesn't know it and is spreading it around to every girl he sleeps with. His best friend is on drugs, swears constantly and sees nothing wrong with beating up people.There's more but you get the idea. I saw the NC-17 version (which really deserves an R rating--it's not THAT bad) and I'm wondering--what's the fuss? Teenagers drink, swear, attack people, have sex, take drugs, are HIV+. Does this really surprise anyone? I knew this before I saw the movie--this one shows nothing new. I'm really surprised that people find this shocking.Content aside, the film is badly directed with lousy sound and has virtually no plot--just a bunch of teens wandering around getting high, drinking etc etc. Also the rating (as I said before) is ridiculous. With that rating it means half the cast of the film can't even see it! Also I read a newspaper article when this came out. A bunch of teenagers saw this with their parents and found large portions of the film unbelievable. Also remember--this deals with kids in NYC, a very tough area. They do not represent all the teens in America.Dull, exploitive and pointless. I give this a 1. "},{"Title":"Shame","Date":"15 December 2000","Score":"31 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I found this movie to be very interesting and also very saddening. The insight on the lives that New York kids may be taking on explains where Jerry Springer and Ricki Lake are getting all their guests from.On the sad and more serious side, if this is an accurate depiction, there may be very little parents can do. One mistake is all it takes from a naive adolescent to ruin or even end their life. Kids is a worthy eye opener on the behaviour and perhaps boredom kids face today. This, however,is not an excuse. "},{"Title":"Boring","Date":"7 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The movie doesn't appeal me at all. We all know the state of kids all over the world. There is nothing new. There are no eye opening facts or something that gets our imagination going. Moreover i don't like the fact that they just talk and talk despite of showing anything relevant. Its more like a documentary or a talk show really. All in all its a boring movie. Not a good end. Nothing that keeps you in your seat through the movie. They tried to make it more exclusive but they forgot the basics of making a good movie. It was a waste of time for me. Guess that sums it up. Hope that helps and warns potential viewers. Thank you ) "},{"Title":"Grim","Date":"5 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Looking to be depressed for an hour and a half? I have a perfect solution. Watch Kids and you will seek out the nearest bridge and take a flying leap into the abyss.It begins with a 17 year old boy named Telly making out with a 12 year old girl, trying to convince her that it is time to lose her virginity. He is successful in his mission and tells his friend Casper about the deflowering. They then shoplift booze from a local store, go home, smoke some pot, and inhale nitrous oxide from balloons. They meet more young girls and engage in graphic sexual conversations. One of the promiscuous lolitas has tested positive for HIV aids but continues to have unprotected sexual relations. The kids are young and think that they will live forever. No one seems to have any parental supervision at any point in this grim outlook on today's inner city youth. "},{"Title":"Pretty good movie, but could have been longer and could have included more","Date":"29 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Now I have never been to New York before, so I do not know how kids in New York really act.I heard this film was a very realistic portrayal of those kids.I watched this film a few weeks ago on TV.It features Rosario Dawson,Justin Pierce and Chloe Sevigny, actors who were not known at the time.Justin Pierce would later go on to co-star in the film Next Friday.After that movie he committed suicide.He acted fairly well in this film even though he had no acting experience, I guess it was because the film was about how he and his friends were like.This is the debut film of Larry Clark, a man who would go on to make more controversial teen films such as Bully.The film basically shows a day of a couple of kids in Manhattan, New York.One of them named Telly is always having sex with some girl he does not care about, one of his old girlfriends gets an STD and tries to find him.The performances were great, it was a realistic movie and overall pretty good.But I think it could have been longer and have included more.Worth watching though. "},{"Title":"grim reality of life at my age","Date":"15 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" OK I'm 17 and i just watched this tonight and i'd like to say i have friends who are doing the kind of things depicted in this movie (drinking doing drugs unprotected sex etc)since i am pretty clean and i stay away from this kind of stuff I'm realising that what I'm missing out on shouldn't be missed out on this film shows the grim reality my friends are getting into.this is one powerful masterpiece and Larry Clark wasn't taking any chances when this film was made. kids is well ahead of its time and i know we talk like they do on this (swearing, extremely sexist comments, breaking the law, etc) and this is how we live nowadays. teenagers need responsibility and some parents don't care enough that their kids are getting into this stuff so they may never know whether their child has an STD or is getting into situations they shouldn't be. watching kids i realised how true to life this is and as it shows any party that i've been to this kind of stuff happens. reality told in a grim disturbing way which can scare the hell out of parents everywhere. even the pornographic content has its place in the movie it wouldn't work without that so anything that happens in this movie is happening right now probably while i write this too. this is one of the best movies i have seen and one of the most realistic i recommend every parent watches this and if their own kids are there at the time be very careful of the consequences***** out of ***** "},{"Title":"best film around","Date":"27 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" i love kids it is a fantastic story that i can personal relate to the drugs violence and sex is all to common in the world i come from it shows are American counterparts and should be shown to all city or town kids of the ages 13-16 at school i found something to relate to in this film and you probably will as well.the characters are interesting and we get in to the mind set if you will of the main characters Casper, Telly and Jennie but also into the mind of the average kid skater like myself i find it hard to believe that there are many kids that haven't actual seen this film and seen an element of themselves and friends this is a controversial master piece and should be bought "},{"Title":"Young classic","Date":"26 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie is spite its reasonable young age already a classic! Sex, drugs, violence VS. youth - mashed together in a twisted fight. Every time I see it, I'm scared, disgusted, fascinated and thrilled at the same time. KIDS shows you a uncensored bite of reality and sends you straight into its universe of brutal, naive and manipulative adolescence. In my opinion, it's Larry Clarks best movie yet... But then again, debut movies do have a special flavor. The young actors all did an amazing job on this one, especially outstanding is Leo Fitzpatrick as the scary and cynical Telly and Jason Pierce as his weird and somewhat eccentric sidekick. Also one of Chloë Sevignys best performances, with both fear and beauty she portraits the sudden destiny and destruction of a young life. Incredible movie. It's not just a movie though, it's also an original and kicka** revolution. "}{"Title":"must see","Date":"16 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have seen very few movies that can touch like this movie . this movie came to me when i was the same age as the characters portrayed, and every scene struck a chord. This aside it is a magic journey to take in your lounge room with characters you might well have known from your teenage years. the feeling i got from this movie was the same feeling i got from the basketball diaries, i refuse to outline the plot because quite simply if you want to know you must,must see this film , it has not aged at all in my opinion and if you find yourself in a video store you must hire this gem. the director of this film went on to make another film after this and it is best avoided. "},{"Title":"Perfect example of adult's views on children and sex.","Date":"29 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" First off, I'd to point out that I am 15 and I am writing this from my poitn of view.This film is very well made and the acting is generally good,although the acting was sometimes a little over the top.The main point about this film is its attitude towards children and sex.If this film had been about 25-year olds drinking, fighting and having unprotected sex, then it would have probably caused no controversy. However, because they are children, suddenly its the most shocking film ever made(sarcasm)! And they are not completely innocent 5-year olds who know nothing about sex and AIDS, they are all teenagers who are well informed about sex.This film did not really shock me at all, because I am looking at this from a teenage point of view. These are just normal people to me having (OK, unprotected) sex and it does not really offend me. The people who are really offended are the parents who hate to conceive the idea that their children might have sexual intercourse with another person. And yet the film is rated 18 in the United Kingdom and NC-17 in America. And yes, I know that it shows them having sex without condoms, but it also shows that this is not a good thing and that they will suffer the consequences.If this film was meant to show people how shallow they are when they think about teenage sex, then I would say that this is great film. However, if it is meant to show teenage sex as being wrong and to make parents more paranoid than they already are, then I would say that this film has a terrible moral standpoint.Watch it and decide for yourself. "},{"Title":"See life for what it is","Date":"12 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Absolutely love this film, saw it on the shelf at the age of 16 and couldn't resist the reality oozing through its cover. I thought, i have no idea what this is but i know i really want to see it. So i got it and it really opened my eyes to the real world of film and since then i haven't looked back.The refreshingly real storyline and camera angles make you feel as you are on the street with these kids, you feel their pain and hardships through the 24 hour journey. Seeing different sides of arguments and quite likely a different lifestyle to your own. Not the film for you if you like things to be glossy, made up and fun. For anyone who believes in life and living this naturalistic script will no doubt remind you of people and situations you have known. By highlighting a few of the pressures of being a teenager this film should be universally recognised. Alternatively show it to kids to promote safe sex. Not disturbing, just truthful. "},{"Title":"An incredibly important and gut-wrenchingly honest piece of film-making","Date":"16 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a film that every single high-schooler should see. Wim Wenders has a great line..Cinema often achieves its greatest power by refusing to show what it is trying to evoke. Larry Clark's Kids does not follow this rule and shouldn't. High School kids are such idiots...nothing can affect or alter the horrible decisions they make. I don't think Kids would have a long lasting effect on kids, but it would definitely make them get in touch with their sub-conscious. Some have said that Kids is all based on graphic dialogue, language, drug use, and graphic sex....in otherwords, SHOCK FACTOR. Shock factor is exactly what needed to be included in this movie, though, because it is what helps reveal the horrifying stage of teen life...to teens and adults. This film is the most powerful and realistic depictiction of teen life ever put onto the silver screen....then Mean Creek. "},{"Title":"enjoyable but ...","Date":"24 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" its overly exaggerated to the point of idiocy. this movie takes every negative stereotype and multiply it 10 folds. and after doing that you just cant take it serious anymore. but on its on i do believe its still entertaining. its just full of BS though,which can be overlooked. and the fact that some people thinks this is a accurate depiction is troubling.the film seems to do this out of shock value,especially for the older parents who's gonna watch this movie and take it as face value.kinda like the law & order cases,or the homicide life on the streets episodes,or any type of crime program for that mater. this film is like the birth of a nation on teens.but like i said its still got moments. "},{"Title":"This is a good movie","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a great movie, because it has skateboarding in it and that is a real sport and it has to deal with sex and that is a other good thing about the movie so i think that every body should see it at least once in their life time........... So watch itR.I.P= CasperWicked Clown 4 Life "},{"Title":"yawn","Date":"4 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" larry clark movies have one big no no and then just a bunch of shock crap to get it talked about...............his films are shot terribly have no real plot or dialogue..and basically are just made to get his rocks off and get him known........also they all have teens......seems he may have a child molester streak in him....anyway this one has an idiot who gives aids to other idiots....that's not shocking that's murder....in ken park the main no no was some kid bangin his girlfriends mom......who may be the most skanky female ever portrayed.....although of course they choose a beautiful woman......when normally any chick who would actually be this dumb and twisted would more likely be a toothless crackhead..like on c.o.p.s. or springer...and there you have it.....larry is the springer of teen movies...pure white trash crap....made for headlines....hell even gus van Zandt does better which is not saying much... his movies are like watching a clothes dryer............but at least they aren't child porn........... "},{"Title":"Summer in the city.","Date":"24 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a great film about something very true and very real. In the real world we don't have heros and bad guys, life is more than black and white and this movie shows you how life really could be or in some cases actually is. Sex, drugs, violence and HIV are around us all the time but most of the time we don't notice or even care.I wasn't raised in NYC nor had I bad parents but I recognize either my self or my friends in almost every minute and do you know why? Because we are human beings - We make stupid decisions, hurt other people, lie and steal. But we also have friends, dreams and hopes. The kids in this movie aren't bad, they're just not like you.This movies isn't about the dangers of unsafe sex, drugs or how wrong it is to beat the crap out of some one - It's about other human beings and the world they live in - The world we all live in. "},{"Title":"An awful awful movie","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  When I went to see this movie I had rather high hopes. An honest , brutal outlook at teenagers in the big city.  And well it does deliver on that point , however that´s about it.  This flick has no story , no direction and nothing of interest whatsoever.  If you are a clueless doofus who does´nt realize kids today have taken a moral decline , this film could conceivably shock you.  If , like me , however you knew this then Kids is simply 2 hours of your life you won´t get back. "},{"Title":"Rent something else, punk!","Date":"13 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I've seen this movie on TMC exactly 4 years after it came out. I have to tell you, guys it's the worst movie I ever seen! Dude! If anybody tells me that it's true 2 life, I will slap somebody silly. Oh yeah, check out the scene where some black dude almost died after getting his butt kicked by more than 20 teens. That too many WHITE KIDS!!! Racist bastards! One person should have finished the beating, but more than 20 kids? That's number one. Number two, there's no plot in the film. It just drags along for a few minutes and then it stops immediately.Go rent Requiem For A Dream or go to the Sundance Film Festival for a change. Larry Clark has some serious issues than needs a fix. "}{"Title":"Depressing to watch","Date":"16 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What I wouldn't do to get my hands on that idiotic perverted pre-teen Telly,as he goes around having unprotected sex with young girls,all the while being HIV positive and not even bothering to get himself tested. This film is depressing to watch,seeing these kids drink,smoking weed,and having unsafe sex. Hopefully,parents can watch this film,then have one hell of a serious talk with their children about the dangers of unprotected sex and drug use. I know I will,when the time comes.      ** 1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"...and like most, Kids is just showing off in hopes of earning praise","Date":"7 October 2005","Score":"13 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It is rather ironic that mainstream critics, ever-present in their upholding of family values, showered such accolades upon Kids, while at the same time fighting to keep actual kids from seeing it (it played in theaters with an unofficial NC-17 rating), not that actual kids would be able to relate to much in this exaggerated, exhibitionist urban fable. Harmony Korine, who wrote the screenplay at 19, is less a prodigy than an irritating show-off, jumping up and down to try and draw attention to his supposedly taboo scenarios and characters; Larry Clark's direction (his debut) shows only glimpses of the grit and texture that would more fully manifest themselves in his future efforts (especially Bully). The film does hit on some aspects of youth culture with a proficient accuracy (the 'rave' sequence, for instance), and the film does contain a great standout performance from Chloe Sevigny as a girl whose single sexual encounter resulted in contracting the HIV virus. Yet other than the shock value of having a character, infected with AIDS, who lives to deflower virgins, much of Kids comes across as shallow and tedious. "},{"Title":"See Me! Feel Me! Touch Me!","Date":"9 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The day Sarah Anne Clump - Joeseph Andrew Cuzimene (Jodie Mary Foster - The Tennessee Bareback) turned on a SUN for her own planets with The Planet Earth as a Witness...The Planet Earth is owned by her twin Martha Anne Clump - Christopher Alan Green (Queen Alexandrina Victoria - Robert Burns Mondavi)...The KIDs are each a witness to LOVE as one who does not love their own self...WHAT HAPPENED...?Children who are vineyard workers who failed to manufacture condoms for their own sexuality and reproduction... "},{"Title":"sad but true","Date":"21 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is an amazing film, I saw it when it went out, I was in that time 17 years old. I remember my mom pass in front of the TV when there was some nudity scene, she was really shocked when she saw the lesbian part of the film, and she told me to stop watching such sh*t... I didn't stop watching it, but I understand her, I know she think this film is crap because she is not a part of this generation, and she sees this as unreal and pornographic... for me it only means a piece of bitter reality, not so far away from things that I've seen with my own two eyes... in that time the film really struck me, when I saw it I knew this guy was telling no bullsh*t. He takes a raw piece of reality and shows it to the world, he doesn't hide sex, drugs and violence... everything is there, everything that our youth is exposed to (and maybe now even more than before). I pity those who show disdain for this movie because the think it is too raw and believe they are too sensible to see this kind of stuff. I think they are not only insensible but cowards to deny the misery of others, and attack this brutal piece of art.This is a great movie, sad but true! "},{"Title":"More Controversy For Controversy's Sake","Date":"25 May 2005","Score":"13 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Larry Clark might think he's made a movie that will get people all over the world talking . It got me talking . It made me say  More controversy for the sake of it  YAAAAWWWNNN . But to be fair to Clark there's no such thing as bad publicity so any movie that sickens an audience with AIDS , rape , drug taking and violence all involving characters in their early teens can only be a good thing . Right Larry ? Clark might also think he's making a naturalistic movie by using a cast of total unknowns many of whom have no acting experience but the performances aren't natural - They're simply awful . Look at Leo Fitzpatrick who plays Telly , have you ever seen a more irritating performance ? Fitzpatrick does deserve some faint praise since he's the most outstanding non actor in a movie overwhelmed by outstanding non actors I have tried to appreciate Clark's later works like TEENAGE CAVEMAN but this director always goes out of his way to shock his audience usually with 15 years old saying  I want to f*ck you so much baby  and then getting down to the dirty deed while taking drugs . This very quickly becomes puerile and unworthy of discussion . How about making a movie with a plot and no sex Larry ? Or is that beyond your talents ? "},{"Title":"Kids","Date":"5 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I don't remember much of this film, apart from that I found it one of the most awful and boring films ever. Also, I do not know any of the actors, apart from Jon Abrahams as Steven; and I do remember a character called Casper, because they called him the friendly ghost. I did have to watch it in College class once, and I remembered the moment of the mother breast feeding. The moment I didn't remember though was probably the only interesting, funny and watchable of the whole film I remember, one of the kids dips a tampon in his drink, and he sucks the liquid out of it, as it isn't dripping. Anyway, I still have not changed my opinion of it, even after the brief viewing in College, and only the critics think it is good, I didn't. The director Larry Clark was nominated the Golden Palm at the Cannes Film Festival. Poor! "}]